FILE:MMC/MMC-8K-20031022150714.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 -------------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits. (a) None. (b) None. (c) Exhibits 99.1. Press Release dated October 21, 2003. Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition. On October 21, 2003, Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. issued a press release announcing its unaudited third quarter financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2003. A copy of the press release is attached to this Report as an exhibit and is incorporated herein by reference.
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. MARSH & McLENNAN COMPANIES, INC. By: /s/ Leon J. Lichter ---------------------------- Name: Leon J. Lichter Title: Vice President & Corporate Secretary Date: October 22, 2003 ----------------
Exhibit Index Exhibit (99.1): Press release dated October 21, 2003.

Exhibit 99.1 MMC REPORTS INCREASED THIRD QUARTER AND NINE MONTHS RESULTS Quarterly Revenues Increase 11 Percent, Net Income Rises 19 Percent NEW YORK, NEW YORK, October 21, 2003--Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. (MMC) today reported financial results for the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2003. Consolidated revenues for the quarter increased 11 percent to $2.8 billion. Net income rose 19 percent to $357 million, the largest increase since 2000, and earnings per share grew 18 percent to $.65 from $.55. For the nine months, consolidated revenues rose 10 percent to $8.6 billion. Net income grew 11 percent to $1.2 billion, and earnings per share increased 13 percent to $2.12 from $1.88. Jeffrey W. Greenberg, chairman, commented: "MMC performed well in the third quarter, with improvement in each of our businesses. Marsh produced excellent results. Secular changes are having a lasting effect on the business of advice and risk transfer. Clients face risks that have grown in number, complexity, and severity. Heightened awareness of these risks creates a great need for expertise, and Marsh is uniquely qualified to address these needs around the world. Marsh also brings to clients a distinctive strength through collaboration with other MMC companies. For example, Marsh and MMC Capital worked together to form AXIS Capital to bring much needed new capacity to the insurance markets in a time of stress. And the addition of
2 Mercer Oliver Wyman to MMC significantly strengthens our risk management capabilities in financial services." Mr. Greenberg continued: "We're pleased that both Mercer and Putnam showed improved results in the current environment. Over the last decade, MMC's activities in retirement and benefits have alternated with risk and insurance services as our major business. Putnam and Mercer are dedicated to responding to retirement needs around the world. Demographic trends in the developed world and the need for a private sector response to retirement issues will provide important opportunities for growth. Putnam and Mercer will be well positioned to take advantage of these growing markets." Risk and insurance services revenues rose 15 percent in the third quarter to $1.6 billion. On a constant currency basis, which excludes changes in foreign exchange and acquisitions, revenues grew 13 percent. Operating income increased 16 percent to $388 million. Risk management and insurance broking, representing approximately 75 percent of Marsh's revenues, grew 12 percent on a constant currency basis, with double-digit growth throughout the world. Reinsurance broking and services revenues increased 20 percent. Related insurance services revenues grew 9 percent, with strong growth in claims management and underwriting management, a modest increase at MMC Capital, and a slight decline in affinity business. During the quarter, AXIS Capital Holdings Limited successfully completed its public offering. AXIS was formed through the collaboration of Marsh and MMC Capital in November 2001 with $1.6 billion of capital. As a founding shareholder, MMC invested $100 million directly in AXIS and an additional $60 million through its holding in Trident II. Risk and insurance services revenues for the nine months reached $5.1 billion, an increase of 17 percent, 14 percent on a constant currency basis. Operating income increased 20 percent to $1.4 billion. Marsh's operating margin expanded for the nine months to 26.5 percent. This indicates the strength of Marsh's performance, particularly as it reflects investments in operating efficiencies to drive future profitability.
3 Putnam has benefited from more favorable equity markets. It has posted stronger financial results, has higher assets under management, and has made a number of important changes in its business operations. Putnam's revenues in the third quarter were $507 million, compared with $522 million last year. Operating income grew 17 percent to $136 million. Putnam's total assets under management on September 30, 2003 were $272 billion, 14 percent higher than assets under management at the end of last year's third quarter. Average assets under management during the third quarter were $270 billion, 5 percent higher than average assets in the third quarter last year. At the end of the quarter, mutual fund assets were $171 billion, up 6 percent, and institutional assets were $101 billion, an increase of 31 percent. This includes international assets of $39 billion, which were 44 percent higher than at the end of last year's third quarter. Mercer's revenues in the third quarter increased 15 percent to $690 million from $600 million, and operating income rose 12 percent to $96 million. On a constant currency basis, revenues grew 3 percent. In the quarter, Mercer's human resource practices reported strong revenue growth in Europe and Asia, partially offset by modest declines in North America. Mercer's economic consulting practice performed well. Management consulting results reflect the strong new business growth of recently acquired Mercer Oliver Wyman. For the nine months, retirement services revenues on a constant currency basis grew 3 percent, health care and group benefits increased 7 percent, and economic consulting grew 9 percent. Year-to-date, MMC has paid $452 million in dividends to shareholders, including an 11 percent increase in the quarterly dividend effective in the third quarter. MMC also repurchased 8.2 million shares of common stock in the third quarter, bringing its total repurchases for the year to 19.6 million shares for $910 million. MMC is a global professional services firm with annual revenues exceeding $10 billion. It is the parent company of Marsh Inc., the world's leading risk and insurance services firm; Putnam Investments, one of the largest investment management companies in the United States; and Mercer Inc., a major global provider of consulting services. Approximately 60,000 employees provide analysis, advice and transactional capabilities to clients in over 100 countries. Its stock
4 (ticker symbol: MMC) is listed on the New York, Chicago, Pacific, and London stock exchanges. MMC's website address is www.mmc.com. This press release contains certain statements relating to future results, which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements may include, without limitation, discussions concerning revenues, expenses, earnings, cash flow, capital structure, pension funding, financial losses and expected insurance recoveries resulting from the September 11, 2001 attack on the World Trade Center in New York City, as well as market and industry conditions, premium rates, financial markets, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, contingencies and matters relating to MMC's operations and income taxes. Such forward-looking statements are based on available current market and industry materials, experts' reports and opinions and long-term trends, as well as management's expectations concerning future events impacting MMC. Forward-looking statements by their very nature involve risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by any forward-looking statements contained herein include, in the case of MMC's risk and insurance services and consulting businesses, the amount of actual insurance recoveries and financial losses from the September 11 attack on the World Trade Center, or other adverse consequences from that incident. Other factors that should be considered in the case of MMC's risk and insurance services business are changes in competitive conditions, movements in premium rate levels, the continuation of difficult conditions for the transfer of commercial risk and other changes in the global property and casualty insurance markets, natural catastrophes, mergers between client organizations, and insurance or reinsurance company insolvencies. Factors to be considered in the case of MMC's investment management business include changes in worldwide and national equity and fixed income markets, actual and relative investment performance, the level of sales and redemptions, and the ability to maintain investment management and administrative fees at appropriate levels; and with respect to all of MMC's activities, changes in general worldwide and national economic conditions, the impact of terrorist attacks, changes in the value of investments made in individual companies and investment funds, fluctuations in foreign currencies, actions of competitors or regulators, changes in interest rates or in the ability to access financial markets, developments relating to claims, lawsuits and contingencies, prospective and retrospective changes in the tax or accounting treatment of MMC's operations, and the impact of tax and other legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which MMC operates. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and MMC undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which it is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Please refer to Marsh & McLennan Companies' 2002 Annual Report on Form 10-K for "Information Concerning Forward-Looking Statements," its reports on Form 8-K, and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. MMC is committed to providing timely and materially accurate information to the investing public, consistent with our legal and regulatory obligations. To that end, MMC and its operating companies use their websites to convey meaningful information about their businesses, including the anticipated release of quarterly financial results, and the posting of updates of assets under management at Putnam. Monthly updates of total assets under management at Putnam will be posted to the MMC website the first business day following the end of each month, except at the end of March, June, September, and December, when such information will be released with MMC's quarterly earnings announcement. Putnam posts mutual fund and performance data to its website regularly. Assets for most Putnam retail mutual funds are posted approximately two weeks after each month-end. Mutual fund net asset value (NAV) is posted daily. Historical performance and Lipper rankings are also provided. Investors can link to MMC and its operating company websites through www.mmc.com.
5
6
7
8
9


