FILE:MMC/MMC-8K-20030424105929.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 -------------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date: April 23, 2003 --------------
Exhibit Index Exhibit (99.1): Press release dated April 23, 2003.

Exhibit 99.1 MMC REPORTS FIRST QUARTER RESULTS Earnings Per Share Rises 11 Percent Strong Performance Driven by Risk and Insurance Services NEW YORK, NEW YORK, April 23, 2003--Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. (MMC) today reported financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003. Consolidated revenues increased 8 percent to $2.9 billion from $2.6 billion in the first quarter of 2002. Net income grew 6 percent to $443 million from $418 million, and earnings per share increased 11 percent to $.81 from $.73. Jeffrey W. Greenberg, chairman, said: "MMC's first quarter results were driven by Marsh's strong performance. Insurance and reinsurance broking operations achieved double-digit growth throughout all geographies. Putnam continued to take steps to improve its operations and strengthen its prospects for growth. Mercer performed well, increasing revenues and profits at the strongest pace in two years." Risk and insurance services revenues in the first quarter rose to $1.8 billion from $1.5 billion, an increase of 20 percent. Marsh's revenue growth on a constant currency basis was 15 percent. (Constant currency measures the change in revenue using consistent currency exchange rates, before acquisitions.) Operating income increased 21 percent to $560 million from $462 million. Clients have a heightened awareness that risks have increased and become more complex. At the same time, they are facing restricted terms and conditions, coverage exclusions, and higher prices for commercial liability insurance. Marsh's full range of specialized services and its unparalleled access to worldwide insurance markets are of great value to clients. In the first quarter, risk management and insurance broking revenues grew 23 percent (17 percent on a constant currency basis), and reinsurance broking and services grew 26 percent (23 percent on a constant currency basis). Putnam's revenues declined 25 percent to $445 million, and operating income declined from $175 million to $103 million, reflecting the weakness in U.S. equity markets. Profitability in the quarter also was affected by the reduction in value of Putnam's investments, including start-up funds. Within its investment management area, Putnam added new leadership and refined its decision-making processes. Putnam's average assets under management during the first quarter were $244 billion, a decline of 21 percent from the $310 billion in average assets in last year's first quarter. Positive asset flows in Putnam's institutional and international businesses were more than offset by net outflows in retail mutual funds. Total assets under management on March 31, 2003 were $241 billion, 4 percent lower than the $251 billion of assets at year-end 2002. Mercer's revenues in the first quarter increased 12 percent to $634 million from $565 million. Operating income rose 12 percent to $83 million from $74 million. Mercer's revenue growth on a constant currency basis was 5 percent. Mercer's first quarter results reflect growth in almost all of its consulting practices, including significant improvement in health care and group benefits, human capital, and organizational change consulting. Growth in retirement services and economic consulting continued, with a decline in management consulting. MMC continued to produce strong cash flow in the first quarter. The company paid $151 million in dividends to shareholders and repurchased 7.8 million shares of common stock for $321 million. As a result of MMC's share repurchase program, which more than offset requirements of stock benefit plans, shares outstanding were reduced by 2.4 million in the quarter and 12.9 million over the past 12 months. MMC is a global professional services firm with annual revenues exceeding $10 billion. It is the parent company of Marsh Inc., the world's leading risk and insurance services firm; Putnam Investments, one of the largest investment management companies in the United States; and Mercer Inc., a major global provider of consulting services. Approximately 59,000 employees provide analysis, advice and transactional capabilities to clients in over 100 countries. Its stock (ticker symbol: MMC) is listed on the New York, Chicago, Pacific, and London stock exchanges. MMC's website address is www.mmc.com. This press release contains certain statements relating to future results, which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements may include, without limitation, discussions concerning revenues, expenses, earnings, cash flow, capital structure, pension funding, financial losses and expected insurance recoveries resulting from the September 11, 2001 attack on the World Trade Center in New York City, as well as market and industry conditions, premium rates, financial markets, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, contingencies and matters relating to MMC's operations and income taxes. Such forward-looking statements are based on available current market and industry materials, experts' reports and opinions and long-term trends, as well as management's expectations concerning future events impacting MMC. Forward-looking statements by their very nature involve risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by any forward-looking statements contained herein include, in the case of MMC's risk and insurance services and consulting businesses, the amount of actual insurance recoveries and financial losses from the September 11 attack on the World Trade Center, or other adverse consequences from that incident. Other factors that should be considered in the case of MMC's risk and insurance services business are changes in competitive conditions, movements in premium rate levels, the continuation of difficult conditions for the transfer of commercial risk and other changes in the global property and casualty insurance markets, the impact of terrorist attacks, natural catastrophes, and mergers between client organizations, including insurance and reinsurance companies. Factors to be considered in the case of MMC's investment management business include changes in worldwide and national equity and fixed income markets, actual and relative investment performance, the level of sales and redemptions, and the ability to maintain investment management and administrative fees at appropriate levels; and with respect to all of MMC's activities, changes in general worldwide and national economic conditions, changes in the value of investments made in individual companies and investment funds, fluctuations in foreign currencies, actions of competitors or regulators, changes in interest rates or in the ability to access financial markets, developments relating to claims, lawsuits and contingencies, prospective and retrospective changes in the tax or accounting treatment of MMC's operations, and the impact of tax and other legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which MMC operates. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and MMC undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which it is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Please refer to Marsh & McLennan Companies' 2002 Annual Report on Form 10-K for "Information Concerning Forward-Looking Statements," its reports on Form 8-K, and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. MMC is committed to providing timely and materially accurate information to the investing public, consistent with our legal and regulatory obligations. To that end, MMC and its operating companies use their websites to convey meaningful information about their businesses, including the anticipated release of quarterly financial results, and the posting of updates of assets under management at Putnam. Monthly updates of total assets under management at Putnam will be posted to the MMC website the first business day following the end of each month, except at the end of March, June, September, and December, when such information will be released with MMC's quarterly earnings announcement. Putnam posts mutual fund and performance data to its website regularly. Assets for most Putnam retail mutual funds are posted approximately two weeks after each month-end. Mutual fund net asset value (NAV) is posted daily. Historical performance and Lipper rankings are also provided. Investors can link to MMC and its operating company websites through www.mmc.com.


