FILE:MMC/MMC-8K-20030723123546.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 -------------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits. (a) None. (b) None. (c) Exhibits 99.1. Press Release dated July 22, 2003. Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure. This information is being provided under new Item 12 of Form 8-K, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition", pursuant to interim guidance provided by the Securities and Exchange Commission. On July 22, 2003, Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. issued a press release announcing its unaudited second quarter financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2003. A copy of the press release is attached to this Report as an exhibit and is incorporated herein by reference. This information is to be considered "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. MARSH & McLENNAN COMPANIES, INC. By: /s/ Gregory F. Van Gundy ---------------------------- Name: Gregory F. Van Gundy Title: Secretary Date: July 23, 2003 -------------
Exhibit Index Exhibit (99.1): Press release dated July 22, 2003.

Exhibit 99.1 MMC REPORTS SECOND QUARTER RESULTS Revenues and Earnings Per Share Rise 10 Percent Marsh Delivers Strong Results NEW YORK, NEW YORK, July 22, 2003--Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. (MMC) today reported financial results for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2003. Consolidated revenues for the quarter increased 10 percent to $2.9 billion from $2.6 billion in the second quarter of 2002. Net income grew to $365 million from $336 million and earnings per share rose 10 percent to $.66 from $.60. For the six months, consolidated revenues rose to $5.7 billion from $5.2 billion. Net income grew to $808 million from $754 million and earnings per share increased 11 percent to $1.47 from $1.33. Jeffrey W. Greenberg, chairman, said: "MMC's results continue to reflect the strengths of the company. Marsh was the biggest contributor to our growth in the quarter, once again generating strong revenues and increased profitability. Putnam's average assets under management increased during the quarter. Mercer's consulting business showed gains, reflecting careful expense management." Risk and insurance services revenues in the second quarter rose 17 percent to $1.7 billion. On a constant currency basis, revenues grew 14 percent. Operating income increased 23 percent to
$403 million and margins expanded to 24 percent from 22.9 percent. Marsh's expertise in analyzing and transferring risk, its ability to create global risk management programs, and its knowledge and relationships with global markets will continue to be of great value to clients. Risk management and insurance broking revenues grew 17 percent, reinsurance broking and services grew 27 percent, and related insurance services increased 8 percent. On a constant currency basis, these revenues grew 13 percent, 24 percent, and 7 percent, respectively. Putnam's revenues in the second quarter were $495 million, 15 percent lower than the prior year, and operating income declined to $125 million from $169 million. Putnam's operating environment, however, has improved recently. Assets under management of $267 billion on June 30, 2003 were 11 percent higher than the $241 billion on March 31, 2003. Average assets under management during the second quarter were $260 billion, 14 percent below the $301 billion in the second quarter of 2002, but 7 percent higher than the $244 billion in the first quarter of 2003. Mutual fund sales continued at the same pace and redemptions slowed. Institutional assets ended the quarter at $96 billion, an increase of 12 percent during the second quarter and 3 percent from the end of the second quarter last year. International flows have been strong this year. International assets ended the quarter at $37 billion, an increase from $33 billion at the end of the first quarter of 2003 and up 23 percent over last year. Mercer's revenues in the second quarter increased 16 percent to $690 million and operating income rose 10 percent to $99 million. The retirement services and health care and group benefits practices, which represent two thirds of Mercer's revenues, continued to show growth. Second quarter results also reflect the acquisition of Oliver, Wyman & Company, which is included in the management consulting practice. On a constant currency basis, which also excludes acquisitions, Mercer's revenues grew 2 percent. In the first half of the year, MMC paid $301 million in dividends to shareholders and increased its quarterly dividend 11 percent to $.31, effective in the third quarter. MMC also repurchased 3.7 million shares of common stock in the second quarter, bringing its total repurchases for the year to 11.5 million shares for $503 million. 2
MMC is a global professional services firm with annual revenues exceeding $10 billion. It is the parent company of Marsh Inc., the world's leading risk and insurance services firm; Putnam Investments, one of the largest investment management companies in the United States; and Mercer Inc., a major global provider of consulting services. Approximately 60,000 employees provide analysis, advice and transactional capabilities to clients in over 100 countries. Its stock (ticker symbol: MMC) is listed on the New York, Chicago, Pacific, and London stock exchanges. MMC's website address is www.mmc.com. This press release contains certain statements relating to future results, which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements may include, without limitation, discussions concerning revenues, expenses, earnings, cash flow, capital structure, pension funding, financial losses and expected insurance recoveries resulting from the September 11, 2001 attack on the World Trade Center in New York City, as well as market and industry conditions, premium rates, financial markets, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, contingencies and matters relating to MMC's operations and income taxes. Such forward-looking statements are based on available current market and industry materials, experts' reports and opinions and long-term trends, as well as management's expectations concerning future events impacting MMC. Forward-looking statements by their very nature involve risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by any forward-looking statements contained herein include, in the case of MMC's risk and insurance services and consulting businesses, the amount of actual insurance recoveries and financial losses from the September 11 attack on the World Trade Center, or other adverse consequences from that incident. Other factors that should be considered in the case of MMC's risk and insurance services business are changes in competitive conditions, movements in premium rate levels, the continuation of difficult conditions for the transfer of commercial risk and other changes in the global property and casualty insurance markets, the impact of terrorist attacks, natural catastrophes, mergers between client organizations, and insurance or reinsurance company insolvencies. Factors to be considered in the case of MMC's investment management business include changes in worldwide and national equity and fixed income markets, actual and relative investment performance, the level of sales and redemptions, and the ability to maintain investment management and administrative fees at appropriate levels; and with respect to all of MMC's activities, changes in general worldwide and national economic conditions, changes in the value of investments made in individual companies and investment funds, fluctuations in foreign currencies, actions of competitors or regulators, changes in interest rates or in the ability to access financial markets, developments relating to claims, lawsuits and contingencies, prospective and retrospective changes in the tax or accounting treatment of MMC's operations, and the impact of tax and other legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which MMC operates. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and MMC undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which it is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Please refer to Marsh & McLennan Companies' 2002 Annual Report on Form 10-K for "Information Concerning Forward-Looking Statements," its reports on Form 8-K, and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. MMC is committed to providing timely and materially accurate information to the investing public, consistent with our legal and regulatory obligations. To that end, MMC and its operating companies use 3
their websites to convey meaningful information about their businesses, including the anticipated release of quarterly financial results, and the posting of updates of assets under management at Putnam. Monthly updates of total assets under management at Putnam will be posted to the MMC website the first business day following the end of each month, except at the end of March, June, September, and December, when such information will be released with MMC's quarterly earnings announcement. Putnam posts mutual fund and performance data to its website regularly. Assets for most Putnam retail mutual funds are posted approximately two weeks after each month-end. Mutual fund net asset value (NAV) is posted daily. Historical performance and Lipper rankings are also provided. Investors can link to MMC and its operating company websites through www.mmc.com. 4


