FILE:MMC/MMC-8K-20040129141836.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 -------------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits. (a) None. (b) None. (c) Exhibits 99.1. Press Release dated January 28, 2004. Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition. On January 28, 2004, Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. issued a press release announcing its unaudited fourth quarter and year-end financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2003. A copy of the press release is attached to this Report as an exhibit and is incorporated herein by reference.
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. MARSH & McLENNAN COMPANIES, INC. By: /s/ Leon J. Lichter ---------------------------- Name: Leon J. Lichter Title: Vice President & Corporate Secretary Date: January 29, 2004 ----------------
Exhibit Index Exhibit (99.1): Press release dated January 28, 2004.

Exhibit 99.1 MMC REPORTS STRONG FOURTH QUARTER AND YEAR-END RESULTS Earnings Per Share Increases 23 Percent for Quarter, 15 Percent for Year NEW YORK, NEW YORK, January 28, 2004--Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. (MMC) today reported financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2003. Consolidated revenues in the fourth quarter increased 15 percent to $3 billion. Net income grew 21 percent to $378 million, and earnings per share increased 23 percent to $.70. For the year, consolidated revenues rose 11 percent to $11.6 billion. Net income grew 13 percent to $1.5 billion, and earnings per share increased 15 percent to $2.82. Jeffrey W. Greenberg, chairman, commented: "MMC's strong results in 2003 were driven by the excellent performance of our largest business, risk and insurance services. Marsh's double-digit growth, adding $1 billion in revenues, was broadly based across client segments, geographic regions, and risk specialties. Marsh continues to extend its geographic reach, expertise, and service offerings through a combination of internal growth and acquisitions. An improving economy, free trade, globalization, and social change make risks larger and more complex, creating greater need for Marsh's services in regions around the world.
2 "Mercer grew revenues in spite of a difficult consulting operating environment. We successfully integrated Oliver Wyman with Mercer Management Consulting, adding important capabilities to our risk and strategy consulting services. We also made several other acquisitions to broaden our global retirement and benefits consulting business. As economies around the world continue to revive, a number of Mercer's practices are showing improved growth, and we see continued demand worldwide for Mercer's retirement and benefits services. The recently completed acquisition of Synhrgy HR Technologies brings Mercer a new platform for employee benefits outsourcing in the United States. "Late in the year, Putnam faced a major issue as a result of the discovery of inappropriate market timing by a number of investment professionals who have now left the firm. This activity had largely occurred several years earlier in certain Putnam mutual funds. Market timing was also found in a small number of shareholders' 401(k) accounts. We acted decisively, installing new leadership, instituting new policies and procedures to strengthen compliance, and pledging restitution to the shareholders of the Putnam funds. We continue to invest in Putnam to strengthen its business. With MMC's support, Putnam's new leadership team, headed by chief executive Ed Haldeman, is working to restore the confidence of its investors, distribution partners, and employees. Putnam is committed to delivering consistent, dependable, and superior investment performance, is providing greater fund disclosure, and is reducing shareholder costs. Investment management is a growing business around the world, and we believe Putnam will be an important source of long-term growth for MMC. "Marsh, Mercer, and Putnam operate in the large, growing global markets for risk, benefits, and retirement services. Using our financial strength, we continue to build our capabilities in each of our businesses through internal growth and acquisitions. We have confidence in the company's prospects for continued growth," Mr. Greenberg concluded. Risk and insurance services revenues in the fourth quarter rose 13 percent to $1.8 billion, and operating income increased 10 percent to $400 million. Underlying revenues, which exclude the effects of foreign exchange, acquisitions, and dispositions, grew 10 percent. For the year,
3 revenues rose 16 percent to $6.9 billion, a 13 percent increase on an underlying basis. Operating income increased 18 percent to $1.8 billion. For the year, risk management and insurance broking, which is approximately 75 percent of this sector's revenues, grew 13 percent on an underlying basis. Reinsurance broking and services' underlying revenues increased 21 percent, and related insurance services grew 5 percent. Mercer's revenues in the fourth quarter increased 17 percent to $705 million, and operating income rose 12 percent to $85 million. Underlying revenues grew 2 percent. For the year, revenues rose 15 percent to $2.7 billion, a 3 percent increase on an underlying basis. Operating income increased 11 percent to $363 million. All of Mercer's practices reported underlying revenue growth in 2003. Mercer's largest practice, retirement services, increased revenues modestly. Health and group benefits revenues rose 4 percent. Mercer's businesses in management and organizational change consulting grew revenues 3 percent. Economic consulting reported a 12 percent increase in revenues. Putnam's revenues in the fourth quarter grew 18 percent, and operating income rose to $139 million. Average assets under management in the fourth quarter increased to $259 billion from $249 billion in 2002. The year-over-year revenue comparison was affected by such items as the growth in assets under management, a contractual payment from Putnam's Italian joint venture partner, increased underwriting and distribution fees, and the effect of a $20 million investment write-down included in the fourth quarter of 2002. Putnam's 2003 fourth quarter operating income includes net costs of $24 million related to estimated potential restitution to the Putnam funds and compliance, legal, and communications expenses. Putnam's partial settlement with the Securities and Exchange Commission includes civil penalties yet to be determined, and therefore, no provision has been made. For the year, Putnam's revenues declined 8 percent to $2 billion, and operating income declined 10 percent to $503 million. Putnam's total assets under management on December 31, 2003 were $240 billion, compared with $251 billion at year-end 2002. Mutual fund assets were $163 billion on December 31, 2003, and institutional assets were $77 billion, compared with $164 billion and $87 billion,
4 respectively, at year-end 2002. Net redemptions in the fourth quarter were $54 billion, but the pace of redemptions slowed significantly in January. Putnam's total assets under management on January 26, 2004 were $241 billion. Cash flow from MMC's operations continued to be strong throughout 2003. The company repurchased 26.1 million shares of common stock for approximately $1.2 billion and paid $631 million in dividends to shareholders, representing the 41st consecutive year that annual dividends paid to shareholders have increased. MMC also made discretionary contributions to its pension plans of $300 million in the fourth quarter. Throughout the year, the company provided for a tax rate of 34 percent. The change in the geographic mix of MMC's businesses and tax planning with respect to international operations led to a decrease in the year's tax rate to 33 percent, a rate that is expected to continue. Debt levels of $3.4 billion are unchanged for the year. Over the past two years, MMC has extended the maturity of almost half of its debt, increasing its financial flexibility and locking in historically attractive borrowing costs. MMC is a global professional services firm with annual revenues exceeding $11 billion. It is the parent company of Marsh Inc., the world's leading risk and insurance services firm; Putnam Investments, one of the largest investment management companies in the United States; and Mercer Inc., a major global provider of consulting services. Approximately 60,000 employees provide analysis, advice and transactional capabilities to clients in over 100 countries. Its stock (ticker symbol: MMC) is listed on the New York, Chicago, Pacific, and London stock exchanges. MMC's website address is www.mmc.com. This press release contains certain statements relating to future results, which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements may include, without limitation, discussions concerning revenues, expenses, earnings, cash flow, capital structure, pension funding, financial losses and expected insurance recoveries resulting from the September 11, 2001 attack on the World Trade Center in New York City, and the adverse consequences arising from market-timing issues at Putnam, including fines and restitution, as well as market and industry conditions, premium rates, financial markets, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, contingencies, and matters relating to MMC's operations and income taxes. Such forward-looking statements are based on available current market and industry materials, experts' reports and opinions, and long-term trends, as well as management's expectations concerning future events impacting MMC. Forward-looking statements by their very nature involve risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by any forward-looking statements contained herein include, in the case of
5 MMC's risk and insurance services and consulting businesses, the amount of actual insurance recoveries and financial losses from the September 11 attack on the World Trade Center or other adverse consequences from that incident. Other factors that should be considered in the case of MMC's risk and insurance services business are changes in competitive conditions, movements in premium rate levels, the continuation of difficult conditions for the transfer of commercial risk and other changes in the global property and casualty insurance markets, natural catastrophes, mergers between client organizations, and insurance or reinsurance company insolvencies. Factors to be considered in the case of MMC's investment management business include changes in worldwide and national equity and fixed income markets, actual and relative investment performance, the level of sales and redemptions, and the ability to maintain investment management and administrative fees at historic levels; and with respect to all of MMC's activities, changes in general worldwide and national economic conditions, the impact of terrorist attacks, changes in the value of investments made in individual companies and investment funds, fluctuations in foreign currencies, actions of competitors or regulators, changes in interest rates or in the ability to access financial markets, developments relating to claims, lawsuits and contingencies, prospective and retrospective changes in the tax or accounting treatment of MMC's operations, and the impact of tax and other legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which MMC operates. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and MMC undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which it is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Please refer to Marsh & McLennan Companies' 2002 Annual Report on Form 10-K for "Information Concerning Forward-Looking Statements," its reports on Form 8-K, and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. MMC is committed to providing timely and materially accurate information to the investing public, consistent with our legal and regulatory obligations. To that end, MMC and its operating companies use their websites to convey meaningful information about their businesses, including the anticipated release of quarterly financial results and the posting of updates of assets under management at Putnam. Monthly updates of total assets under management at Putnam will be posted to the MMC website the first business day following the end of each month. Putnam posts mutual fund and performance data to its website regularly. Assets for most Putnam retail mutual funds are posted approximately two weeks after each month-end. Mutual fund net asset value (NAV) is posted daily. Historical performance and Lipper rankings are also provided. Investors can link to MMC and its operating company websites through www.mmc.com.
6


