FILE:MMC/MMC-8K-20041118191351.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 ---------------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported) November 18, 2004 ---------------------------------------------- Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. - ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter) Delaware 1-5998 36-2668272 - ------------------------------- ----------------------------- --------------------------------- (State or Other Jurisdiction (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer of Incorporation) Identification No.) 1166 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10036 - ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code (212) 345-5000 -------------------------------------------- Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: |_| Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) |_| Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) |_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) |_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Section 5--Corporate Governance and Management Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers. Effective today, November 18, 2004, five members of the Board of Directors of Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. ("MMC"), who are also executives of the company, have stepped down from their positions on the Board. Those leaving the Board include Mathis Cabiallavetta, vice chairman, MMC; Peter Coster, president, Mercer Inc.; Charles A. Davis, vice chairman, MMC and chairman and chief executive officer, MMC Capital, Inc.; Ray J. Groves, senior advisor, Marsh Inc.; and A.J.C. Smith, chairman, Putnam Investments and former chairman, MMC. Section 8--Other Events Item 8.01. Other Events. Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. issued a press release announcing the changes to the Board composition described above and that the Board of Directors decided to defer its decision with respect to the company's dividend for the first quarter of 2005, pending completion of its review of Marsh Inc.'s business model and ongoing regulatory matters. A copy of the press release is attached to this Report as an exhibit. Section 9--Financial Statements and Exhibits Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits. (c) Exhibits 99.1 Press release issued November 18, 2004. INFORMATION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. and its subsidiaries ("MMC") and their representatives may from time to time make verbal or written statements (including certain statements contained in this report and other MMC filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in our reports to stockholders) relating to future results, which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements may include, without limitation, discussions concerning revenues, expenses, earnings, cash flow, elimination of market service agreements ("MSA"), capital structure, existing credit facilities, access to commercial paper markets, pension funding, the adverse consequences arising from market-timing issues at Putnam, including fines and 2
restitution, the matters raised in the complaint filed by the New York State Attorney General's Office stating a claim for, among other things, fraud and violations of New York State antitrust and securities laws, as well as market and industry conditions, premium rates, financial markets, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, contingencies, and matters relating to MMC's operations and income taxes. Such forward-looking statements are based on available current market and industry materials, experts' reports and opinions, and long-term trends, as well as management's expectations concerning future events impacting MMC. Forward-looking statements by their very nature involve risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by any forward-looking statements contained herein include, in the case of MMC's risk and insurance services business, changes in competitive conditions, the impact of litigation and other matters concerning the claims brought by the New York State Attorney General's Office and state insurance regulators, loss of clients, inability to collect previously accrued MSA revenue, movements in premium rate levels, the conditions for the transfer of commercial risk and other changes in the global property and casualty insurance markets, natural catastrophes, mergers between client organizations, and insurance or reinsurance company insolvencies. Factors to be considered in the case of MMC's investment management business include changes in worldwide and national equity and fixed income markets, actual and relative investment performance, the level of sales and redemptions, and the ability to maintain investment management and administrative fees at historic levels; and with respect to all of MMC's activities, the ability to amend or replace MMC's existing credit facilities to provide long term support for commercial paper borrowings following the claims brought by the New York State Attorney General, the continued strength of MMC's relationships with its employees and clients, the ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses and realize expected synergies, changes in general worldwide and national economic conditions, the impact of terrorist attacks, changes in the value of investments made in individual companies and investment funds, fluctuations in foreign currencies, actions of competitors or regulators, changes in interest rates or in the ability to access financial markets, developments relating to claims, lawsuits and contingencies, prospective and retrospective changes in the tax or accounting treatment of MMC's operations, and the impact of tax and other legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which MMC operates. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and MMC undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which it is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Please refer to Marsh & McLennan Companies' 2003 Annual Report on Form 10-K for "Information Concerning Forward-Looking Statements," its reports on Form 8-K, and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. MMC is committed to providing timely and materially accurate information to the investing public, consistent with our legal and regulatory obligations. To that end, MMC and its operating companies use their websites to convey meaningful information about their businesses, including the anticipated release of quarterly financial results and the posting of updates of assets under management at Putnam. Monthly updates of total assets under management at Putnam will be posted to the MMC website the first business day following the end of each month. Putnam posts mutual fund and performance data to its website regularly. Assets for most Putnam retail mutual funds are posted approximately two weeks 3
after each month-end. Mutual fund net asset value (NAV) is posted daily. Historical performance and Lipper rankings are also provided. Investors can link to MMC and its operating company websites through www.mmc.com. 4
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. MARSH & McLENNAN COMPANIES, INC. By: /s/ Bart Schwartz ----------------------------------- Name: Bart Schwartz Title: Deputy General Counsel Date: November 18, 2004

Exhibit 99.1 News Release MANAGEMENT DIRECTORS STEP DOWN FROM MMC BOARD; DIRECTORS DELAY DECISION ON FIRST QUARTER 2005 DIVIDEND PAYMENT NEW YORK, NEW YORK, November 18, 2004--Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. (MMC) announced today that five members of its Board of Directors, who are also executives of the company, have stepped down from their positions on the Board. Those leaving the Board include Mathis Cabiallavetta, vice chairman, MMC; Peter Coster, president, Mercer Inc.; Charles A. Davis, vice chairman, MMC and chairman and chief executive officer, MMC Capital, Inc.; Ray J. Groves, senior advisor, Marsh Inc.; and A.J.C. Smith, chairman, Putnam Investments and former chairman, MMC. Robert Erburu, lead director of MMC's Board of Directors, said: "This step is in keeping with the company's commitment to adhering to corporate governance best practices. The Board appreciates the services of these executives." The company's Board of Directors now consists of Michael G. Cherkasky, the company's president and chief executive officer, and ten outside members of the Board. The company also announced that the Board of Directors today decided to defer its decision with respect to the company's dividend for the first quarter of 2005, pending completion of its review of Marsh's business model and ongoing regulatory matters.
2 MMC is a global professional services firm with annual revenues exceeding $11 billion. It is the parent company of Marsh Inc., the world's leading risk and insurance services firm; Putnam Investments, one of the largest investment management companies in the United States; and Mercer Inc., a major global provider of consulting services. More than 60,000 employees provide analysis, advice, and transactional capabilities to clients in over 100 countries. Its stock (ticker symbol: MMC) is listed on the New York, Chicago, Pacific, and London stock exchanges. MMC's website address is www.mmc.com. ----------- This press release may contain forward-looking statements, which by their very nature involve risks and uncertainties. Please refer to Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.'s most recent Current Reports on Form 8-K for "Information Concerning Forward-Looking Statements" and a description of factors that may cause actual results to differ from those contemplated by such statements.


