FILE:MMC/MMC-8K-20041015210707.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
 
On October 15, 2004, Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. issued a press release announcing a change in the management of Marsh Inc., its risk and insurance services subsidiary. A copy of the press release is attached to this Report as an exhibit.
 
 
Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. and its subsidiaries ("MMC") and their representatives may from time to time make verbal or written statements (including certain statements contained in this report and other MMC filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in our reports to stockholders) relating to future results, which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements may include, without limitation, discussions concerning revenues, expenses, earnings, cash flow, capital structure, pension funding, the adverse consequences arising from market-timing issues at Putnam, including fines and restitution, the complaint filed by the New York State Attorney General's Office stating a claim for, among other things, fraud and violations of New York State antitrust and securities laws, as well as market and industry conditions, premium rates, financial markets, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, contingencies, and matters relating to MMC's operations and income taxes. Such forward-looking statements are based on available current market and industry materials, experts' reports and opinions, and long-term trends, as well as management's expectations concerning future events impacting MMC. Forward-looking statements by their very nature involve risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by any forward-looking statements contained herein include, in the case of MMC's risk and insurance services business, changes in competitive conditions, the impact of litigation concerning the claims brought by the New York State Attorney General's Office, movements in premium rate levels, the continuation of difficult conditions for the transfer of commercial risk and other changes in the global property and casualty insurance markets, natural catastrophes, mergers between client organizations, and insurance or reinsurance company insolvencies. Factors to be considered in the case of MMC's investment management business include changes in worldwide and national equity and fixed income markets, actual and relative investment performance, the level of sales and redemptions, and the ability to maintain investment management and administrative fees at historic levels; and with respect to all of MMC's activities, the ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses, changes in general worldwide and national economic conditions, the impact of terrorist attacks, changes in the value of investments made in individual companies and investment funds, fluctuations in foreign currencies, actions of competitors or regulators, changes in interest rates or in the ability to access financial markets, developments relating to claims, lawsuits and contingencies, prospective and retrospective changes in the tax or accounting treatment of MMC's operations, and the impact of tax and other legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which MMC operates. In addition, there are risks and uncertainties relating to MMC's ability to integrate Kroll's business successfully and realize expected synergies; the continued strength of Kroll's relationships with its employees, suppliers, and customers; and the accuracy of the basis for the forecasts related to Kroll's business.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and MMC undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which it is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
 
MMC is committed to providing timely and materially accurate information to the investing public, consistent with our legal and regulatory obligations. To that end, MMC and its operating companies use their websites to convey meaningful information about their businesses, including the anticipated release of quarterly financial results and the posting of updates of assets under management at Putnam. Monthly updates of total assets under management at Putnam will be posted to the MMC website the first business day following the end of each month. Putnam posts mutual fund and performance data to its website regularly. Assets for most Putnam retail mutual funds are posted approximately two weeks after each month-end. Mutual fund net asset value (NAV) is posted daily. Historical performance and Lipper rankings are also provided. Investors can link to MMC and its operating company websites through www.mmc.com.
 
 
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c)       Exhibits
 
99.1    Press release issued October 15, 2004.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Date: October 15, 2004

Exhibit 99.1
 
News Release
 
 
 
NEW YORK, NEW YORK, October 15, 2004  Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. (MMC) today announced a change in the management of Marsh Inc., its risk and insurance services subsidiary.
 
Michael G. Cherkasky has been named chairman and chief executive officer of Marsh, Inc. effective immediately. Formerly chief executive officer of Marsh Kroll, MMC's risk consulting subsidiary, Mr. Cherkasky has a distinguished record as a manager, prosecutor, investigator, and trial attorney. He joined Kroll in 1994, rising to the position of president and chief executive officer in 2001. Prior to joining Kroll, Mr. Cherkasky spent 16 years in the criminal justice system, including serving as chief of the Investigations Division for the New York County District Attorney's Office.
 
Mr. Cherkasky succeeds Ray J. Groves, who has served as chairman and chief executive officer of Marsh since 2003. Mr. Groves will become senior advisor to Marsh. Roger L. Egan will continue as president and chief operating officer of Marsh Inc.
 
Jeffrey W. Greenberg, chairman and chief executive officer of MMC, said: "Since learning about the Attorney General's allegations, we have taken strong and immediate action. We are committed to determining the facts, and we will take all appropriate action to deal with any incidence of wrongdoing and assure we are serving the best interests of our clients. Mike's appointment as chairman and chief executive officer of Marsh recognizes the new additional priorities that the company faces. At the same time, this change will allow Roger Egan to support that effort and devote his time to managing the business and serving clients.
"Pending completion of the investigation, we have suspended market services agreements (MSAs), and we are actively reviewing every aspect of Marsh's business to identify and stop any practices that might encourage behavior that is inconsistent with our values and commitment to the highest professional and ethical standards.
 
"We thank Ray for his service to Marsh and look forward to his contributions in his new role."
 
MMC is a global professional services firm with annual revenues exceeding $11 billion. It is the parent company of Marsh Inc., the world's leading risk and insurance services firm; Putnam Investments, one of the largest investment management companies in the United States; and Mercer Inc., a major global provider of consulting services. More than 63,000 employees provide analysis, advice, and transactional capabilities to clients in over 100 countries. Its stock (ticker symbol: MMC) is listed on the New York, Chicago, Pacific, and London stock exchanges. MMC's website address is .
www.mmc.com
 
 


