FILE:MMC/MMC-8K-20041025172316.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 ---------------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported) October 25, 2004 ---------------------------------------------- Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. - ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter) Delaware 1-5998 36-2668272 - ------------------------------- ----------------------------- --------------------------------- (State or Other Jurisdiction (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer of Incorporation) Identification No.) 1166 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10036 - ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code (212) 345-5000 -------------------------------------------- Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: |_| Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) |_| Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) |_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) |_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Section 5--Corporate Governance and Management Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers. Effective today, October 25, 2004, Mr. Jeffrey W. Greenberg's employment with Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. ("MMC") terminated and he resigned as chairman and chief executive officer of MMC, and the Board of Directors of MMC has named Mr. Michael G. Cherkasky as president and chief executive officer of MMC and elected him to the Board. In addition the Board appointed Mr. Robert F. Erburu as lead director in lieu of a chairman of the board. Mr. Cherkasky, who is age 54, was recently named chairman and chief executive officer of Marsh Inc., MMC's risk and insurance services subsidiary, after serving as chief executive officer of Marsh Kroll, MMC's risk consulting subsidiary, since MMC's acquisition of Kroll Inc. in July 2004. Prior to the acquisition, Mr. Cherkasky was president and chief executive officer of Kroll since May 2001, after serving as president and chief operating officer of Kroll's Investigations and Intelligence Group since December 1997. He was also a director of Kroll since December 1997. Mr. Cherkasky had joined Kroll in 1994. Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year. Effective October 25, 2004, the Board of Directors of Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. amended the MMC By-Laws to provide that the Chairman of the Board may, but need not necessarily, be the Chief Executive Officer, and that the Board may be led either by a Chairman of the Board or by a new position of Lead Director. Previously the By-Laws provided that the Chairman of the Board must be the Chief Executive Officer. A copy of the amendment is attached as an exhibit hereto. Section 8--Other Events Item 8.01. Other Events. On October 25, 2004, Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. issued a press release announcing, among other things, the management changes described above. A copy of the press release is attached to this Report as an exhibit. 2
INFORMATION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. and its subsidiaries ("MMC") and their representatives may from time to time make verbal or written statements (including certain statements contained in this report and other MMC filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in our reports to stockholders) relating to future results, which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements may include, without limitation, discussions concerning revenues, expenses, earnings, cash flow, capital structure, existing credit facilities, pension funding, the adverse consequences arising from market-timing issues at Putnam, including fines and restitution, the matters raised in the complaint filed by the New York State Attorney General's Office stating a claim for, among other things, fraud and violations of New York State antitrust and securities laws, as well as market and industry conditions, premium rates, financial markets, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, contingencies, and matters relating to MMC's operations and income taxes. Such forward-looking statements are based on available current market and industry materials, experts' reports and opinions, and long-term trends, as well as management's expectations concerning future events impacting MMC. Forward-looking statements by their very nature involve risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by any forward-looking statements contained herein include, in the case of MMC's risk and insurance services business, changes in competitive conditions, the impact of litigation concerning the claims brought by the New York State Attorney General's Office, movements in premium rate levels, the continuation of difficult conditions for the transfer of commercial risk and other changes in the global property and casualty insurance markets, natural catastrophes, mergers between client organizations, and insurance or reinsurance company insolvencies. Factors to be considered in the case of MMC's investment management business include changes in worldwide and national equity and fixed income markets, actual and relative investment performance, the level of sales and redemptions, and the ability to maintain investment management and administrative fees at historic levels; and with respect to all of MMC's activities, the ability to amend or replace MMC's existing credit facilities to provide long term support for commercial paper borrowings following the claims brought by the New York State Attorney General, the ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses, changes in general worldwide and national economic conditions, the impact of terrorist attacks, changes in the value of investments made in individual companies and investment funds, fluctuations in foreign currencies, actions of competitors or regulators, changes in interest rates or in the ability to access financial markets, developments relating to claims, lawsuits and contingencies, prospective and retrospective changes in the tax or accounting treatment of MMC's operations, and the impact of tax and other legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which MMC operates. In addition, there are risks and uncertainties relating to MMC's ability to integrate Kroll's business successfully and realize expected synergies, the continued strength of Kroll's relationships with its employees, suppliers, and customers, and the accuracy of the basis for forecasts related to Kroll's business. 3
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and MMC undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which it is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. MMC is committed to providing timely and materially accurate information to the investing public, consistent with our legal and regulatory obligations. To that end, MMC and its operating companies use their websites to convey meaningful information about their businesses, including the anticipated release of quarterly financial results and the posting of updates of assets under management at Putnam. Monthly updates of total assets under management at Putnam will be posted to the MMC website the first business day following the end of each month. Putnam posts mutual fund and performance data to its website regularly. Assets for most Putnam retail mutual funds are posted approximately two weeks after each month-end. Mutual fund net asset value (NAV) is posted daily. Historical performance and Lipper rankings are also provided. Investors can link to MMC and its operating company websites through www.mmc.com. Section 9--Financial Statements and Exhibits Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits. (c) Exhibits 3.1 Amendment to By-Laws adopted October 25, 2004. 99.1 Press release issued October 25, 2004. 4
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. MARSH & McLENNAN COMPANIES, INC. By: /s/ Bart Schwartz ----------------------------------- Name: Bart Schwartz Title: Deputy General Counsel & Corporate Secretary Date: October 25, 2004

Exhibit 3.1 RESOLVED, that the By-Laws of Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. shall be amended by (a) replacing Article IV, Section 1 (following the heading), in its entirety, with the following two sentences: "The Board of Directors shall elect officers of the Corporation, including a Chairman of the Board or a Lead Director, one or more Vice Presidents, a Secretary, a Treasurer and a Controller. The Board of Directors may also elect one or more Vice Chairmen." (b) replacing the heading and the first sentence of Article IV, Section 3 with the following: "Chairman of the Board/Lead Director. As the Board may determine from time to time, there shall be either a Chairman of the Board or a Lead Director. The Chairman of the Board may, but need not necessarily, also be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation."; (c) replacing the phrase "Chairman of the Board" wherever it appears with "Chairman of the Board or Lead Director, as the case may be"; and (d) replacing Article IV, Section 4 (following the heading), in its entirety, with the following sentence: "A Vice Chairman, if any, shall, subject to the control of the Board of Directors and of the committees exercising functions of the Board of Directors, perform such duties as may from time to time be assigned to the Vice Chairman by the Chairman or Lead Director."

Exhibit 99.1 News Release JEFFREY W. GREENBERG RESIGNS AS CHAIRMAN AND CEO OF MMC MICHAEL G. CHERKASKY NAMED PRESIDENT AND CEO BOARD APPOINTS LEAD DIRECTOR AND SPECIAL COMMITTEE TO ADDRESS REGULATORY MATTERS NEW YORK, NEW YORK, October 25, 2004--The Board of Directors of Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. (MMC) today took a series of actions designed to enable the company to resolve its legal and regulatory issues while continuing to provide high-quality service to its clients. The MMC Board of Directors has accepted the resignation of chairman and chief executive officer Jeffrey W. Greenberg. The Board has named Michael G. Cherkasky as president and chief executive officer of the company and elected him to the Board of Directors. Mr. Cherkasky will also continue in his current role as chairman and chief executive officer of the company's risk and insurance services subsidiary Marsh Inc. The company said it plans to announce tomorrow significant reforms in the business model of its Marsh Inc. subsidiary which will be rooted in transparency and under which Marsh will receive compensation for its services from only one party: its clients. The Board of Directors said: "Jeff Greenberg has served MMC with dedication as chairman and chief executive officer for the past four and a half years. He has led the company through significant challenges, including the tragedy of September 11. We thank him for his contributions and respect the fact that Jeff has placed the interests of the company first. It is now time for the company to move forward to resolve the issues confronting it.
2 "Michael Cherkasky is a proven executive with an enormous breadth of experience. He brings a history of innovation and together with our other senior executives will restore the confidence of our clients, employees, and shareholders and reassure the regulatory authorities of our commitment to operate at the highest legal and ethical standards." Formerly chief executive officer of Marsh Kroll, MMC's risk consulting subsidiary, Mr. Cherkasky has a distinguished record as a manager, prosecutor, investigator, and trial attorney. He joined Kroll in 1994, rising to the position of president and chief executive officer in 2001. Prior to joining Kroll, Mr. Cherkasky spent 16 years in the criminal justice system, including serving as chief of the Investigations Division for the New York County District Attorney's Office. Mr. Cherkasky is leading MMC's role in the investigation of the New York State Attorney General's charges being conducted by Davis Polk & Wardwell. A special committee of outside directors has been formed to spearhead the company's activities in resolving its legal and regulatory matters. Robert F. Erburu, former chairman of The Times Mirror Company, will serve as chairman of the committee. The other committee members are Lewis W. Bernard, formerly of Morgan Stanley & Co., Inc.; Zachary W. Carter, a partner at the law firm of Dorsey & Whitney LLP and a former United States Attorney for the Eastern District of New York; and Stephen R. Hardis, former chairman of Eaton Corporation. Mr. Erburu has also been named lead director of the MMC Board of Directors. Mr. Cherkasky said: "I am committed to managing the company through this challenging period. I will be working closely with the leadership and colleagues of MMC's operating companies and with our Board members to make sure that our business model and processes provide the best service to our clients. MMC is a strong company with a proud 130-year history and terrific people. I want to assure our clients, colleagues, and shareholders that we will resolve our problems and move forward." 3
MMC is a global professional services firm with annual revenues exceeding $11 billion. It is the parent company of Marsh Inc., the world's leading risk and insurance services firm; Putnam Investments, one of the largest investment management companies in the United States; and Mercer Inc., a major global provider of consulting services. More than 63,000 employees provide analysis, advice, and transactional capabilities to clients in over 100 countries. Its stock (ticker symbol: MMC) is listed on the New York, Chicago, Pacific, and London stock exchanges. MMC's website address is www.mmc.com. ###


