FILE:MMC/MMC-8K-20050526171436.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
_____________________
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 8Other Events
 
 
On May 26, 2005, Marsh Inc., Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.'s risk and insurance services subsidiary, issued a press release announcing that it has retained Banc of America Securities LLC to act as its financial advisor to explore strategic alternatives for its wholesale broking operations. A copy of the press release is attached as an exhibit hereto.
 
 
 
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
MARSH & McLENNAN COMPANIES, INC.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
News Release
 
MARSH ANNOUNCES PLAN TO EXPLORE STRATEGIC ALTERNATIVES FOR ITS WHOLESALE BROKING OPERATIONS
NEW YORK, May 26, 2005--Marsh Inc., the world's leading risk and insurance services firm, announced that it has retained Banc of America Securities LLC to act as its financial advisor to explore strategic alternatives for its wholesale broking operations, Crump Group, Inc., based in Dallas, Texas, and Price Forbes Limited, based in London, England.
Marsh, the world's leading risk and insurance services firm, has nearly 30,000 employees and annual revenues exceeding $5 billion. The firm provides advice and transactional capabilities to clients in over 100 countries. Marsh is a unit of Marsh & McLennan Companies (MMC), a global professional services firm with approximately 60,000 employees and annual revenues exceeding $12 billion. MMC also is the parent company of Guy Carpenter, Kroll, Putnam Investments, and Mercer. MMC's stock (ticker symbol: MMC) is listed on the New York, Chicago, Pacific, and London stock exchanges. MMC's Web site address is www.mmc.com. Marsh's Web site address is www.marsh.com.
#        #        #
 
This press release contains statements relating to future results, which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements may include, without limitation, discussions concerning the matters raised in the complaint filed by the New York Attorney General's Office stating a claim for, among other things, fraud and violations of New York State antitrust and securities laws, the complaint filed by the Connecticut Attorney General and numerous other investigations being conducted by other state attorneys general and state superintendents or commissioners of insurance, elimination of market services agreements ("MSA"), the new business model of Marsh Inc., the adverse consequences arising from market-timing issues at Putnam, including fines and restitution, revenues, expenses, earnings and cash flow, capital structure, existing credit facilities, and access to public capital markets including commercial paper markets, pension funding, market and industry conditions, premium rates, financial markets, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, claims, lawsuits and other contingencies, and matters relating to MMC's operations and income taxes.
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
Such forward-looking statements are based on available current market and industry materials, experts' reports and opinions, and long-term trends, as well as management's expectations concerning current and future events impacting MMC. Forward-looking statements by their very nature involve risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by forward-looking statements that we make include:
 
 
 
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and MMC undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which it is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
MMC is committed to providing timely and materially accurate information to the investing public, consistent with our legal and regulatory obligations. To that end, MMC and its operating companies use their websites to convey meaningful information about their businesses, including the anticipated release of quarterly financial results and the posting of updates of assets under management at Putnam. Monthly updates of total assets under management at Putnam will be posted to the MMC website the first business day following the end of each month. Putnam posts mutual fund and performance data to its website regularly. Assets for most Putnam retail mutual funds are posted approximately two weeks after each month-end. Mutual fund net asset value (NAV) is posted daily. Historical performance and Lipper rankings are also provided. Investors can link to MMC and its operating company websites through www.mmc.com.
 
 
 
 
 
 


