FILE:MMC/MMC-8K-20060823122222.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
_____________________
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01.    Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On August 17, 2006, Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. ("MMC") and Marsh Inc. ("Marsh") and their subsidiaries and affiliates entered into Amendment No. 3 ("Amendment No. 3") to the Agreement, dated January 30, 2005, as amended, among such parties, the Attorney General of the State of New York and the Superintendent of Insurance of the State of New York (the "Settlement Agreement"). Amendment No. 3 amends the Settlement Agreement to clarify the permissible means by which Marsh may act and be compensated as a managing general agent or underwriting manager.
 
A copy of Amendment No. 3 is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. MMC filed a copy of the Settlement Agreement as Exhibit 10.1 to a Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 31, 2005.
 
 
Item 9.01.     Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
MARSH & McLENNAN COMPANIES, INC.
 
     Corporate Secretary
 
 
 
3
 
 
Exhibit Index
 
 
 
 
 
4

 
Exhibit 10.1
 
Amendment No. 3
to Agreement between the Attorney General of the State of New York and the Superintendent of
Insurance of the State of New York, and
Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc., Marsh Inc. and their subsidiaries and affiliates
(collectively, "Marsh") dated January 30, 2005, as amended
(hereinafter, the "Settlement Agreement")
 
WHEREAS, the parties recognize that part of Marsh's business is to act as a managing general agent or underwriting manager for insurance carriers; and
 
WHEREAS, the parties have agreed to amend the Settlement Agreement to clarify the permissible means by which Marsh may act and be compensated as a managing general agent or underwriting manager;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereby agree that the Settlement Agreement shall be clarified and amended as follows:
 
"The parties agree that the preceding two sentences shall not apply to MGA Compensation, which Marsh may receive when and to the extent it acts as an MGA. As used herein,
(a) Marsh shall be acting as an "MGA" when: (i) Marsh has been appointed by an insurer as a managing general agent or an underwriting manager, to be the insurer's representative in connection with the management of such insurer's book of business with respect to a specific product or product line; and (ii) in such capacity, Marsh (A) communicates with prospective insureds only through professional insurance brokers (including those units of Marsh which act in such capacity on behalf of insureds), and (B) places all such business for such product or product line only with and for such insurer, and
(b) "MGA Compensation" means the Compensation Marsh receives from the appointing insurer as consideration for the MGA services Marsh renders to such insurer."
"The parties agree that this Paragraph shall not apply to MGA Compensation."
 
 
 
 
"a) the Compensation received or to be received by Marsh (other than MGA Compensation),"
"The parties agree that this Paragraph shall not apply to MGA Compensation."
 
WHEREFORE, the following signatures are affixed hereto on this 17th day of August, 2006.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


