FILE:MMC/MMC-8K-20060613161232.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
_____________________
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01.  Other Events
 
On June 13, 2006, Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. issued a press release announcing changes in the leadership of Guy Carpenter & Company, Inc. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
 
 
Item 9.01.   Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
MARSH & McLENNAN COMPANIES, INC.
 
     Corporate Secretary
 
 
 
3
 
 
Exhibit Index
 
 
 
 
 
4

 
 
Exhibit 99.1
 
News Release
 
 
MMC NAMES DAVID SPILLER CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF GUY CARPENTER
Sal Zaffino to Continue as Chairman
NEW YORK, NEW YORK, June 13, 2006  Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. (MMC) today announced that David Spiller, President of Guy Carpenter & Company, Inc., MMC's global risk and reinsurance specialty business, has been appointed to the position of Chief Executive Officer of Guy Carpenter, effective July 1.
Mr. Spiller, 50, has served as President of Guy Carpenter and a member of the firm's Executive Committee and Management Board since January 2006. As CEO, he will be responsible for the day-to-day operations of Guy Carpenter worldwide and will report directly to Michael G. Cherkasky, President and Chief Executive Officer of MMC.
Salvatore D. Zaffino, the current Chief Executive Officer of Guy Carpenter, will continue as Chairman. Mr. Zaffino, 60, will continue to advise Mr. Spiller and the firm's leadership team on strategic business issues, and will work closely with senior management on select account activities. Mr. Zaffino will also continue to serve as Chairman of Reinsurance Solutions International, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Guy Carpenter.
Mr. Cherkasky said: "Since joining Guy Carpenter in January, David Spiller has proven himself to be both a visionary leader and a quick study. Under his leadership, the firm plans to grow by leveraging Guy Carpenter's best-in-class risk advisory services, program analytics, placement capabilities and specialized market and qualitative expertise.
"Guy Carpenter's leadership position in the marketplace and strong performance will play an important role for MMC as we draw on the unique combination of services and expertise across the company to deliver solutions that address the myriad risks our clients face. We fully expect David to build on Guy Carpenter's strong platform as he leads the firm into the future."
 
 
 
2
 
 
Before joining Guy Carpenter in January 2006, Mr. Spiller was Chief Executive Officer of Benfield Ltd. in London where he was responsible for all business outside of the United States. Mr. Spiller joined Benfield through its merger with Greig Fester Group, which he joined in 1979. He also chaired the London Market Brokers' Committee from 2004 to 2006.
MMC is a global professional services firm with annual revenues of approximately $12 billion. It is the parent company of Marsh, the world's leading risk and insurance services firm; Guy Carpenter, the world's leading risk and reinsurance specialist; Kroll, the world's leading risk consulting company; Mercer, a major global provider of human resource and specialty consulting services; and Putnam Investments, one of the largest investment management companies in the United States. Approximately 55,000 employees provide analysis, advice, and transactional capabilities to clients in over 100 countries. Its stock (ticker symbol: MMC) is listed on the New York, Chicago, Pacific, and London stock exchanges. MMC's website address is .
www.mmc.com
 
This press release contains "forward-looking statements," as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements, which use words like "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "plan," "project," "should" and similar terms, express management's current views concerning future events or results. For example, we may use forward-looking statements when addressing topics such as: future actions by our management or regulators; the outcome of contingencies; changes in our business strategy; changes in our business practices and methods of generating revenue; the development and performance of our services and products; market and industry conditions, including competitive and pricing trends; changes in the composition or level of MMC's revenues; our cost structure; the impact of acquisitions and dispositions; and MMC's cash flow and liquidity.
Forward-looking statements are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements include:
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
MMC cautions readers not to place undue reliance on its forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the dates on which they are made. MMC undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date on which it is made. Further information concerning MMC and its businesses, including information about factors that could materially affect our results of operations and financial condition, is contained in MMC's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 


