FILE:MMC/MMC-8K-20061023165551.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
_____________________
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
On October 23, 2006, Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. ("MMC") issued a press release announcing amendments to MMC's guidelines for corporate governance. A copy of that press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
MARSH & McLENNAN COMPANIES, INC.
 
 
  Corporate Secretary
 
 
 
3
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 
News Release
 
 
 
MMC ANNOUNCES CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ENHANCEMENTS
 
New Amendments Part of Ongoing Review
 
 
NEW YORK, NEW YORK (October 23, 2006)Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. (NYSE: MMC) today announced that its board of directors has adopted a series of amendments to MMC's guidelines for corporate governance, designed to further improve the company's governance practices. The amendments introduce the following new policies:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stephen R. Hardis, MMC's independent chairman, said: "The board of directors continually looks for ways to improve MMC's approach to corporate governance. The policies announced today result from an ongoing review, and are the latest in a series of governance enhancements implemented by the board over the last two years."
Michael G. Cherkasky, MMC's president and chief executive officer, added: "MMC is committed to strengthening all facets of its corporate performance. Striving to improve our governance practices is an important part of that process."
The new policies announced today are reflected in an amended version of MMC's guidelines for corporate governance, available at http://www.mmc.com.
MMC is a global professional services firm that specializes in risk management and human capital solutions that protect and enhance an organization's value. In the risk management arena, MMC is the parent company of Marsh, the world's leading risk and insurance services firm; Guy Carpenter, the world's leading risk and reinsurance specialist; and Kroll, the world's leading risk consulting company. MMC's leading role in human capital consulting resides in Mercer, a major global provider of human resource and specialty consulting services. MMC also owns Putnam Investments, one of the largest investment management companies in the United States. Its stock (ticker symbol: MMC) is listed on the New York, Chicago, Pacific, and London stock exchanges. MMC's website address is www.mmc.com.
 
 
 


