FILE:MMC/MMC-8K-20060214090408.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
_____________________
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On February 14, 2006, Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. issued a press release reporting financial results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, and announcing that a conference call to discuss such results will be held at 10:00 a.m. EST on February 14, 2006. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. For purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the press release is deemed furnished not filed.
 
 
Item 9.01.   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
MARSH & McLENNAN COMPANIES, INC.
 
     Corporate Secretary
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
Exhibit Index
 
 
 
 
 
 
4

 
 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 
MMC REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER AND YEAR-END RESULTS
 
NEW YORK, NEW YORK, February 14, 2006Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. (MMC) today reported financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2005. Marsh's U.S. wholesale broking operations and Sedgwick Claims Management Services, sold in October 2005 and January 2006, respectively, are shown in MMC's financial results as discontinued operations.
 
In the fourth quarter, consolidated revenues were $2.8 billion, a 2 percent decline from the fourth quarter of 2004. Net income was $35 million, or $.06 per share, compared with a net loss of $680 million, or $1.29 per share, in the fourth quarter of 2004. Income from continuing operations was $17 million, or $.03 per share, compared with a net loss of $683 million, or $1.29 per share, in the fourth quarter of 2004. Excluding noteworthy items and stock option expense described in the attached supplemental schedules, earnings per share from net income in the fourth quarter of 2005 was $.28, compared with $.26 in the same period of 2004.
 
Full-year consolidated revenues were $11.7 billion, compared with $11.8 billion in 2004. Net income for the full year was $404 million, or $.74 per share, compared with $176 million, or $.33 per share, in 2004. Income from continuing operations was $369 million, or $.67 per share, compared with $154 million, or $.29 per share, in 2004. Excluding noteworthy items and stock option expense, earnings per share for the full year from net income was $1.57, compared with $2.38 in 2004. The accompanying supplemental schedules give effect to discontinued operations and segment reclassifications. Quarterly trends are shown on pages 13, 15, and 16.
 
Michael G. Cherkasky, president and chief executive officer of MMC, said: "Two thousand five was a challenging year for MMC. We did what we critically needed to do. We stabilized MMC; we preserved our great brandsMarsh, Mercer, Putnam, Kroll, and Guy Carpenter; and we overwhelmingly retained our clients and employees. MMC is a much stronger company today than it was a year ago. Marsh had better client and staff
 
1
 
 
retention and better profitability in the fourth quarter than in the previous quarters of 2005. We expect those trends to continue in 2006. Mercer Human Resource Consulting, Mercer Specialty Consulting, and Kroll grew revenues and are positioned for increased profitability in 2006, as is Guy Carpenter. Putnam continues to reduce its net outflows as it slowly but steadily completes its turnaround. MMC is headed in the right direction."
 
Risk and Insurance Services
 
The improved business tone at Marsh is apparent in fourth quarter results. Both worldwide and North American client retention rates improved meaningfully from what has been reported throughout the year. Underlying revenues, excluding market services revenues, declined 2 percent, also a marked improvement from previous quarters. These results were achieved despite continued premium rate declines in the commercial insurance marketplace, particularly in Europe.
 
Guy Carpenter's revenues in the fourth quarter were $155 million, unchanged from the same period of 2004. While not reflected in 2005 results, January 2006 renewals showed premium rate increases in property catastrophe coverage.
 
Revenues from Marsh & McLennan Risk Capital Holdings were $27 million, reflecting lower sales of equity investments. This was a marked decline not only from the $58 million of revenues in the fourth quarter of 2004 but also from the first three quarters of 2005.
 
Total risk and insurance services revenues declined 7 percent to $1.3 billion in the fourth quarter. The decline was primarily due to the year-over-year effect of market services revenues, the reduced sales of equity investments, and foreign currency translation. These results exclude strong revenue growth by Sedgwick Claims Management Services, which previously had been included in related insurance services but is now reflected in discontinued operations.
 
 
2
 
 
 
Risk Consulting and Technology
Kroll continued to produce strong revenue growth in the fourth quarter. Revenues increased 14 percent to $230 million from $201 million, or 18 percent on an underlying basis, led by strong growth in corporate advisory and restructuring, background screening, and technology services. In Kroll's first full year of operations as part of MMC, revenues were $946 million, and operating income was $124 million.
 
Consulting
Mercer's total revenues increased 6 percent in the fourth quarter to $966 million. Specialty consulting produced excellent results, with revenues increasing 16 percent to $248 million, compared with the fourth quarter of 2004. Mercer Oliver Wyman and Mercer's strategy and operations consulting businesses fueled this performance, continuing a pattern of strong growth throughout 2005. Mercer Human Resource Consulting reported a 2 percent increase in quarterly revenues to $664 million. Underlying growth of 3 percent reflected solid results in retirement and human capital consulting and overall strength in international operations.
 
Investment Management
Putnam's revenues in the fourth quarter declined 12 percent to $360 million, in line with the year-over-year decline in average assets under management, which were $188 billion, compared with $211 billion in the fourth quarter of 2004. Net redemptions in the quarter were $6.4 billion. Total assets under management on December 31, 2005 were $189 billion, comprising $126 billion of mutual fund assets and $63 billion of institutional assets.
 
The 2005 restructuring program resulted in savings of $160 million in the year, with the remaining $215 million of the total annualized savings of $375 million to occur in 2006, all in risk and insurance services. Restructuring-related costs totaled $320 million in 2005, and the remaining $50 million is anticipated in the first half of 2006.
 
 
3
 
 
 
Fourth quarter results also include expenses of $40 million in connection with certain litigation and related matters.
 
MMC's net debt (total debt less cash and cash equivalents) was $3.5 billion at year-end, reflecting a decline of approximately $250 million in the fourth quarter and $430 million for the full year, driven primarily by strong operating cash flows. In addition, the company made discretionary cash contributions of $235 million to its U.K. pension plans, bringing aggregate discretionary pension contributions in the United States and the United Kingdom to $440 million for the full year.
 
In the fourth quarter of 2005, MMC entered into a new five-year revolving credit agreement in the amount of $1.2 billion. MMC also repatriated $585 million of accumulated international earnings at a favorable tax rate pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. To fund the repatriation, certain MMC international subsidiaries incurred borrowings under the new credit facility, which increased both cash and debt levels at the end of 2005.
 
The combined annualized revenues from Marsh's U.S. wholesale broking operations, Crump Group, and Sedgwick Claims Management Services were approximately $470 million in 2005 and $400 million in 2004. The results of these operations, including the after-tax net gain on the sale of Crump, have been reflected as discontinued operations. The gain on the sale of Sedgwick Claims Management Services will be reflected in the first quarter of 2006.
 
Conference Call
A conference call to discuss fourth quarter and year-end 2005 results will be held today at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Standard Time. To participate in the teleconference, please dial (888) 208-1812 or (719) 457-2654 (international). The access code for both numbers is 4446190. The audio webcast (which will be listen-only) may be accessed at www.mmc.com. A replay of the webcast will be available beginning approximately two hours after the event at the same web address.
 
4
 
 
 
MMC is a global professional services firm with annual revenues of approximately $12 billion. It is the parent company of Marsh, the world's leading risk and insurance services firm; Guy Carpenter, the world's leading risk and reinsurance specialist; Kroll, the world's leading risk consulting company; Mercer, a major global provider of human resource and specialty consulting services; and Putnam Investments, one of the largest investment management companies in the United States. Approximately 55,000 employees provide analysis, advice, and transactional capabilities to clients in over 100 countries. Its stock (ticker symbol: MMC) is listed on the New York, Chicago, Pacific, and London stock exchanges. MMC's website address is www.mmc.com.
 
This press release contains "forward-looking statements," as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements, which use words like "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "plan," "project" and similar terms, express management's current views concerning future events or results. For example, we may use forward-looking statements when addressing topics such as: future actions by our management or regulators; the outcome of contingencies; changes in our business strategy; changes in our business practices and methods of generating revenue; the development and performance of our services and products; market and industry conditions, including competitive and pricing trends; changes in the composition or level of MMC's revenues; our cost structure; the impact of acquisitions and dispositions; and MMC's cash flow and liquidity.
 
Forward-looking statements are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements include:
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and MMC undertakes no obligation to update any such statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which it is made. Further information concerning MMC and its businesses, including information about factors that could materially affect our results of operations and financial position, is contained in MMC's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
MMC and its operating companies use their websites to convey meaningful information about their businesses, including the anticipated release of quarterly financial results and the posting of updates of assets under management at Putnam. Monthly updates of total assets under management at Putnam will be posted to the MMC website the first business day following the end of each month. Putnam posts mutual fund and performance data to its website regularly. Assets for most Putnam retail mutual funds are posted approximately two weeks after each month-end. Mutual fund net asset value (NAV) is posted daily. Historical performance and Lipper rankings are also provided. Investors can link to MMC and its operating company websites through www.mmc.com.
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
 
7
 
Notes
Underlying revenue measures the change in revenue, before the impact of acquisitions and dispositions, using consistent currency exchange rates. Underlying revenue for Insurance Services decreased 5% in the fourth quarter, including a 3% decline related to market services agreements; and for the Risk and Insurance Services segment underlying revenue decreased 6% in the fourth quarter, including a 3% decline related to market services agreements.
Effective October 1, 2004 MMC agreed to eliminate contingent compensation agreements with insurers. Results for the fourth quarter of 2005 include market services revenue of $30 million related to collections of amounts earned on placements made prior to October 1, 2004, which had not previously been accrued.
Interest income on fiduciary funds amounted to $37 million and $36 million for the three months ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
Revenue includes investment income (loss) of $29 million and $49 million for Risk and Insurance Services and $(2) million and $8 million for Investment Management for the three months ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
Risk Capital Holdings owns MMC's investments in insurance and financial services firms such as Ace Ltd., XL Capital Ltd. and Axis Capital Holdings Ltd. as well as the Trident Funds.
 
8
 
Notes
Underlying revenue measures the change in revenue, before the impact of acquisitions and dispositions, using consistent currency exchange rates. Underlying revenue for Insurance Services decreased 13% for the twelve months, including a 7% decline related to market services agreements; and for the Risk and Insurance Services segment underlying revenue decreased 11% for the twelve months, including a 6% decline related to market services agreements.
Effective October 1, 2004 MMC agreed to eliminate contingent compensation agreements with insurers. Results for 2005 include market services revenue of $124 million related to collections of amounts earned on placements made prior to October 1, 2004, which had not previously been accrued.
Interest income on fiduciary funds amounted to $151 million and $130 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
Revenue includes investment income (loss) of $180 million and $149 million for Risk and Insurance Services and $3 million and $51 million for Investment Management for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
Risk Capital Holdings owns MMC's investments in insurance and financial services firms such as Ace Ltd., XL Capital Ltd. and Axis Capital Holdings Ltd. as well as the Trident Funds.
 
 
9
 
(a) Effective July 1, 2005, MMC adopted SFAS 123 (R), Share-Based Payment, using the modified prospective method of adoption. Incremental expenses of $33 million and $64 million, respectively, primarily related to stock options, are included in Corporate expenses for the three months and twelve months ended December 31, 2005.
(b) The effective tax rate for the three months ended December 31, 2005 reflects lower tax benefits on restructuring costs, employee retention costs, settlement costs and stock option expense, and the impact of increasing the full year effective tax rate on ongoing operations to 34.2%. The effective tax rate for the three months ended December 31, 2004 reflects non-deductible settlement charges at Putnam.
 
 
10
 
Reconciliation of the Impact of Measures on Net Income and Diluted Earnings Per Share
Non-GAAP
Please see Notes to the Reconciliation of Measures on Page 14.
Non-GAAP
 
 
11
 
MEASURES: The amounts shown below in Operating Income As Adjusted and Operating Income Margin As Adjusted are financial measures within the meaning of Regulation G promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Because a number of noteworthy items impacted operating income in 2004, MMC believes that the supplemental financial measures presented below may help investors and other users of MMC's financial information to understand aspects of MMC's operating income and net income that may not be apparent from MMC's reported GAAP results. Certain industry peers provide similar supplemental information, although they may not use the same or comparable terminology and may not make identical adjustments. The financial measures presented below are not a substitute for MMC's reported GAAP information.
NON-GAAP
non-GAAP
non-GAAP
non-GAAP
Reconciliation of the Impact of Measures on Net Income and Diluted Earnings Per Share
Non-GAAP
Please see Notes to the Reconciliation of Measures on Page 14.
Non-GAAP
 
 
12
 
MEASURES: The amounts shown below in Operating Income As Adjusted and Operating Income Margin As Adjusted are financial measures within the meaning of Regulation G promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Because a number of noteworthy items impacted operating income and interest expense in 2005, MMC believes that the supplemental financial measures presented below may help investors and other users of MMC's financial information to understand aspects of MMC's operating income and net income that may not be apparent from MMC's reported GAAP results. Certain industry peers provide similar supplemental information, although they may not use the same or comparable terminology and may not make identical adjustments. The financial measures presented below are not a substitute for MMC's reported GAAP information.
NON-GAAP
non-GAAP
non-GAAP
non-GAAP
MMC has reclassified prior period amounts to reflect organizational changes that affected MMC's reportable segments. The changes, noted on Page 9, are reflected in the tables below.
Reconciliation of the Impact of Measures on Diluted Earnings Per Share
Non-GAAP
Please see Notes to the Reconciliation of Measures on Page 14.
Non-GAAP
 
 
13
 
(a) For the three months and twelve months ended December 31, 2005, market services revenue of $29 million and $119 million, respectively, for Risk and Insurance Services, and $1 million and $5 million, respectively, for the employee benefits business transferred to Mercer, is included in Operating Income As Reported and Operating Income As Adjusted.
(b) Settlement and Other Costs represent expenses incurred in connection certain litigation and related matters.
(c) Incremental regulatory and compliance costs in the risk and insurance services segment include professional services provided by other MMC companies and the inter-company amounts are eliminated in Corporate. The credit in Investment Management relates to insurance recoveries of amounts previously presented as Incremental Regulatory and Compliance costs.
(d) Other primarily reflects costs related to a claim against a letter of credit posted by MMC on behalf of an insurance company previously owned by MMC, accelerated leasehold amortization and the bonus impact on the insurance credit received, partly offset by a gain on the sale of the corporate jet.
(e) Corporate expenses in 2005 include restructuring charges of $49 million related to the consolidation of office space in London, which was recorded in the first quarter of 2005. Because the office space consolidation was driven by MMC to benefit its London operations as a whole, the related charge was recorded in corporate expenses.
(f) Represents estimated costs that Putnam believes will be necessary to address issues relating to the calculation of certain amounts paid by the Putnam mutual funds in previous years. The previous payments were cost reimbursements by the Putnam mutual funds to Putnam for transfer agency services related to defined contribution operations.
(g) In addition to the noteworthy items that impacted operating income, interest expense included a write-off of $7 million of unamortized costs related to the refinancing of the 2004 revolving credit agreement and a $34 million mortgage prepayment charge.
(h) For the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2004, market services revenue of $70 million and $521 million, respectively, for Risk and Insurance Services, and $3 million and $20 million, respectively, for the employee benefits business transferred to Mercer, is included in Operating Income As Reported and Operating Income as Adjusted.
(i) Settlement and Other Costs include charges related to the investigation of Marsh by New York regulators and Putnam's settlements with the SEC and State of Massachusetts and a credit for the final insurance settlement related to WTC in Corporate.
(j) In connection with accounting guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in the U.K., MMC reassessed its obligation to provide future claims handling and certain administrative services for brokerage clients in the European marketplace. MMC has determined that under certain circumstances it is obligated to provide such services based on its current business practices. MMC recorded a pretax charge to reflect the change in estimated cost to provide these services. This change does not result in any incremental cash outflow for MMC.
(k) The tax effect for the twelve months ended December 31, 2004 reflects non-deductible Putnam settlement, reserve for possible Marsh settlement at 34% tax rate, credit related to insurance settlement at 40% tax rate, service obligation estimate at 30% tax rate and other charges and credit at 35% tax rate.
 
 
14
 
 
 
15
 
 
 
16
 
Categories of mutual fund assets reflect style designations aligned with Putnam's various prospectuses. All quarter-end assets conform with the current investment mandate for each product.
 
 
17
 
 
 
18
 


