FILE:MMC/MMC-8K-20060920170032.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
_____________________
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.05
      
Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
 
On September 15, 2006, Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. ("MMC") announced a series of actions designed to enhance operational efficiencies and improve profitability. These actions comprise MMC-wide initiatives in the areas of information technology infrastructure, real estate and corporate functions, as well as targeted profit enhancement initiatives and business process and organizational improvements at the operating company level. MMC expects the announced actions to yield annualized expense savings of approximately $350 million by the end of 2008. MMC expects to incur net charges of approximately $225 million through the end of 2008 as it implements the announced actions. A copy of MMC's press release, dated September 15, 2006, with respect to the foregoing is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The types and estimated amounts of the net charges relating to MMC's announced actions are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
Net cash outflows of approximately $175 million are expected to result from the anticipated charges described above.
 
The amounts of anticipated annualized savings, accounting charges and cash outflows referred to above and in the attached press release are estimates, and are subject to change as the announced actions and their timing are finalized. The statements above and in the attached press release concerning anticipated annualized savings, accounting charges and cash outflows are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and actual amounts may differ from MMC's current estimates. In this regard, please see the forward-looking statements disclosure contained in the attached press release.
 
 
Item 8.01
      
Other Events
 
On September 19, 2006, MMC issued a press release relating to its subsidiary Putnam Investments. A copy of that press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
MARSH & McLENNAN COMPANIES, INC.
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 
News Release
 
 
MMC ANNOUNCES SIGNIFICANT ENHANCEMENTS TO FIRM-WIDE
INFRASTRUCTURE AND OPERATING COMPANY BUSINESS PROCESSES
 
 
Infrastructure Improvements to IT, Real Estate, and Corporate Functions are
Expected to Yield Annualized Savings of Approximately $350 Million
 
 
NEW YORK, NEW YORK  September 15, 2006 - Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. (MMC) today announced a series of actions to enhance operational efficiencies and improve profitability. The steps announced today are the product of a comprehensive review of information technology, real estate, corporate functions, and operating company business processes. These actions are expected to yield annualized savings of approximately $350 million by the end of 2008 with charges of approximately $225 million.
 
"Beginning a year ago, we initiated an effort to rationalize MMC's IT infrastructure, institutionalize firm-wide best practices, automate systems, and eliminate redundancies," said Michael G. Cherkasky, president and chief executive officer of MMC. "Actions that have already been taken and will be taken through the first quarter of 2007 will result in the realization of approximately half of the total savings."
 
The changes announced today will improve the ability of MMC's operating companies to provide exceptional client service in the most efficient manner. While these savings include
 
2
managed attrition and staff reductions of approximately 750 currently identified positions, the majority of the savings will be achieved from more efficient processes.
 
Company-wide changes in IT infrastructure include:
 
Savings in real estate are expected to be achieved through a variety of global initiatives such as the disposition of excess space, improvements in facilities management, and the optimization of standards in space, design, and construction. Across MMC, savings are anticipated in corporate functions such as finance, HR, and procurement.
 
In addition to infrastructure initiatives, MMC expects additional savings from targeted profit enhancement initiatives and business process and organizational improvements at the operating company level. Marsh and Mercer Human Resource Consulting are the MMC operating companies that will be affected most significantly by these actions.
 
The table below summarizes the major initiatives and estimated timing of when annualized run rate cost savings will be achieved.
 
Total Estimated Annualized Run Rate Savings
($ in millions)
 
 
3
MMC expects to record approximately 15 percent of the charges this year, approximately 55 percent in 2007, and 30 percent in 2008.
 
"Over the past two years, this management team has successfully achieved $800 million in restructuring savingson time and as promised," Mr. Cherkasky stated. "These past successes are evidence that the savings announced today can be delivered. MMC's senior vice president and chief administrative officer, Michael Petrullo, and vice president of finance operations, Lamar Chesney, will drive this process and ensure that our goals are met."
 
MMC is a global professional services firm with annual revenues of approximately $12 billion. It is the parent company of Marsh, the world's leading risk and insurance services firm; Guy Carpenter, the world's leading risk and reinsurance specialist; Kroll, the world's leading risk consulting company; Mercer, a major global provider of human resource and specialty consulting services; and Putnam Investments, one of the largest investment management companies in the United States. Approximately 55,000 employees provide analysis, advice, and transactional capabilities to clients in over 100 countries. Its stock (ticker symbol: MMC) is listed on the New York, Chicago, Pacific, and London stock exchanges. MMC's website address is .
www.mmc.com
 
 
This press release contains "forward-looking statements," as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements, which express management's current views or assumptions concerning future events or results, use words like "anticipate," "assume," "believe," "continue," "ensure," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "plan," "project" and similar terms, and future or conditional tense verbs like "could," "should," "will" and "would." For example, we may use forward-looking statements when addressing topics such as: future actions by our management or regulators; the outcome of contingencies; changes in our business strategy; changes in our business practices and methods of generating revenue; the development and performance of our services and products; market and industry conditions, including competitive and pricing trends; changes in the composition or level of MMC's revenues; our cost structure; the impact of acquisitions and dispositions; and MMC's cash flow and liquidity.
 
Forward-looking statements are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements include:
 
4
 
 
The factors identified above are not exhaustive. MMC and its subsidiaries operate in a dynamic business environment in which new risks may emerge frequently. Accordingly, MMC cautions readers not to place undue reliance on its forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the dates on which they are made.
 
 
MMC undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date on which it is made. Further information concerning MMC and its businesses, including information about factors that could materially affect our results of operations and financial condition, is contained in MMC's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
MMC and its operating companies use their websites to convey meaningful information about their businesses, including the anticipated release of quarterly financial results and the posting of updates of assets under management at Putnam. Monthly updates of total assets under management at Putnam will be posted to the MMC website the first business day following the end of each month. Putnam posts mutual fund and performance data to its website regularly. Assets for most Putnam retail mutual funds are posted approximately two weeks after each month-end.
 
5
Mutual fund net asset value (NAV) is posted daily. Historical performance and Lipper rankings are also provided. Investors can link to MMC and its operating company websites through
www.mmc.com
.
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.2
 
News Release
 
 
MMC COMMENTS ON PUTNAM INVESTMENTS
NEW YORK  September 19, 2006
- Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. (NYSE: MMC) ("MMC") today released the following statement by its President and Chief Executive Officer Michael G. Cherkasky, regarding MMC's subsidiary Putnam Investments ("Putnam"):
"Over the last few months there have been repeated inquiries from parties interested in either acquiring or partnering with Putnam. Therefore, in consultation with MMC's board, I decided it was in the interest of our shareholders to do a market check to determine the value others would put on Putnam. We have just commenced this process and have not decided to take any specific action in regard to Putnam at this time."
About MMC
MMC is a global professional services firm with annual revenues of approximately $12 billion. It is the parent company of Marsh, the world's leading risk and insurance services firm; Guy Carpenter, the world's leading risk and reinsurance specialist; Kroll, the world's leading risk consulting company; Mercer, a major global provider of human resource and specialty consulting services; and Putnam Investments, one of the largest investment management companies in the United States. Approximately 55,000 employees provide analysis, advice, and transactional capabilities to clients in over 100 countries. Its stock (ticker symbol: MMC) is listed on the New York, Chicago, Pacific, and London stock exchanges. MMC's website address is .
www.mmc.com
 
About Putnam Investments
Founded in 1937, Putnam Investments is one of the nation's oldest and largest money management firms. As of June 30, 2006, Putnam managed $180 billion in assets, of which $119 billion is for mutual fund investors and $61 billion is for institutional accounts. Putnam has offices in Boston, London and Tokyo. For more information, go to
www.putnam.com
.
 
2
This press release contains "forward-looking statements," as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements, which express management's current views or assumptions concerning future events or results, use words like "anticipate," "assume," "believe," "continue," "ensure," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "plan," "project" and similar terms, and future or conditional tense verbs like "could," "should," "will" and "would." For example, we may use forward-looking statements when addressing topics such as: future actions by our management or regulators; the outcome of contingencies; changes in our business strategy; changes in our business practices and methods of generating revenue; the development and performance of our services and products; market and industry conditions, including competitive and pricing trends; changes in the composition or level of MMC's revenues; our cost structure; the impact of acquisitions and dispositions; and MMC's cash flow and liquidity.
 
Forward-looking statements are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements include:
 
3
 
 
The factors identified above are not exhaustive. MMC and its subsidiaries operate in a dynamic business environment in which new risks may emerge frequently. Accordingly, MMC cautions readers not to place undue reliance on its forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the dates on which they are made.
MMC undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date on which it is made. Further information concerning MMC and its businesses, including information about factors that could materially affect our results of operations and financial condition, is contained in MMC's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
MMC and its operating companies use their websites to convey meaningful information about their businesses, including the anticipated release of quarterly financial results and the posting of updates of assets under management at Putnam. Monthly updates of total assets under management at Putnam will be posted to the MMC website the first business day following the end of each month. Putnam posts mutual fund and performance data to its website regularly. Assets for most Putnam retail mutual funds are posted approximately two weeks after each month-end. Mutual fund net asset value (NAV) is posted daily. Historical performance and Lipper rankings are also provided. Investors can link to MMC and its operating company websites through
www.mmc.com
.
 
 


