FILE:MMC/MMC-8K-20071203163213.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
_____________________
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Item 8.01
        
Other Events
 
Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. ("MMC") today issued a press release announcing the appointment of Daniel S. Glaser as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Marsh Inc., MMC's insurance broking subsidiary. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Item 9.01
        
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
MARSH & McLENNAN COMPANIES, INC.
 
 
  Corporate Secretary
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 
3
 

 
 
Exhibit 99.1
 
News Release
 
 
 
MMC APPOINTS DANIEL S. GLASER AS CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OF MARSH
 
Leading Insurance Industry Executive to Join Marsh in December
 
NEW YORK, December 3, 2007
 Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. (MMC) today announced the appointment of Daniel S. Glaser as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Marsh Inc., MMC's insurance broking subsidiary. Mr. Glaser currently serves as Managing Director of AIG Europe (U.K.) Limited and the Regional President of AIG's American International Underwriters (AIU), UK/Ireland division. He joins Marsh on December 10, 2007.
 
Mr. Glaser began his career in the insurance industry as a Marsh broker in 1982. He worked at Marsh for a decade, serving in roles in New York, London and Saudi Arabia. Thereafter, he spent eight years at Willis, where he served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Willis Risk Solutions, the large accounts practice. In 2000, he joined AIG as President of the Global Energy Division and, in 2002, was named Managing Director of AIG Europe (U.K.), AIU's largest division.
 
"Dan has broad expertise in the insurance industry as well as first-hand knowledge of the Marsh organization," said Michael G. Cherkasky, MMC President and Chief Executive Officer. "His perspectives as both a broker and an underwriter, coupled with his extensive international experience, make him the ideal candidate to take Marsh forward."
 
 
 
 
Mr. Glaser commented: "In returning to Marsh, I will come full circle to the start of my career in the insurance industry 25 years ago. During that time, I have seen the strength and resiliency of the Marsh organization: it is a company with great people, the strongest client base in the world and a bright future. There are challenges and we must address them. There are also tremendous opportunities, and with the support of thousands of Marsh employees, I intend to move promptly to seize those opportunities."
 
Mr. Glaser currently lives in London and will relocate to MMC's corporate headquarters in New York. He will report to Mr. Cherkasky.
 
Marsh, the world's leading insurance broker and risk advisor, has 26,000 employees and provides advice and transactional capabilities to clients in over 100 countries. Marsh is a unit of MMC.
 
MMC is a global professional services firm providing advice and solutions in the areas of risk, strategy and human capital. It is the parent company of a number of the world's leading risk experts and specialty consultants, including Marsh, the insurance broker and risk advisor; Guy Carpenter, the risk and reinsurance specialist; Kroll, the risk consulting firm; Mercer, the provider of HR and related financial advice and services; and Oliver Wyman, the management consultancy. With more than 55,000 employees worldwide and annual revenue of $11 billion, MMC provides analysis, advice and transactional capabilities to clients in more than 100 countries. Its stock (ticker symbol: MMC) is listed on the New York, Chicago, and London stock exchanges. MMC's website address is
www.mmc.com
.
 
 
2
 
 


