FILE:MMC/MMC-8K-20070828164118.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
_____________________
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01
        
Other Events
 
On August 24, 2007, Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. ("MMC") issued a press release announcing that it had entered into an agreement (the "ASR Agreement") with a financial institution counterparty ("Seller") to repurchase $800 million worth of outstanding MMC common stock in an accelerated share repurchase transaction. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
MMC has paid Seller the full purchase price of $800 million under the ASR Agreement, in exchange for which Seller has delivered to MMC 21,320,530 shares of MMC common stock. Pursuant to a contractually specified "price cap" provision, that is the minimum number of shares deliverable to MMC under the ASR Agreement. If the average price per share of MMC's common stock during an agreed calculation period is less than the specified cap price, Seller will be obligated to deliver additional shares to MMC based on a contractual formula (subject to adjustment under certain circumstances). MMC expects that Seller will deliver any required additional shares by the first quarter of 2008.
 
 
Item 9.01
        
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Exhibit 99.1
      
Press release issued by Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. on August 24, 2007.
 
 
2
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
MARSH & McLENNAN COMPANIES, INC.
 
 
  Corporate Secretary
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 
4

 
 
 
Exhibit 99.1
 
News Release
 
 
MMC ANNOUNCES $800 MILLION
ACCELERATED SHARE REPURCHASE TRANSACTION
 
NEW YORK, August 24, 2007
Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. (MMC) today announced that it has entered into an agreement with a financial institution counterparty to repurchase $800 million worth of outstanding MMC common stock in an accelerated share repurchase transaction.
 
MMC will conduct the transaction pursuant to the Board of Directors' $1.5 billion share repurchase authorization announced on August 7, 2007. MMC will fund the transaction with proceeds from the recent sale of Putnam Investments.
 
"This $800 million buyback continues MMC's ongoing commitment and substantive actions to return value to shareholders," said Michael G. Cherkasky, president and chief executive of MMC. "The successful closing of the Putnam transaction bolsters our financial flexibility and sharpens our focus on the firm's core businesses in risk, strategy and human capital."
 
As of July 31, 2007, before giving effect to the repurchase transaction, MMC has 541.0 million shares of common stock outstanding. The total number of shares to be repurchased will be based on the volume-weighted average price of MMC's stock through a contractually specified averaging period.
 
MMC (Marsh & McLennan Companies) is a global professional services firm providing advice and solutions in the areas of risk, strategy and human capital. It is the parent company of a number of the world's leading risk experts and specialty consultants, including Marsh, the insurance broker and business risk advisor; Guy Carpenter, the risk and reinsurance specialist; Kroll, the risk consulting firm; Mercer Human Resource Consulting, the provider of HR and related financial advice and services; and Oliver Wyman, the management consultancy. With more than 54,000 employees worldwide and annual revenue of approximately $11 billion, MMC provides analysis, advice, and transactional capabilities to
 
2
 
 
clients in more than 100 countries. Its stock (ticker symbol: MMC) is listed on the New York, Chicago, and London stock exchanges. MMC's website address is
www.mmc.com
.
 
 
This press release contains "forward-looking statements," as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements, which express management's current views concerning future events or results, use words like "anticipate," "assume," "believe," "continue," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "plan," "project" and similar terms, and future or conditional tense verbs like "could," "should," "will" and "would." For example, we may use forward-looking statements when addressing topics such as: future actions by regulators; the outcome of contingencies; changes in our business strategies and methods of generating revenue; the development and performance of our services and products; market and industry conditions, including competitive and pricing trends; changes in the composition or level of MMC's revenues; our cost structure and the outcome of restructuring and other cost-saving initiatives; share repurchase programs; the expected impact of acquisitions and dispositions; and MMC's cash flow and liquidity.
 
Forward-looking statements are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The factors identified above are not exhaustive. MMC and its subsidiaries operate in a dynamic business environment in which new risks may emerge frequently. Accordingly, MMC cautions readers not to place undue reliance on its forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the dates on which they are made. MMC undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date on which it is made. Further information concerning MMC and its businesses, including information about factors that could materially affect our results of operations and financial condition, is contained in MMC's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the "Risk Factors" section of MMC's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006.
 
 
 


