FILE:MMC/MMC-8K-20070518150310.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
_____________________
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 8.01
        
Other Events
 
On May 11, 2007, Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. ("MMC") issued a press release announcing that it had entered into an agreement (the "ASR Agreement") with a financial institution counterparty ("Seller") to repurchase $500 million worth of outstanding MMC common stock in an accelerated share repurchase transaction. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
MMC has paid Seller the full purchase price of $500 million under the ASR Agreement, in exchange for which Seller has delivered to MMC 13,464,749 shares of outstanding MMC common stock. Pursuant to a contractually specified "price cap" provision, that is the minimum number of shares deliverable to MMC under the ASR Agreement. If the average price per share of MMC's common stock during an agreed calculation period is less than the specified cap price, Seller will be obligated to deliver additional shares to MMC based on a contractual formula (subject to adjustment under certain circumstances). MMC expects that Seller will deliver any required additional shares by early September 2007.
 
 
Item 9.01
        
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Exhibit 99.1
      
Press release issued by Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. on May 11, 2007
 
 
2
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
MARSH & McLENNAN COMPANIES, INC.
 
 
  Corporate Secretary
 
 
 
3
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 
4

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
News Release
 
 
MMC ANNOUNCES $500 MILLION
ACCELERATED SHARE REPURCHASE TRANSACTION
 
NEW YORK, May 11, 2007Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. (MMC) today announced that it has entered into an agreement with a financial institution counterparty to repurchase $500 million worth of outstanding MMC common stock in an accelerated share repurchase transaction. MMC will conduct this transaction pursuant to the Board of Directors' $500 million share repurchase authorization announced on May 8, 2007. As of April 30, 2007, before giving effect to the repurchase transaction, MMC has 555.4 million shares of common stock outstanding.
 
"MMC's improved financial position gives us flexibility to invest in our businesses and return cash to shareholders," said Michael G. Cherkasky, president and chief executive officer of MMC. "Today's repurchase agreement, together with the 12 percent dividend increase announced in the first quarter of 2007, illustrates the Board's and management's commitment to enhancing shareholder value."
 
Under the terms of the agreement, MMC has agreed to repurchase $500 million worth of its outstanding common stock. The total number of shares to be repurchased will be based on the volume-weighted average price of MMC's stock through a contractually specified averaging period.
 
2
 
 
Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. (MMC) is the world's premier provider of advice and solutions in risk, strategy and human capital. It is the parent company of Marsh, the world's leading risk and insurance services firm; Guy Carpenter, the world's leading risk and reinsurance specialist; Kroll, the world's leading risk consulting company; Mercer Human Resource Consulting, the world's leading consultancy in its field; Oliver Wyman, a leading global management consultancy; and Putnam Investments, one of the largest investment management companies in the United States. More than 55,000 employees provide analysis, advice, and transactional capabilities to clients in over 100 countries. Its stock (ticker symbol: MMC) is listed on the New York, Chicago, and London stock exchanges. MMC's website address is www.mmc.com.
 
 
This press release contains "forward-looking statements," as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements, which express management's current views concerning future events or results, use words like "anticipate," "assume," "believe," "continue," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "plan," "project" and similar terms, and future or conditional tense verbs like "could," "should," "will" and "would." For example, we may use forward-looking statements when addressing topics such as: the timing and expected impact of acquisitions and dispositions; future actions by regulators; the outcome of contingencies; changes in our business strategy; changes in our business practices and methods of generating revenue; the development and performance of our services and products; market and industry conditions, including competitive and pricing trends; changes in the composition or level of MMC's revenues; our cost structure and the outcome of restructuring and other cost-saving initiatives; share repurchase programs; and MMC's cash flow and liquidity.
Forward-looking statements are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements include:
 
3
 
 
 
 
The factors identified above are not exhaustive. MMC and its subsidiaries operate in a dynamic business environment in which new risks may emerge frequently. Accordingly, MMC cautions readers not to place undue reliance on its forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the dates on which they are made. MMC undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date on which it is made. Further information concerning MMC and its businesses, including information about factors that could materially affect our results of operations and financial condition, is contained in MMC's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 


