FILE:MMC/MMC-8K-20070917171035.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
_____________________
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
On September 14, 2007, Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. ("MMC") issued a press release announcing that Brian M. Storms was stepping down, effective immediately, from his position as chief executive officer of MMC's insurance broking subsidiary Marsh Inc. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
MARSH & McLENNAN COMPANIES, INC.
 
 
  Corporate Secretary
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 
3
 

 
 
 
 
Exhibit 99.1
 
News Release
 
 
MMC Announces Departure of Marsh Inc. CEO Brian Storms
 
NEW YORK, Sept. 14, 2007 Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. (MMC) announced today that Brian M. Storms is stepping down from his position as chief executive officer of Marsh, Inc., MMC's insurance broking subsidiary, effective immediately. The search for a successor is already underway. In the interim, Michael G. Cherkasky, president and chief executive officer of MMC, will serve as Acting CEO of Marsh.
"Brian has made important contributions to Marsh's recovery over the past two years," Mr. Cherkasky said. "Our long-term strategy is sound and a solid foundation has been built. That said, we now need a different set of leadership and operational skills to complete the successful transformation of Marsh."
Mr. Cherkasky continued, "I remain confident about the future of Marsh and MMC. Insurance broking is at the heart of Marsh and always will be. Our people, services and clients have made us the leading insurance broker in the world. In addition, the other businesses of MMC  Mercer, Kroll, Guy Carpenter and Oliver Wyman  are important pillars for our performance as we work to complete the recovery of Marsh."
2
 
Marsh, the world's leading insurance broker and risk advisor, has 26,000 employees and provides advice and transactional capabilities to clients in over 100 countries.
MMC (Marsh & McLennan Companies) is a global professional services firm providing advice and solutions in the areas of risk, strategy and human capital. It is the parent company of a number of the world's leading risk experts and specialty consultants, including Marsh, the insurance broker and risk advisor; Guy Carpenter, the risk and reinsurance specialist; Kroll, the risk consulting firm; Mercer, the provider of HR and related financial advice and services; and Oliver Wyman, the management consultancy. With more than 54,000 employees worldwide and annual revenue of approximately $11 billion, MMC provides analysis, advice, and transactional capabilities to clients in more than 100 countries. Its stock (ticker symbol: MMC) is listed on the New York, Chicago, and London stock exchanges. MMC's website address is www.mmc.com.
 
 
# # #
 
 
 


