FILE:MMC/MMC-8K-20080222133553.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
_____________________
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.02
        
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors;
Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain
 
Cherkasky, MMC's former president and chief executive officer, entered into a Separation and Release Agreement (the "
Separation Agreement
"). The Separation Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of Mr. Cherkasky's separation from MMC following termination of his employment effective January 29, 2008 (the "
Separation Date
").
 
The compensation provided by MMC to Mr. Cherkasky under the Separation Agreement is largely determined by operation of the Employment Agreement entered into between MMC and Mr. Cherkasky as of July 25, 2005 (the "
Employment Agreement
"). A copy of the Employment Agreement is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to MMC's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on July 29, 2005.
 
The principal terms of the Separation Agreement are summarized below. This summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Separation Agreement, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
2007 Bonus Determination
 
The compensation committee of MMC's board of directors has determined that Mr. Cherkasky will receive no bonus in respect of fiscal 2007.
 
Separation Payment
 
MMC did not terminate Mr. Cherkasky's employment for "cause," as that term is defined in the Employment Agreement. MMC therefore will pay Mr. Cherkasky a lump sum of $7,150,000. This amount is calculated in accordance with 5.5(d) of the Employment Agreement and represents two times the sum of: (x) $1.0 million, which was Mr. Cherkasky's base salary as of the Separation Date; and (y) $2.575 million, which was Mr. Cherkasky's average bonus for 2005 and 2006.
 
Full Vesting of Equity-Based Awards
 
The Separation Agreement recognizes that, in accordance with 5.5(d) of the Employment Agreement, all unvested equity-based awards previously granted to Mr. Cherkasky vested in full as of the Separation Date.
 
 
 
2
   
 
the date of the Separation Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
Separation Benefits
 
The Separation Agreement states that MMC will provide Mr. Cherkasky with certain benefits in connection with his separation of employment. These include:
 
 
 
 
3
   
 
Transition Consulting Services
 
The Separation Agreement provides that Mr. Cherkasky will render and be compensated for certain transition consulting services to MMC following the Separation Date. These arrangements are not contemplated by the Employment Agreement.
 
 
 
 
The Separation Agreement contains non-competition, non-solicitation and release-of-claims provisions that are consistent with the terms of the Employment Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
MARSH & McLENNAN COMPANIES, INC.
 
 
 
  Corporate Secretary
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 McLennan Companies, Inc. and Michael G. Cherkasky.
 
 
5
 

           
 
 
By Federal Express and Email
 
February 15, 2008
 
Subject:
Separation and Release Agreement
 
Dear Michael:
 
Your employment with Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. (the "Company"), and your service as a member of the Board of Directors of the Company, terminated effective January 29, 2008, (the "Separation Date"). This letter (the "Agreement") sets forth our understanding and agreement concerning your separation from the Company, as follows:
Nothing in this Agreement is intended to impair any of these rights.
 
 
 
In accordance with the Employment Agreement, in the event that there is a Change in Control (as defined in the Company's 2000 Senior Executive Incentive and Stock Award Plan, in effect on the Separation Date) within the six (6) months immediately following the Separation Date, the Company will pay to you an additional $3.575 million within thirty (30) days following the Change of Control.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
demands of any nature whatsoever, whether known or unknown, liquidated or unliquidated, absolute or contingent, at law or in equity, that were or could have been filed with any Federal, state or local court, agency, arbitrator or any other entity, based directly or indirectly on your employment with and separation from the Company, or based on any other alleged act or omission by or on behalf of MMC or any of its subsidiaries prior to your signing this Agreement. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, this paragraph specifically includes all: (i) claims arising out of or relating to your employment, compensation and benefits with MMC or any of its subsidiaries or the termination of such employment, including without limitation claims for stock options, restricted stock units, performance-based restricted stock units, stock bonus units, deferred stock units, or claims under any incentive compensation plan of MMC or any of its subsidiaries; (ii) claims based on breach of contract (express or implied), including, without limitation, all claims based on, concerning or arising out of the Employment Agreement; (iii) claims based on tort, harassment, intentional infliction of emotional distress, defamation, negligence, privacy, employment discrimination, retaliation, discharge not for just cause, constructive discharge and wrongful discharge; (iv) claims under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended ("ADEA"), the Older Workers Benefit Protection Act of 1990 ("OWBPA"), Executive Order 11,141 (age discrimination), Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, the Civil Rights Act of 1991, the Civil Rights Acts of 1866 and 1871, Sections 1981 through 1988 of Title 42 of the United States Code, as amended, 41 U.S.C.  1981 (discrimination), Executive Order 11,246 (race, color, religion, sex and national origin discrimination), the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, the New York State and New York City Human Rights Laws, the New York Labor Law, the New York Constitution, and as such laws have been or may be amended, any Federal, state or local fair employment, civil or human rights laws, wage and hour laws and wage payment laws, and any and all other Federal, state and local or other statutes, laws, ordinances, regulations and orders; (v) claims under common law; and, (vi) claims under any Company policy, procedure, bylaw or rule.
 
 
 
rights under any Federal, state or local statute or regulation that provides that a general release does not extend to claims that the releasor does not know exists or does not suspect to exist in the releasor's favor at the time of executing the release, which if known to the releasor must have materially affected the releasor's settlement with the releasee.
 
 
 
relationship with the Company, a rejection of your application or inquiry will not constitute a breach of this Agreement or a violation of law in any manner whatsoever by the Company.
 
 
 
generally known to the public or trade without your violation of this paragraph 10; or, (iii) to your spouse and personal tax and financial advisors as reasonably necessary or appropriate to advance your tax, financial and other personal planning (each an "Exempt Person"); provided, however, that any disclosure or use of any trade secret or proprietary or confidential information by an Exempt Person shall be deemed to be a breach of this paragraph 10 by you.
 
 
 
 
 
direct or indirect responsibilities or involvement, or (ii) a company where the Competitive Activity is, (x) from the perspective of such company,
de
minimis
with respect to the business of such company and its affiliates, and, (y) from the perspective of MMC and its subsidiaries, not in material competition with MMC or any subsidiary.
 
 
you execute this Agreement before the end of the 21-day period, such early execution was completely voluntary, and that you had reasonable and ample time in which to review this Agreement.
 
 
provisional relief from a court of competent jurisdiction (i) in aid of such arbitration or to prevent any award sought from being rendered ineffectual, or (ii) to preserve or enforce the Company's rights under paragraphs 10 and 11 of this Agreement.
Very truly yours,
MARSH & McLENNAN COMPANIES, INC.
By:
 
/s/ Ian Lang                                                                                        
The Rt. Hon. Lord Lang of Monkton, D.L.
Chairman, Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors
 
 
PLEASE READ THIS AGREEMENT CAREFULLY. IT CONTAINS A RELEASE OF ALL KNOWN AND UNKNOWN CLAIMS.
Michael G. Cherkasky
 
 
 
 
 


