FILE:MMC/MMC-8K-20080821170207.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
_____________________
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
(c)
   On August 21, 2008, Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. ("MMC") announced that Vanessa A. Wittman will become an Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of MMC. In June, MMC announced that Matthew B. Bartley, an Executive Vice President and the current Chief Financial Officer, will leave the firm. Ms. Wittman's appointment as Executive Vice President will be effective September 10, 2008 and her designation as Chief Financial Officer will become effective at a date to be determined, but in no event later than October 15, 2008.
 
Ms. Wittman, age 41, was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Adelphia Communications Corporation, a cable television company, from March 2003 until December 2006. In June 2006, Adelphia sold the majority of its revenue-generating assets to two other cable companies. Adelphia's Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization was deemed effective in February 2007. From February 2000 to March 2003, Ms. Wittman served as Vice President of Corporate Development, and then as Chief Financial Officer of broadband network services provider 360networks Inc. She served as Senior Director, Corporate Development for Microsoft Corporation from April 1999 to February 2000 and as Chief Financial Officer for Metricom, Inc., a wide area wireless data solutions provider, from April 1997 to November 1998. Ms.Wittman graduated cum laude and Phi Beta Kappa from the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, in 1989 and received an MBA from the Darden School of Business at the University of Virginia in 1991 where she was a Shermet Scholar.
 
MMC's related press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
 
(e)
   On August 18, 2008, MMC entered into a letter agreement with Ms. Wittman, governing the terms of her employment as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of MMC. The principal terms of Ms. Wittman's letter agreement are summarized below.
 
Salary and Bonus
.  Ms. Wittman will receive an annual base salary of $750,000 and will be eligible for an annual bonus with an anticipated target equal to 100% of her base salary. Her actual bonus may range from 0% to 200% of target, based on individual and MMC performance targets (including, but not limited to, targets related to her performance and MMC's financial performance) as MMC may establish from time to time. Ms. Wittman will receive a pro-rata annual bonus for the 2008 performance year, reflecting her period of employment with MMC during 2008, calculated at target.
 
Long-Term Incentive Compensation
.  Ms. Wittman will be eligible to participate in MMC's long-term incentive program with an anticipated target grant-date value of $2 million, beginning with the annual grant in 2009. Ms. Wittman will also be granted a long-term incentive award as of her start date, in a combination of restricted stock units and stock options, with a grant date value of $1 million, reflecting her employment between her start date and the 2009 annual grant.
 
Participation in the MMC Senior Executive Severance Plan
.  Ms. Wittman will participate in the MMC Senior Executive Severance Plan. In the event her employment with MMC terminates, the MMC Senior Executive Severance Plan will govern the terms under which she
 
2
 
 
 
may be eligible to receive severance and/or other transition benefits from MMC. In general, the MMC Senior Executive Severance Plan provides benefits to participants in the event of a termination of employment by MMC without cause or, within the two-year period following a change in control of MMC, either by MMC without cause or by the participant for good reason. Benefits under the Plan generally include cash severance equal to one year's base salary plus a bonus equal to the average of the annual bonuses paid to the participant for each of the three prior calendar years; a pro-rata target bonus for the year of termination; twelve months of outplacement services; and continued medical and dental coverage for twelve months at active employee rates. Benefits are conditioned on the participant having properly and timely executed and delivered to MMC a valid, irrevocable, confidential waiver and release of claims agreement (including restrictive covenants) in a form satisfactory to MMC.
 
Benefits
.  Ms. Wittman will be eligible to participate in MMC's employee benefit plans and programs on terms and conditions as are generally provided to similarly situated employees of MMC. In addition, Ms. Wittman will be eligible to participate in the MMC Financial Services Program, as in effect from time to time, and MMC will provide her with relocation benefits in accordance with company policy.
 
The foregoing summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to Ms. Wittman's letter agreement, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
MARSH & McLENNAN COMPANIES, INC.
 
 
  Corporate Secretary
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 

 
 
 
Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
August 18, 2008
 
 
Ms. Vanessa A. Wittman
P.O. Box 684399
Park City, UT 84068
 
 
 
Dear Vanessa:
 
We are pleased to confirm our offer of employment to join Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. ("
MMC,
" or the "
Company
") as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Your appointment as Executive Vice President of MMC, an officer position, is subject to approval by the MMC Board of Directors. In addition, your appointment as Chief Financial Officer will become effective at a date to be determined, but in no event later than October 15, 2008. This position reports to the Chief Executive Officer of the Company (the "
CEO
"), currently Brian Duperreault, and is located in New York, NY. As we have discussed, your start date is expected to be on or around September 10, 2008.
 
We are all confident that the Company can offer you a rewarding and challenging career opportunity, and we look forward to working with you.
 
 
You will devote all of your attention and time during working hours to the affairs and business of the Company and use your best efforts to perform such duties and responsibilities as are consistent with your position and as shall, from time to time, be reasonably assigned to you by the CEO. In addition, you agree to serve, without additional compensation, as an officer and director for any member of the Affiliated Group. For purposes of this letter agreement, the term "
Affiliated Group
" means MMC and any corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, or other entity in which MMC has a 10% or greater direct or indirect interest. Except for those boards or committees set forth on Exhibit A, if any, you may not serve on corporate, civic or charitable boards or committees without the prior written consent of the Company.
 
 
Your compensation and benefits will be as set forth below and in Exhibit A, subject to approval of the Compensation Committee of the MMC Board of Directors ("
Compensation Committee
").
 
 
 
August 18, 2008
Ms. Vanessa A. Wittman
Page 2
 
 
 
adjustment in succeeding years as part of your normal performance management process.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
August 18, 2008
Ms. Vanessa A. Wittman
Page 3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As a condition of our offer of employment, as well as your continued employment by the Company, you must read, understand and abide by the MMC Code of Business Conduct & Ethics. You must also complete:
 
within 30 days of your start date, as well as such other compliance training that the Company determines is appropriate for your position in the Company during the course of your employment.
 
 
Please note that this letter agreement and your continued employment by the Company are contingent upon the satisfactory completion of reference and background checks and the submission of proper authorization to work in the United States. Please also be aware that once you advise us that you have resigned from your current position, current employer information will be verified as part of this process. You will not be able to begin work until we have satisfactorily completed these pre-employment requirements. An application for employment and a Fair Credit Reporting Act Disclosure and Authorization Statement are
 
 
August 18, 2008
Ms. Vanessa A. Wittman
Page 4
 
 
 
enclosed and must be returned to Kathryn Komsa, Vice President, MMC Corporate Human Resources, at 1166 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10036.
 
 
 
Leon J. Lichter
Vice President, Acting Head of Human Resources
Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.
1166 Avenue of the Americas
New York, NY 10036
 
Notices to or with respect to you will be directed to you, or in the event of your death, your executors, personal representatives or distributees, at your home address as set forth in the records of the Company.
 
 
 
 
 
August 18, 2008
Ms. Vanessa A. Wittman
Page 5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
August 18, 2008
Ms. Vanessa A. Wittman
Page 6
 
 
 
 
 
We will follow up with you to confirm your start date. On your first day, please report to Kathryn Komsa, Vice President, MMC Corporate Human Resources, at 1166 Avenue of the Americas, 24 floor at 9:00 am. Please provide her with any necessary documents as described below.
th
 
Please acknowledge your agreement with the terms of this offer letter by signing and dating the enclosed copy and returning it on or before August 25, 2008, along with your completed employment application (if not already submitted), your completed Fair Credit Reporting Act Disclosure and Authorization Statement, your signed Confidentiality Agreement and your signed Non-Solicitation Agreement in the enclosed self-addressed envelope.
 
We are pleased to have you join MMC and believe that you will find significant career opportunities and challenges that will be professionally rewarding. If you need any additional information or have any questions, please do not hesitate to call me at 212-345-6675.
 
 
 
Sincerely,
 
 
Brian Duperreault
 
 
 
Accepted and Agreed:
 
 
Vanessa A. Wittman
 
 
(Date)
 
 
August 18, 2008
Ms. Vanessa A. Wittman
Page 7
 
 
 
Exhibit A
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
News Release
 
 
 
MMC NAMES VANESSA A. WITTMAN CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
 
NEW YORK
, August 21, 2008  Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. (MMC) today announced the appointment of Vanessa A. Wittman as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
 
Ms. Wittman will report directly to MMC President and CEO Brian Duperreault. She joins MMC as an EVP on September 10, and will assume her CFO duties by October 15. She will succeed Matthew B. Bartley, who in June announced his plans to leave the company.
 
"Vanessa is an experienced finance professional with a successful track record at large, multifaceted organizations," Mr. Duperreault said. "I, and the rest of the senior management team, look forward to working closely with her to maintain MMC's solid financial standing and to further enhance shareholder value."
 
Ms. Wittman was most recently CFO and Executive Vice President of Adelphia Communications Corp., which she joined in 2003. At Adelphia, she served on a four-member executive team that navigated one of the most complex bankruptcy cases in U.S. history. She oversaw a staff of 400 and was responsible for accounting, tax and internal audit functions; operational and field finance; corporate development; and the bankruptcy and investor relations teams.
 
 
"MMC is a company with a long and distinguished history," Ms. Wittman said. "I am excited to join at a time when the company is experiencing renewed growth and has such a bright future. I look forward to working with Brian and the rest of the executive team to guide MMC to even greater success."
 
Prior to Adelphia, Ms. Wittman served as CFO of 360networks, based in Seattle. She also has held positions with Microsoft, Metricom Inc., and Morgan Stanley.
 
MMC is a global professional services firm providing advice and solutions in the areas of risk, strategy and human capital. It is the parent company of a number of the world's leading risk experts and specialty consultants, including Marsh, the insurance broker and risk advisor; Guy Carpenter, the risk and reinsurance specialist; Mercer, the provider of HR and related financial advice and services; Oliver Wyman, the management consultancy; and Kroll, the risk consulting firm. With more than 55,000 employees worldwide and annual revenue exceeding $11 billion, MMC provides analysis, advice and transactional capabilities to clients in more than 100 countries. Its stock (ticker symbol: MMC) is listed on the New York, Chicago and London stock exchanges. MMC's website address is .
www.mmc.com
 
 
 


