FILE:MMC/MMC-8K-20080723084017.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
_____________________
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain
Officers.
 
(e)
    As previously announced in a Form 8-K filed on February 22, 2008, Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. ("
MMC
") and Michael G. Cherkasky, MMC's former president and chief executive officer, entered into a Separation and Release Agreement, dated February 15, 2008, containing, among other provisions, certain non-competition and non-solicitation restrictive covenants (the "
Separation Agreement
").
 
In connection with Mr. Cherkasky's appointment as President and Chief Executive Officer and as a director of US Investigations Services, Inc. ("
USIS
"), MMC, Mr. Cherkasky, USIS and Providence Equity L.L.C. ("
Providence
"), a member of the private equity group that owns a controlling interest in USIS, entered into a Settlement Agreement, dated as of July 18, 2008 (the "
Settlement Agreement
"). The Settlement Agreement resolves any and all claims and disputes arising from the Separation Agreement and/or Mr. Cherkasky's prior employment agreement with MMC relating to the services to be performed by Mr. Cherkasky for USIS, and sets forth a framework for a continuing business relationship between MMC and its affiliates, on the one hand, and USIS, Providence and their respective affiliates, on the other hand.
 
In consideration of the covenants and agreements set forth in the Settlement Agreement, USIS agreed to pay MMC an amount in cash equal to $10,000,000 within ten days of July 18, 2008. In addition, as further described in Section 8 of the Settlement Agreement, USIS and Mr. Cherkasky have agreed that they will not solicit certain employees of MMC or its subsidiaries prior to the earlier of January 29, 2010 or the termination of Mr. Cherkasky's employment with USIS, and Mr. Cherkasky has agreed that, prior to January 29, 2010, he will not solicit persons or entities that he knows to be active clients of MMC or its affiliates for the purpose of providing such clients with certain products or services.
 
The foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Settlement Agreement, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
 
duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
MARSH & McLENNAN COMPANIES, INC.
 
 
Corporate Secretary
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
Equity L.L.C., US Investigations Services, Inc., Marsh & McLennan Companies,
Inc., and Michael G. Cherkasky.
 
 
3
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 10.1
 
 
SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT
 
This Settlement Agreement (the "
Agreement
") is made as of July 18, 2008 (the "
Effective Date
"), by and between Providence Equity L.L.C. ("
Providence
"), US Investigations Services, Inc. ("
USIS
"), Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. ("
MMC
"), and Michael G. Cherkasky ("
Cherkasky
"). Where appropriate, this Agreement may refer to Providence, USIS, MMC and Cherkasky collectively as the "Parties" or individually as a "Party."
WHEREAS, MMC and Cherkasky entered into an employment agreement on July 20, 2005, pursuant to which Cherkasky was employed as the chief executive officer of MMC (the "
MMC Employment Agreement
");
WHEREAS, MMC terminated Cherkasky's employment, effective as of January 29, 2008;
WHEREAS, in connection with the termination of Cherkasky's employment, MMC and Cherkasky entered into a separation and release agreement, dated as of February 15, 2008, containing, among other provisions, certain restrictive covenants (the "
MMC Separation Agreement
");
WHEREAS, USIS now desires to employ Cherkasky as its Chief Executive Officer, as an officer of one or more of its Affiliates and as a member of its and one or more of its Affiliates' boards of directors (the "
USIS Activities
"), and, in connection therewith, proposes to enter into an employment agreement with Cherkasky (the "
USIS Employment Agreement
");
WHEREAS, MMC, USIS and Cherkasky dispute whether the USIS Activities are or are not permitted by the MMC Separation Agreement and/or the MMC Employment Agreement; and
WHEREAS, the Parties intend hereby to resolve any and all claims and disputes between and among themselves related to the services to be provided by Cherkasky to USIS and certain of its Affiliates, and to set forth a framework for a continuing business relationship between USIS and its Affiliates, on the one hand, and MMC and its Affiliates, on the other hand, in each case pursuant to the terms set forth in this Agreement.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the covenants and agreements contained herein, as well as other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Parties agree as follows:
 
1
 
 
 
2
 
 
cease to be of force or effect;
provided
,
however
, that, if Cherkasky's employment with USIS and its Affiliates terminates, such provisions shall apply from and after the date of such termination of employment.
 
3
 
 
Agreement or the MMC Separation Agreement, which USIS and Providence now have, ever have had, or may have had up to the Effective Date and any compensatory, punitive or liquidated damages. This release and waiver of claims shall not include any claims to enforce the terms of this Agreement relating to any action or inaction after the Effective Date.
 
4
 
 
MMC and deny any wrongdoing whatsoever in connection with their dealings with Cherkasky. Cherkasky denies any wrongdoing whatsoever in connection with his dealings with MMC, USIS and Providence. It is expressly understood and agreed that nothing contained in this Agreement shall be deemed or construed at any time for any purpose as an admission of any wrongdoing or liability on the part of any of the Releasees.
Cherkasky acknowledges his continuing obligations to preserve trade secrets and proprietary or confidential information of MMC, its Affiliates and its or their clients under the MMC Separation Agreement (the "
MMC Confidentiality Provisions
"). The Parties agree that any dispute or alleged breach of the MMC Confidentiality Provisions involving disclosure to USIS or any of its Affiliates shall be solely subject to the dispute resolution provisions of Paragraph 14 of this Agreement.
 
5
 
 
 
6
 
 
law, stock exchange requirements or any obligations under contracts relating to indebtedness, in which case such Party will use all reasonable efforts to consult with the other Parties before issuing any such release or making any such public statement. The Parties agree to review and comment on any such press release or public statement provided by any other Party as promptly as practicable and, in any event, within one business day.
 
7
 
 
relief, so as to provide the relevant Party or Parties an opportunity to cure any such alleged breach or to resolve any such dispute.
 
8
 
 
Providence Equity L.L.C.
Lever House
390 Park Avenue, 4th Floor
New York, NY 10022
Attention: Julie Richardson
Facsimile: (212) 521-0845
 
with a copy to:
 
Debevoise & Plimpton LLP
919 Third Avenue
New York, NY 10022
Attention: Margaret A. Davenport
Facsimile: (212) 909-6836
 
US Investigations Services, Inc.
7799 Leesburg Pike
Suite 1100 North
Falls Church, VA 22043
Attention: General Counsel
Facsimile: (703) 637-1741
 
with a copy to:
 
Debevoise & Plimpton LLP
919 Third Avenue
New York, NY 10022
Attention: Margaret A. Davenport
Facsimile: (212) 909-6836
 
Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.
1166 Avenue of the Americas
New York, NY 10336
Attention: Peter Beshar
Facsimile: (212) 345-4310
 
 
9
 
 
c/o US Investigations Services, Inc.
7799 Leesburg Pike
Suite 1100 North
Falls Church, VA 22043
Facsimile: (703) 637-1741
 
 
 
[
Remainder of this page intentionally left blank; signature page follows.
]
 
 
10
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Agreement as of the Effective Date.
 
 
US INVESTIGATIONS SERVICES, INC.
 
PROVIDENCE EQUITY L.L.C.
 
 
 
 
MARSH & MCLENNAN COMPANIES, INC.
 
 
Michael G. Cherkasky
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULES TO THE SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT
 
 
Schedule A
 
"
MMC Restricted Business
" shall mean the non-governmental corporate investigations and forensic accounting businesses conducted by Kroll Inc. ("
Kroll
") relating to non-financial M&A due diligence, litigation support, fraud investigations, court-appointed monitoring oversight services, special inquiries relating to internal investigations of employee misconduct, intellectual property infringement investigations, computer forensics and data recovery, information security and litigation and systems support services, in each case, as conducted as of the Effective Date. For the avoidance of doubt, "Restricted Business" shall not include (i) the provision to any customer of data derived from public records or databases or (ii) employee background investigations.
 
 
Schedule B
 
Any individual who is an employee of Kroll at the time of the solicitation.
 
 
Schedule C
 
(i) Any individual who is an employee in the MMC Restricted Business at or above the managing-director level at the time of the hiring or who was an employee in the MMC Restricted Business at or above the managing-director level at any time within the 45 days immediately preceding the hiring, and (ii) any individual who is an employee of Kroll's other businesses at or above the vice-president level at the time of the hiring or who was an employee of Kroll's other businesses at or above the vice-president level at any time within the 45 days immediately preceding the hiring.
 
 
 
 
 


