FILE:MMC/MMC-8K-20090506083133.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
_____________________
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 6, 2009, Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. issued a press release reporting financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2009, and announcing that a conference call to discuss such results will be held at 8:30 a.m. EST on May 6, 2009. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. For purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the press release is deemed furnished not filed.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
MARSH & McLENNAN COMPANIES, INC.
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
Exhibit
 
 
 
3
 
 

 
 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
MMC REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2009 RESULTS
Strong Performance in Risk and Insurance Services
 
NEW YORK
, May 6, 2009  Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. (MMC) today reported financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2009.
 
"I am pleased with MMC's overall results in the first quarter of 2009 despite a difficult economic environment," said MMC President and CEO Brian Duperreault.
 
"Results for Risk and Insurance Services were outstanding, with underlying revenue rising 1%, excluding fiduciary income, and significantly improved margins. Marsh continued to achieve a substantial increase in profitability through expense discipline. Significantly improved profitability at Guy Carpenter was a result of strong new business and continued focus on expenses. As a result, operating margin in the segment increased to 21.6% from 15.6% and adjusted operating margin increased to 25% from 17.6%.
 
"In the Consulting segment, Mercer's major consulting practices of retirement and health and benefits achieved revenue growth in the first quarter; however, operating income was negatively impacted by foreign currency translation. Oliver Wyman saw a substantial decline in business activity due to the ongoing economic downturn.
 
"Overall, growth in profitability in Risk and Insurance Services offset the decline in Consulting," Mr. Duperreault concluded.
 
1
 
In the quarter, consolidated revenue was $2.6 billion, a decline of 13 percent from the first quarter of 2008, or 4 percent on an underlying basis. Underlying revenue measures the change in revenue before the impact of acquisitions and dispositions, using consistent currency exchange rates.
 
In the first quarter of 2009, net income attributable to MMC was $176 million, or $.33 per share. This compared with a net loss of $210 million, or $.40 per share in the first quarter of 2008, which included a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $425 million in the Risk Consulting and Technology segment.
 
Earnings per share on an adjusted basis, which excludes noteworthy items as presented in the attached supplemental schedules, was $.40 in the first quarter of 2009, compared with $.45 in the same quarter last year.
 
In the first quarter of 2009, MMC adopted FASB Staff Position EITF 03-6-1, which relates to the two-class method of calculating earnings per share. The application of this new accounting pronouncement reduced GAAP earnings per share in the first quarter of 2009 by $0.01 and reduced adjusted earnings per share in the first quarters of both 2009 and 2008 by $0.01, as presented on pages 12 and 13 of the supplemental schedules. Additionally, in response to IRS Regulation 409(A) involving deferred compensation, MMC modified the vesting conditions of deferred bonus awards for retirement eligible employees. This resulted in accelerated amortization in the quarter of $17 million, reducing both GAAP and adjusted earnings per share by $0.02.
 
Risk and Insurance Services
Risk and Insurance Services segment revenue in the first quarter of 2009 was
$1.4 billion, a decline of 8 percent from the first quarter of 2008, or 1 percent on an underlying basis. Excluding fiduciary interest, underlying revenue in Risk and Insurance Services rose 1 percent. Operating income in the first quarter increased 27 percent to $297 million from $234 million last year, despite a dramatic decline in fiduciary interest income. Adjusted operating income rose 30 percent to $343 million from $264 million, reflecting substantially improved performance at both Marsh and Guy Carpenter.
 
 
2
 
Marsh's revenue in the first quarter was $1.1 billion, a decrease of 10 percent from last year, or 1 percent on an underlying basis. International operations increased 4 percent: Latin America rose 15 percent; Asia Pacific was up 9 percent; and EMEA increased 2 percent. The United States and Canada had an 8 percent decline. During the first quarter of 2009, pricing declined in the U.S. property and casualty marketplace, though not at the pace observed in 2008.
 
Guy Carpenter's revenue rose 7 percent to $281 million in the first quarter of 2009, or 10 percent on an underlying basis, compared with the prior year's quarter. A substantial increase in new business as well as continuing cost discipline, led to significant improvement in Guy Carpenter's profitability in the first quarter. Increased rates were evident in U.S. property catastrophe reinsurance, but rates declined in casualty reinsurance in the first quarter. In April, Guy Carpenter successfully completed the acquisition of John B. Collins Associates, Inc., previously the fifth-largest reinsurance intermediary in the U.S. and seventh-largest in the world. The acquisition of Collins further strengthens Guy Carpenter's capabilities.
 
Consulting
Consulting segment revenue declined 16 percent to $1.1 billion in the first quarter of 2009, or 7 percent on an underlying basis. Foreign currency translation reduced operating income by $32 million in the quarter, primarily at Mercer. Adjusted operating income was $74 million compared with $151 million in 2008.
 
Mercer's revenue declined 13 percent to $803 million in the first quarter, or 2 percent on an underlying basis. Mercer's consulting operations produced revenue of $593 million, flat on an underlying basis, as growth in its major practices such as retirement and health and benefits was offset by declines in human capital and other consulting businesses. Outsourcing, with revenue of $142 million, declined 11 percent primarily due to declines in the equity markets, and investment consulting and management, with revenue of $68 million, increased 6 percent.
 
Oliver Wyman's revenue declined 24 percent to $280 million in the first quarter of 2009, or 19 percent on an underlying basis, due to the impact of adverse global economic and financial market conditions.
 
3
 
Risk Consulting and Technology
Kroll's revenue of $187 million in the first quarter declined 15 percent from the year-ago quarter, or 8 percent on an underlying basis. Revenue in litigation support and data recovery declined 6 percent; background screening was down 10 percent; and risk mitigation and response decreased 8 percent.
 
The majority of the operations within the corporate advisory and restructuring business were divested in the fourth quarter of 2008. Additionally, two small residual businesses were exited in the first quarter of 2009.
 
Risk Consulting and Technology segment revenue was $187 million in the first quarter of 2009, a decline of 27 percent, due to the divestiture of corporate advisory and restructuring, or 8 percent on an underlying basis. On an adjusted basis, operating income was $12 million compared with $16 million in the prior year's quarter.
 
Other Items
MMC had an investment loss in the first quarter of 2009 of $15 million due to mark-to-market declines within its private equity fund investments.
 
At March 31, 2009, cash and cash equivalents was $1.4 billion. In March, MMC issued $400 million of 9.25 percent senior notes due in 2019. MMC will use the net proceeds from the issuance to repay its $400 million, 7.125 percent senior notes due June 15, 2009. MMC also declared a quarterly dividend of $.20 per share on outstanding common stock, payable in the second quarter of 2009.
 
Conference Call
A conference call to discuss first quarter 2009 results will be held today at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time. To participate in the teleconference, please dial 877 604 9667. Callers from outside the United States should dial 719 325 4845. The access code for both numbers is 4615524.
The live audio webcast may be accessed at
www.mmc.com
. A replay of the webcast will be available approximately two hours after the event at the same web address.
 
4
 
MMC is a global professional services firm providing advice and solutions in the areas of risk, strategy and human capital. It is the parent company of a number of the world's leading risk experts and specialty consultants, including Marsh, the insurance broker and risk advisor; Guy Carpenter, the risk and reinsurance specialist; Mercer, the provider of HR and related financial advice and services; Oliver Wyman, the management consultancy; and Kroll, the risk consulting firm. With approximately 54,000 employees worldwide and annual revenue exceeding $11 billion, MMC provides analysis, advice and transactional capabilities to clients in more than 100 countries. Its stock (ticker symbol: MMC) is listed on the New York, Chicago and London stock exchanges. MMC's website address is
www.mmc.com
.
 
This press release contains "forward-looking statements," as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements, which express management's current views concerning future events or results, use words like "anticipate," "assume," "believe," "continue," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "plan," "project" and similar terms, and future or conditional tense verbs like "could," "may," "might," "should," "will" and "would." For example, we may use forward-looking statements when addressing topics such as: market and industry conditions, including competitive and pricing trends; changes in our business strategies and methods of generating revenue; the development and performance of our services and products; changes in the composition or level of MMC's revenues; our cost structure and the outcome of cost-saving or restructuring initiatives; the outcome of contingencies; dividend policy; the expected impact of acquisitions and dispositions; pension obligations; cash flow and liquidity; future actions by regulators; and the impact of changes in accounting rules.
 
Forward-looking statements are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements include:
 
 
5
 
 
The factors identified above are not exhaustive. MMC and its subsidiaries operate in a dynamic business environment in which new risks may emerge frequently. Accordingly, MMC cautions readers not to place undue reliance on its forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the dates on which they are made. MMC undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date on which it is made. Further information concerning MMC and its businesses, including information about factors that could materially affect our results of operations and financial condition, is contained in MMC's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the "Risk Factors" section of MMC's most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 
6
Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Income
(In millions, except per share figures)
(Unaudited)
 
Note: 2008 data has been restated to reflect the retrospective adoption of new accounting pronouncements, as described on pages 12 and 13.
 
7
 
Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.
Supplemental Information  Revenue Analysis
Three Months Ended
(Millions) (Unaudited)
 
 
Revenue Details
The following table provides more detailed revenue information for certain of the components presented above:
 
 
8
 
Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.
Non-GAAP Measures
Three Months Ended March 31
(Millions) (Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
 
9
 
Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.
Non-GAAP Measures
Three Months Ended March 31
(Millions) (Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.
Supplemental Expense Information
Three Months Ended March 31
(Millions) (Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
10
 
Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(Millions) (Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
11
 
Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.
Supplemental Information
Implementation of New Accounting Pronouncements
(Millions, except per share figure)
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
* Includes reduction for non-controlling interests (previously reported as minority interest expense).
 
 
12
 
 
 
* Includes reduction for net income attributable to non-controlling interests (previously reported as minority interest expense).
 
 
13
 


