FILE:MMC/MMC-8K-20091104080512.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
_____________________
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 4, 2009, Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. issued a press release reporting financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2009, and announcing that a conference call to discuss such results will be held at 8:30 a.m. EST on November 4, 2009. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. For purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the press release is deemed furnished not filed.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
MARSH & McLENNAN COMPANIES, INC.
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
Exhibit
 
 
 
3
 
 

 
                
Exhibit 99.1
 
MMC REPORTS THIRD QUARTER 2009 RESULTS
 
Strong Performance Continues in Risk and Insurance Services
 
NEW YORK
, November 4, 2009  Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. (MMC) today reported financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2009.
 
Brian Duperreault, MMC President and CEO said: "MMC reported strong earnings growth in the third quarter. The Risk and Insurance Services segment produced a significant increase in operating income, with substantial margin improvement. Marsh reported another excellent quarter, significantly increasing its profitability. Guy Carpenter produced strong new business and continued growth in profitability.
 
"The Consulting segment continued to be affected by the difficult economic environment. Mercer's decline in underlying expenses matched the percentage decline in its revenue. Oliver Wyman saw another quarter of sequential improvement in profitability as a result of management actions taken earlier in the year.
 
"Kroll reported its best quarter of the year, with sequential increases in both revenue and profitability. The improvement was driven primarily by Kroll's largest business, litigation support and data recovery, which reported a modest increase in underlying revenue.
 
1
 
 
"While the economic environment continues to be challenging, MMC's results reflect the effective management actions taken by our business leaders over the past year, including significant expense reduction," Mr. Duperreault concluded.
 
In the third quarter of 2009, MMC's consolidated revenue was $2.5 billion, a decline of 11 percent from the third quarter of 2008, or 7 percent on an underlying basis. Underlying revenue measures the change in revenue before the impact of acquisitions and dispositions, using consistent currency exchange rates.
 
MMC reported net income of $221 million, or $.41 per share, in the third quarter of 2009, compared with a net loss of $8 million, or a loss of $.02 per share, in the third quarter of 2008. Earnings per share on an adjusted basis, which excludes noteworthy items as presented in the attached supplemental schedules, more than doubled to $.48 in the third quarter of 2009, compared with $.20 in the same quarter last year. In the current quarter, both GAAP and adjusted earnings per share were favorably impacted by a net credit of approximately $.18 per share relating to income taxes, primarily due to the resolution of tax matters in several jurisdictions resulting from the expiration of statutes of limitations and audit settlements.
 
For the nine months ended September 30, 2009, MMC's net income was $204 million, or $.38 per share, compared with a net loss of $153 million, or a loss of $.30 per share, in the same period last year. Adjusted earnings per share for the first nine months of 2009 was $1.20 compared with $1.04 last year. GAAP and adjusted earnings per share include the favorable impact relating to tax matters noted above.
 
Risk and Insurance Services
Risk and Insurance Services segment revenue in the third quarter of 2009 was
$1.2 billion, a decline of 4 percent from the third quarter of 2008, or 3 percent on an underlying basis. Excluding fiduciary interest income, underlying revenue in Risk and Insurance Services was down 1 percent. Operating income in the third quarter increased substantially to $127 million from a loss of $28 million last year. Adjusted operating income more than doubled to $158 million from $69 million, reflecting significantly improved performance at Marsh. For the first nine months of 2009, segment revenue
2
 
 
was $3.9 billion, a decline of 6 percent from the prior year period, or 1 percent on an underlying basis. Excluding fiduciary interest income, underlying revenue rose 1 percent.
 
Insurance premium rates in the property and casualty marketplace declined in the third quarter, continuing the trend seen throughout the year. As a result of the global economic recession, demand for commercial insurance has moderated over the last year. Marsh's revenue in the third quarter was $989 million, a decline of 5 percent from last year, or 2 percent on an underlying basis. Revenue from international operations was flat, including 7 percent growth in Asia Pacific and 8 percent growth in Latin America. Marsh had a significant increase in profitability in the quarter as a result of a substantial reduction in expenses. In September, Marsh acquired International Advisory Services Ltd., the largest independent manager of captives and third-party insurance companies in Bermuda.
 
Guy Carpenter's revenue in the third quarter was $223 million, an increase of 13 percent, or 6 percent on an underlying basis. An increase in new business as well as cost discipline led to continued growth in Guy Carpenter's profitability. In October, Guy Carpenter completed the acquisition of London-based specialty reinsurance broker Rattner Mackenzie Limited from HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.
 
Consulting
Consulting segment revenue was $1.1 billion in the third quarter of 2009, a decline of 14 percent from the third quarter of 2008, or 10 percent on an underlying basis. The revenue decline was largely due to the impact of continued adverse global economic conditions. Operating income in the third quarter was $105 million, and adjusted operating income was $130 million. For the first nine months of 2009, segment revenue declined 16 percent from the same period in 2008 to $3.4 billion, or 9 percent on an underlying basis.
 
Mercer's revenue was $831 million in the third quarter of 2009, a decline of 12 percent from the third quarter of 2008, or 8 percent on an underlying basis. Mercer's consulting operations produced revenue of $597 million, a decline of 10 percent on an underlying basis, reflecting reductions across its retirement, health and benefits, and human capital
 
3
 
 
businesses. Outsourcing, with revenue of $157 million, declined 9 percent on an underlying basis, and investment consulting and management, with revenue of $77 million, increased 8 percent. Oliver Wyman's revenue declined 17 percent to $313 million in the third quarter, or 14 percent on an underlying basis.
 
Risk Consulting and Technology
Kroll's revenue of $170 million in the third quarter of 2009 declined 14 percent from the year-ago quarter, or 9 percent on an underlying basis. Revenue in the litigation support and data recovery business was up 1 percent from last year's third quarter. Background screening was down 8 percent, and risk mitigation and response decreased 25 percent.
 
Other Items
Investment income of $21 million was reported in the third quarter of 2009, primarily as a result of mark-to-market increases within MMC's private equity fund investments.
 
On October 23, 2009, MMC and certain of its foreign subsidiaries entered into a new $1.0 billion multi-currency, three-year unsecured revolving credit facility. The facility will expire in 2012 and replaces MMC's previous $1.2 billion revolving credit facility.
 
Conference Call
A conference call to discuss third quarter 2009 results will be held today at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time. To participate in the teleconference, please dial 888 329 8875. Callers from outside the United States should dial 719 785 1754. The access code for both numbers is 2835124.
The live audio webcast may be accessed at
www.mmc.com
. A replay of the webcast will be available approximately two hours after the event at the same web address.
 
MMC is a global professional services firm providing advice and solutions in the areas of risk, strategy and human capital. It is the parent company of a number of the world's leading risk experts and specialty consultants, including Marsh, the insurance broker and risk advisor; Guy Carpenter, the risk and reinsurance specialist; Mercer, the provider of HR and related financial advice and services; Oliver Wyman, the management consultancy; and Kroll, the risk consulting firm. With approximately 52,000 employees worldwide and annual revenue of $11 billion, MMC provides analysis, advice and
 
4
 
 
transactional capabilities to clients in more than 100 countries. Its stock (ticker symbol: MMC) is listed on the New York, Chicago and London stock exchanges. MMC's website address is
www.mmc.com
.
 
This press release contains "forward-looking statements," as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements, which express management's current views concerning future events or results, use words like "anticipate," "assume," "believe," "continue," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "plan," "project" and similar terms, and future or conditional tense verbs like "could," "may," "might," "should," "will" and "would." For example, we may use forward-looking statements when addressing topics such as: market and industry conditions, including competitive and pricing trends; changes in our business strategies and methods of generating revenue; the development and performance of our services and products; changes in the composition or level of MMC's revenues; our cost structure and the outcome of cost-saving or restructuring initiatives; the outcome of contingencies; dividend policy; the expected impact of acquisitions and dispositions; pension obligations; cash flow and liquidity; future actions by regulators; and the impact of changes in accounting rules.
 
Forward-looking statements are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The factors identified above are not exhaustive. MMC and its subsidiaries operate in a dynamic business environment in which new risks may emerge frequently. Accordingly, MMC cautions readers not to place undue reliance on its forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the dates on which they are made. MMC undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date on which it is made. Further information concerning MMC and its businesses, including information about factors that could materially affect our results of operations and financial condition, is contained in MMC's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the "Risk Factors" section of MMC's most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 
6
 
Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Income
(In millions, except per share figures)
(Unaudited)
 
 
7
 
Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.
Supplemental Information  Revenue Analysis
Three Months Ended
(Millions) (Unaudited)
 
 
 
Revenue Details
The following table provides more detailed revenue information for certain of the components presented above:
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.
Supplemental Information  Revenue Analysis
Nine Months Ended
(Millions) (Unaudited)
 
 
Revenue Details
The following table provides more detailed revenue information for certain of the components presented above:
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.
Non-GAAP Measures
Three Months Ended September 30
(Millions) (Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
10
 
 
Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.
Non-GAAP Measures
Nine Months Ended September 30
(Millions) (Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
11
 
 
Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.
Non-GAAP Measures
Three and Nine Months Ended September 30
(Millions) (Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.
Supplemental Expense Information
(Millions) (Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
12
 
 
Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(Millions) (Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
13
 


