FILE:MMC/MMC-8K-20100216190231.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
_____________________
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 1.01.    Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
Effective February 11, 2010, Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. ("MMC") and Marsh Inc. ("Marsh") and their subsidiaries and affiliates entered into an Amended and Restated Agreement (the "Amended and Restated Agreement") with the Attorney General of the State of New York and the Superintendent of Insurance of the State of New York, which replaces the Settlement Agreement entered into by the parties dated January 30, 2005, as amended (the "Settlement Agreement").
 
Under the Amended and Restated Agreement, Marsh has agreed to apply the disclosure requirements of New York State Regulation No. 194 across the United States; to continue its training and compliance programs; and to continue to adhere to other legal requirements relating to insurance transactions.
 
A copy of the Amended and Restated Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Item 9.01.     Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
MARSH & McLENNAN COMPANIES, INC.
 
     Corporate Secretary
 
 
 
3
 
 
Exhibit Index
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 

 
Exhibit 10.1
 
Amended and Restated Agreement between
the Attorney General of the State of New York
and the Superintendent of Insurance of the State of New York,
and Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc., Marsh Inc., and their subsidiaries and affiliates
 
WHEREAS
, Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. ("MMC"), Marsh Inc. ("Marsh"), and their subsidiaries and affiliates entered into a Settlement Agreement with the Attorney General of the State of New York ("Attorney General") and the Superintendent of Insurance of the State of New York ("Superintendent") dated January 30, 2005, as amended from time to time (the "Settlement Agreement"); and
 
WHEREAS
, the Attorney General and the Superintendent conducted public hearings in July 2008 on the subject of insurance producer compensation and disclosure practices; and
 
WHEREAS
, 11 NYCRR 30 (Regulation No. 194) was promulgated on February 10, 2010; and
 
WHEREAS
, the Superintendent has concluded that Marsh has substantially met its obligations under the Settlement Agreement, as determined by an independent examiner;
 
NOW, THEREFORE,
the parties hereby agree that, effective as of February 11, 2010, the Settlement Agreement shall be amended and restated as follows:
 
 
 
and Restated Agreement proves impracticable, Marsh reserves the right to request that the parties modify it accordingly.
 
WHEREFORE, the following signatures are affixed hereto on the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


