FILE:MMC/MMC-8K-20100614162838.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01          Other Events
On June 11, 2010, Mercer (US) Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc., issued a press release announcing that it has resolved litigation brought by the Alaska Retirement Management Board on behalf of two Alaska benefit plans.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01          Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)           Exhibits
99.1         Press release issued by Mercer (US) Inc. on June 11, 2010.
 
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:    June 14, 2010
 
 
3
 
         
Exhibit No.
Exhibit
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 

 
 
 
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mercer resolves litigation with Alaska Retirement Board
 
New York, June 11, 2010
 
Mercer (US) Inc. announced today that it has resolved litigation brought by the Alaska Retirement Management Board (ARMB) on behalf of two Alaska benefit plans, relating to work in the period 1992 to 2004.
 
This settlement, in which Mercer expressly denies liability, resolves all claims against Mercer by the ARMB and the State of Alaska related to this matter.  Under the terms of the settlement agreement, Mercer has agreed to pay $500 million, of which $100 million will be covered by insurance.
 
Mercer concluded that a settlement was in the best interests of the company and its stakeholders for several reasons including: the uncertainty of the outcome of a jury trial in Juneau, with its high concentration of plan participants; the complex technical nature of the claims; and the fact that the plaintiffs were seeking at least $2.8 billion in damages.
 
Mercer is committed to serving its clients worldwide with the highest level of service and professionalism.
 
 
About Mercer
Mercer is a leading global provider of consulting, outsourcing and investment services. Mercer works with clients to solve their most complex benefit and human capital issues, designing and helping manage health, retirement and other benefits. It is a leader in benefit outsourcing. Mercers investment services include investment consulting and multi-manager investment management. Mercers 18,000 employees are based in more than 40 countries. The company is a wholly owned subsidiary of Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc., which lists its stock (ticker symbol: MMC) on the New York, Chicago and London stock exchanges. For more information, visit .
www.mercer.com
 


