FILE:MMC/MMC-8K-20111007123029.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
Item 5.02        Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
On October 4, 2011, Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release announcing its intent to sponsor a Retirement Policy Center to be led by M. Michele Burns.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.  Accordingly, Ms. Burns has resigned as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Companys subsidiary Mercer Inc., effective October 4, 2011.  In connection with Ms. Burns change in position, the Company entered into an Employment Letter (the 2011 Agreement) with Ms. Burns.  The principal terms of the 2011 Agreement are summarized below.
 
The 2011 Agreement is effective as of October 3, 2011, and Ms. Burns employment with the Company will terminate no later than February 28, 2013.  The Company will provide $650,000 of funding to the Retirement Policy Center during 2012 and $1,500,000 of funding to the Retirement Policy Center during 2013, and this funding will be used to cover costs associated with the Retirement Policy Center.
 
Ms. Burns will receive her current annual base salary of $900,000 through December 31, 2011.  Effective January 1, 2012, Ms. Burns will receive an annual base salary of $850,000.  The Compensation Committee of the Companys Board of Directors has determined that Ms. Burns will be paid an annual bonus for 2011 performance equal to $1,537,500.  Ms. Burns will not be eligible for an annual bonus for 2012 performance or thereafter.  When Ms. Burns employment terminates for any reason and at any time, she will not be eligible for any severance payments or benefits under any severance plan or arrangement sponsored by the Company, including but not limited to, the Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. Senior Executive Severance Pay Plan.
 
Ms. Burns will be subject to restrictive covenants on the same basis as provided in Section 4 of the Employment Agreement, dated as of December 19, 2005 and effective as of March 1, 2006, between Ms. Burns and Marsh & McLennan Companies, as amended, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 16, 2005.  Specifically, while employed by the Company and for 12 months following her termination of employment, Ms. Burns will be subject to certain non-competition and non-solicitation restrictions.
 
The foregoing summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the 2011 Agreement. A copy of the 2011 Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
Item 9.01        Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)           Exhibits
  
 
             
10.1
Employment Letter, effective as of October 3, 2011, between Marsh & McLennan
Companies, Inc. and M. Michele Burns
 
 
99.1        Press release issued by Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. on October 4, 2011
 
 
2
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
Date:           October 7, 2011
 
3
 
 
 
 
                      
Exhibit No.
Exhibit
 
            
10.1
Employment Letter, effective as of October 3, 2011, between Marsh & McLennan
Companies, Inc. and M. Michele Burns
 
99.1            Press release issued by Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. on October 4, 2011
 
 
4

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
October 3, 2011
 
 
M. Michele Burns
[Address]
[City, State Zip Code]
 
Subject:                      Terms of Employment
 
Dear Michele:
 
This letter agreement is intended to set forth the terms of your continued employment by Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. ( or the ).  The terms of this letter agreement are effective as of October 3, 2011.
Marsh & McLennan Companies
Company
 
 
Effective as of October 4, 2011, you will cease to be Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Mercer Inc., and you will resign from all positions that you then hold with any member of the Affiliated Group (as described in Section 5(b)).  You agree to be available during the remainder of 2011 for advice and consultation on the transition of the Mercer organization.  Starting on October 5, 2011, because of your in-depth expertise and leadership on retirement issues, your assignment will be to design and develop a retirement policy center intended to serve as a catalyst for new ideas and perspectives on retirement and also to educate the public at large and key constituents on retirement public policy issues facing US companies and employees (the ) and to identify and develop funding sources to support the Centers research and policy initiatives.  The Company will not terminate your employment without Cause, as defined in the Senior Executive Severance Plan (as defined in Section 5), before February 28, 2013.  Your employment with the Company will terminate no later than February 28, 2013.
Center
 
 
You will report to the Chief Executive Officer of the Company.  You will continue to devote all of your attention and time during working hours to the affairs and business of the Company and use your best efforts to perform the duties and responsibilities consistent with your position as outlined in Section 1 above.  You will not serve on any Company management committees or boards.  You may continue to serve on the boards of Cisco Systems, Inc., Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and the Elton John AIDS Foundation, and you may serve on other corporate, civic or charitable boards or committees with the prior written consent of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
 
 
The name of the Center will be determined by you and the Company.  The legal establishment and organization of the Center will be your responsibility. The Center will ultimately be independent and thus neither branded nor structured as a Company entity.  Your principal work location while you perform your duties hereunder will be proposed by you and approved by the Company, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.  During the term of your employment hereunder, the Company will provide support in the form of office space for you, a workstation for an administrative assistant, basic office services, communications and legal support, and reasonable access to Marsh & McLennan Companies resources, principally from Mercers Washington Resource Group, to assist in developing the Center.  The Company will provide $650,000 of funding to the Center during 2012 and $1,500,000 of funding to the Center during 2013 (in addition to your compensation and benefits), and this funding will be used to cover costs associated with the Center.  The Company may provide financial support in 2014 and later years at the discretion of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
 
 
Your compensation and benefits are as set forth below.
 
 
 
 
As used in this letter agreement, Permanent Disability will be deemed to occur when it is determined (by Marsh & McLennan Companies disability carrier for the primary long-term disability plan or program applicable to you because of your employment with the Company) that you are unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months
.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
You are subject to existing restrictions with respect to confidentiality, noncompetition or nonsolicitation under confidentiality, noncompetition, nonsolicitation, or other agreements.  Such restrictions, including specifically the restrictions and provisions included in Section 4 of the Employment Agreement, dated as of December 19, 2005 and effective as of March 1, 2006, between you and Marsh & McLennan Companies, as amended (the ) shall remain in full force and effect and, by your execution of this letter agreement, you hereby reaffirm and ratify such restrictions.
Prior Agreement
 
 
The terms of this letter agreement are contingent upon (a) your execution and delivery to the Company of the Waiver and Release Agreement attached as Exhibit A within the time period described in the penultimate paragraph thereof following (i) your execution of this letter agreement and (ii) your termination of employment or Permanent Disability and (b) each such Waiver and Release Agreement becoming irrevocable as provided therein.
 
 
 
Peter J. Beshar
Executive Vice President & General Counsel
Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.
1166 Avenue of the Americas
New York, NY 10036
 
Notices to or with respect to you will be directed to you, or in the event of your death, your executors, personal representatives or distributees, at your home address as set forth in the records of the Company.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Except as specifically excluded below, you and the Company mutually consent to the resolution by arbitration of all claims or controversies (), past, present or future, whether or not arising out of your employment or its termination, that the Company may have against you or that you may have against any member of the Affiliated Group, their officers, directors, employees or agents, their benefit plans or the plans sponsors, fiduciaries, administrators, affiliates and agents, and/or all successors and assigns of any of them.  You and the Company further agree that any claim submitted to arbitration must be brought in the partys individual capacity, and not as a plaintiff or member in any purported class, representative or consolidated proceeding.  The Federal Arbitration Act shall govern the interpretation, enforcement and all proceedings pursuant to this Section.
claims
 
The following claims are specifically excluded from arbitration under this Section: claims under an employee benefit or pension plan that either specifies that its claims procedure shall culminate in an arbitration procedure different from this one or is underwritten by a commercial insurer which decides claims; an action by the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates for temporary, preliminary or permanent injunctive relief to restrain a breach or threatened breach of any obligations referenced in Section 6 above; claims for workers compensation and unemployment compensation; an action for temporary equitable relief in aid of arbitration; claims that parties may not lawfully agree in advance to resolve by arbitration.  This Section does not prevent you from filing a charge with or communicating to a federal, state or local government office, official or agency; however, you may only seek individual monetary relief through arbitration under this letter agreement.
 
The arbitration shall be confidential and no details concerning the arbitration (including, but not limited to, allegations, claims and defenses raised, submissions and proceedings, and any resolution or written opinion) shall be disclosed or released to any third party without the specific written consent of the nondisclosing party, unless required by law or court order, as necessary to prosecute or defend the arbitration, or in connection with enforcement of any decision in such arbitration.  The Company will be responsible for paying any filing fee and the fees and costs of the Arbitrator.  Each party shall pay in the first instance its own litigation costs and attorneys fees, if any.  However, if any party prevails on a statutory claim which affords the prevailing party attorneys fees and litigation costs, or if there is a written agreement providing for attorneys fees and/or litigation costs, the Arbitrator (as defined below) shall rule upon a motion for attorneys fees and/or litigation costs under the same standards a court would apply under the law applicable to the claim(s) at issue.
 
The arbitration will be held under the auspices of Judicial Arbitration & Mediation Services ().  The arbitration shall take place in the state and municipality of your primary work location with the Company.  The arbitration shall be held in accordance with the then-current Employment Arbitration Rules & Procedures of JAMS, (currently available at http://www.jamsadr.com/rules-employment-arbitration), except as otherwise expressly provided herein.  The Arbitrator shall be either a retired judge, or an attorney who is experienced in employment law and licensed to practice law in the state of New York (the ), selected pursuant to JAMS rules.  The Arbitrator shall apply the substantive law (and the law of remedies, if applicable) of the state in which the claim arose (which, as provided in Section 9(e) above shall be New York for claims arising out of the terms of this letter agreement), or federal law, or both, as applicable to the claim(s) asserted.  The Arbitrator is without jurisdiction to apply any different substantive law or law of remedies.  The Federal Rules of Evidence shall apply.  The arbitration shall be final and binding upon the parties.
JAMS
Arbitrator
 
 
The provisions of this paragraph will only apply if and to the extent required to avoid the imposition of taxes, interest and penalties on you under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ().  Section 409A applies to nonqualified deferred compensation which exists if an individual has a legally binding right to compensation that is or may be payable in a later year.  In furtherance of the objective of this paragraph, to the extent that any regulations or other guidance issued under Section 409A would result in your being subject to payment of taxes, interest or penalties under Section 409A, you and the Company agree to use our best efforts to amend this letter agreement in order to avoid or limit the imposition of any such taxes, interest or penalties, while maintaining to the maximum extent practicable the original intent of the applicable provisions.  This paragraph does not guarantee that you will not be subject to taxes, interest or penalties under Section 409A with respect to compensation or benefits described or referenced in this letter agreement.
Section 409A
 
Furthermore and notwithstanding any provision of this letter agreement to the contrary, to the extent necessary to avoid the imposition of taxes, interest and penalties on you under Section 409A, if at the time of the termination of your employment you are a specified employee (as defined in Section 409A), you will not be entitled to any payments upon termination of employment until the first day of the seventh month after the termination of employment and any such payments to which you would otherwise be entitled during the first six months following your termination of employment will be accumulated and paid without interest on the first day of the seventh month after the termination of employment.
 
 
Please acknowledge your agreement with the terms of our agreement by signing and dating the enclosed copy of the letter agreement and Waiver and Release Agreement and returning them to me.
 
 
Sincerely,
 
/s/ Brian Duperreault
   
 
Brian Duperreault
President and Chief Executive Officer
Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.
 
 
 
Accepted and Agreed:
 
 
 
                                
/s/ M. Michele
Burns
   
(Signature)
 
 
                      
 10/3/11_____
______
(Date)
 
 
 
 
I, M. Michele Burns, in consideration of the terms and conditions in the Employment Letter dated October 3, 2011 (the Letter) which I acknowledge are sufficient consideration to support this Waiver and Release Agreement (Agreement), agree to accept the Letter in full resolution and satisfaction of, and hereby irrevocably and unconditionally release and forever discharge Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. (the Company), Mercer Inc., and their past and present, direct and indirect parents, subsidiaries, affiliates, divisions, predecessors, successors, assigns and representatives, and all of its or their respective past and present benefit and severance plans, plan administrators, insurers, agents, shareholders, officers, directors, employees, attorneys and representatives, whether acting as agents or in individual capacities (collectively, the Releasees) with respect to any and all agreements, promises, rights, liabilities, claims and demands of any kind whatsoever, at law or in equity, whether known or unknown, asserted or unasserted, fixed or contingent, apparent or concealed, that I, my heirs, executors, administrators, successors or assigns ever had, now have or hereafter can, shall or may have for, upon, or by reason of any matter, cause or thing whatsoever existing, accruing, arising or occurring at any time on or prior to the date I execute this Agreement, including, without limitation,
 
(i) any and all rights and claims arising out of or relating to my employment, compensation and benefits with the Company, and any change in position or status with the Company or any of its affiliates;
 
(ii) any and all rights under the Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. Senior Executive Severance Pay Plan and under any other severance pay plan of the Company, Mercer Inc., or any of the Releasees;
 
(iii) any and all rights or claims under any prior agreements between me and the Company or any of the Releasees (except as set forth in the Letter), including, without limitation, the Letter Agreement, dated as of February 8, 2010 and effective as of March 31, 2010, between me and Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. and the Employment Agreement, dated as of December 19, 2005 and effective as of March 1, 2006, between me and Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc., as amended;
 
(v) fraud, whistleblower, public policy, defamation, disparagement and other personal injury and tort claims; and
 
(vi) claims under any federal, state or municipal employee benefit, wage payment, discrimination or fair employment practices law, statute or regulation (, claims based on race, color, sex, religion, age, national origin, disability, sexual orientation, or veteran, marital or citizenship status) law, and claims for costs, expenses and attorneys fees with respect thereto, including, without limitation, any and all rights and claims under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Civil Rights Acts of 1866 and 1991, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, as amended by the Older Workers Benefit Protection Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Equal Pay Act, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, the Worker Adjustment Retraining and Notification Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and the Family and Medical Leave Act, as such laws have been or may be amended.
e.g.
 
Nothing in this Agreement releases or diminishes any obligations under the Letter, which shall continue in full force and effect in accordance with its terms.  Nothing in this Agreement releases or diminishes any vested monies or other vested benefits to which I may be entitled from, under, or pursuant to any incentive, savings, stock, retirement or compensation plan of the Company or the Releasees, or my right, if any, to obtain contribution and/or indemnification, as permitted by applicable law and Company by-laws.  In addition, this Agreement does not release any claims that I cannot lawfully release, and does not prohibit me from filing a charge with any government administrative agency (such as the EEOC) as long as I do not personally seek reinstatement, damages, remedies or other relief as to any claim that I have released, any right to which I hereby waive.  Further, this Agreement is not intended to and does not affect any rights or claims I may have arising after the date that I execute this Agreement.
 
This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and shall be binding upon and enforceable by each and all of the Releasees.
 
I acknowledge that:  before signing this Agreement and the Letter, I was given a period of twenty-one (21) days in which to review and consider them; I have, in fact, carefully reviewed this Agreement and the Letter; and that I am entering into the Agreement and the Letter  voluntarily and of my own free will.  Further, I am advised to consult with an attorney before signing this Agreement.  I acknowledge that, to the extent I wished to do so, I have consulted with Laura G. Thatcher, Alston & Bird LLP.  I represent, warrant and agree that, if I choose to execute this Agreement before the end of the 21-day period, I do so with the understanding that I am choosing not to exercise my right to take the full 21-day period to consider this Agreement and the Letter, that such early execution was not induced by fraud, misrepresentation or a threat to withdraw or alter the Letter prior to the expiration of the 21-day period, that such early execution was completely knowing and voluntary, and that I had reasonable and ample time in which to review this Agreement and the Letter with the advice of counsel.
 
I agree that, for a period of seven (7) days after I sign this Agreement, I have the right to revoke it by providing written notice to Peter J. Beshar, Executive Vice President & General Counsel, Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc., 1166 Avenue of the Americas, 25 Floor, New York, New York 10036.  For this revocation to be effective, written notice must be received by Mr. Beshar no later than the close of business on the eighth (8) day after I sign this Agreement.  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, this Agreement will not become fully effective and enforceable until after the expiration of the seven-day revocation period.
th
th
 
Accepted and Agreed:
 
 
/s/ M. Michele Burns  
   
  
   
10/3/11
 
M. Michele Burns            (Date)
   
  
   
 
 
 

   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
 
, October 4, 2011  Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. (NYSE: MMC), a global professional services firm providing advice in the areas of risk, strategy and human capital, today announced its intent to sponsor a Retirement Policy Center. The new Center will be led by M. Michele Burns, who will serve as its full time Executive Director.  The mission of the Center will be to become a catalyst for new ideas and perspectives on retirement and to educate the public and key constituents on retirement public policy issues.
NEW YORK
 
Ms. Burns joined Marsh & McLennan Companies in March 2006 as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and has served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Mercer since September 2006.   Effective immediately, she will assume responsibility for the planning and design of the Center, while remaining available to assist during transition. Until a successor to Ms. Burns is named, Dan Glaser, Group President and Chief Operating Officer of Marsh & McLennan Companies, will oversee Mercers Executive Committee. The Company has begun a search for a new Chief Executive Officer of Mercer.
 
Our decision to sponsor the creation of a Retirement Policy Center is focused on increasing national awareness of a critical issue that needs attention, said Brian Duperreault, President and Chief Executive Officer of Marsh & McLennan Companies.  At Marsh & McLennan we help clients solve complex problems, and our goal in creating this center is to broaden our reach to support
 
 
1
 
 
the generation of ideas on retirement for the greater good of our aging population. Michele has been deeply involved in the issues of retirement, health and human capital at Mercer, and I could not think of a more capable and dedicated professional to lead this effort he added.
 
I am honored to be asked to lead the effort to build a center on such an important topic said Michele Burns.  The issue of retirement funding in a period of demographic shift is and should be top of mind for governments, businesses and individuals alike.  I commend Marsh & McLennan Companies for its commitment to sponsor this effort, and I am grateful for being selected for such an important undertaking. I know that together we can make a difference, she added.
 
About Marsh & McLennan Companies
MARSH & McLENNAN COMPANIES (NYSE: MMC) is a global team of professional services companies offering clients advice and solutions in the areas of risk, strategy and human capital. MARSH is a global leader in delivering risk and insurance services and solutions; GUY CARPENTER is a global leader in providing risk and reinsurance intermediary services; MERCER is a global leader in human resource consulting, outsourcing and investment services; and OLIVER WYMAN is a global leader in management consulting. Marsh & McLennan Companies 52,000 colleagues worldwide provide analysis, advice and transactional capabilities to clients in more than 100 countries. The Company prides itself on being a responsible corporate citizen and making a positive impact in the communities in which it operates. For more corporate information, visit or , which highlights the Companys world-class capabilities and its solutions for the complex problems enterprises face today.
www.mmc.com
www.PartneringImpact.com
 
 
2


