FILE:MMC/MMC-8K-20120117172421.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
_____________________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 8.01        Other Events
 
On January 17, 2012, Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the appointment of Julio A. Portalatin as President and Chief Executive Officer of Mercer, the Company's human resource consulting subsidiary. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.  For purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the press release is deemed furnished not filed.
 
 
 
Item 9.01        Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)        Exhibits
 
99.1      Press release issued by Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. on January 17, 2012.
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date:     January 17, 2012
 
2
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
Exhibit No.
          
Exhibit
 
  
 
 
3

Exhibit 99.1
News Release
MARSH & McLENNAN COMPANIES APPOINTS JULIO A. PORTALATIN AS PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF MERCER
NEW YORK
, January 17, 2012 -
Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.
(NYSE: MMC), a global professional services firm providing advice in risk, strategy and human capital, announced today the appointment of Julio A. Portalatin as President and Chief Executive Officer of
Mercer
, the Company's human resource consulting subsidiary. His appointment is effective February 1. Mr. Portalatin was previously President and CEO of Chartis Growth Economies, and Senior Vice President, American International Group (AIG). In that role, he had responsibility for operations in Asia Pacific, South Asia, Latin America, Africa, the Middle East and Central Europe - the largest growth economies footprint in the insurance industry.
Mr. Portalatin began his career with AIG in 1993 and has since held a number of key leadership roles including President of the Worldwide Accident & Health Division at American International Underwriters (AIU), and President and CEO of Chartis Europe S.A. and Continental European Region, before becoming President and CEO of Chartis Emerging Markets. Prior to joining AIG / Chartis, Mr. Portalatin spent 12 years with Allstate Insurance Company in various executive product underwriting, distribution and marketing positions.
Julio has a strong international background and extensive experience in the strategic leadership and operation of complex global businesses, said Dan Glaser, Group President and Chief Operating Officer of Marsh & McLennan Companies. His track-record for recognizing global growth opportunities, maximizing client relationships and innovating in the development and delivery of products and services, make him the right person to lead Mercer forward.
1
Julio will play an instrumental role in helping Marsh & McLennan Companies' strengthen and grow its world-leading consulting operations, said Brian Duperreault, CEO and President of Marsh & McLennan Companies. We look forward to his contributions towards building the Company into an elite global enterprise.
I'm excited to join Mercer, one of the world's leading human resource consulting organizations, commented Mr. Portalatin. Mercer is exceptionally well-placed to advise clients in a global economic climate that is filled with both challenges and opportunities. I look forward to working with our very talented and dedicated colleagues to help the Company achieve its full potential.
Mr. Portalatin will be based in New York and will report to Dan Glaser, Group President and Chief Operating Officer of Marsh & McLennan Companies.
About Mercer
Mercer is a global leader in human resource consulting and related services. The firm works with clients to solve their most complex human capital issues by designing and helping manage health, retirement and other benefits. Mercer's 20,000 employees are based in more than 40 countries. Mercer is a wholly owned subsidiary of
Marsh & McLennan Companies
(NYSE: MMC), a global team of professional services companies offering clients advice and solutions in the areas of risk, strategy and human capital. For more information, visit
www.mercer.com
. Follow Mercer on Twitter
@MercerInsights
.
About Marsh & McLennan Companies
MARSH & McLENNAN COMPANIES (NYSE: MMC) is a global team of professional services companies offering clients advice and solutions in the areas of risk, strategy and human capital.
MARSH
is a global leader in insurance broking and risk management;
GUY CARPENTER
is a global leader in providing risk and reinsurance intermediary services;
MERCER
is a global leader in human resource consulting and related services; and
OLIVER WYMAN
is a global leader in management consulting. Marsh & McLennan Companies' 52,000 colleagues worldwide provide analysis, advice and transactional capabilities to clients in more than 100 countries. The Company prides itself on being a responsible corporate citizen and making a positive impact in the communities in which it operates. Visit
www.mmc.com
for more corporate information, or
www.PartneringImpact.com
to learn more about the Company's world-class capabilities and its solutions to the complex problems enterprises face today.
2


