FILE:MMC/MMC-8K-20120924171731.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
_____________________
FORM 8-K/A
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 5.02    Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On September 4, 2012, Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. (the Company) filed a Current Report on Form 8-K related to the appointment of J. Michael Bischoff as Chief Financial Officer of the Company. This Amendment is being filed to report a summary of the principal terms of a letter agreement with Mr. Bischoff governing the terms of his employment as Chief Financial Officer.
(c)  On September 4, 2012, the Company announced the appointment of J. Michael Bischoff as Chief Financial Officer (principal financial officer), effective immediately. Mr. Bischoff will report directly to the Company's President and CEO, Brian Duperreault.
Mr. Bischoff, 64, had been serving as int
erim Chief Financial Officer since March 2012. Prior to that, Mr. Bischoff was responsible for leading and directing the Company's Corporate Development, Mergers & Acquisitions, Treasury and Investor Relations functions. Since joining the Company in 1982, Mr. Bischoff has held a number of senior financial management positions.
The Company's related press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
(e) On September 19, 2012, the Company entered into a letter agreement with Mr. Bischoff governing the terms of his employment as Chief Financial Officer. The principal terms of Mr. Bischoff
'
s letter agreement are summarized below. There were no adjustments to Mr. Bischoff
'
s compensation in connection with his appointment as interim principal financial officer in March 2012.
Salary and Bonus
. Mr. Bischoff will receive an annual base salary of $650,000, retroactive to March 16, 2012, the date of his appointment as interim principal financial officer. Mr. Bischoff will be eligible for an annual bonus with an anticipated target equal to $1,250,000. His actual bonus may range from 0% to 200% of target, based on achievement of individual performance objectives and/or Company performance as the Company may establish from time to time. In the event of his retirement, disability or death, Mr. Bischoff will receive a pro-rata bonus for the year of termination.
Long-Term Incentive Compensation
. Mr. Bischoff will be eligible to participate in the Company
'
s long-term incentive program with an anticipated target grant date fair value of $750,000, beginning with the annual grant in 2013. In connection with his increased responsibilities, Mr. Bischoff will also be granted restricted stock units as of October 1, 2012, with a grant date fair value of $1,500,000.
Participation in the Senior Executive Severance Plan
. Mr. Bischoff will participate in the Senior Executive Severance Plan. In the event his employment with the Company terminates, the Senior Executive Severance Plan will govern the terms under which he may be eligible to receive severance and/or other transition benefits from the Company. In general, the Senior Executive Severance Plan provides benefits to participants in the event of a termination of employment by the Company without cause or, within the two-year period following a change in control of the Company, either by the Company without cause or by the participant for good reason. Benefits under the Plan generally include cash severance equal to one year
'
s base salary plus a bonus equal to the average of the annual bonuses paid to the participant for each of the three prior calendar years; a pro-rata bonus for the year of termination; twelve months of outplacement services; and continued medical and dental coverage for twelve months at active employee rates. Benefits are conditioned on the participant having properly and timely executed and delivered to the Company a valid, irrevocable waiver and release of claims agreement (including restrictive covenants) in a form satisfactory to the Company.
2
Benefits
. Mr. Bischoff will continue to be eligible to participate in the Company
'
s employee benefit plans and programs on terms and conditions as are generally provided to similarly situated employees of the Company. In addition, Mr. Bischoff will continue to be eligible to participate in the Financial Services Program, as in effect from time to time.
The foregoing summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to Mr. Bischoff
'
s letter agreement, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01    Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)    Exhibits
3
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:    September 24, 2012
4
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
Exhibit No.
    
Exhibit
 
10.1        Letter Agreement, dated September 19, 2012, between Marsh & McLennan
Companies, Inc. and J. Michael Bischoff
5

Exhibit 10.1
            
September 19, 2012
J. Michael Bischoff
[Address]
[City, State Zip Code]
Subject:    Terms of Employment
Dear Mike:
This letter agreement is intended to set forth the terms of your continued employment by Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. (Marsh & McLennan Companies or the Company) as its Chief Financial Officer. This position currently reports to the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and is located in New York, NY. The terms of this letter agreement are effective as of September 19, 2012.
You will continue to devote all of your attention and time during working hours to the affairs and business of the Company and use your best efforts to perform such duties and responsibilities as shall be reasonably assigned to you and are consistent with your position. In addition, you agree to serve, without additional compensation, as an officer and director for any member of the Affiliated Group. For purposes of this letter agreement, the term Affiliated Group means Marsh & McLennan Companies and any corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, or other entity in which Marsh & McLennan Companies has a 10% or greater direct or indirect interest. Except as you have previously disclosed to me, you may not serve on corporate, civic or charitable boards or committees without the prior written consent of the Company.
Your compensation and benefits are as set forth below and in Exhibit A.
September 19, 2012
J. Michael Bischoff
Page 2 of 8
As used in this letter agreement, Permanent Disability will be deemed to occur when it is determined (by Marsh & McLennan Companies disability carrier for the primary long-term disability plan or program applicable to you because of your employment with the Company) that you are unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months.
September 19, 2012
J. Michael Bischoff
Page 3 of 8
 
    
September 19, 2012
J. Michael Bischoff
Page 4 of 8
such resignations upon request by the Company, but you shall be treated for all purposes as having so resigned upon your date of termination, regardless of when or whether you execute any such documentation.
4. Restrictive Covenants
In consideration of and as a condition of your employment by Marsh & McLennan Companies as its Chief Financial Officer under the terms of this letter agreement, among other things, you agree to execute the attached Non-competition and Non-solicitation Agreement, which will supersede and terminate any and all previous agreements and understandings between you and the Company, whether written or oral, with respect to noncompetition or nonsolicitation restrictions.
5. Code of Conduct & Other Mandatory Training
As a condition of your continued employment by the Company, you must read, understand and abide by all applicable Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. compliance policies found on the Marsh & McLennan Companies compliance website (
www.compliance.mmc.com
), as updated from time to time, including but not limited to The Marsh & McLennan Companies Code of Conduct,
The Greater Good
.  In addition, you understand that you must complete any and all additional training that the Company determines is appropriate for your position during the course of your employment.
September 19, 2012
J. Michael Bischoff
Page 5 of 8
6. Stock Ownership Guidelines
In consideration of and as a condition of your employment by Marsh & McLennan Companies as its Chief Financial Officer under the terms of this letter agreement, among other things, you will be required to acquire and maintain a meaningful ownership interest, in the form of shares or stock units, in the Companys common stock. The ownership levels vary by position and are equal to a multiple of your base salary as set forth under the Companys stock ownership guidelines. You will receive additional information concerning these stock ownership guidelines separately. The stock ownership guidelines can be found on the Companys website (www.mmc.com/about/ownershipGuidelines2006.pdf).
7. Miscellaneous
a.    
Notices
. Notices given pursuant to this letter agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed received when personally delivered, or on the date of written confirmation of receipt by (i) overnight carrier, (ii) telecopy, (iii) registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, or (iv) such other method of delivery as provides a written confirmation of delivery. Notice to the Company shall be directed to:
Peter J. Beshar
Executive Vice President & General Counsel
Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.
1166 Avenue of the Americas
New York, NY 10036
Notices to or with respect to you will be directed to you, or in the event of your death, your executors, personal representatives or distributees, at your home address as set forth in the records of the Company.
b.    
Assignment of this Agreement
. This letter agreement is personal to you and shall not be assignable by you without the prior written consent of Marsh & McLennan Companies. This letter agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Company and its respective successors and assigns. Marsh & McLennan Companies may assign this letter agreement, without your consent, to any member of the Affiliated Group or to any other respective successor (whether directly or indirectly, by agreement, purchase, merger, consolidation, operation of law or otherwise) to all, substantially all or a substantial portion of the business and/or assets of the Company, as applicable. If and to the extent that this letter agreement is so assigned, references to the Company throughout this letter agreement shall mean the Company as hereinbefore defined and any successor to, or assignee of, its business and/or assets.
c.    
Merger of Terms
. This letter agreement supersedes all prior discussions and agreements between you and the Company or any member of the Affiliated Group with respect to the subject matters covered herein.
September 19, 2012
J. Michael Bischoff
Page 6 of 8
d.    
Indemnification
. The Company shall indemnify you to the extent permitted by its bylaws with respect to the work you have performed for, or at the request of, the Company or any member of the Affiliated Group (as such term is defined in Section 1. above) during the term of this letter agreement.
e.    
Governing Law; Amendments
. This letter agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without reference to principles of conflict of laws. This letter agreement may not be amended or modified other than by a written agreement executed by you and an authorized employee of Marsh & McLennan Companies.
f.    
Choice of Forum
. The Company and you each hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits to the exclusive jurisdiction of any New York state court or federal court of the United States of America sitting in the State of New York, and any appellate court thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this letter agreement or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment relating thereto, and each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard and determined in any such New York state court or, to the extent permitted by law, in such federal court. The Company and you agree that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law.
g.    
Severability; Captions
. In the event that any provision of this letter agreement is determined to be invalid or unenforceable, in whole or in part, the remaining provisions of this letter agreement will be unaffected thereby and shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent permitted by law. The captions in this letter agreement are not part of the provisions of this letter agreement and will have no force or effect.
h.    
Section 409A
. The provisions of this paragraph will only apply if and to the extent required to avoid the imposition of taxes, interest and penalties on you under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (Section 409A). Section 409A applies to nonqualified deferred compensation which exists if an individual has a legally binding right to compensation that is or may be payable in a later year. In furtherance of the objective of this paragraph, to the extent that any regulations or other guidance issued under Section 409A would result in your being subject to payment of taxes, interest or penalties under Section 409A, you and the Company agree to use our best efforts to amend this letter agreement in order to avoid or limit the imposition of any such taxes, interest or penalties, while maintaining to the maximum extent practicable the original intent of the applicable provisions. This paragraph does not guarantee that you will not be subject to taxes, interest or penalties under Section 409A with respect to compensation or benefits described or referenced in this letter agreement.
Furthermore and notwithstanding any provision of this letter agreement to the contrary, to the extent necessary to avoid the imposition of taxes, interest and penalties on you under Section 409A, if at the time of the termination of your employment you are a specified employee (as defined in Section 409A), you will not be entitled to any payments upon termination of
September 19, 2012
J. Michael Bischoff
Page 7 of 8
employment until the first day of the seventh month after the termination of employment and any such payments to which you would otherwise be entitled during the first six months following your termination of employment will be accumulated and paid without interest on the first day of the seventh month after the termination of employment.
i.    
Withholding Requirements.
All amounts paid or provided to you under this letter agreement shall be subject to any applicable income, payroll or other tax withholding requirements.
Please acknowledge your agreement with the terms of this letter agreement by signing and dating the enclosed copy and returning it to me.
Sincerely,
/s/ Brian Duperreault
_____________
Brian Duperreault
President and Chief Executive Officer
Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.
Accepted and Agreed:
/s/ J. Michael Bischoff
_____________
(Signature)            
September 20, 2012
______________
(Date)
September 19, 2012
J. Michael Bischoff
Page 8 of 8
Exhibit A
 


