FILE:MMC/MMC-8K-20120118172308.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
_____________________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 5.02        Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
On January 18, 2012 the board of directors (the Board) of Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. (the Company) elected Elaine La Roche and R. David Yost to the Board, effective immediately. Ms. La Roche is a Senior Advisor to China International Capital Corporation US.  Mr. Yost was the Chief Executive Officer of AmerisourceBergen Corporation from 2001 until his retirement in 2011.
 
The Board has determined that both Ms. La Roche and Mr. Yost are independent directors for purposes of the New York Stock Exchange listed company standards and the independence standards set forth in the Company's guidelines for corporate governance. The Board has appointed Ms. La Roche to serve on its audit and compliance and risk committees. The Board has appointed Mr. Yost to serve on its compensation and corporate responsibility committees.
 
As non-management directors, Ms. La Roche and Mr. Yost will be compensated as described under Board of Directors and Committees - Director Compensation in the Company's proxy statement relating to its 2011 annual meeting of stockholders.
 
A copy of the Company's press release, dated January 18, 2012, announcing the election of Ms. La Roche and Mr. Yost is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Item 9.01        Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)        Exhibits
 
99.1      Press release issued by Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. on January 18, 2012.
 
 
 
2
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date:     January 18, 2012
 
3
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
Exhibit No.
          
Exhibit
 
  
 
 
4

Exhibit 99.1
    
News Release
ELAINE LA ROCHE AND R. DAVID YOST ELECTED TO MARSH & MCLENNAN COMPANIES BOARD OF DIRECTORS
NEW YORK
, January 18, 2012 
Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.
(NYSE: MMC), a global professional services firm providing advice in risk, strategy and human capital, announced today that Elaine La Roche and R. David Yost have joined the Companys Board of Directors.
Ms. La Roche, age 62, is a Senior Advisor to China International Capital Corporation US. She served as Chief Executive Officer of China International Capital Corporation (CICC) in Beijing from 1997-2000. Over the course of a 20-year career at Morgan Stanley, Ms. La Roche rose from Associate to Managing Director, serving in a variety of roles including Chief of Staff to the Chairman, and President and Head of the Asia Desk. From 2008 to 2010, Ms. La Roche was with JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Beijing where she served as Vice Chairman, J.P. Morgan China Securities. Ms. La Roche served on the board of directors of China Construction Bank from 2005-2011, including acting as chair of the nomination and compensation committee and as a member of the audit and strategy committees. She also served on the board of directors of Linktone, where she was non-executive chairman from 2004-2008.
Mr. Yost, age 64, was the Chief Executive Officer of AmerisourceBergen Corporation, one of the worlds largest pharmaceutical services companies, from 2001 until his retirement in 2011. He also served as President from 2001-2002, and from 2007-2010. Prior to its merger with Bergen Brunswig, Mr. Yost was Chief Executive Officer of Amerisource Health Corporation from 1997-2001, and its President from 1997-2000. Mr. Yosts career with AmerisourceBergen and its predecessors spanned nearly 40 years.
1
Previously, Mr. Yost was a captain in the United States Air Force. Mr. Yost serves on the board of directors and compensation committees of Tyco International and Excelis Inc.
We are pleased to welcome Elaine and David to our Board, said Ian Lang, Lord Lang of Monkton, Independent Chairman of the Marsh & McLennan Companies Board of
Directors. Elaine and Davids extensive backgrounds in the areas of finance and healthcare, coupled with their international and operational experience will be of great value to the organization. We look forward to their contributions.
About Marsh & McLennan Companies
MARSH & McLENNAN COMPANIES (NYSE: MMC) is a global team of professional services companies offering clients advice and solutions in the areas of risk, strategy and human capital.
MARSH
is a global leader in insurance broking and risk management;
GUY CARPENTER
is a global leader in providing risk and reinsurance intermediary services;
MERCER
is a global leader in human resource consulting and related services; and
OLIVER WYMAN
is a global leader in management consulting. Marsh & McLennan Companies 52,000 colleagues worldwide provide analysis, advice and transactional capabilities to clients in more than 100 countries. The Company prides itself on being a responsible corporate citizen and making a positive impact in the communities in which it operates. Visit
www.mmc.com
for more corporate information, or
www.PartneringImpact.com
to learn more about the Companys world-class capabilities and its solutions to the complex problems enterprises face today.
2


