FILE:MMC/MMC-8K-20120501072507.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C.  20549
 
_____________________
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 14(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
  
 
  
 
  
   
  
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Item 2.02        Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On May 1, 2012, Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. issued a press release reporting financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2012, and announcing that a conference call to discuss such results will be held at 8:30 a.m. EST on May 1, 2012.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.  For purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the press release is deemed furnished not filed.
 
 
 
Item 9.01        Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)        Exhibits
 
99.1      Press release issued by Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. on May 1, 2012.
 
 
2
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date:     May 1, 2012
 
3
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
Exhibit No.
           
Exhibit
 
  
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 

        
                                
Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
                        
                                
 
MARSH & McLENNAN COMPANIES REPORTS FIRST QUARTER 2012 RESULTS
Continued Revenue Growth Drives Strong Earnings Growth
First Quarter GAAP EPS Increases to $.63
Adjusted EPS Rises 13%
NEW YORK
, May 1, 2012 - Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. (NYSE: MMC), a global professional services firm providing advice and solutions in risk, strategy and human capital, today reported financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2012.
Brian Duperreault, President and CEO, said: Our performance in the first quarter continues to build on the strong momentum achieved by the Company over the past two years. This performance reflects revenue growth from each of our operating companies, as well as continued strong growth in adjusted operating income across both our Risk and Insurance Services and Consulting segments.
Marsh's performance was excellent, with strong new business development and higher client revenue retention rates contributing to underlying revenue growth across all geographies. Guy Carpenter's strong underlying revenue growth in the quarter, which was driven by international operations, extends the trend of quarterly growth into the fourth consecutive year.
Our Consulting segment also produced strong underlying revenue growth in the quarter, with
1
substantial margin improvement. Mercer's results reflect revenue growth in its Health & Benefits; Talent, Rewards & Communications; Outsourcing; and Investments businesses. Oliver Wyman's revenue growth was led by its Consumer and Health & Life Sciences industry sectors.
"We are pleased with the double-digit growth in adjusted operating income and earnings per share in the first quarter, concluded Mr. Duperreault.
Consolidated Results
Consolidated revenue in the first quarter of 2012 was $3.1 billion, an increase of 6% on both a reported and underlying basis from the first quarter of 2011. Underlying revenue measures the change in revenue using consistent currency exchange rates, excluding the impact of items such as acquisitions, dispositions and transfers among businesses. Operating income rose 12% to $527 million. Adjusted operating income, which excludes noteworthy items as presented in the attached supplemental schedules, rose 12% to $530 million in the first quarter.
Income from continuing operations in the first quarter of 2012 was $354 million, or $.63 per share, compared with $319 million, or $.56 per share, in the first quarter of 2011. Adjusted earnings per share in the quarter was also $.63, an increase of 13% from $.56 in the first quarter of 2011. Net income was $347 million, compared with $325 million in the first quarter of 2011.
Risk and Insurance Services
Risk and Insurance Services revenue in the first quarter of 2012 was $1.7 billion, an increase of 7% on both a reported and underlying basis. Operating income increased 9% to $417 million, compared with $383 million. Adjusted operating income in the first quarter increased 9% to $416 million from $383 million.
Marsh's revenue in the first quarter of 2012 increased 8% to $1.4 billion, or 7% on an underlying basis. International operations reported underlying revenue growth of 7% in the first quarter, reflecting growth of 18% in Latin America, 10% in Asia Pacific, and 5% in EMEA.
2
In the United States/Canada division, underlying revenue grew 6%. Guy Carpenter's first quarter revenue was $357 million, an increase of 5%, or 7% on an underlying basis.
Consulting
Consulting segment revenue in the first quarter of 2012 was $1.3 billion, an increase of 4% on both a reported and underlying basis. Operating income increased 24% to $159 million, compared with $128 million in the prior year period. Adjusted operating income in the first quarter rose 24% to $162 million, compared with $131 million.
Mercer's revenue in the first quarter of 2012 was $957 million, an increase of 4% on both a reported and underlying basis. Retirement, with revenue of $278 million, was flat on an underlying basis; Health & Benefits, with revenue of $253 million, was up 6%; Talent, Rewards & Communications, with revenue of $125 million, was up 5%; Outsourcing, with revenue of $177 million, increased 4%; and Investments, with revenue of $124 million, rose 7%. Oliver Wyman's revenue increased 5% to $356 million in the first quarter of 2012, or 6% on an underlying basis.
Other Items
Investment income, including mark-to-market gains in private equity investments, was $20 million in the first quarter of 2012, compared with $19 million in 2011. At the end of the first quarter of 2012, cash and cash equivalents was $1.4 billion, compared with $1.3 billion at the end of the first quarter of 2011. Net debt, which is total debt less cash and cash equivalents, was $1.5 billion, compared with $1.7 billion at the end of the first quarter of 2011.
Conference Call
A conference call to discuss first quarter 2012 results will be held today at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time. To participate in the teleconference, please dial +1 888 500 6973. Callers from outside the United States should dial +1 719 457 2601. The access code for both numbers is 3462595. The live audio webcast may be accessed at
www.mmc.com
. A replay of the webcast will be available approximately two hours after the event.
About Marsh & McLennan Companies
MARSH & McLENNAN COMPANIES (NYSE: MMC) is a global team of professional services companies offering clients advice and solutions in the areas of risk, strategy and human capital.
MARSH
is a global leader in insurance broking and risk management;
GUY
3
CARPENTER
is a global leader in providing risk and reinsurance intermediary services;
MERCER
is a global leader in human resource consulting and related services; and
OLIVER WYMAN
is a global leader in management consulting. Marsh & McLennan Companies' 53,000 colleagues worldwide provide analysis, advice and transactional capabilities to clients in more than 100 countries. The Company prides itself on being a responsible corporate citizen and making a positive impact in the communities in which it operates. Visit
www.mmc.com
for more corporate information, or
www.PartneringImpact.com
to learn more about the Company's world-class capabilities and its solutions to the complex problems enterprises face today.
This press release contains forward-looking statements, as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements, which express management's current views concerning future events or results, use words like anticipate, assume, believe, continue, estimate, expect, future, intend, plan, project and similar terms, and future or conditional tense verbs like could, may, might, should, will and would. For example, we may use forward-looking statements when addressing topics such as: the outcome of contingencies; the expected impact of acquisitions and dispositions; pension obligations; market and industry conditions; the impact of foreign currency exchange rates; our effective tax rates; the impact of competition; changes in our business strategies and methods of generating revenue; the development and performance of our services and products; changes in the composition or level of our revenues; our cost structure, dividend policy, cash flow and liquidity; future actions by regulators; and the impact of changes in accounting rules.
Forward-looking statements are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements include, among other things:
 
 
 
 
 
4
Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act 2010, local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials, as well as various trade sanctions laws;
 
 
 
 
The factors identified above are not exhaustive. Marsh & McLennan Companies and its subsidiaries operate in a dynamic business environment in which new risks may emerge frequently. Accordingly, we caution readers not to place undue reliance on the above forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the dates on which they are made. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date on which it is made. Further information concerning Marsh & McLennan Companies and its businesses, including information about factors that could materially affect our results of operations and financial condition, is contained in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Risk Factors section of our most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K.
5
Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Income
(In millions, except per share figures)
(Unaudited)
 
6
Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.
Supplemental Information - Revenue Analysis
Three Months Ended
(Millions) (Unaudited)
Revenue Details
The following table provides more detailed revenue information for certain of the components presented above:
 
 
7
Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.
Non-GAAP Measures
Three Months Ended March 31
(Millions) (Unaudited)
 
 
8
Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.
Non-GAAP Measures
Three Months Ended March 31
(Millions) (Unaudited)
 
Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.
Supplemental Information
(Millions) (Unaudited)
 
(a) The increase from 2012 is primarily due to accelerated amortization for retiree eligible senior executives.
 
                    
 
9
Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(Millions) (Unaudited)
 
 
 
10


