FILE:MMC/MMC-8K-20120904172318.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
_____________________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
(c)
 
On September 4, 2012, Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. announced the appointment of J.
 
Michael Bischoff as Chief Financial Officer (principal financial officer), effective immediately. Mr. Bischoff will report directly to the Company's President and CEO, Brian Duperreault.
Mr. Bischoff, 64, had been serving as interim Chief Financial Officer since March 2012. Prior to that, Mr. Bischoff was responsible for leading and directing the Company's Corporate Development, Mergers & Acquisitions, Treasury and Investor Relations functions. Since joining the Company in 1982, Mr. Bischoff has held a number of senior financial management positions.
The Company
'
s related press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01        Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)        Exhibits
 
99.1      Press release issued by Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. on September 4, 2012.
2
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:    September 4, 2012
3
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
Exhibit No.
           
Exhibit
 
  
4

NEWS RELEASE
MARSH & McLENNAN COMPANIES NAMES J. MICHAEL BISCHOFF
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
NEW YORK
, September 4, 2012 - Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. (NYSE: MMC), a global professional services firm providing advice and solutions in risk, strategy and human capital, today announced the appointment of J. Michael Bischoff as Chief Financial Officer, effective immediately. Mr. Bischoff will report directly to the Companys President and CEO, Brian Duperreault.
Mr. Bischoff had been serving as interim Chief Financial Officer since March 2012. Prior to that, Mr. Bischoff was responsible for leading and directing the Company's Corporate Development, Mergers & Acquisitions, Treasury and Investor Relations functions. Since joining the Company in 1982, Mr. Bischoff has held a number of senior financial management positions.
We are pleased to announce that, after a thorough search, we have chosen Mike to serve as the Companys Chief Financial Officer on a continuing basis, said Mr. Duperreault. His extensive experience and demonstrated ability to create shareholder value are important assets as we drive toward our long-term growth objectives.
I am proud to be part of the executive leadership team at Marsh & McLennan Companies, said Mr. Bischoff. I am pleased to be working with a group of highly talented and committed colleagues who strive to deliver on the Companys strategic goals.
1
About Marsh & McLennan Companies
MARSH & McLENNAN COMPANIES (NYSE: MMC) is a global team of professional services companies offering clients advice and solutions in the areas of risk, strategy and human capital.
Marsh
is a global leader in insurance broking and risk management;
Guy Carpenter
is a global leader in providing risk and reinsurance intermediary services;
Mercer
is a global leader in human resource consulting and related services; and
Oliver Wyman
is a global leader in management consulting. Marsh & McLennan Companies 53,000 colleagues worldwide provide analysis, advice and transactional capabilities to clients in more than 100 countries. The Company prides itself on being a responsible corporate citizen and making a positive impact in the communities in which it operates. Visit
www.mmc.com
for more information.
2


