FILE:ACN/ACN-8K-20100325160752.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On March 25, 2010, Accenture issued a press release announcing financial results for its second quarter of fiscal year 2010, which fiscal quarter ended on February 28, 2010.
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. All information in the press release is furnished but not filed.
Non-GAAP Financial Information
In the attached press release Accenture discloses the following non-GAAP financial measures:
 
 
 
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP are included in the press release. While Accenture's management believes that this non-GAAP financial information is useful in evaluating Accenture's operations, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and not as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
99.1   Press Release of Accenture, dated March 25, 2010
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEW YORK; March 25, 2010  Accenture (NYSE: ACN) reported financial results for the second quarter of fiscal 2010, ended Feb. 28, 2010, with net revenues of $5.18 billion, a decrease of 2 percent in U.S. dollars and 8 percent in local currency from the same period last year and within the company's guided range. Diluted earnings per share were $0.60.
Operating income was $651 million and operating margin was 12.6 percent, compared with operating income of $677 million and operating margin of 12.9 percent in the second quarter last year. Operating margin of 12.9 percent in the second quarter last year included a 30-basis-point benefit resulting from a reduction in reorganization liabilities in that quarter.
New bookings for the quarter were $6.52 billion, with consulting bookings of $3.39 billion and outsourcing bookings of $3.13 billion, bringing total new bookings for the first half of fiscal 2010 to more than $12 billion.
In addition, Accenture's Board of Directors has declared a semi-annual cash dividend of 37.5 cents per share, to be paid on May 14, 2010. In October, the company said that it would move from an annual to a semi-annual schedule for the payment of dividends starting in the third quarter of fiscal 2010.
William D. Green, Accenture's chairman & CEO, said, "Our second-quarter results demonstrate that we continue to manage our business very well in a challenging economic environment and that clients value our knowledge, experience and skills, as well as our focus on execution excellence and value delivered. Revenues were within our expected range, we delivered solid operating margin and generated significant free cash flow, and our balance sheet remains strong.
"We are seeing increasing momentum in many areas of our business, as clients are starting to look to the future and to focus on growth and revenue enhancement along with continued improvements in operating efficiency. Our strong $6.5 billion in bookings  with more than $3 billion each in consulting and outsourcing  coupled with our growing pipeline, show heightened demand for our services and a positive trajectory for our business. We are well positioned to drive profitable growth and, as always, remain focused on delivering value to our clients and shareholders."
Financial Review
Revenues before reimbursements ("net revenues") for the second quarter of fiscal 2010 were $5.18 billion, compared with $5.27 billion in the second quarter of fiscal 2009, a decrease of 2 percent in U.S. dollars and 8 percent in local currency. Net revenues for the second quarter of fiscal 2010 reflect a foreign-exchange impact of positive 6 percent.
 
 
Diluted EPS for the second quarter of fiscal 2010 were $0.60, a decrease of $0.03 from the second quarter of fiscal 2009, broken down as:
 
    offset by:
 
Operating income for the second quarter was $651 million, or 12.6 percent of net revenues, compared with $677 million, or 12.9 percent of net revenues, for the second quarter of fiscal 2009. Operating margin of 12.9 percent in the second quarter last year included a 30-basis-point benefit resulting from a reduction in reorganization liabilities in that quarter. Absent that benefit, operating margin in the second quarter last year would have been 12.6 percent.
Gross margin (gross profit as a percentage of net revenues) for the second quarter was 32.7 percent, compared with 30.8 percent for the second quarter last year. Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses for the second quarter were $1.04 billion, or 20.0 percent of net revenues, compared with $958 million, or 18.2 percent of net revenues, for the second quarter last year. The change in gross margin and in SG&A as a percentage of net revenues compared with the second quarter last year was primarily due to the implementation of the company's sales-effectiveness model, which the company described last quarter. This had no overall impact on reported operating expenses or operating margin.
The company's effective tax rate for the second quarter was 27.8 percent, compared with 28.1 percent for the second quarter last year.
Net income (previously "Net income before noncontrolling interests" and "Income before minority interest") for the second quarter was $462 million, compared with $502 million for the same period of fiscal 2009.
Operating cash flow for the second quarter was $660 million, and property and equipment additions were $44 million. Free cash flow, defined as operating cash flow net of property and equipment additions, was $616 million. For the same period last year, operating cash flow was $631 million; property and equipment additions were $53 million; and free cash flow was $578 million.
Days services outstanding, or DSOs, were 30 at Feb. 28, 2010, compared with 28 at Aug. 31, 2009.
Accenture's total cash balance at Feb. 28, 2010 was $4.11 billion, compared with $4.54 billion at Aug. 31, 2009.
Utilization for the second quarter of fiscal 2010 was 88 percent, compared with 88 percent for the first quarter and 83 percent for the second quarter last year. Attrition for the quarter was 15 percent, compared with 12 percent for the first quarter and 9 percent for the second quarter last year.
New Bookings
New bookings for the second quarter were $6.52 billion and reflect a positive 6 percent foreign-currency impact when compared to new bookings in the second quarter last year.
 
 
Net Revenues by Operating Group
Net revenues by operating group for the second quarter were as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
*On Sept. 1, 2009, the Company formed the Health & Public Service operating group by combining various healthcare-related components of its Products operating group with its Public Service operating group. Prior-period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current-period presentation.
Net Revenues by Geographic Region
Net revenues by geographic region for the second quarter were as follows:
 
 
 
Share Repurchase Activity
During the second quarter of fiscal 2010, Accenture repurchased or redeemed 10.4 million shares for a total of $434 million, including 2.4 million shares repurchased in the open market. Accenture's total remaining share repurchase authority at Feb. 28, 2010, was approximately $4.1 billion.
At Feb. 28, 2010, Accenture had approximately 726 million total shares outstanding, including 636 million Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares and 90 million Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holding, Inc. exchangeable shares.
Dividend
Accenture plc has declared a semi-annual cash dividend of 37.5 cents per share on Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares for shareholders of record at the close of business on April 16, 2010, and Accenture SCA will declare a semi-annual cash dividend of 37.5 cents per share on Accenture SCA Class I common shares for shareholders of record at the close of business on April 13, 2010. These dividends are both payable on May 14, 2010.
Business Outlook
Third Quarter Fiscal 2010
Accenture expects net revenues for the third quarter of fiscal 2010 to be in the range of $5.5 billion to $5.7 billion. This range assumes a foreign-exchange impact of positive 5 percent compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2009.
Full Fiscal Year 2010
The company's business outlook for the full fiscal year now assumes a foreign-exchange impact of positive 3 percent compared with fiscal 2009. The annual business outlook provided in the company's first-quarter earnings announcement in October assumed a foreign-exchange impact of positive 5 percent.
Accenture continues to target new bookings for fiscal 2010 in the range of $23 billion to $26 billion.
Accenture now expects net revenue growth for the full fiscal year to be at the low end of its guided range of negative 3 percent to positive 1 percent in local currency.
Reflecting its updated foreign-currency assumption, the company has lowered its outlook for diluted EPS for the full fiscal year by $0.06 and now expects diluted EPS to be in the range of $2.61 to $2.69. Accenture continues to expect operating margin for the full fiscal year to be 13.4 percent.
The company continues to expect operating cash flow to be in the range of $2.39 billion to $2.59 billion, property and equipment additions to be $290 million, and free cash flow to be in the range of $2.1 billion to $2.3 billion. The company also continues to expect the annual effective tax rate to be in the range of 30 percent to 32 percent.
Conference Call and Webcast Details
Accenture will host a conference call at 4:30 p.m. EDT today to discuss its second-quarter fiscal 2010 financial results. To participate, please dial +1 (800) 230-1059 +1 (612) 332-0107 outside the United States, Puerto Rico and Canada approximately 15 minutes before the scheduled start of the call. The conference call will also be accessible live on the Investor Relations section of the Accenture Web site at www.accenture.com.
A replay of the conference call will be available online at www.accenture.com beginning at 7:00 p.m. EDT today and continuing until Wednesday, June 23, 2010. A podcast of the conference call will be available online at www.accenture.com beginning approximately 24 hours after the call and continuing until Wednesday, June 23. The replay will also be available via telephone by dialing +1 (800) 475-6701 +1 (320) 365-3844 outside the United States, Puerto Rico and Canada and entering access code 148470 from 7:00 p.m. EDT today through Wednesday, June 23.
About Accenture
Accenture is a global management consulting, technology services and outsourcing company, with more than 181,000 people serving clients in more than 120 countries. Combining unparalleled experience, comprehensive capabilities across all industries and business functions, and extensive research on the world's most successful companies, Accenture collaborates with clients to help them become high-performance businesses and governments. The company generated net revenues of US$21.58 billion for the fiscal year ended Aug. 31, 2009. Its home page is www.accenture.com.
Non-GAAP Financial Information
This press release includes certain non-GAAP financial information as defined by Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation G. Pursuant to the requirements of this regulation, reconciliations of this non-GAAP financial information to Accenture's financial statements as prepared under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) are included in this press release. Financial results "in local currency" are calculated by restating current-period activity into U.S. dollars using the comparable prior-year period's foreign-currency exchange rates.
Accenture's management believes providing investors with this information gives additional insights into Accenture's results of operations. While Accenture's management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures are useful in evaluating Accenture's operations, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and not as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Forward-Looking Statements
Except for the historical information and discussions contained herein, statements in this news release may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied. These include, without limitation, risks that: our results of operations could be adversely affected by economic and political conditions and the effects of these conditions on our clients' businesses and levels of business activity; our results of operations could be negatively affected if we cannot expand and develop our services and solutions in response to changes in technology and client demand; the consulting, systems integration and technology and outsourcing markets are highly competitive and we might not be able to compete effectively; our work with government clients exposes us to additional risks in the government contracting environment; clients may not be satisfied with our services; our results of operations could be adversely affected if our clients terminate their contracts with us; our outsourcing services subject us to operational and financial risk; our results of operations may be adversely affected by the type and level of technology spending by our clients; our profitability may suffer if we are not able to maintain favorable pricing rates and utilization rates; our business could be negatively affected by legal liability that results from our providing solutions or services; our profitability may suffer if we cannot anticipate the cost and complexity of performing our work or if we are not able to control our costs; our global operations are subject to complex risks, some of which might be beyond our control; our business and financial results may be adversely affected if we are unable to keep our supply of skills and resources in balance with client demand, including if we are unable to hire sufficient employees with the skills and background we require; liabilities could arise if our subcontractors or other third parties cannot deliver their project contributions on time or at all; legislative or regulatory action could materially and adversely affect us; we may be subject to criticism and negative publicity related to our incorporation in Ireland; we might be unable to achieve our business objectives if we are unable to manage the organizational challenges associated with our size; consolidation in the industries that we serve could adversely affect our business; our ability to attract and retain business may depend on our reputation in the marketplace; our share price could fluctuate due to numerous factors, including variability in revenues, operating results and profitability; as well as the risks, uncertainties and other factors discussed under the "Risk Factors" heading in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and other documents filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Statements in this news release speak only as of the date they were made, and Accenture undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statements made in this news release or to conform such statements to actual results or changes in Accenture's expectations.
Contact:
Roxanne Taylor
Accenture
+1 (917) 452-5106
roxanne.taylor@accenture.com
 
 
 
 
n/m = not meaningful
 
 
 
 


