FILE:ACN/ACN-8K-20110120163736.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On January 20, 2011, Accenture plc issued a press release announcing certain leadership changes, including the retirement of Mark Foster, group chief executiveGlobal Markets & Management Consulting. Mr. Foster's retirement will take effect on March 1, 2011.
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
99.1 Press Release, dated January 20, 2011
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEW YORK; January 20, 2011 Accenture (NYSE: ACN) today announced the following changes to its executive leadership, effective March 1:
 
 
 
"Sander, Jean-Marc and Shawn bring significant expertise and skills to their new roles. They all have outstanding leadership experience with Accenture, track records of success, and strong commitment to providing the highest level of service to our clients," said Pierre Nanterme, Accenture's chief executive officer. "I look forward to working closely with them as we accelerate the execution of our growth strategy, while delivering value to our clients and shareholders.
"On behalf of Accenture, I want to recognize both Mark and Karl-Heinz for their significant accomplishments and thank them for their many years of service to the company. Each has demonstrated true dedication and commitment to the success of our company and our clients."
 
About Accenture
Accenture is a global management consulting, technology services and outsourcing company, with approximately 211,000 people serving clients in more than 120 countries. Combining unparalleled experience, comprehensive capabilities across all industries and business functions, and extensive research on the world's most successful companies, Accenture collaborates with clients to help them become high-performance businesses and governments. The company generated net revenues of US$21.6 billion for the fiscal year ended Aug. 31, 2010. Its home page is .
www.accenture.com
Contact:
Fred Hawrysh
Accenture
+1 (917) 452-4398
fred.hawrysh@accenture.com
Alex Pachetti
Accenture
+1 (917) 452-5519
alex.pachetti@accenture.com
 


