FILE:ACN/ACN-8K-20120501161803.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On April 27, 2012, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Accenture plc (the "Company") appointed Gilles C. Plisson as a new director of the Company, upon the recommendation of its Nominating & Governance Committee. Mr. Plisson will serve until the Company's 2013 annual general meeting of shareholders, when he will be subject to re-appointment by a vote of the Company's shareholders.
Mr. Plisson began his career with Accor SA ("Accor") in the United States and then served as Senior Vice President for Accor's Asia-Pacific region. In 1995, Mr. Plisson was appointed Chief Executive Officer of Disneyland Paris Resort and later added the title of Chairman. He also served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer at Bouygues Telecom. Mr. Plisson rejoined Accor as CEO in 2006 and later was also appointed Chairman. He served at Accor until January 2011.
Mr. Plisson joins the Board as a Class III director and has been appointed to serve on the Board's Audit Committee. He will receive the pro rata portion of the standard compensation for service on the Board (currently $90,000 per annum) and the Audit Committee (currently $5,000 per annum), based on the number of days remaining in the current director compensation year. Mr. Plisson may elect to receive this compensation in cash or equity. Mr. Plisson will also receive the standard grant of restricted share units valued at $185,000 made by the Company to directors newly appointed to the Board.
The Company expects Mr. Plisson to enter into the standard director indemnification agreement that Accenture International Srl, an indirect subsidiary of the Company, has with the Company's directors. A copy of a substantially similar form of the indemnification agreement is filed as Exhibit 10.5 to the Company's Form 8-K12B filed on September 1, 2009.
A copy of the Company's press release issued on May 1, 2012, regarding Mr. Plisson's appointment to the Board is filed as Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
NEW YORK; May 1, 2012  Accenture today announced that Gilles C. Plisson has been appointed to the company's Board of Directors, effective April 27. Mr. Plisson, 54, is an experienced business leader who most recently served as Chairman and CEO of Accor SA, the Paris-based global hotel group.
Mr. Plisson joins the board as a Class III director, subject to re-appointment at the next Accenture plc annual general meeting of shareholders. He has been appointed to serve on the board's Audit Committee.
"We are very excited to have Gilles join our board of directors," said William D. Green, Accenture's Executive Chairman. "He is a highly accomplished executive with significant international experience as both a CEO and director of large, global companies. I know I speak for all of our board members when I say that we look forward to the valuable perspective Gilles will provide related to Accenture's strategy, operations and management as we remain focused on providing exceptional results for our clients and shareholders."
With the appointment, Accenture's board now comprises 13 directors, 11 of whom are external and independent. Mr. Green and CEO Pierre Nanterme are the board's only internal directors.
Mr. Plisson began his career with Accor in the United States and then served as Senior Vice President for Accor's Asia-Pacific region. In 1995, Mr. Plisson was appointed Chief Executive Officer of Disneyland Paris Resort and later added the title of Chairman. He also served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer at Bouygues Telecom. Mr. Plisson rejoined Accor as CEO in 2006 and later was also appointed Chairman. He served at Accor until January 2011.
Mr. Plisson serves on the board of directors of BIC SA, TF1 Group, Groupe Lucien Barrire and NH Hoteles.
Mr. Plisson studied at ESSEC (cole Suprieure des Sciences conomiques et Commerciales) in Paris and holds an M.B.A. from the Harvard Business School.
About Accenture
Accenture is a global management consulting, technology services and outsourcing company, with more than 246,000 people serving clients in more than 120 countries. Combining unparalleled experience, comprehensive capabilities across all industries and business functions, and extensive research on the world's most successful companies, Accenture collaborates with clients to help them become high-performance businesses and governments. The company generated net revenues of US$25.5 billion for the fiscal year ended Aug. 31, 2011. Its home page is .
www.accenture.com
Contact:
Alex Pachetti
Accenture
+1 (917) 452-5519
alex.pachetti@accenture.com


