FILE:ACN/ACN-8K-20121022160801.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, DC 20549
____________________ 
Form 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 ____________________
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): October 18, 2012
Accenture plc
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
 
1 Grand Canal Square,
Grand Canal Harbour,
Dublin 2, Ireland
(Address of principal executive offices)
Registrants telephone number, including area code: (353) (1) 646-2000
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On October 18, 2012, William D. Green, executive chairman of the Board of Directors (the Board) of Accenture plc (Accenture), advised the Board that he would step down as chairman and from the Board and retire from Accenture, effective February 1, 2013. Accenture also announced that Pierre Nanterme, Accentures chief executive officer, has been appointed to succeed Mr. Green as chairman of the Board upon Mr. Greens retirement.
In connection with Mr. Greens retirement from Accenture, the Board has determined to waive the remaining service-based vesting conditions for that portion of Mr. Greens outstanding awards that is not otherwise scheduled to vest on or prior to his retirement. The waiver of service-based vesting applies to Mr. Greens awards under the 2011 and 2012 Key Executive Performance Share Programs with respect to his shares of performance-vested restricted share units (which, assuming target performance, would be 76,236 shares), plus an additional number of shares that could be earned as dividend equivalents in accordance with Mr. Greens equity award agreements. Although the Board waived the remaining service-based vesting conditions for these awards, the vesting for each award will occur only to the extent that performance objectives are met over the three-year performance period for each award, with the actual number of shares (which may be below, at, or above target) determined based on Accentures cumulative performance over the relevant performance period.
In addition, Mr. Green will receive office space with administrative support for his use after retirement, until such time that he notifies Accenture that he no longer wishes to maintain the office.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) The following exhibits are attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99
Accenture Names CEO Pierre Nanterme to Additional Position of Chairman,
Effective Feb. 1, 2013
 
 Accenture Chairman William D. Green to retire and step down from the board 
NEW YORK; Oct. 22, 2012  The board of directors of Accenture (NYSE: ACN) has named CEO Pierre Nanterme to the additional position of chairman of the board, effective Feb. 1, 2013.  He succeeds William D. Green, who will step down as chairman and from the board on that date.  Mr. Nanterme, 53, succeeded Mr. Green as CEO on Jan. 1, 2011, and has been a member of the Accenture board of directors since October 2010. 
    
The appointment of Pierre Nanterme as chairman reflects his tremendous knowledge of Accentures business and global organization
,
and the high regard in which he is held by the board of directors, said Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, lead director of the Accenture board.  He has proven himself to be an outstanding leader.
At the same time, we recognize the significant contributions that Bill Green has made to Accenture during his 34-year career with the company, including six years as CEO, and we thank him for the excellent stewardship he has provided as chairman. Throughout his career, Bill has contributed to and then led a great organization. An important part of this contribution has been to build succession and in-depth leadership talent at Accenture.
Mr. Green, 59, joined Accenture in 1977.  He has served as chairman of the board since 2006 and was chief executive officer from Sept. 1, 2004 until Jan. 1, 2011.  During his tenure as CEO, Mr. Green led Accenture to record growth and profits, nearly doubled the companys global workforce, expanded Accentures global footprint and successfully navigated the company through a challenging economic environment.  Under his leadership, the company
launched its highly successful Skills to Succeed corporate citizenship initiative.
Im honored to be selected to succeed Bill as chairman, said Mr. Nanterme.  Bill has always been a strong advocate for our clients and our people, and I want to recognize and thank him for his tireless commitment to helping make Accenture the exceptional company it is today.
 
About Accenture
 
Accenture is a global management consulting, technology services and outsourcing company, with 257,000 people serving clients in more than 120 countries.  Combining unparalleled experience, comprehensive capabilities across all industries and business functions, and extensive research on the worlds most successful companies, Accenture collaborates with clients to help them become high-performance businesses and governments.  The company generated net revenues of US$27.9 billion for the fiscal year ended Aug. 31, 2012.  Its home page is
www.accenture.com
.
 
# # #
 
Alex Pachetti
Accenture
+1 (917) 452-5519
alex.pachetti@accenture.com
Roxanne Taylor
Accenture
+1 (917) 452-5106
roxanne.taylor@accenture.com
 


