FILE:ACN/ACN-8K-20121219161212.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, DC 20549
____________________ 
Form 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 ____________________
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): December 19, 2012
Accenture plc
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
 
1 Grand Canal Square,
Grand Canal Harbour,
Dublin 2, Ireland
(Address of principal executive offices)
Registrants telephone number, including area code: (353) (1) 646-2000
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On December 19, 2012, Accenture plc (Accenture) issued a press release announcing financial results for its first quarter of fiscal year 2013, which fiscal quarter ended on November 30, 2012.
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99. All information in the press release is furnished but not filed.
Non-GAAP Financial Information
In the attached press release Accenture discloses the following non-GAAP financial measures:
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP are included in the press release. While Accentures management believes that this non-GAAP financial information is useful in evaluating Accentures operations, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and not as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99
Accenture Reports First-Quarter Fiscal 2013 Results,
With Record Quarterly Revenues and EPS
 Revenues increase 2% in U.S. dollars and 5% in local currency, to $7.2 billion 
 
 EPS up 10%, to $1.06 
 Operating income increases 7%, to $1.05 billion, with operating margin of 14.5% 
 New bookings are $7.5 billion, with consulting bookings of $4.2 billion
and outsourcing bookings of $3.3 billion 
 Company raises outlook for full-year EPS to range of $4.24 to $4.32 
NEW YORK; Dec. 19, 2012  Accenture (NYSE: ACN) reported financial results for the first quarter of fiscal 2013, ended Nov. 30, 2012, with record net revenues of $7.2 billion, an increase of 2 percent in U.S. dollars and 5 percent in local currency over the same period last year. Diluted earnings per share were $1.06, an increase of $0.10, or 10 percent, over the same period last year.
Operating income was $1.05 billion, an increase of 7 percent over the same period last year, and operating margin was 14.5 percent, a year-over-year expansion of more than 60 basis points.
New bookings for the quarter were $7.5 billion, with consulting bookings of $4.2 billion and outsourcing bookings of $3.3 billion.
Pierre Nanterme, Accentures chief executive officer, said, We are pleased with our first-quarter results, in particular our ability to drive profitable growth despite the continued volatility in the global economic environment. Revenue growth, which included a strong 13 percent local-currency increase in outsourcing, was in line with our expectations. We also delivered very good profitability, reflecting our disciplined management of the business.
Looking ahead, we remain focused on the successful execution of our growth strategy and are investing to further differentiate our industry and technology capabilities, as well as to expand our geographic footprint in key growth markets. We are raising our business outlook for both EPS and operating margin for the full fiscal year and remain well-positioned to continue delivering value for our clients and shareholders.
Financial Review
Revenues before reimbursements (net revenues) for the first quarter of fiscal 2013 were $7.22 billion, compared with $7.07 billion for the first quarter of fiscal 2012, an increase of 2 percent in U.S. dollars and 5 percent in local currency and within the companys guided range of $7.1 billion to $7.35 billion. The foreign-exchange impact of approximately negative 3 percent was consistent with the assumption provided in the companys fourth-quarter earnings release.
Diluted EPS for the quarter were $1.06, compared with $0.96 for the first quarter last year. The $0.10 increase in EPS reflects:
partially offset by:
Gross margin (gross profit as a percentage of net revenues) for the quarter was 32.8 percent, compared with 31.8 percent for the first quarter last year. Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses for the quarter were $1.32 billion, or 18.2 percent of net revenues, compared with $1.27 billion, or approximately 17.9 percent of net revenues, for the first quarter last year.
Operating income for the quarter increased 7 percent, to $1.05 billion, or 14.5 percent of net revenues, compared with $981 million, or 13.9 percent of net revenues, for the first quarter of fiscal 2012. The operating margin expansion of more than 60 basis points reflects improvements in contract profitability and overall cost management compared with the first quarter last year.
The companys effective tax rate for the quarter was 26.8 percent, compared with 28.3 percent for the first quarter last year. The lower rate in the first quarter of fiscal 2013 was primarily due to higher benefits related to final determinations of prior-year tax liabilities.
Net income for the quarter was $766 million, compared with $712 million for the first quarter last year, an 8 percent increase.
Operating cash flow for the quarter was negative $109 million, and property and equipment additions were $87 million. Free cash flow, defined as operating cash flow net of property and equipment additions, was negative $195 million. Operating cash flow and free cash flow for the first quarter of fiscal 2013 include a discretionary cash contribution of $500 million the company made to its U.S. defined benefit pension plan, which had a net impact, after tax, of $350 million. For the same period last year, operating cash flow was $475 million; property and equipment additions were $81 million; and free cash flow was $394 million.
Days services outstanding, or DSOs, were 32 days at Nov. 30, 2012, compared with 27 days at Aug. 31, 2012 and 32 days at Nov. 30, 2011.
Accentures total cash balance at Nov. 30, 2012 was $5.7 billion, compared with $6.6 billion at Aug. 31, 2012.
Utilization for the quarter was 88 percent, compared with 87 percent for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 and 87 percent for the first quarter of fiscal 2012. Attrition for the first quarter of fiscal 2013 was 11 percent, compared with 12 percent for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 and 12 percent for the first quarter of fiscal 2012.
New Bookings
New bookings for the first quarter were $7.5 billion and reflect a negative 2 percent foreign-currency impact compared with new bookings in the first quarter last year.
Net Revenues by Operating Group
Net revenues by operating group were as follows:
Net Revenues by Geographic Region
Net revenues by geographic region were as follows:
Returning Cash to Shareholders
Accenture continues to return cash to shareholders through cash dividends and share repurchases.
Dividend
    
On Nov. 15, 2012, a semi-annual cash dividend of $0.81 per share was paid to Accenture plc Class A ordinary shareholders of record at the close of business on Oct. 12, 2012 and to Accenture SCA Class I common shareholders of record at the close of business on Oct. 9, 2012. These cash dividend payments totaled $560 million. This dividend represents an increase of 13.5 cents per share, or 20 percent, over the companys previous semi-annual dividend, declared in March.
Share Repurchase Activity
During the first quarter of fiscal 2013, Accenture repurchased or redeemed 3.3 million shares for a total of $221 million, including approximately 656,000 shares repurchased in the open market.
Accentures total remaining share repurchase authority at Nov. 30, 2012 was approximately $4.05 billion.
At Nov. 30, 2012, Accenture had approximately 693 million total shares outstanding, including 641 million Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares and 52 million Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares.
Business Outlook
Second Quarter Fiscal 2013
Accenture expects net revenues for the second quarter of fiscal 2013 to be in the range of $6.9 billion to $7.15 billion. This range assumes a foreign-exchange impact of negative 1 percent compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2012.
Full Fiscal Year 2013
For fiscal 2013, the company continues to expect net revenue growth to be in the range of 5 percent to 8 percent in local currency.
Accentures business outlook for the full 2013 fiscal year continues to assume a foreign-exchange impact of negative 1 percent compared with fiscal 2012.
The company has raised its outlook for diluted EPS for fiscal 2013 to the range of $4.24 to $4.32 from its previously guided range of $4.22 to $4.30.
Accenture has raised its outlook for operating margin for the full fiscal year to the range of 14.1 percent to 14.2 percent, an expansion of 20 to 30 basis points. The companys previously guided range was 14.0 percent to 14.1 percent.
The company continues to expect operating cash flow to be in the range of $3.2 billion to $3.5 billion; property and equipment additions to be $420 million; and free cash flow to be in the range of $2.8 billion to $3.1 billion.
The company continues to expect to return at least $3.3 billion to its shareholders in fiscal 2013 through dividends and share repurchases.
The company continues to expect its annual effective tax rate to be in the range of 26 percent to 27 percent.
Accenture continues to target new bookings for fiscal 2013 in the range of $31 billion to $34 billion.
Conference Call and Webcast Details
Accenture will host a conference call at 4:30 p.m. EST today to discuss its first-quarter fiscal 2013 financial results. To participate, please dial +1 (800) 230-1059 [+1 (612) 234-9959 outside the United States, Puerto Rico and Canada] approximately 15 minutes before the scheduled start of the call. The conference call will also be accessible live on the Investor Relations section of the Accenture Web site at
www.accenture.com
.
A replay of the conference call will be available online at www.accenture.com beginning at 7:00 p.m. EST today, Wednesday, Dec. 19, and continuing until Thursday, March 28, 2013. A podcast of the conference call will be available online at www.accenture.com beginning approximately 24 hours after the call and continuing until Thursday, March 28, 2013. The replay will also be available via telephone by dialing +1 (800) 475-6701 [+1 (320) 365-3844 outside the United States, Puerto Rico and Canada] and entering access code 271680 from 7:00 p.m. EST Wednesday, Dec. 19 through Thursday, March 28, 2013.
    
About Accenture
 
Accenture is a global management consulting, technology services and outsourcing company, with approximately 259,000 people serving clients in more than 120 countries. Combining unparalleled experience, comprehensive capabilities across all industries and business functions, and extensive research on the worlds most successful companies, Accenture collaborates with clients to help them become high-performance businesses and governments. The company generated net revenues of US$27.9 billion for the fiscal year ended Aug. 31, 2012. Its home page is
www.accenture.com
.
Non-GAAP Financial Information
 
This news release includes certain non-GAAP financial information as defined by Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation G. Pursuant to the requirements of this regulation, reconciliations of this non-GAAP financial information to Accentures financial statements as prepared under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) are included in this press release. Financial results in local currency are calculated by restating current-period activity into U.S. dollars using the comparable prior-year periods foreign-currency exchange rates. Accentures management believes providing investors with this information gives additional insights into Accentures results of operations. While Accentures management believes that the non-GAAP financial measures herein are useful in evaluating Accentures operations, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and not as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Forward-Looking Statements
 
Except for the historical information and discussions contained herein, statements in this news release may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as may, will, should, likely, anticipates, expects, intends, plans, projects, believes, estimates, positioned, outlook and similar expressions are used to identify these forward-looking statements. These statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied. These include, without limitation, risks that: the companys results of operations could be adversely affected by volatile, negative or uncertain economic conditions and the effects of these conditions on the companys clients businesses and levels of business activity; the companys business depends on generating and maintaining ongoing, profitable client demand for the companys services and solutions, and a significant reduction in such demand could materially affect the companys results of operations; if the company is unable to keep its supply of skills and resources in balance with client demand around the world and attract and retain professionals with strong leadership skills, the companys business, the utilization rate of the companys professionals and the companys results of operations may be materially adversely affected; the markets in which the company competes are highly competitive, and the company might not be able to compete effectively; the company could have liability or the companys reputation could be damaged if the company fails to protect client and/or company data or information systems as obligated by law or contract or if the companys information systems are breached; as a result of the companys geographically diverse operations and its growth strategy to continue geographic expansion, the company is more susceptible to certain risks; the companys results of operations could be materially adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; the companys Global Delivery Network is increasingly concentrated in India and the Philippines, which may expose it to operational risks; the companys results of operations could materially suffer if the company is not able to obtain sufficient pricing to enable it to meet its profitability expectations; if the companys pricing estimates do not accurately anticipate the cost, risk and complexity of the company performing its work or third parties upon whom it relies do not meet their commitments, then the companys contracts could have delivery inefficiencies and be unprofitable; the companys work with government clients exposes the company to additional risks inherent in the government contracting environment; the companys business could be materially adversely affected if the company incurs legal liability in connection with providing its services and solutions; the companys results of operations and ability to grow could be materially negatively affected if the company cannot adapt and expand its services and solutions in response to ongoing changes in technology and offerings by new entrants; the companys alliance relationships may not be successful or may change, which could adversely affect the companys results of operations; outsourcing services and the continued expansion of the companys other services and solutions into new areas subject the company to different operational risks than its consulting and systems integration services; the companys services or solutions could infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others or the company might lose its ability to utilize the intellectual property of others; the company has only a limited ability to protect its intellectual property rights, which are important to the companys success; the companys ability to attract and retain business and employees may depend on its reputation in the marketplace; the company might not be successful at identifying, acquiring or integrating businesses or entering into joint ventures; the companys profitability could suffer if its cost-management strategies are unsuccessful, and the company may not be able to improve its profitability through improvements to cost-management to the degree it has done in the past; many of the companys contracts include payments that link some of its fees to the attainment of performance or business targets and/or require the company to meet specific service levels, which could increase the variability of the companys revenues and impact its margins; changes in the companys level of taxes, and audits, investigations and tax proceedings, or changes in the companys treatment as an Irish company, could have a material adverse effect on the companys results of operations and financial condition; if the company is unable to manage the organizational challenges associated with its size, the company might be unable to achieve its business objectives; if the company is unable to collect its receivables or unbilled services, the companys results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected; the companys share price and results of operations could fluctuate and be difficult to predict; the companys results of operations and share price could be adversely affected if it is unable to maintain effective internal controls; the company may be subject to criticism and negative publicity related to its incorporation in Ireland; as well as the risks, uncertainties and other factors discussed under the Risk Factors heading in Accenture plcs most recent annual report on Form 10-K and other documents filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Statements in this news release speak only as of the date they were made, and Accenture undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statements made in this news release or to conform such statements to actual results or changes in Accentures expectations.
###
 
Contact:
 
Roxanne Taylor
Accenture
+1 (917) 452-5106
roxanne.taylor@accenture.com
ACCENTURE PLC
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS
(In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts)
(Unaudited)
_______________
ACCENTURE PLC
SUMMARY OF REVENUES
(In thousands of U.S. dollars)
(Unaudited)
_______________
n/m = not meaningful
OPERATING INCOME BY OPERATING GROUP (OG)
(In thousands of U.S. dollars)
(Unaudited)
ACCENTURE PLC
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(In thousands of U.S. dollars)
 
ACCENTURE PLC
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS STATEMENTS
(In thousands of U.S. dollars)
(Unaudited)


