FILE:ACN/ACN-8K-20120628160356.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, DC 20549
____________________ 
Form 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 ____________________
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): June 28, 2012
Accenture plc
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
 
1 Grand Canal Square,
Grand Canal Harbour,
Dublin 2, Ireland
(Address of principal executive offices)
Registrants telephone number, including area code: (353) (1) 646-2000
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On June 28, 2012, Accenture plc (Accenture) issued a press release announcing financial results for its third quarter of fiscal year 2012, which fiscal quarter ended on May 31, 2012.
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99. All information in the press release is furnished but not filed.
Non-GAAP Financial Information
In the attached press release Accenture discloses the following non-GAAP financial measures:
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP are included in the press release. While Accentures management believes that this non-GAAP financial information is useful in evaluating Accentures operations, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and not as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99
Accenture Reports Solid Third-Quarter Fiscal 2012 Results,
With Record Quarterly Revenues and EPS
 Revenues increase 6% in U.S. dollars and 9% in local currency, to $7.2 billion 
 EPS up 11%, to $1.03 
 Operating income increases 12%, to $1.06 billion, with operating margin of 14.8% 
 New bookings are $7.3 billion, with consulting bookings of $4.05 billion
and outsourcing bookings of $3.24 billion 
 Company continues to expect full-year revenue growth in range of
10% to 12% in local currency 
    
NEW YORK; June 28, 2012  Accenture (NYSE: ACN) reported financial results in line with its guided range for the third quarter of fiscal 2012, ended May 31, 2012. Net revenues were $7.2 billion, an increase of 6 percent in U.S. dollars and 9 percent in local currency over the same period last year. Diluted earnings per share were $1.03, an increase of $0.10 over the same period last year, driven principally by higher revenue and operating results.
Operating income was $1.06 billion, an increase of 12 percent over the same period last year, and operating margin was 14.8 percent, compared with 14.1 percent for the same period last year.
New bookings for the quarter were $7.29 billion, with consulting bookings of $4.05 billion and outsourcing bookings of $3.24 billion.
Pierre Nanterme, Accentures chief executive officer, said, We are pleased with our third-quarter performance.  Our revenue growth in local currency was broad-based across all five operating groups and all three geographic regions, with particularly strong growth in outsourcing revenues. Quarterly new bookings of $7.3 billion took us to $23 billion for the first three quarters of the year, positioning us very well to achieve our annual outlook. Our balance sheet remains very strong, with a cash balance of $5.6 billion.
While we continue to monitor the global economic environment, our highly diversified portfolio of business continues to position us well to drive profitable growth and deliver value to our clients and shareholders.
Financial Review
Revenues before reimbursements (net revenues) for the third quarter of fiscal 2012 were $7.2 billion, compared with $6.7 billion for the third quarter of fiscal 2011, an increase of 6 percent in U.S. dollars and 9 percent in local currency.
 
Diluted EPS for the quarter were $1.03, compared with $0.93 for the third quarter last year, an increase of $0.10, or 11 percent. The $0.10 increase in EPS reflects:
partially offset by:
Gross margin (gross profit as a percentage of net revenues) for the quarter was 33.1 percent, compared with 34.4 percent for the third quarter last year. Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses for the third quarter were $1.31 billion, or 18.3 percent of net revenues, compared with $1.36 billion, or 20.2 percent of net revenues, for the third quarter last year. SG&A costs in the third quarter last year included a $75 million provision, with an impact of 110 basis points, for litigation matters.
Operating income for the quarter was $1.06 billion, or 14.8 percent of net revenues, compared with $949 million, or 14.1 percent of net revenues, for the third quarter of fiscal 2011, an expansion of 70 basis points.
The companys effective tax rate for the quarter was 28.5 percent, compared with 27.0 percent for the third quarter last year. The higher rate in the third quarter this year was primarily due to a net increase in reserves and a change in the geographic mix of income.
Net income for the quarter was $763 million, compared with $699 million for the third quarter last year, an increase of 9 percent.
Operating cash flow for the quarter was $1.22 billion, and property and equipment additions were $90 million. Free cash flow, defined as operating cash flow net of property and equipment additions, was $1.13 billion. For the same period last year, operating cash flow was $1.35 billion; property and equipment additions were $113 million; and free cash flow was $1.24 billion.
Days services outstanding, or DSOs, were 30 days, compared with 30 days at Aug. 31, 2011 and 32 days at May 31, 2011.
Accentures total cash balance at May 31, 2012 was $5.6 billion, compared with $5.7 billion at Aug. 31, 2011.
  
Utilization for the quarter was 87 percent, compared with 87 percent for the second quarter of fiscal 2012 and 85 percent for the third quarter of fiscal 2011. Attrition for the third quarter of fiscal 2012 was 13 percent, compared with 12 percent for the second quarter of fiscal 2012 and 15 percent for the third quarter of fiscal 2011.
New Bookings
New bookings for the third quarter were $7.29 billion and reflect a negative 4 percent foreign-currency impact compared with new bookings in the third quarter last year.
Net Revenues by Operating Group
Net revenues by operating group were as follows:
Net Revenues by Geographic Region
Net revenues by geographic region were as follows:
Returning Cash to Shareholders
Accenture continues to return cash to shareholders through cash dividends and share repurchases.
Dividend
    
On May 15, 2012, a semi-annual cash dividend of 67.5 cents per share was paid on Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares to shareholders of record at the close of business on April 13, 2012, and on Accenture SCA Class I common shares to shareholders of record at the close of business on April 10, 2012.
Combined with the semi-annual cash dividend of 67.5 cents per share paid on Nov. 15, 2011, this brings the total dividend payments for the fiscal year to $1.35 per share, for total cash dividend payments of $951 million.
Share Repurchase Activity
During the third quarter of fiscal 2012, Accenture repurchased or redeemed 10.7 million shares, including 9.8 million shares repurchased in the open market, for a total of $653 million. This brings Accentures total share repurchases and redemptions for the first three quarters of fiscal 2012 to 24.7 million shares, including 19.7 million shares repurchased in the open market, for a total of approximately $1.4 billion.
Accentures total remaining share repurchase authority at May 31, 2012 was approximately $4.8 billion.
At May 31, 2012, Accenture had approximately 697 million total shares outstanding, including 639 million Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares and 58 million Accenture SCA Class I common shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares.
Business Outlook
Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2012
Accenture expects net revenues for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 to be in the range of $6.60 billion to $6.85 billion. This range assumes a foreign-exchange impact of negative 7 percent compared with the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011.
Full Fiscal Year 2012
Accentures business outlook for the full 2012 fiscal year now assumes a foreign-exchange impact of negative 2 percent compared with fiscal 2011; its previous outlook for full-year foreign-exchange impact was negative 1 percent.
For fiscal 2012, the company continues to expect revenue growth to be in the range of 10 percent to 12 percent in local currency.
The company has updated and narrowed its range for diluted EPS for fiscal 2012 to $3.80 to $3.84 from its previously guided range of $3.82 to $3.90. The update is primarily due to the companys revised foreign-exchange assumption, which reduced the range by approximately $0.04.
Accenture continues to expect operating margin for the full fiscal year to be in the range of 13.7 percent to 13.9 percent, an expansion of 10 to 30 basis points.
The company now expects operating cash flow to be $3.55 billion to $3.85 billion and property and equipment additions to be $350 million and continues to expect free cash flow to be in the range of $3.2 billion to $3.5 billion. The company continues to expect its annual effective tax rate to be in the range of 27 percent to 28 percent.
Accenture expects new bookings for the full fiscal year to be toward the upper end of its previously guided range of $28 billion to $31 billion.
Conference Call and Webcast Details
Accenture will host a conference call at 4:30 p.m. EDT today to discuss its third-quarter fiscal 2012 financial results. To participate, please dial +1 (888) 276-0010 [+1 (612) 332-0720 outside the United States, Puerto Rico and Canada] approximately 15 minutes before the scheduled start of the call. The conference call will also be accessible live on the Investor Relations section of the Accenture Web site at
www.accenture.com
.
A replay of the conference call will be available online at www.accenture.com beginning at 7:00 p.m. EDT today, Thursday, June 28, and continuing until Wednesday, Sept. 26, 2012. A podcast of the conference call will be available online at www.accenture.com beginning approximately 24 hours after the call and continuing until Wednesday, Sept. 26. The replay will also be available via telephone by dialing +1 (800) 475-6701 [+1 (320) 365-3844 outside the United States, Puerto Rico and Canada] and entering access code 248732 from 7:00 p.m. EDT today, Thursday, June 28, through Wednesday, Sept. 26.
    
About Accenture
 
Accenture is a global management consulting, technology services and outsourcing company, with more than 249,000 people serving clients in more than 120 countries. Combining unparalleled experience, comprehensive capabilities across all industries and business functions, and extensive research on the worlds most successful companies, Accenture collaborates with clients to help them become high-performance businesses and governments.  The company generated net revenues of US$25.5 billion for the fiscal year ended Aug. 31, 2011. Its home page is
www.accenture.com
.
Non-GAAP Financial Information
 
This news release includes certain non-GAAP financial information as defined by Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation G. Pursuant to the requirements of this regulation, reconciliations of this non-GAAP
financial information to Accentures financial statements as prepared under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) are included in this press release. Financial results in local currency are calculated by restating current-period activity into U.S. dollars using the comparable prior-year periods foreign-currency exchange rates. Accentures management believes providing investors with this information gives additional insights into Accentures results of operations.  While Accentures management believes that the non-GAAP financial measures herein are useful in evaluating Accentures operations, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and not as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Forward-Looking Statements
 
Except for the historical information and discussions contained herein, statements in this news release may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied. These include, without limitation, risks that: the companys results of operations could be adversely affected by volatile, negative or uncertain economic conditions and the effects of these conditions on the companys clients businesses and levels of business activity; the companys business depends on generating and maintaining ongoing, profitable client demand for the companys services and solutions, and a significant reduction in such demand could materially affect the companys results of operations; if the company is unable to keep its supply of skills and resources in balance with client demand around the world and attract and retain professionals with strong leadership skills, the companys business, the utilization rate of the companys professionals and the companys results of operations may be materially adversely affected; the consulting and outsourcing markets are highly competitive, and the company might not be able to compete effectively; the companys results of operations (including its net revenues and operating income) and the value of balance-sheet items originally denominated in other currencies could be materially adversely affected by unfavorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates or changes to existing currencies; the company could have liability or the companys reputation could be damaged if the company fails to protect client and company data or information systems as obligated by law or contract or if the companys information systems are breached; the companys Global Delivery Network is increasingly concentrated in India and the Philippines, which may expose it to operational risks; as a result of the companys geographically diverse operations and its growth strategy to continue geographic expansion, the company is more susceptible to certain risks; the companys results of operations could materially suffer if the company is not able to obtain sufficient pricing to enable it to meet its profitability expectations; if the companys pricing estimates do not accurately anticipate the cost, risk and complexity of the company performing its work or third parties upon which it relies do not meet their commitments, then the companys contracts could have delivery inefficiencies and be unprofitable; the companys work with government clients exposes the company to additional risks inherent in the government contracting environment, including risks related to governmental budget and debt constraints; the companys business could be materially adversely affected if it incurs legal liability in connection with providing its services and solutions; the companys results of operations and ability to grow could be materially negatively affected if the company cannot adapt and expand its services and solutions in response to ongoing changes in technology and offerings by new entrants; outsourcing services subject the company to different operational risks than its consulting and systems integration services; the companys services or solutions could infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others or the company might lose its ability to utilize the intellectual property of others; the company has only a limited ability to protect its intellectual property rights, which are important to the companys success; the companys ability to attract and retain business and employees may depend on its reputation in the marketplace; the companys alliance relationships may not be successful or may change, which could adversely affect the companys results of operations; the company may not be successful at identifying, acquiring or integrating other businesses; the companys profitability could suffer if its cost-management strategies are unsuccessful, and the company may not be able to improve its profitability through improvements to cost-management to the degree it has done in the past; many of the companys contracts include performance payments that link some of its fees to the attainment of performance or business targets and/or require the company to meet specific service levels, which could increase the variability of the companys revenues and impact its margins; changes in the companys level of taxes, and audits, investigations and tax proceedings, or changes in the companys treatment as an Irish company, could have a material adverse effect on the companys results of operations and financial condition; if the company is unable to manage the organizational challenges associated with its size, the company might be unable to achieve its business objectives; if the company is unable to collect its receivables or unbilled services, the companys results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected; the companys share price and results of
operations could fluctuate and be difficult to predict; the companys results of operations and share price could be adversely affected if it is unable to maintain effective internal controls; the company may be subject to criticism and negative publicity related to its incorporation in Ireland; as well as the risks, uncertainties and other factors discussed under the Risk Factors heading in Accenture plcs most recent annual report on Form 10-K and other documents filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Statements in this news release speak only as of the date they were made, and Accenture undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statements made in this news release or to conform such statements to actual results or changes in Accentures expectations.
###
 
Contact:
 
Roxanne Taylor
Accenture
+1 (917) 452-5106
roxanne.taylor@accenture.com
ACCENTURE PLC
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS
(In thousands of U.S. dollars, except share and per share amounts)
(Unaudited)
 
_______________
ACCENTURE PLC
SUMMARY OF REVENUES
(In thousands of U.S. dollars)
(Unaudited)
_______________
n/m = not meaningful
 
ACCENTURE PLC
OPERATING INCOME BY OPERATING GROUP (OG)
(In thousands of U.S. dollars)
(Unaudited)
_______________ 
ACCENTURE PLC
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(In thousands of U.S. dollars)
 
ACCENTURE PLC
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS STATEMENTS
(In thousands of U.S. dollars)
(Unaudited)


