FILE:TE/TE-8K-20020520114306.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): May 16, 2002 TECO ENERGY, INC. ------------------------------------------------------ (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) FLORIDA 1-8180 59-2052286 - ---------------------------- ---------------- ------------------ (State or other jurisdiction (Commission file (IRS Employer of incorporation) Number) Identification No.) 702 North Franklin Street, Tampa Florida 33602 -------------------------------------------------------- (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (813) 228-4111 1
Item 5. Other Events ------------ See the Press Release dated May 16, 2002, filed as Exhibit 99.1, and incorporated herein by reference, announcing that TECO Energy's TECO Power Services subsidiary has acquired Mosbacher Power Partners' interest in TM Power Ventures, a joint venture of the two companies. Additionally, see the Press Release dated May 17, 2002, filed as Exhibit 99.2, and incorporated herein by reference, announcing that SNC-Lavalin Constructors Inc., a subsidiary of SNC-Lavalin Group, Inc., is replacing NEPCO, an Enron subsidiary, as the construction contractor for four power stations in which TECO Power Services has interests. Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits --------------------------------- (c) Exhibits 99.1 Press Release dated May 16, 2002, announcing that TECO Energy's TECO Power Services subsidiary has acquired Mosbacher Power Partners' interest in TM Power Ventures, a joint venture of the two companies. 99.2 Press Release dated May 17, 2002, announcing that SNC-Lavalin Constructors Inc., a subsidiary of SNC-Lavalin Group, Inc., is replacing NEPCO, an Enron subsidiary, as the construction contractor for four power stations in which TECO Power Services has interests. 2
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. Dated: May 17, 2002 TECO Energy, Inc. By:/s/ G. L. GILLETTE ------------------------------ G. L. GILLETTE Senior Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer) 3
INDEX TO EXHIBITS Exhibit No. Description of Exhibits 99.1 Press release dated May 16, 2002, announcing that TECO Energy's TECO Power Services subsidiary has acquired Mosbacher Power Partners' interest in TM Power Ventures, a joint venture of the two companies. 99.2 Press Release dated May 17, 2002, announcing that SNC-Lavalin Constructors Inc., a subsidiary of SNC-Lavalin Group, Inc., is replacing NEPCO, an Enron subsidiary, as the construction contractor for four power stations in which TECO Power Services has interests. 4

Exhibit 99.1 [TECO Energy Logo] FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE TECO POWER SERVICES ACQUIRES REMAINING INTEREST IN TM POWER VENTURES May 16, 2002 - Tampa, FL -TECO Energy's TECO Power Services subsidiary (TPS) today announced that it has acquired Mosbacher Power Partners' interest in TM Power Ventures (TMPV), a joint venture of the two companies, for a purchase price of $29.3 million. At closing, Mosbacher Power Partners repaid two notes in the aggregate principal amount of $19.3 million to TPS, along with accrued interest and all other TMPV-related amounts due. This acquisition winds up the TPS/Mosbacher three-year joint venture and accommodates both parties' current strategic directions. Since the formation of the joint venture in 1998, TPS has refocused its strategy on the U.S. domestic market. The primary facility developed and owned by the joint venture is the 312-megawatt Commonwealth Chesapeake Power Station, located on the Delmarva Peninsula in Virginia. The facility is strategically located within the Pennsylvania-Jersey-Maryland Interconnection power pool (PJM), allowing for sale of its capacity into the PJM wholesale market. Through its acquisition of TMPV, TPS has indirectly increased its ownership position in the Commonwealth Chesapeake facility to 100 percent. TMPV also owns a minority interest in a project in the Czech Republic. TPS President Rick Ludwig says, "This acquisition gives us full ownership in an important generating facility. Commonwealth Chesapeake is a highly efficient peaking facility located in the largest centrally dispatched electrical control area in North America." -more-
Exhibit 99.1 TPS - 2 TECO Power Services is a subsidiary of TECO Energy, Inc. (NYSE: TE), a Tampa-based energy holding company included in the S&P 500 Index, with more than $2.6 billion in revenues and $6.7 billion in assets. TECO Power Services builds, owns and operates independent power plants, with an emphasis on high growth areas of North America. Other TECO Energy subsidiaries include Tampa Electric, Peoples Gas, TECO Transport, TECO Coal, TECO Coalbed Methane and TECO Solutions. TECO Energy as a whole has nearly 11,000 megawatts of electric generation, either operating or in construction. -30- Contact: Media Investors Laura Plumb Mark Kane 813.228.1572 813.228.1772

Exhibit 99.2 [TECO Energy Logo] FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE SNC-LAVALIN TO REPLACE ENRON SUBSIDIARY NEPCO ON PROJECTS FOR TECO/PANDA JOINT VENTURE, TECO POWER SERVICES Contracts total nearly 5,600 megawatts of generation in Arizona, Arkansas and Mississippi. May 17, 2002 - Tampa, FL -TECO Power Services today announced that its TECO-Panda Generating Company joint venture has signed contracts with SNC-Lavalin Constructors Inc., a subsidiary of SNC-Lavalin Group, Inc., to replace NEPCO (an Enron subsidiary) and to complete the engineering and construction of the 2,205-megawatt Union Power Station and the 2,145-megawatt Gila River Power Station. Union is located in El Dorado, Arkansas, and Gila River is located in Gila Bend, Arizona. In addition, TECO Power Services announced that it has signed contracts with SNC-Lavalin to replace NEPCO and complete two additional facilities, the 599-megawatt Dell Power Station in Dell, Arkansas, and the 599-megawatt McAdams Power Station in Kosciusko, Mississippi. These two projects are wholly owned by subsidiaries of TECO Power Services. Coincident with the execution of the four contracts, SNC-Lavalin Constructors Inc. will hire substantially all of NEPCO's management and staff. As a result, management and staff overseeing the projects will remain the same, ensuring continuity, job knowledge and maintenance of the construction quality and schedule. The projects will be completed on a cost-plus-fee basis, with the fee portion at-risk until the completion of the projects. The new contracts and the NEPCO termination will become effective at midnight on May 17, 2002. TECO Power Services President Rick Ludwig said, "This is good news for the projects and for TECO Energy. SNC-Lavalin Constructors Inc. is backed by SNC-Lavalin Group's excellent reputation and years of experience in industrial construction. With this financially stable company, we are confident our projects will continue on schedule, using the same highly qualified personnel to oversee the process. In addition, this eliminates the risk that the projects would be drawn into the Enron bankruptcy, which could have impacted our large project financing." -more-
TECO Power Services - 2 SNC-Lavalin's Executive Vice President-Power Klaus Triendl said, "The NEPCO team's know-how and experience, combined with SNC-Lavalin's existing thermal power expertise, will benefit all four of these major independent power construction projects." GILA RIVER AND UNION TECO-Panda Generating Company has already obtained approval from the lending bank group financing the construction of the Gila River and Union power stations for the new contracts with SNC-Lavalin Constructors Inc. No interruption of funding will occur. TECO Energy remains responsible for potential construction cost overruns for the two projects. This amount (including additional oversight and other requirements of the lending bank group and credits for improvements in other project costs), previously estimated to be approximately $63-million for the two joint venture projects is now estimated to be approximately $90 million with the SNC-Lavalin arrangement. DELL AND MCADAMS Work on project financing of TECO Power Services' Dell and McAdams facilities is underway and expected to be completed later this year. The potential EPC-related construction cost overruns, including estimates for additional oversight and other requirements necessary to complete the financing, previously estimated to be approximately $17 million, are now estimated to be approximately $27 million with the SNC-Lavalin arrangement. OVERALL IMPACT As previously reported by TECO Energy, construction cost overruns associated with the four projects were the result of Enron's centralized cash management procedures, which "swept" funds before they were applied to pay project costs. The exposure for cost overruns under the NEPCO contracts was significantly mitigated by each project drawing on NEPCO letters of credit, as well as NEPCO's agreement to forego profit and eliminate certain contingency amounts. Overall, the four projects' estimated $117 million in potential net cost overruns outlined above will be amortized over 30 years and represent a small increase relative to the $3.4-billion estimated total cost for these projects. In addition, the project budgets contain contingency amounts still available that could absorb most of these overruns if the amounts are not needed for other purposes. -more-
TECO POWER SERVICES - 3 ABOUT THE COMPANIES TECO Power Services is a subsidiary of TECO Energy, Inc. (NYSE: TE), a Tampa-based energy holding company included in the S&P 500 Index, with more than $2.6 billion in revenues. TECO Power Services builds, owns and operates independent power plants, with an emphasis on high growth areas of North America. Other TECO Energy subsidiaries include Tampa Electric, Peoples Gas, TECO Transport, TECO Coal, TECO Coalbed Methane and TECO Solutions. TECO Energy as a whole has nearly 11,000 megawatts of electric generation, either operating or in construction. SNC-Lavalin (TSX:SNC) is one of the leading groups of engineering and construction firms in the world and a global leader in the ownership and management of infrastructure. The SNC-Lavalin group of companies has over 14,000 employees in offices across Canada and in 30 other countries around the world. SNC-Lavalin is currently working in some 100 countries. Note: This press release contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to the inherent uncertainties in predicting future results and conditions. Certain factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in these forward-looking statements include SNC-Lavalin Constructors Inc.'s ability to complete construction of the Union, Gila River, Dell and McAdams power stations on schedule and according to plan and TECO Power Services' ability to complete financing for the Dell and McAdams facilities. Additional factors are discussed under "Investment Considerations" in TECO Energy's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001, and reference is made hereto. -30- Contact: Media Investors Laura Plumb Mark Kane 813.228.1572 813.228.1772


