FILE:TE/TE-8K-20020531115822.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): May 30, 2002 TECO ENERGY, INC. ----------------- (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) FLORIDA 1-8180 59-2052286 ------- ------ ---------- (State or other jurisdiction (Commission file (IRS Employer of incorporation) Number) Identification No.) 702 North Franklin Street, Tampa Florida 33602 - ----------------------------------------------------------------------- (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (813) 228-4111 1
Item 5. Other Events ------------ See the Press Releases dated May 30, 2002, filed as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, and incorporated herein by reference, announcing that TECO Energy, Inc., plans to offer 13.5 million shares of its common stock through underwriters jointly led by Credit Suisse First Boston and UBS Warburg, and affirming earnings guidance to the financial community in conjunction with this announced common stock offering, respectively. Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits --------------------------------- (c) Exhibits 99.1 Press Release dated May 30, 2002, announcing that TECO Energy, Inc., plans to offer 13.5 million shares of its common stock through underwriters jointly led by Credit Suisse First Boston and UBS Warburg. 99.2 Press Release dated May 30, 2002, affirming TECO Energy, Inc.'s earnings guidance to the financial community in conjunction with its announced offering of 13.5 million shares of common stock. 2
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. Dated: May 31, 2002 TECO Energy, Inc. By:/s/ S. A. MYERS ------------------------- S. A. MYERS Vice President-Corporate Accounting and Tax (Principal Accounting Officer) 3
INDEX TO EXHIBITS Exhibit No. Description of Exhibits 99.1 Press release dated May 30, 2002, announcing that TECO Energy, Inc., plans to offer 13.5 million shares of its common stock through underwriters jointly led by Credit Suisse First Boston and UBS Warburg. 99.2 Press release dated May 30, 2002, affirming TECO Energy, Inc.'s earnings guidance to the financial community in conjunction with its announced offering of 13.5 million shares of common stock. 4

Exhibit 99.1 [TECO Energy, Inc. Logo] FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Media: Investors: Ross Bannister Mark Kane 813.228.4945 813.228.1772 rdbannister@tecoenrgy.com mmkane@tecoenergy.com TECO ENERGY ANNOUNCES COMMON STOCK OFFERING - ------------------------------------------- Tampa, Fla., May 30, 2002- TECO Energy, Inc. (NYSE: TE) announced today that it plans to offer 13.5 million shares of its common stock through underwriters jointly led by Credit Suisse First Boston and UBS Warburg. This offering is expected to be marketed to retail and institutional investors. The sale of the common stock is expected to commence during the week of June 3. TECO Energy will also grant the underwriters an option to purchase up to 2,025,000 additional shares of common stock to cover any over-allotments. The proceeds from the sale of these shares are expected to be used to reduce short-term debt and for general corporate purposes. This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy the securities described herein, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such an offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities law of any state or jurisdiction. The offering is being made only by means of a prospectus. A copy of the preliminary prospectus may be obtained from the offices of Credit Suisse First Boston, 11 Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10080 or UBS Warburg, 299 Park Avenue, New York, NY 10171. An electronic copy of the prospectus will be available from the Securities and Exchange Commission's Web site at www.sec.gov. ----------- TECO Energy (www.tecoenergy.com) is a diversified, energy-related holding company headquartered in Tampa. Its principal businesses are Tampa Electric, Peoples Gas, TECO Power Services, TECO Transport, TECO Coal, TECO Coalbed Methane, and TECO Solutions.

Exhibit 99.2 [TECO Energy, Inc. Logo] FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Media: Investors: Ross Bannister Mark Kane 813.228.4945 813.228.1772 rdbannister@tecoenergy.com mmkane@tecoenergy.com TECO ENERGY AFFIRMS 2002 EARNINGS GUIDANCE - ------------------------------------------ Tampa, Fla., May 30, 2002- TECO Energy, Inc. (NYSE: TE) today affirmed its earnings guidance to the financial community in conjunction with its announced offering of 13.5 million shares of common stock. TECO Energy stated that it is continuing to target 5 percent earnings per share growth for 2002 from 2001 earnings per share of $2.26 (basic), even after considering the dilutive effect of accelerating the company's equity offering into 2002. Compared to the guidance issued earlier in 2002, higher net income is expected to be driven by improved results at Tampa Electric from increased energy sales and higher Allowance for Funds Used During Constructions (AFUDC) (which represents interest and allowed equity cost capitalized to the construction costs); increased synthetic fuel production at TECO Coal; and a higher level of sales of ancillary and other services at the Frontera Station in Texas. Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Gordon Gillette said, "Even with the improved results that we expect from several of our key operating companies, we still have challenges in 2002, which include our dependence on summer weather patterns and a strengthening in the U.S. economy to improve energy prices in the markets that we serve. This offering will strengthen our - more -
Exhibit 99.2 balance sheet and complete the company's equity raising efforts which were originally planned to extend through 2004." TECO Energy is a diversified energy related holding company headquartered in Tampa. Its principal businesses are Tampa Electric, Peoples Gas System, TECO Power Services, TECO Transport, TECO Coal, TECO Coalbed Methane and TECO Solutions. Additional information related to the company is available on TECO Energy's Web site at www.tecoenergy.com. ------------------ Note: This press release contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to the inherent uncertainties in predicting future results and conditions. Certain factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in these forward-looking statements include the following: general economic conditions, particularly those in Tampa Electric's service area affecting energy sales; weather variations affecting energy sales and operating costs; potential competitive changes in the electric and gas industries, particularly in the area of retail competition; regulatory actions affecting Tampa Electric, Peoples Gas System or TECO Power Services; commodity price changes affecting the competitive positions of Tampa Electric and Peoples Gas System, as well as the margins at TECO Coalbed Methane and TECO Coal; changes in and compliance with environmental regulations that may impose additional costs or curtail some activities; TPS' ability to successfully develop, construct, finance and operate its projects on schedule and within budget; TPS' ability to obtain financing for its Dell and McAdams projects; energy price changes and amounts realized from sales of ancillary and other services at TPS' merchant plants including TPS' ability to capitalize upon the sale of ancillary services in Texas; TPS' ability to sell the output of the merchant plants operating or under construction at volumes and rates to recover its investment; the ability of TECO Energy's subsidiaries to operate equipment without undue accidents, breakdowns or failures; interest rates and other factors that could impact TECO Energy's ability to obtain access to sufficient capital on satisfactory terms; and TECO Coal's ability to successfully operate its synthetic fuel production facilities in a manner qualifying for Section 29 federal income tax credits, which could be impacted by changes in law, regulation or administration. Some of these factors are discussed more fully under "Investment Considerations" in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001 and under "Risk Factors" in the prospectus supplement for the offering referred to above. This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy the securities referred to above. The offering is being made only by means of a prospectus. A copy of the preliminary prospectus may be obtained from the offices of Credit Suisse First Boston, 11 Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10080 or UBS Warburg, 299 Park Avenue, New York, NY 10171. An electronic copy of the prospectus will be available from the Securities and Exchange Commission's Web site at www.sec.gov. -----------


