FILE:TE/TE-8K-20020925171724.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): SEPTEMBER 23, 2002 TECO ENERGY, INC. (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) FLORIDA 1-8180 59-2052286 (State or other jurisdiction (Commission File (IRS Employer of incorporation) Number) Identification No.) 702 NORTH FRANKLIN STREET, TAMPA FLORIDA 33602 (Address of principal executive offices and zip code) (813) 228-4111 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
On September 23, 2002, we issued a press release providing our outlook for 2002 and 2003. This Current Report on Form 8-K sets forth the matters discussed in the press release. This report contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to the inherent uncertainties in predicting future results and conditions as set forth below ITEM 5. OTHER EVENTS. OVERVIEW Our top management expects 2002 earnings-per-share to increase over 2001, and 2002 net income to grow by more than 10 percent. Our business outlook for 2003 focuses on continued growth in our Florida operations, optimizing our independent power investments and minimizing potential earnings volatility and external financing needs while maximizing cash flow to support our capital obligations. Key elements in the 2003 plan being presented to our Board of Directors are: - deferral of our Dell and McAdams independent power plants, and other actions, which we project will reduce our capital expenditures by $250 million; - monetization of certain Section 29 tax credits related to the production of synthetic fuel at TECO Coal and the coal gasification unit at Tampa Electric's Polk Power Station; - sale of our TECO Coalbed Methane gas assets in Alabama; and - $250 million of cash from repatriation of cash and non-recourse refinancings on generating facilities in Guatemala and other financial transactions or asset sales. The combination of the methane gas asset sale and monetization transactions described above under the second and third bullet points is expected to generate more than $400 million, which would more than offset the proceeds previously expected from a non-recourse financing for the Dell, McAdams and Frontera facilities. OUTLOOK FOR SECOND HALF OF 2002 Net Income Net income for the second half of 2002 is expected to be 10 to 15 percent higher than 2001. Overall for 2002, net income growth is expected to push earnings-per-share growth to within a few cents of our original 5 percent growth target, driven primarily by customer growth and normal weather at Tampa Electric and Peoples Gas and increased allowance for funds used during construction (AFUDC) associated with the Gannon to Bayside repowering at Tampa Electric. TECO Transport expects improved results in the second half from an improvement in the U.S. economy and some higher northbound river shipments and better prices in the U.S. government grain program. Overall, 2002 results are expected to be below 2001. TECO Coal expects to benefit from increased synfuel production and higher steam coal prices than in 2001; the results will reflect lower prices for metallurgical coal in the second half. TECO Power Services expects higher results from the sale of ancillary services and power sales to Mexico at the Frontera Power Station in Texas, continued good performance from its other operating plants and increased earnings from construction-related and loan agreements with Panda Energy. 2
Cash Flow Cash flow in the second half of 2002 will benefit from the $550 million notes offering completed at Tampa Electric, proceeds expected from the sale of TECO Coalbed Methane and the higher level of cash from operations that normally occurs in the third quarter. Capital expenditures in the second half are expected to be $860 million, or $400 million higher than was previously forecast, due to elimination of the previously expected non-recourse financing at TECO Power Services. These capital expenditures include the first $125 million payment on the equity bridge loan for the Union and Gila River power stations and the remaining $265 million required to complete TECO Energy's equity commitment for these power stations. OUR 2003 PLAN Net Income Based on projected net income of $270 to $305 million, earnings-per-share are expected to be between $1.75 to $2.00 per share. The low end of the range is based on the company-by-company assumptions outlined below with power margins based on the current forward curves, while the high end of the range assumes moderate improvement in wholesale power prices due to economic dispatch, which means the most efficient units, regardless of ownership, are dispatched first. Cash Flow Projections for 2003 include capital expenditures of $700 million, which includes $250 million at the Florida operations; $400 million for TECO Power Services, including $375 million to repay the equity bridge loan and $40 million for all other operating companies combined; and dividend payments of $227 million. Cash from operations at the lower end of the earnings-per-share guidance range is expected to be about $575 million, including the effects of higher synfuel production and monetization at TECO Coal. Total cash flow from operations, including cash from the monetization transactions described above and $250 million from other activities, which include the repatriation of cash and non-recourse refinancings on generating facilities in Guatemala, is projected to be more than $1.1 billion. No external debt financing needs are projected for 2003. We believe that the 2003 plan has virtually eliminated any exposure to negative cash variability due to merchant power risk. Next year, most of total cash flow is expected to come from our utility operations and non-TECO Power Service operations. This is based on the fact that TECO Power Services' operating projects (Hardee, Hamakua, Alborada and San Jose) all have long-term contracts and Frontera expects to have a significant portion contracted. In addition, our long-standing bank agreements are expected to trap the cumulative positive cash we expect to generate at the Gila River and Union power stations in 2003. 3
COMPANY OUTLOOK: UTILITIES, TRANSPORTATION AND MINING Tampa Electric In 2003, Tampa Electric expects that retail energy sales will continue to grow at about 2.5 percent and that allowance for funds used during construction (AFUDC) will continue at about the same level. Bayside Units 1 and 2 are expected to enter service in May 2003 and in 2004, respectively. The addition to rate base when this plant enters service is expected to give the company the opportunity to increase earnings without exceeding its allowed return on equity. Significant operations and maintenance cost reductions are expected from the reduction in the number of coal-fired units at Gannon Station, the completion of Bayside Unit 1 and other initiatives. We expect that monetizing the gasifier would reduce Tampa Electric's net income $10 million but would be neutral to TECO Energy's earnings. We anticipate that the gasifier transaction would make Tampa Electric self-funding in 2003, meaning it would eliminate the need for an equity infusion from TECO Energy. Peoples Gas In 2003, Peoples Gas expects to continue to add customers at a 4 to 5 percent rate. In June 2002, Peoples Gas filed for a $22.6 million permanent base rate increase, which if approved would be effective in March 2003. TECO Transport Our expectations for TECO Transport assume a modest economic recovery. Operating results are expected to be driven by increased volumes through TECO Bulk Terminal in Louisiana and northbound volume on TECO Barge Line, and continued strength in the government grain programs and new cargo opportunities at TECO Ocean Shipping. TECO Coal In 2003, TECO Coal results are expected to be driven by increased synthetic fuel production to over 5 million tons next year, and anticipated monetization of a material amount of that production. TECO Coal also expects to produce about 4 million tons of conventional steam and metallurgical coal in 2003. Based on current market estimates, the 2003 plan assumes coal prices that are lower than those achieved in 2002. COMPANY OUTLOOK: INDEPENDENT POWER In 2003, TECO Power Services results will be driven by the phased commercial operation of the Union and Gila River facilities. The company expects to continue putting contracts in place for portions of the output of its Arizona, Texas and the Entergy region projects, which would reduce potential volatility in earnings and cash flow for these projects in 2003, with the goal of having at least 40 percent of its combined merchant output (Union, Gila River and Frontera power stations) hedged by the end of 2002. 4
Transmission The Gila River Power Station plans to compete to serve the load, which will include transmission capacity, that will be put up for bid in March 2003 under Arizona's competitive bidding process. In addition, TECO Power Services has or has applied for firm transmission service for more than 1,800 megawatts of capacity, which will ensure power can move to customers. Union Power Station expects to secure short-term transmission capacity, as is customary, for sales within the Entergy region, and it is currently pursuing firm transmission options for sales outside of the region. Operating Projects - TECO Power Services' Hardee Power Station in Florida, Hamakua Power Station in Hawaii and the Alborada and San Jose facilities in Guatemala are selling power under long-term contracts. Commonwealth Chesapeake Power Station, a peaking facility in Virginia, has sold capacity on a forward basis and is expected to receive capacity credit payments in addition to energy payments, as it has in the past; these payments are a function of the Pennsylvania-New Jersey-Maryland market. The contracted portion of the TECO Power Services portfolio is expected to deliver the performance that it has for the past several years. Discussions are underway for a 2003 contract on the Frontera Power Station in Texas. Other Holdings - TECO Power Services' position in the Odessa and Guadalupe power stations in Texas is currently in the form of a loan to Panda Energy International through the end of 2002, at which time Panda Energy will either repay the loans or the loans will convert to an equity ownership in these facilities. TECO Power Services is evaluating various options regarding its position in these projects going forward. Assumptions For 2003 -- The 2003 plan includes an after-tax loss of about $30 million at TECO Power Services. Assumptions include a relatively low capacity factor, supported by the forward curve, and a premium for physical dispatchability and ancillary services for the uncontracted portion of the Frontera Power Station and the Union and Gila River facilities. The plan also assumes the current 5 or 6 by 16 forward curve, which indicates spark spreads (i.e., the differential between the price received for electricity sales versus the cost of the fuel) of approximately $9 per megawatt hour in Arizona; less than $4 per megawatt hour in Texas; and less than $1 per megawatt hour in Entergy. Based on our current estimates of the dispatch profile for each facility, the effective spark spread embedded in the earnings guidance is less than $14 per megawatt hour at the Gila River Power Station, less than $4 per megawatt hour at the Frontera Power Station and more than $4 per megawatt at the Union Power Station. With the higher power prices that would result from economic dispatch, results from TECO Power Services results would be a less than a $10 million after-tax loss. CREDIT RATING AGENCY ACTIONS On September 23, 2002, Fitch Ratings, and on September 24, Moody's Investor Services, Inc. and Standard & Poor's Ratings Service, lowered the ratings on our senior unsecured debt to BBB from A-, to Baa2 from A3 and to BBB- from BBB+, respectively. They also lowered the ratings of Tampa Electric's senior unsecured debt to A- from A+, to A2 from A1 and to BBB from A-, respectively. Fitch and Standard & Poor's also lowered the ratings on TECO Finance's medium-term notes, which are guaranteed by TECO Energy, Inc., to BBB from A- and to BBB- from BBB+, respectively. Additionally, 5
Fitch's and Moody's have revised their rating outlooks to stable from negative, while Standard & Poor's outlook remained negative. The agencies indicated that these downgrades reflect their expectation of negative impacts on our earnings and cash flow measures due to continued weakness in wholesale power markets. The new ratings meet the minimum requirements imposed by our lending arrangements. See the discussion in our Investment Considerations contained in Exhibit 99.1 to this Report regarding the consequences of further downgrades. NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS: This report on Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to the inherent uncertainties in predicting future results and conditions. These forward-looking statements include references to our anticipated results of operations, growth rates, capital investments, financing requirements, project completion dates, future transactions and other plans. Certain factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in these forward-looking statements include the following: energy price changes affecting TECO Power Services' merchant plants; TECO Power Services' ability to sell the output of the merchant plants operating or under construction at a premium to the forward curve prices and to obtain power contracts to reduce earnings volatility; TECO Power Services' ability to successfully resolve its dispute and enter into a service contract with ERCOT; any unanticipated need for additional equity capital that might results from lower than expected cash flow or higher than projected capital requirements; TECO Energy's ability to successfully complete the monetization of its synthetic fuel and gasification facilities, the sale of gas properties and other financial transactions in its new business plan; and TECO Energy's ability to maintain credit ratings sufficient to avoid posting letters of credit relating to its construction loans and to avoid providing additional assurances to counterparties. Other factors include: general economic conditions, particularly those in Tampa Electric's service area affecting energy sales; weather variations affecting energy sales and operating costs; potential competitive changes in the electric and gas industries, particularly in the area of retail competition; regulatory actions affecting Tampa Electric, Peoples Gas System or TECO Power Services; commodity price changes affecting the competitive positions of Tampa Electric and Peoples Gas System, as well as the margins at TECO Coalbed Methane and TECO Coal; changes in and compliance with environmental regulations that may impose additional costs or curtail some activities; TECO Power Services' ability to successfully construct, finance and operate its projects on schedule and within budget; the ability of TECO Energy's subsidiaries to operate equipment without undue accidents, breakdowns or failures; interest rates, credit ratings and other factors that could impact TECO Energy's ability to obtain access to sufficient capital on satisfactory terms; and TECO Coal's ability to successfully operate its synthetic fuel production facilities in a manner qualifying for Section 29 federal income tax credits, which could be impacted by changes in law, regulation or administration. Some of these factors and others are discussed more fully in "Investment Considerations" set forth in Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report which are incorporated herein by reference. ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS (c) Exhibits. 99.1 Investment Considerations. 6
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. Date: September 25, 2002 TECO ENERGY, INC. By: /s/ S.A. Myers --------------------------- S.A. Myers Vice President - Corporate Accounting and Tax
EXHIBIT INDEX EXHIBIT NO. DESCRIPTION - ----------- ----------- 99.1 Investment Considerations.

Exhibit 99.1 INVESTMENT CONSIDERATIONS The following are certain factors that could affect TECO Energy's future results. They should be considered in connection with evaluating forward-looking statements contained in this report and otherwise made by or on behalf of TECO Energy since these factors could cause actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in these forward-looking statements. GENERAL ECONOMIC CONDITIONS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESSES. Our businesses are affected by general economic conditions. In particular, the projected growth in Tampa Electric's service area and in Florida is important to the realization of Tampa Electric's and Peoples Gas System's forecasts for annual energy sales growth. An unanticipated downturn in the local area's or Florida's economy could adversely affect Tampa Electric's or Peoples Gas System's expected performance. Our unregulated businesses, particularly TECO Transport, TECO Coal and TECO Power Services, are also affected by general economic conditions in the industries and geographic areas they serve, both nationally and internationally. TECO Power Services' investment in Empresa Electrica de Guatemala, S.A. depends on growth in the relevant service areas and in annual energy sales. OUR BUSINESSES ARE SENSITIVE TO VARIATIONS IN WEATHER. Most of our businesses are affected by variations in general weather conditions and unusually severe weather. Tampa Electric's, Peoples Gas System's and TECO Power Services' energy sales are particularly sensitive to variations in weather conditions. Those companies forecast energy sales on the basis of normal weather, which represents a long-term historical average. Significant variations from normal weather could have a material impact on energy sales. Unusual weather, such as hurricanes, could adversely affect operating costs and sales. Peoples Gas System, which has a single winter peak period, is more weather sensitive than Tampa Electric, which has both summer and winter peak periods. Mild winter weather in Florida can be expected to negatively impact results at Peoples Gas System. Variations in weather conditions also affect the demand and prices for the commodities sold by TECO Coalbed Methane and TECO Coal, as well as electric power sales from TECO Power Services' merchant power plants. TECO Transport is also impacted by weather because of its effects on the supply of and demand for the products transported. Severe weather conditions could interrupt or slow service and increase operating costs of those businesses. POTENTIAL COMPETITIVE CHANGES MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR GAS AND ELECTRICITY BUSINESSES. The U.S. electric power industry has been undergoing restructuring. Competition in wholesale power sales has been introduced on a national level. Some states have mandated or encouraged competition at the retail level and, in some situations, required divestiture of generating assets. While there is active wholesale competition in Florida, the retail electric business has remained substantially free from direct competition. Changes in the competitive environment occasioned by legislation, regulation, market conditions or initiatives of other electric power providers, particularly with respect to retail competition, could adversely affect Tampa Electric's business and its performance. The gas distribution industry has been subject to competitive forces for several years. Gas services provided by Peoples Gas System are now unbundled for all non-residential customers. Because Peoples Gas System earns margins on distribution of gas, but not on the commodity itself, unbundling has not negatively impacted Peoples Gas System results. However, future structural changes that we cannot predict could adversely affect Peoples Gas System. OUR GAS AND ELECTRICITY BUSINESSES ARE HIGHLY REGULATED AND ANY CHANGES IN REGULATORY STRUCTURES COULD LOWER REVENUES OR INCREASE COSTS OR COMPETITION. Tampa Electric and Peoples Gas System operate in highly regulated industries. Their retail operations, including the prices charged, are regulated by the Florida Public Service Commission, and Tampa Electric's
wholesale power sales and transmission services are subject to regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). Changes in regulatory requirements or adverse regulatory actions could have an adverse effect on Tampa Electric's or Peoples Gas System's performance by, for example, increasing competition or costs, threatening investment recovery or impacting rate structure. TECO Coal's forecast includes the benefits associated with the generation and/or monetization of Section 29 tax credits related to the production of non-conventional fuels. Future changes in the laws, regulations or administration governing these tax credits could impact TECO Coal's quantity of qualified synfuel production and, accordingly, the amount and realizable value of available tax credits. COMMODITY PRICE CHANGES MAY AFFECT THE OPERATING COSTS AND COMPETITIVE POSITIONS OF OUR BUSINESSES. Most of our businesses are sensitive to changes in coal, gas, oil and other commodity prices. Any changes could affect the prices these businesses charge, their operating costs and the competitive position of their products and services. In the case of Tampa Electric, currently fuel costs used for generation are mostly affected by the cost of coal. Future fuel costs will be impacted by the cost of natural gas as well as coal. Tampa Electric is able to recover the cost of fuel through retail customers' bills, but increases in fuel costs affect electric prices and, therefore, the competitive position of electricity against other energy sources. Regarding wholesale sales of electricity, the ability to make sales and margins on power sales are currently affected by the cost of coal to Tampa Electric, particularly as it compares to the cost of gas and oil to other power producers. In the case of TECO Power Services, results are impacted by changes in the market price for electricity. The profitability of merchant power plants is heavily dependent on the price for power in the markets they serve. Wholesale power prices are set by the market assuming a cost for the input energy and conversion efficiency, but the fixed costs may not be reflected in the price for spot, or excess, power. In the case of Peoples Gas System, costs for purchased gas and pipeline capacity are recovered through retail customers' bills, but increases in gas costs affect total retail prices and therefore the competitive position of Peoples Gas System relative to electricity, other forms of energy and other gas suppliers. Changes in gas, oil and coal prices directly affect the margins at our unregulated businesses. For example, TECO Coalbed Methane is exposed to commodity price risk through the sale of natural gas. A hypothetical 10% change in any one year in the market price of natural gas would have an estimated earnings impact of $4 million. TECO Coal is exposed to commodity price risk through coal sales. A hypothetical 10% change in the market price of coal in any one year would have an estimated earnings impact of between $15 million and $20 million. TECO Transport is exposed to commodity price risk through fuel purchases. A hypothetical 10% change in the market price of fuel in any one year would have an estimated earnings impact of $1 million. Further, natural gas prices have been increasingly volatile and, accordingly, the earnings from TECO Coalbed Methane are increasingly difficult to predict.
TECO COALBED METHANE'S RESULTS WILL BE INCREASINGLY DEPENDENT UPON GAS PRICES AND GAS PRODUCTION LEVELS. Although we currently have plans to sell TECO Coalbed Methane, until or unless such sale occurs, the business' performance will affect our consolidated results. The Section 29 tax credit for coalbed methane is set to expire on December 31, 2002. As a result, TECO Coalbed Methane's results will be increasingly affected by gas prices, which are volatile, and affected by its level of production, which is naturally declining. Our forecast assumes that production will decline 8% per year. Actual production levels may be different than those we assumed. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF OUR EXISTING TAX CREDITS. We derive a portion of our net income from non-conventional fuels tax credits. Our use of these tax credits is dependent on our generating sufficient taxable income against which to use the credits. These credits could be impacted by or become unavailable due to actions of the Internal Revenue Service or the U.S. Treasury or changes in law, regulation or administration. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO REDUCE CAPITAL EXPENDITURES OR SUCCESSFULLY COMPLETE PLANNED MONETIZATION TRANSACTIONS TO THE EXTENT ANTICIPATED, OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. Part of our business plan for 2003 includes reducing previously anticipated capital expenditures by approximately $250 million in order to maximize cash flows and reduce the need for external financings. We cannot provide any assurance that such expenditure reductions will be successfully achieved. Our business plan also includes plans to monetize material amounts of our Section 29 tax credits related to TECO Coal synthetic fuel production capability and Tampa Electric's Polk Power Station's coal gasification unit as well as to sell our TECO Coalbed Methane business. We cannot be certain, however, that we will find purchasers or realize the expected value of these transactions with the anticipated impact on our cash flow position. Depending on the success of these planned expenditure reductions and monetization transactions, we may need to seek external financings, which, in the case of debt financings, could adversely affect our balance sheet strength and apply downward pressure on our credit ratings, and in the case of equity financings, could have a dilutive effect to our equity holders and our earnings per share results. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY COMPLETE AND FINANCE CURRENT AND FUTURE PROJECTS ON SCHEDULE AND WITHIN BUDGET. TECO Power Services currently has new power generating facilities under construction. The construction of these facilities, as well as any future construction projects, involves risks of shortages and inconsistent qualities of equipment and material, labor shortages and disputes, engineering problems, work stoppages, unanticipated cost increases, and environmental or geological problems. In addition, the development of independent power plants involves considerable risks, including successful siting, permitting, financing and construction, contracting for necessary services, fuel supplies and power sales and performance by project partners. Any of these events could delay a project's construction schedule or increase its costs, which may impact our ability to generate sufficient cash flow and service our related project debt. TECO POWER SERVICES' EXISTING AND PLANNED MERCHANT POWER PLANTS ARE AFFECTED BY MARKET CONDITIONS AND TECO POWER SERVICES MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SELL POWER AT PRICES THAT ENABLE IT TO RECOVER ITS INVESTMENTS IN THE PLANTS. TECO Power Services is currently operating, developing, constructing and investing in merchant power plants. A merchant power plant sells power based on market conditions at the time of sale, so TECO Power Services cannot predict with certainty: - the amount or timing of revenue it may receive from power sales from operating plants; - the differential between the cost of operations (in particular, natural gas prices) and merchant power sales revenue;
- regulatory actions that may affect market behavior, such as price limitations or bidding rules imposed by FERC; - the demand for power in a market served by our plants relative to available supply; or - whether it will recover its initial investment in these plants. At present, several of the wholesale markets supplied by merchant power plants are experiencing significant pricing declines due to excess supply. Consequently, only a portion of the projected output of TECO Power Services' plants has been hedged for relatively short durations. TECO Power Services' results could be adversely affected if it is unable to sufficiently sell the output of its merchant plants at a premium to forward curve prices or if we need to write-off any capital already invested in projects we are unable to complete. Our forecast assumes that TECO Power Services will manage these risks by: - entering into negotiated contracts with power purchasers resulting in higher revenues than the spot market for capacity payments and providing ancillary services for a significant portion of the plants' output; - avoid short positions; - retaining flexibility to defer, if and where possible and advisable, construction of output capacity in a market that has become oversupplied; and - entering into non-energy related sales to offset potential operational risks. However, we cannot provide any assurance as to how successfully we will be able to implement these risk management measures. For instance, in oversupplied markets, entering into forward contracts could be difficult. Also, we cannot be certain that we will satisfactorily resolve our current dispute with Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT) regarding our provision of ancillary services or enter into a service contract with ERCOT. PROBLEMS WITH OPERATIONS COULD CAUSE US TO INCUR SUBSTANTIAL COSTS. Each of our subsidiaries is subject to various operational risks, including accidents or equipment breakdown or failure and operations below expected levels of performance or efficiency. As operators of power generation facilities, Tampa Electric and TECO Power Services could incur problems such as the breakdown or failure of power generation equipment, transmission lines, pipelines or other equipment or processes which would result in performance below assumed levels of output or efficiency. Our forecast assumes normal operations and normal maintenance periods for our subsidiaries' facilities. OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION MAY BE MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY FURTHER RATINGS DOWNGRADES. On September 23, 2002, Fitch Ratings lowered the ratings on our senior unsecured debt to BBB from A-. On September 24, 2002 Moody's Investor Services and Standard & Poor's Ratings Service lowered their ratings on our senior unsecured debt to Baa2 from A3 and to BBB- from BBB+, respectively. The agencies also lowered the ratings on other of our securities, as well as those of TECO Finance and Tampa Electric. The rating outlook from Fitch and Moody's has been revised to stable from negative while the outlook from Standard & Poor's remains negative. These downgrades and any future downgrades may affect our ability to borrow and may increase our financing costs, which may decrease our earnings. We are also likely to experience greater interest expense than we may have otherwise if, in future periods, we replace maturing debt with new debt bearing higher interest rate spreads due to our lower credit ratings. In addition to affecting interest rates, our lowered credit ratings may affect the amounts of indebtedness, types of financing structures and debt markets that are available to us. For example, we may not have sufficient access to the commercial paper market to satisfy our short-term borrowing needs. To the extent that
the combined outstanding short-term borrowings under our bank credit facilities and our and Tampa Electric's commercial paper program were to exceed the market capacity for such borrowings at the expiration of the bank credit facilities, our continued liquidity would depend upon our ability to reduce that short-term debt through a combination of capital market borrowings, asset sales, operational cash generation, capital expenditure reduction and other means. While we have implemented a program of cash flow preservation and generation through those means, we cannot be sure that they will be sufficient to cover any liquidity shortfall. Also, we could suffer negative banking, investor and public relations repercussions if we were to draw upon the bank facilities, which are intended to serve as a back-up source of liquidity only. Such impacts could cause further deterioration in our cost of and ability to access capital. We have guaranteed $500 million in fully-drawn equity bridge facilities for the construction of the Gila River and Union Power projects. Our guarantees of the equity bridge facilities and the equity contribution agreements for those projects require that we maintain senior unsecured credit ratings from Moody's and Standard & Poor's of not less than one rating of BBB and one rating of BBB- in either combination. Our current ratings are BBB- with a negative outlook from Standard & Poor's and Baa2 (equivalent to BBB) with a stable outlook from Moody's. A further downgrade from either Standard & Poor's or Moody's would trigger a failure to meet these covenants, thereby requiring the delivery of letters of credit to secure the obligations, and the failure to deliver such letters within the time allotted may constitute an event of default under the terms of the credit facilities relating to the Gila River and Union Power projects. WE ARE VULNERABLE TO INTEREST RATE CHANGES AND MAY NOT HAVE ACCESS TO CAPITAL AT FAVORABLE RATES, IF AT ALL. Changes in interest rates can affect the cost of borrowing for us and our subsidiaries. We provide short-term liquidity for our non-regulated operating companies through our commercial paper program if our credit profile allows, otherwise through credit facilities. Tampa Electric also issues commercial paper. These programs are backed by our bank credit facilities. Our ability to utilize our commercial paper program is dependent upon our credit ratings and would be adversely affected by changes in the commercial paper market or if our bank credit facilities were unavailable. In order to utilize the bank credit facilities, our debt-to-capital ratio as defined in the credit agreement may not exceed 65% at the end of the applicable quarter. WE HAVE SIGNIFICANT DEBT LEVELS THAT MAY RESTRICT OUR ABILITY TO FINANCE OUR PROJECTS OR PREVENT THE REPAYMENT OF CERTAIN DEBT, AND NOTE HOLDERS WILL HAVE A JUNIOR POSITION TO THOSE OF CREDITORS OF OUR SUBSIDIARIES AND OUR SECURED CREDITORS, IF ANY. To support our growth to date, we have significantly expanded our indebtedness, increased our debt-to-equity ratio and lowered our interest coverage. This increase in debt levels has increased the amount of fixed charges we are obligated to pay. The level of our indebtedness and restrictive covenants contained in existing or future financings could limit our ability to finance the acquisition and development of additional projects. We also incur obligations in connection with the operations of our subsidiaries and affiliates, which do not appear on our balance sheet, including in connection with the development of power projects by unconsolidated affiliates. These obligations take the form of guarantees, letters of credit and contractual commitments, as we describe in the sections titled "Off Balance Sheet Financing" and "Liquidity, Capital Resources" of the "Management's Discussion & Analysis of Financial Condition & Results of Operations" section of our periodic reports filed with the SEC, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001. In addition, our unconsolidated affiliates from time to time incur non-recourse debt to finance their power projects. Although we are not obligated on that debt, our investments in those unconsolidated affiliates and our commitments with respect to their power projects are at risk if the projects are not successfully developed. Some of our debt obligations contain financial covenants related to debt-to-capital ratios and interest coverage that could prevent the repayment of subordinated debt and the payment of dividends if those payments would cause a violation of the covenants. Further, some of our subsidiaries have indebtedness containing restrictive covenants which, if violated, could prevent them from making cash distributions to us. As a holding company, we are dependent on cash flow from our subsidiaries. For this reason, holders of
notes sold in this offering will also have a junior position to claims of creditors generally of our subsidiaries, including trade creditors, debt holders, secured creditors, taxing authorities and guarantee holders. In addition, the notes would be effectively subordinated to our secured debt, if any. THE INTERNATIONAL PROJECTS AND OPERATIONS OF TECO POWER SERVICES AND TECO OCEAN SHIPPING ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS THAT COULD RESULT IN LOSSES OR INCREASED COSTS. TECO Power Services is involved in several international projects. These projects involve numerous risks that are not present in domestic projects, including expropriation, political instability, currency exchange rate fluctuations, repatriation restrictions, and regulatory and legal uncertainties. Our forecast assumes that TECO Power Services will manage these risks through a variety of risk mitigation measures, including specific contractual provisions, teaming with strong international and local partners, obtaining non-recourse financing and obtaining political risk insurance where appropriate. TECO Ocean Shipping is exposed to operational risks in international ports, primarily in the form of its need to obtain suitable labor and equipment to safely discharge its cargoes in a timely manner. Our forecast assumes that TECO Ocean Shipping will manage these risks through a variety of risk mitigation measures, including retaining agents with local knowledge and experience in successfully discharging cargoes and vessels similar to those used. CHANGES IN THE ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS TO WHICH OUR REGULATED BUSINESSES ARE SUBJECT COULD INCREASE OUR COSTS OR CURTAIL OUR ACTIVITIES. Our businesses are subject to regulation by various governmental authorities dealing with air, water and other environmental matters. Changes in compliance requirements or the interpretation by governmental authorities of existing requirements may impose additional costs on us or require us to curtail some of our businesses' activities. THE UNCERTAIN OUTCOME REGARDING THE CREATION OF REGIONAL TRANSMISSION ORGANIZATIONS, OR RTOS, MAY IMPACT OUR OPERATIONS, CASH FLOWS OR FINANCIAL CONDITION. Tampa Electric is continuing to make progress towards the development of its RTO, which would independently control the transmission assets of participating utilities in peninsular Florida. Given the regulatory uncertainty of the ultimate timing, structure and operations of GridFlorida or an alternate combined transmission structure, we cannot predict what effect its creation will have on our future consolidated results of operations, cash flow or financial condition.


