FILE:TE/TE-8K-20030911152851.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): SEPTEMBER 10, 2003 TECO ENERGY INC. (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) FLORIDA 1-8180 59-2052286 (State or other jurisdiction (Commission File (IRS Employer of incorporation) Number) Identification No.) 702 NORTH FRANKLIN STREET, TAMPA FLORIDA 33602 (Address of principal executive offices and zip code) (813) 228-4111 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
ITEM 5. OTHER On September 10, 2003, TECO Energy, Inc. entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement to sell 11,000,000 shares of its common stock to three institutional investors at a price of $11.76 per share, for gross proceeds of $129,360,000. The press release announcing the agreement is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. In order to furnish certain exhibits for incorporation by reference into the Registration Statement on Form S-3 of TECO Energy, Inc. previously filed with Securities and Exchange Commission (File No. 333-102018), which Registration Statement was declared effective by the Commission on January 2, 2003, TECO Energy, Inc. is filing the Stock Purchase Agreement dated September 10, 2003 among TECO Energy, Inc. and the purchasers named therein as Exhibit 10.1 to such Registration Statement and an opinion of Palmer & Dodge LLP regarding the sale and issuance of the securities sold by TECO Energy, Inc. pursuant to such Common Stock Purchase Agreement as Exhibit 5.6 to such Registration Statement. ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, PRO FORMA FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS. (c) Exhibits. 5.6 Opinion of Palmer & Dodge LLP. Filed herewith. 10.1 Stock Purchase Agreement dated September 10, 2003 among TECO Energy, Inc. and the purchasers named therein. Filed herewith. 23.7 Consent of Palmer & Dodge LLP (included as part of their opinion filed herewith). 99.1 Press release dated September 11, 2003. Filed herewith.
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. Date: September 11, 2003 TECO ENERGY, INC. By: /s/ Gordon L. Gillette ------------------------------------ Gordon L. Gillette Sr. Vice President--Finance and Chief Financial Officer
EXHIBIT INDEX EXHIBIT NO. DESCRIPTION - ----------- ----------- 5.6 Opinion of Palmer & Dodge LLP. Filed herewith. 10.1 Stock Purchase Agreement dated September 10, 2003 among TECO Energy, Inc. and the purchasers named therein. Filed herewith. 23.7 Consent of Palmer & Dodge LLP (included as part of their opinion filed herewith). 99.1 Press release dated September 11, 2003. Filed herewith.

Exhibit 5.6 PALMER & DODGE LLP ------------------------------------------ 111 HUNTINGTON AVENUE AT PRUDENTIAL CENTER BOSTON, MA 02199-7613 September 11, 2003 TECO Energy, Inc. 702 North Franklin Street Tampa, Florida 33602 Ladies and Gentlemen: Reference is made to our opinion dated December 19, 2002 and included as Exhibit 5.1 to the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-102018) (the "Registration Statement") filed on December 19, 2002 by TECO Energy, Inc, a Florida corporation (the "Company") with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). We are rendering this supplemental opinion in connection with the prospectus supplement (the "Prospectus Supplement") filed on or about September 11, 2003 by the Company with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424 under the Securities Act. The Prospectus Supplement relates to the offering by the Company of 11,000,000 shares of the Company's common stock, $1.00 par value per share (the "Shares"), which Shares are covered by the Registration Statement. We understand that the Shares are to be offered and sold in the manner described in the Prospectus Supplement. We have acted as your counsel in connection with the preparation of the Registration Statement and the Prospectus Supplement. We are familiar with the proceedings taken by the Board of Directors of the Company in connection with the authorization, issuance and sale of the Shares. We have examined all such documents as we consider necessary to enable us to render this opinion. Based upon the foregoing, we are of the opinion that the Shares have been duly authorized and, when issued and delivered by the Company against payment therefor as set forth in the Prospectus Supplement, will be validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable. We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as a part of the Registration Statement and to the reference to our firm under the caption "Legal Matters" in the Prospectus Supplement. Very truly yours, /s/ Palmer & Dodge LLP PALMER & DODGE LLP MAIN 617.239.0100 FAX 617.227.4420 www.palmerdodge.com

Exhibit 10.1 STOCK PURCHASE AGREEMENT This Stock Purchase Agreement (the "Agreement") is made as of September 10, 2003 by and between the undersigned purchasers (each, a "Purchaser" and collectively, "Purchasers") and TECO Energy, Inc., a Florida corporation (the "Company"). The parties agree as follows: 1. Purchase and Sale of Shares. Subject to the terms and conditions hereof, Purchasers shall buy from the Company and the Company shall sell to Purchasers an aggregate of 11,000,000 shares (the "Shares") of the Company's common stock, par value $1.00 per share, at a price of $11.76 per share for an aggregate purchase price of $129,360,000 (the "Purchase Price"). The closing of such purchase and sale (the "Closing" shall take place at the offices of Palmer & Dodge LLP, Boston, Massachusetts, at 9:00 a.m. on the later of (i) the third (3rd) business day after the date hereof and (ii) the next business day after the Shares have been approved for listing on The New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE"), subject to notice of issuance, or at such other time or on such other date as the parties shall have agreed (the "Closing Date"). Upon Closing, the Company shall cause the Shares to be electronically delivered to The Depository Trust Company on Purchasers' behalf in the respective amounts set forth opposite Purchasers' names on the signature page hereof and registered in such names as Purchasers shall, with reasonable notice, have designated, against payment of the full Purchase Price in federal funds by wire transfer to a bank account designated by the Company. 2. Representations of the Company. In order to induce Purchasers to purchase the Shares, the Company hereby represents and warrants to Purchasers as follows: 2.1 The Company and each "significant subsidiary" (as such term is defined in Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X) of the Company (each, a "Significant Subsidiary") has been duly incorporated and is an existing corporation in good standing under the laws of the State of Florida or, in the case of any Significant Subsidiary, its respective jurisdiction of incorporation, with power and authority (corporate and other) to own its properties and conduct its business as described in the Prospectus; and the Company and each Significant Subsidiary is duly qualified to do business as a foreign corporation in good standing in all other jurisdictions in which its ownership or lease of property or the conduct of its business requires such qualification, except in any case where the failure to be so qualified would not have a material adverse effect on the condition (financial or other), business, properties or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole (a "Material Adverse Effect"). 2.2 The Company has full power and authority to authorize, issue and sell the Shares as contemplated by this Agreement. This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company. The Shares, when issued and delivered in accordance with this Agreement, will be validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable. 2.3 Except for the approval of the Shares for listing on NYSE, no consent, approval, authorization, or order of, or filing, registration or qualification with, any governmental agency or body or any court is required for the performance by the Company of its obligations hereunder or in connection with the consummation of the issuance and sale of the Shares, except such as
have been obtained and made under the Act and such as may be required under state securities laws. 2.4 The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by the Company and the issuance and sale of the Shares will not result in a breach or violation by the Company or any Significant Subsidiary of any of the terms and provisions of, or constitute a default under (a) any statute, rule, regulation or order of any governmental agency or body or any court having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its property or any Significant Subsidiary or any of their respective properties, (b) any agreement or instrument to which the Company or any Significant Subsidiary is a party or by which the Company or any Significant Subsidiary is bound or to which any of the properties of the Company or any Significant Subsidiary is subject, except for breaches, defaults or violations that would not result in a Material Adverse Effect or (c) the charter or by-laws of the Company or of any Significant Subsidiary. 2.5 A registration statement (No. 333-102018) relating to the Shares has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") and has been declared effective. Such registration statement, as amended at the date of this Agreement and including all material incorporated by reference therein, meets the requirements set forth in Rule 415(a)(1)(x) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Act"), and is herein referred to as the "Registration Statement," and the prospectus included in the Registration Statement, as first filed with the Commission pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 424(b) ("Rule 424(b)") under the Act and as amended to reflect the terms of the offering of the Shares, including all material incorporated by reference therein, is hereinafter referred to as the "Prospectus." On its effective date, the Registration Statement conformed in all respects to the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission (the "Rules and Regulations") and did not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, and as of the date hereof, the Registration Statement and the Prospectus conform in all respects to the requirements of the Act and the Rules and Regulations, and neither of such documents includes any untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, except that the foregoing does not apply to statements in or omissions from any such documents based upon written information, if any, relating to any Purchaser furnished to the Company by a Purchaser specifically for use therein. No stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement is in effect, and no proceedings for such purpose are pending before or threatened by the Commission. 2.6 Except as disclosed in the Prospectus, there are no pending actions, suits or proceedings against or involving the Company or any of its property, any of its subsidiaries or any of their respective properties that could reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect, or that would materially and adversely affect the ability of the Company to perform its obligations under this Agreement, or that are otherwise material in the context of the sale of the Shares; and, to the Company's knowledge, no such actions, suits or proceedings are threatened or contemplated. 2.7 The financial statements of the Company, together with the related notes to such financial statements, included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement and Prospectus present fairly in all material respects the financial position of the Company and its 2
consolidated subsidiaries as of the dates shown and their results of operations and cash flows for the periods shown and, except as otherwise disclosed in the Prospectus, such financial statements have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States applied on a consistent basis (except as stated therein); and any schedules included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement present fairly in all material respects the information required to be stated therein. 2.8 Except as disclosed in the Prospectus, since the date of the latest audited financial statements included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, there has been no material adverse change in the condition (financial or other), business, properties or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole. 2.9 The Company is not and, after giving effect to the sale of the Shares and the application of the proceeds thereof as described in the Prospectus, will not be an "investment company" as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. 3. Representations of Purchasers. Each Purchaser hereby represents and warrants to the Company that (a) it has been duly organized and is existing in good standing as the type of entity and under the laws of the state set forth under its respective name on the signature page hereof, (b) it has full power and authority to enter into this Agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby, and (c) this Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by such Purchaser. 4. Conditions to the Parties' Obligation to Close. 4.1 The obligation of the Company to issue and sell the Shares at the Closing is subject to the satisfaction (or waiver by the Company), at or before the Closing Date, of each of the following conditions: (a) The Shares shall have been approved for listing on the NYSE, subject to notice of issuance. (b) No stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or any part thereof shall have been issued and no proceedings for that purpose shall have been instituted. (c) No action, suit or proceeding shall be pending against or involve the Company or any of its property, any of its subsidiaries or any of their respective properties that would materially and adversely affect the ability of the Company to perform its obligations under this Agreement or that is otherwise material in the context of the sale of the Shares and no such action, suit or proceeding shall be threatened or contemplated. (d) An aggregate of 11,000,000 Shares shall be purchased at the Closing. 4.2 The obligation of Purchasers to purchase the Shares from the Company at the Closing is subject to the satisfaction (or waiver by Purchasers), at or before the Closing Date, of each of the following conditions: 3
(a) The Shares shall have been approved for listing on the NYSE, subject to notice of issuance. (b) The Company shall have filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) a prospectus supplement regarding the sale of the Shares. (c) No stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or any part thereof shall have been issued and no proceedings for that purpose shall have been instituted. (d) The representations and warranties of the Company contained in Section 2 hereof shall be true, correct and complete in all material respects as of the date hereof and as of the Closing Date as though made at that time (except for representations and warranties that speak as of a specific date, which shall be true, correct and complete as of such date), and the Company shall have performed, satisfied and complied in all material respects with the covenants and conditions required hereby to be performed, satisfied or complied with by it at or before the Closing. (e) Purchasers shall have received a certificate, dated the Closing Date, of a duly authorized officer of the Company certifying on behalf of the Company that each of the conditions set forth in subsections 4.2(a), (b), (c) and (d) have been satisfied. (f) Purchasers shall have received an opinion, dated the Closing Date, of Palmer & Dodge LLP, counsel for the Company, reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to Purchasers with respect to the matters described in Exhibit A hereto. In giving such opinion, such counsel may limit its opinion to the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, the State of Florida and the federal law of the United States and may rely as to matters of Florida law upon an opinion of Sheila M. McDevitt, Esq., Senior Vice President and General Counsel of the Company. 5. Standstill Agreement. In order to induce the Company to issue and sell the Shares to Purchasers, each Purchaser agrees that: 5.1 For so long as it (together with all investment companies and all entities that would be investment companies but for the provisions of Section 3(c) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, having a common investment adviser and/or investment adviser under common control with such Purchaser (collectively, "Affliates")) Beneficially Owns (as such term is defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) an aggregate of five (5) percent or more of the outstanding securities of the Company entitled to vote (including securities convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable or redeemable for such securities, collectively, "Voting Securities"), it will not, directly or indirectly (unless in any such cases specifically invited in writing to do so by the Company), do any of the following (except as required pursuant to or otherwise contemplated by this Agreement or as a result of any stock split, stock dividend, stock repurchase or similar recapitalization by the Company): (a) acquire, offer to acquire, or agree to acquire by purchase or otherwise, individually or by joining a partnership, limited partnership, syndicate or other "group" (as such term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) (any such act, to "acquire"), any Voting 4
Securities or any options, warrants or other rights to acquire Voting Securities if, after such acquisition, Purchaser and its Affiliates would Beneficially Own in the aggregate more than nine and nine-tenths (9.9) percent of the outstanding Voting Securities; (b) make, or in any way participate in, directly or indirectly, any "solicitation" of "proxies" (as such terms are defined or used in Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act) or become a "participant" in any "election contest" (as such terms are defined or used in Rule 14a-11 under the Exchange Act) with respect to the Company (other than by way of Purchaser's exercising its right to vote his or her Voting Securities), or initiate, propose or otherwise solicit shareholders of the Company for the approval of one or more shareholder proposals with respect to the Company, or induce or attempt to induce any other person to initiate any shareholder proposal; (c) deposit any Voting Securities into a voting trust or subject them to any voting agreement or other agreement or arrangement with respect to the voting of such Voting Securities; (d) form, join, participate in or encourage the formation of a partnership, limited partnership, syndicate or other group for the purpose of acquiring, holding or disposing of Voting Securities; provided, however, for purposes of this Section 5(d), Purchaser and its affiliates shall not be considered to be a syndicate or other group; (e) act, directly or indirectly, alone or in concert with others, to seek to control the management, Board of Directors, policies or affairs of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, or solicit, propose, seek to effect or negotiate with any other person with respect to any form of business combination transaction involving, directly or indirectly, the Company or any of its subsidiaries, or any restructuring, recapitalization or similar transaction with respect to the Company or any of its subsidiaries, or announce or disclose an intent, purpose, plan or proposal with respect to the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any Voting Securities inconsistent with the provisions of this Section 5, including an intent, purpose, plan or proposal that is conditioned on or would require the Company to waive the benefit of or amend any provision of this Section 5, or assist, participate in, facilitate or encourage or solicit any effort or attempt by any person to do or seek to do any of the foregoing; (f) nominate any person for election by the holders of Common Stock as a director of the Company who is not nominated by the then-incumbent directors, or propose any matter to be voted upon by the stockholders of the Company; or (g) encourage or render advice to or make any recommendation or proposal to any person, or directly or indirectly participate, aid and abet or otherwise induce any person or engage in any of the actions prohibited by this Section 5 or to engage in any actions inconsistent with the provisions of this Section 5. 5.2 For so long as it Beneficially Owns any Voting Securities, it will not, directly or indirectly (unless in any such cases specifically invited in writing to do so by the Company), do either of the following: 5
(a) sell, contract to sell or grant any option or right to purchase any Common Stock or make any short sale of, or establish a "put equivalent position" (as such term is defined in Rule 16a-1(h) under the Exchange Act) with respect to, the Common Stock, at a time when Purchaser has no equivalent offsetting long position in Common Stock; or (b) sell or contract to sell more than one (1) percent of the outstanding Voting Securities to any single person or group of related persons; provided, however, that this subsection shall not apply to any transaction effected in good faith on the NYSE. 5.3 In the event that any action is submitted to the holders of Voting Securities for their approval, whether at a meeting or by written consent, at a time when Purchaser and its Affiliates collectively have the right to vote or direct the vote with respect to more than five (5) percent of the Voting Securities entitled to vote on such action, Purchaser will, unless otherwise approved in writing in advance by the Company, cause to be voted all Voting Securities as to which it has the right to vote or direct the vote (but not more than the number of Voting Securities by which such collective ownership exceeds five (5) percent of the outstanding Voting Securities entitled to be voted on such matter) (the "Excess Voting Securities") in the same manner (i.e. in favor of, against and abstentions with respect to) proportionately to all other Voting Securities that are entitled to vote with respect to such matter. Purchaser hereby appoints the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer of the Company, acting severally, as its proxy, with full power of substitution, in the name, place and stead of the Purchaser, to vote all Excess Voting Securities at any such meeting (and at any adjournment or adjournments thereof) or with respect to any such written consent in the manner described in the preceding sentence. Purchaser agrees that this proxy is coupled with an interest and shall be irrevocable. 6. Filing of Form 8-K. By 9:30 a.m., New York time, on the first business day following the Closing Date, the Company shall issue a press release and file a Current Report on Form 8-K with the Commission, each describing the material terms of the transactions contemplated hereby. 7. Notices. All communications hereunder will be in writing and, if sent to any Purchaser, shall be mailed or delivered to it c/o Franklin Templeton Investments, One Franklin Parkway, San Mateo, CA 94403, Attention: [ ] or, if sent to the Company, shall be mailed or delivered to it at 702 North Franklin Street, Tampa, Florida 33602, Attention: Corporate Secretary. 8. Entire Agreement; Amendments. This Agreement contains the entire understanding of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior agreements and understandings, oral or written, with respect to such matters, which the parties acknowledge have been merged into this Agreement. This Agreement may not be modified or amended except pursuant to an instrument in writing signed by the Company and each Purchaser. 9. Successors. This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns, and no other person will have any right or obligation hereunder. No purchaser of Shares from a Purchaser shall be deemed to be a successor by reason merely of such purchase. 6
10. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same agreement. 11. Applicable Law. This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Florida, without regard to its principles of conflicts of laws. [The rest of this page intentionally blank] 7
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Stock Purchase Agreement to be executed by their respective representatives, hereunto duly authorized, as of the date first written above. TECO ENERGY, INC. By: /s/ J.B. Ramil --------------------------------- Name: J.B. Ramil Title: Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer PURCHASERS: NUMBER OF SHARES PURCHASED: FRANKLIN CUSTODIAN FUNDS - INCOME FUND, 9,800,000 a Maryland corporation By: /s/ Edward Perks ----------------------------------- Name: Edward Perks Title: Vice President, Franklin Advisers FRANKLIN CUSTODIAN FUNDS - UTILITIES FUND, 1,000,000 a Maryland corporation By: /s/ John C. Kohli ----------------------------------- Name: John C. Kohli Title: Vice President, Franklin Advisers FRANKLIN CUSTODIAN FUNDS - INCOME SECURITIES FUND, 200,000 a Massachusetts Business Trust By: /s/ Edward Perks ---------------------------------- Name: Edward Perks Title: Vice President, Franklin Advisers
EXHIBIT A Matters to be Addressed in Opinion of Palmer & Dodge LLP 1. The Company is a validly existing corporation in good standing under the laws of the State of Florida, with corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and conduct its business as described in the Prospectus, and to enter into and perform its obligations under the Agreement. 2. The Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company. The Shares have been duly authorized and, when issued and delivered in accordance with the Agreement, will be validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable. 3. No consent, approval, authorization or order of, or filing, registration or qualification with, any governmental agency or body or any court is required for the issuance or sale of the Shares by the Company, except such as have been obtained and made under the Act, or as may be required under state securities laws as to which no opinion is expressed. 4. The execution, delivery and performance of the Agreement by the Company (including the issuance and sale of the Shares) will not result in a breach or violation by the Company of any of the terms and provisions of, or constitute a default under, any statute, any rule or regulation, or any order known to such counsel, of any governmental agency or body or any court having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its properties, or any agreement or instrument that is listed as an exhibit to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002 or the Company's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K filed thereafter, or the charter or by-laws of the Company. 5. The Registration Statement has become effective under the Act. 6. The Registration Statement and the Prospectus, excluding the documents incorporated by reference therein, and any amendment or supplement thereto, as of their respective effective or issue dates, complied as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Act and the Rules and Regulations; it being understood that such counsel need express no opinion as to the financial statements, including the notes thereto, schedules or other financial data contained or incorporated by reference therein or excluded therefrom. 7. The Company is not and, after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Shares and the application of the proceeds thereof as described in the Prospectus, will not be an "investment company" as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940.

Exhibit 99.1 (TECO ENERGY LOGO) FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: NEWS MEDIA INVESTOR RELATIONS LAURA PLUMB MARK KANE 813.228.1572 813.228.1772 TECO ENERGY AGREES TO SELL 11 MILLION SHARES OF COMMON STOCK SEPTEMBER 11, 2003 - TAMPA, FLA. - TECO Energy (NYSE: TE) today reported that it has entered into an agreement for the sale of 11 million shares of its common stock directly to funds managed by Franklin Advisers, Inc. of San Mateo, California at a price of $11.76 per share, based on a discount from the September 9, 2003 closing price. Net proceeds from the sale are expected to be about $129 million and will be used to repay short-term indebtedness and for general corporate purposes. This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy these securities. The offering was made to the purchasers by means of a prospectus, a copy of which may be obtained from the Company. An electronic copy of the prospectus will be available from the Securities and Exchange Commission's web site at www.sec.gov. TECO Energy (WWW.TECOENERGY.COM) is a diversified, energy-related holding company headquartered in Tampa. Its principal businesses are Tampa Electric, Peoples Gas, TECO Power Services, TECO Transport, TECO Coal and TECO Solutions.


