FILE:TE/TE-8K-20030627135741.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Acquisition or disposition of assets	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Acquisition or disposition of assets
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.
Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
 
On June 26, 2003, subsidiaries of TECO Power Services Corporation (TPS), TECO Energy's unregulated power generation subsidiary, acquired the interests in TECO-PANDA Generating Company, L.P. (TPGC) owned by subsidiaries of Panda Energy International, Inc. (Panda). TPGC was established to build, own and operate the Union Power Station in Arkansas and the Gila River Power Station in Arizona as well as a gas transmission pipeline approximately 42 miles in length. The acquisition will increase TPS's indirect ownership in TPGC to 100-percent. As a result of the increased ownership, TPS will consolidate TPGC in TECO Energy's financial statements as of June 30, 2003. TPS previously accounted for its equity investment in TPGC as an investment in an unconsolidated subsidiary.
 
Under the terms of the acquisition agreement, TPS purchased Panda's interest in TPGC for $49 million in cash. TECO Energy funded the purchase using short-term borrowing and cash on hand. TPGC will continue to operate these plants as wholly-owned subsidiaries of TPS.
 
Item 5.
Other Events
 
The press release dated June 26, 2003, announcing the acquisition of Panda's interest in TPGC is filed as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 7.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(a) Financial Statements of Business Acquired
In accordance with Item 7(a) (4) of Form 8-K, the financial statements required in connection with the business acquisition described in Item 2 will be filed by amendment to this Form 8-K no later than sixty (60) days after the date of filing this Form 8-K.
 
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information.
In accordance with item 7(b) (2) of Form 8-K, the pro forma financial information required in connection with the business acquisition described in Item 2 will be filed by amendment to this Form 8-K no later than sixty (60) days after the date of filing this Form 8-K.
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.1
 
Execution Document
 
 
THIS PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT dated as of May 19, 2003 (this "") is by and among TPS GP, Inc. (the ""), a Florida corporation, TPS LP, Inc. (the ""), Panda GS V, LLC (the ""), a Delaware limited liability company, Panda GS VI, LLC (the ""), a Delaware limited liability company. The LP Purchaser and the GP Purchaser are collectively referred to herein as the "." The GP Seller and the LP Seller are collectively referred to herein as the "."
Agreement
GP Purchaser
LP Purchaser
GP Seller
LP Seller
Purchasers
Sellers
 
 
A.    The Purchasers and the Sellers are party to that certain Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement dated as of June 12, 2001, as amended by a First Amendment dated as of October 3, 2001, a Second Amendment dated as of November 30, 2001, a Third Amendment dated as of January 16, 2002, a Fourth Amendment dated as of February 6,2002, a Fifth Amendment dated as of February 7, 2002 and a Sixth Amendment dated as of April 9, 2003 (collectively, the "," and such Sixth Amendment, the ""). The partnership governed by the Partnership Agreement is TECO-PANDA Generating Company, L.P. (the ""), a Delaware limited partnership.
Partnership Agreement
Sixth Amendment
Partnership
 
B.    The GP Seller holds a 0.5% general partnership interest in the Partnership (the ""). The LP Seller hold a 49.5% limited partnership interest in the Partnership (the ""). The GP Interest and the LP Interest are collectively referred to herein as the "."
GP Interest
LP Interest
Partnership Interests
 
C.    In accordance with and after the effectiveness of the Sixth Amendment, the Sellers wish to transfer to the Purchasers, and the Purchasers wish to acquire from the Sellers, the Partnership Interests, with the LP Purchaser acquiring the LP Interest and the GP Purchaser acquiring the GP Interest.
 
D.    The Purchasers and Sellers are also party to that certain Consent and Acceleration Agreement dated as of February 7,2002 by and among the Purchasers, the Sellers, Panda Energy International, Inc., TECO Power Services Corporation (""), TECO Energy, Inc. ("") and Bayerische Hypo-Und Vereinsbank AG, New York Branch (the ""), as amended by the First Amendment to Consent and Acceleration Agreement dated April 9, 2003 (the ""). In accordance with the Sixth Amendment and the Consent and Acceleration, the Purchase Price (as defined below) is to be paid as provided herein.
TPS
TECO
Bank
Consent and Acceleration
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein, and of other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If to the Sellers (by overnight courier) to
 
Panda GS V, LLC and Panda GS VI, LLC
4100 Spring Valley, Suite 1001
Dallas, Texas 75244
Attn: General Counsel
 
With a copy to:
 
Panda Energy International. Inc.
4100 Spring Valley, Suite 1001
Dallas, Texas 75244
Attn: General Counsel
 
If to the Purchasers (by overnight courier) to:
 
TECO Power Services Corporation
702 North Franklin Street
Tampa, Florida 33602
Attention: President
Phone: (813) 228-1311
Facsimile: (813) 228 1289
 
With a copy to:
 
TECO Energy, Inc.
Legal Department
702 North Franklin Street, Tampa, Florida 33602
Post Office Box Ill, Tampa, Florida 33601-0111
Attention: Sheila M. McDevitt, Senior Vice President  General Counsel
Phone: (813) 228-1804
Facsimile: (813) 228-1328
 
or such address as any of the parties may have furnished to the other parties in writing in accordance herewith, except that notices of changes of address shall only be effective upon receipt.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement under seal as of the date first written above.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
[TECO Energy Logo]
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
 
 TECO Power Services, TECO Energy's unregulated power generation subsidiary, today announced that it has completed the previously announced purchase of Panda Energy's interest in the Union Power Station in Arkansas and the Gila River Power Station in Arizona. This acquisition will result in TECO Power Services' ownership of 100 percent of the two projects resulting in their consolidation on the TECO Energy financial statements effective with the second quarter. The acquisition of Panda's interest in the Texas Independent Energy (TIE) projects is not included in this transaction as previously anticipated.
TAMPA, FL June 26, 2003
 
TECO Energy Chairman and CEO Robert Fagan said, "We announced in April that we would assume ownership of these projects as a component of our overall strategy to reduce our merchant power exposure. Full ownership gives us the flexibility to manage these projects to minimize the risk to earnings and cash flow from these power plants while maximizing their value."
 
The acquisition will result in non-cash accounting write-offs in the second quarter, which are part of the previously announced $300 million to $350 million after tax write-offs that included the write-off of $64 million of turbine purchase obligations recorded in the first quarter. The accounting write-offs include amounts related to items such as previously recorded credit support fees from Panda, Panda's Other Comprehensive Income balance primarily related to interest rate swaps, Panda's negative equity balance in the projects and other accounting charges.
 
Note: This news release contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to the inherent uncertainties in predicting future results and conditions. These forward-looking statements include references to the company's plans to reduce it exposure to merchant power uncertainty. Certain factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in these forward-looking statements include the following: TECO Energy's ability to reduce its earnings and cash flow risk from TECO Power Services'
 
merchant power facilities; and the ultimate accounting treatment of the estimated write-offs. Other factors that could impact results are discussed under "Investment Considerations" in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002.
 
TECO Energy () is a diversified, energy-related holding company based in Tampa. Its principal businesses are Tampa Electric, Peoples Gas, TECO Power Services, TECO Coal, TECO Transport, and TECO Solutions.
www.tecoenergy.com


