FILE:TE/TE-8K-20041202165157.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Material Impairments	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Material Impairments
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1  Registrant's Business and Operations
 
Item 1.01: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On December 1, 2004, TECO Energy, Inc.'s subsidiaries entered into an agreement to sell Frontera Generation Limited Partnership, the owner of the Frontera Power Station in Texas, for $134 million to a subsidiary of Centrica plc. The Frontera Power Station is a 477-megawatt natural gas fired, combined-cycle merchant power plant located near McAllen, Texas, operating in the Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT) market. The sale is expected to close by the end of 2004, subject to certain regulatory approvals. See the press release dated December 2, 2004, which is attached as Exhibit 99.1, for additional information. A brief description of the material terms of the Purchase Agreement follows.
 
The Purchase Agreement provides for Centrica plc, through its affiliates, Frontera Generation GP, Inc. ("Frontera GP") and Centrica US Holdings Inc. ("Centrica US"), to acquire all of the partnership interests in Frontera Generation Limited Partnership ("Frontera") indirectly owned by TECO Energy, Inc. through its affiliates, TPS Tejas GP, LLC and TPS Tejas LP, LLC. Frontera GP will acquire a 1% general partnership interest in Frontera, and Centrica US will acquire a 99% limited partnership interest in Frontera.
 
The purchase price of $134 million is subject to customary adjustments for working capital and inventory. Sellers have the opportunity to receive an Annual Earnout Payment if Frontera is the successful bidder and enters in to a Reliability Must Run Contract with ERCOT. For a period of three years, Sellers will be entitled to 50% of the payments Frontera receives under the ERCOT contract after certain deductions reflecting risk of operation and contract performance as the Annual Earnout Payment.
 
The Purchase Agreement contains customary representations, warranties, covenants and closing conditions found in similar transactions. The closing conditions include expiration of the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act waiting period and successful achievement by the Frontera Power Station of prescribed performance tests. The Purchase Agreement also contains indemnification provisions subject to specified limitations as to time and amount. The Purchase Agreement terminates automatically if the transaction is not completed by March 31, 2005.
 
Section 2  Financial Information
 
Item 2.05: Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
 
On Nov. 29, 2004, a committee of TECO Energy's Board of Directors authorized the transaction described in Item 1.01, and thereby committed the Company to a plan to dispose of Frontera Generation Limited Partnership, the owner of the Frontera Power Station. The information in Item 1.01 with respect to the Purchase Agreement entered into for the sale of Frontera Generation Limited Partnership is hereby incorporated by reference. A pre-tax impairment charge of $45 million ($28 million after-tax) has been estimated in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 144, , (FAS 144) as the difference between the carrying value of the business to be sold and the respective estimated fair value of the business based on the terms of the Purchase Agreement, and is being recorded in the fourth quarter of 2004.
Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets
 
Item 2.06: Material Impairments
 
The information in Items 1.01 and 2.05 with respect to the Purchase Agreement and the estimated pre-tax impairment charge of $45 million ($28 million after-tax) is hereby incorporated by reference. As noted above, the impairment charge being recorded in the fourth quarter of 2004 has been estimated in accordance with FAS 144 as the difference between the carrying value of the business to be sold and the respective estimated fair value of that business based on the terms of the Purchase Agreement.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
[TECO ENERGY LOGO]
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
TECO Energy, Inc. (NYSE: TE) announced that its subsidiaries have signed an agreement to sell Frontera Generation Limited Partnership, the owner of the Frontera Power Station in Texas, for $134 million to a subsidiary of Centrica plc. The Frontera Power Station is a 477-megawatt natural gas fired, combined-cycle merchant power plant located near McAllen Texas, operating in the Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT) market. The sale is expected to close by the end of 2004, subject to certain regulatory approvals.
Tampa, December 2, 2004 
 
Chairman and CEO Sherrill Hudson said, "This agreement marks a further reduction in TECO Energy's exposure to the merchant power markets, which is consistent with our strategy to focus on our Florida utilities and our profitable unregulated businesses. The cash from this sale is incremental to our recent cash flow forecasts and adds to our ability to extinguish our 2007 TECO Energy debt maturities."
 
The sale is expected to be slightly accretive to earnings in 2005. In addition, the disposition of the investment is expected to generate approximately $40 million of tax benefits, which will be used to reduce future cash tax payments. TECO Energy's fourth quarter results will include the write-off of the difference between the book value and the sale price, which will result in an after-tax charge of approximately $28 million.
 
TECO Energy, Inc. (NYSE: TE) is an integrated energy-related holding company with core businesses in the utility sector, complemented by a family of unregulated businesses. Its principal subsidiary, Tampa Electric Company, is a regulated utility with both electric and gas divisions (Tampa Electric and Peoples Gas System). Other subsidiaries are engaged in waterborne transportation, coal and synthetic fuel production and independent power.
 
Additional information related to the company and its operations is available at TECO Energy's web site at .
www.teconergy.com
 
Note: This press release contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to the inherent uncertainties in predicting future results and conditions, relating to the company's cash flow projections and expected tax benefits. Certain factors that could impact actual results include the company's ability to successfully close the transaction
 
in the anticipated time, to achieve the expected levels of cash flow, and to utilize tax credits which are dependent on taxable income. Additional information is contained under "Investment Considerations" filed as an exhibit to the company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2004.
 


