FILE:TE/TE-8K-20041022170018.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1  Registrant's Business and Operations
 
Item 1.01: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On October 22, 2004, Tampa Electric Company (the company) entered into a $150 million 3-Year Revolving Facility Credit Agreement with Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., as Lead Arranger, Morgan Stanley Bank, JPMorgan Chase Bank, Merrill Lynch Bank USA and SunTrust Bank, as Co-Syndication Agents, and the following lenders: Citibank, N.A., Morgan Stanley Bank, JPMorgan Chase Bank, Merrill Lynch Bank USA, SunTrust Bank, The Bank of New York, BNP Paribas, Regions Bank, Societe Generale and UBS Loan Finance LLC. This credit agreement replaces the $125 million 364-Day Revolving Credit Agreement described in Item 1.02 below, which was set to expire in November 2004. Under the new credit agreement, the company pays commitment fees of 17.5 basis points at current credit ratings and can borrow up to $150 million at an interest rate equal to either the London interbank deposit rate plus a margin of 70  82.5 basis points at current credit ratings or Citibank's prime rate at current credit ratings (or the federal funds rate plus 50 basis points, if higher). The terms of the new credit agreement include two financial covenants: (i) for the 12-months ending each quarter-end, the ratio of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) to interest, as defined in the agreement, must be equal to or exceed 2.0 times; and (ii) at each quarter-end, debt to capital, as defined in the agreement, must not exceed 60 percent. The new credit agreement is filed as Exhibit 4.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
 
For consistency between its two credit facilities, on October 22, 2004, the company also amended its existing $125 million 3-Year Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of Nov. 7, 2003, with Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. and SunTrust Capital Markets Inc., as Co-Lead Arrangers, SunTrust Bank, as Syndication Agent, Morgan Stanley Bank and The Bank of New York, as Co-Documentation Agents, and the following lenders: Citibank, N.A., SunTrust Bank, Morgan Stanley Bank, The Bank of New York, BNP Paribas, Bank One, JPMorgan Chase Bank, Credit Suisse First Boston, UBS Loan Finance LLC and Societe Generale. The amendment: (i) eliminates the covenant restricting cumulative distributions and outstanding loans to the company's parent; (ii) reduces the EBITDA to interest requirement to 2.0 times from 2.5 times; and (iii) makes several other technical changes for consistency with the new credit agreement. The terms of the existing credit agreement, as amended, otherwise are substantially the same as the company's new $150 million credit agreement, except that the amount the company can borrow under this facility remained at $125 million and except for commitment fees and interest rates, which remain unchanged. The amendment to the existing credit agreement is filed as Exhibit 4.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
 
The lenders, agents and other parties to these two credit agreements, and their affiliates, have in the past provided, and may in the future provide, investment banking, underwriting, lending, commercial banking and other advisory services to the company, its parent and its subsidiaries, including in connection with the credit agreement described in Item 1.02 below. The lenders have received, and may in the future receive, customary compensation from the company, its parent and its subsidiaries for such services.
 
Item 1.02: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
 
In connection with entering into the 3-Year Revolving Facility Credit Agreement dated as of October 22, 2004 described in Item 1.01 above, the company terminated and replaced its $125 million 364-Day Revolving Facility Credit Agreement dated as of Nov. 7, 2003, with Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and SunTrust Capital Markets, Inc., as Co-Lead Arrangers, SunTrust Bank, as Syndication Agent, Morgan Stanley Bank and The Bank of New York, as Co-Documentation Agents, and the lenders from time to time parties thereto. Under the old credit
 
agreement, the company paid commitment fees of 20 basis points at current credit ratings and could have borrowed up to $125 million at an interest rate equal to either the London interbank deposit rate plus a margin of 105  117.5 basis points at current credit ratings or Citibank's prime rate (or the federal funds rate plus 50 basis points, if higher) plus a margin of 5 basis points at current credit ratings. The terms of the terminated credit agreement otherwise were substantially the same as those of the new credit agreement, except that: (i) the EBITDA to interest minimum was 2.5 times; and (ii) the company's cumulative distributions and outstanding loans to its parent were limited.
 
The lenders, agents and other parties to this terminated credit agreement, and their affiliates, have in the past provided, and may in the future provide, investment banking, underwriting, lending, commercial banking and other advisory services to the company, its parent and its subsidiaries, including in connection with the two credit agreements described in Item 1.01 above. The lenders have received, and may in the future receive, customary compensation from the company, its parent and its subsidiaries for such services.
 
Section 2  Financial Information
 
Item 2.03: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of the Registrant
 
The information in Item 1.01 with respect to the $150 million 3-Year Revolving Facility Credit Agreement dated as of October 22, 2004 is hereby incorporated by reference.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 4.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THIS 3-YEAR REVOLVING FACILITY CREDIT AGREEMENT (this "") dated as of October 22, 2004, is entered into among Tampa Electric Company, a Florida corporation (""), CITIBANK, N.A., as administrative agent for the Lenders (""), CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC., as lead arranger, MORGAN STANLEY BANK, JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, MERRILL LYNCH BANK USA and SUNTRUST BANK as co-syndication agents, and the financial institutions listed on Schedule 1 or who later become a party hereto (the "").
Agreement
Borrower
Administrative Agent
Lenders
 
 
A. Borrower desires to obtain financing for general corporate purposes and, in connection therewith, has requested that the Lenders provide such financing to Borrower; and
 
B. The Lenders are willing to provide to Borrower a $150,000,000 three (3) year unsecured revolving credit facility upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein (the "").
Facility
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the agreements herein and in the other Credit Facility Documents and in reliance upon the representations and warranties set forth herein and therein, the parties agree as follows:
 
 
1.1
Definitions.
 
Except as otherwise expressly provided, capitalized terms used in this Agreement and its exhibits shall have the meanings given in Exhibit A.
 
1.2
Rules of Interpretation.
 
Except as otherwise expressly provided, the Rules of Interpretation set forth in Exhibit A shall apply to this Agreement and the other Credit Facility Documents.
 
 
2.1
Credit Facility.
 
2.1.1 Revolving Credit Facility.
 
2.1.1.1 . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, each Lender severally agrees to advance to Borrower from time to time prior to the
Availability
 
Maturity Date, an advance (each, a ""), in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed such Lender's Commitment. Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, each Loan shall be funded by the Lenders as described in Section 2.1.1.3. Borrower may, subject to the provisions of this Agreement, borrow, repay and reborrow under the Facility from time to time prior to the Maturity Date.
Loan
 
2.1.1.2 Borrower shall request Loans by delivering to Administrative Agent a written notice in the form of Exhibit C-1, appropriately completed (a "") which specifies, among other things:
Notice of Borrowing.
Notice of Borrowing
 
(a) The principal portion of the requested Borrowing which will bear interest as provided in (A) Section 2.1.2.1(a) (individually, a "") and (B) Section 2.1.2.1.(b) (individually, a "");
Base Rate Loan
LIBOR Loan
 
(b) The amount of the requested Borrowing, which shall be in the minimum amount of $10,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof (except in the case of a Loan of all remaining undrawn amounts under the Facility);
 
(c) The date of the requested Borrowing, which shall be a Banking Day; and
 
(d) The account(s) to which the proceeds of the Borrowing are to be deposited, as contemplated by Section 2.1.1.3(d).
 
Borrower shall deliver each such Notice of Borrowing so as to provide not less than the Minimum Notice Period. Any Notice of Borrowing may be modified or revoked by Borrower through the Banking Day prior to the applicable Minimum Notice Period, and thereafter shall be irrevocable.
 
2.1.1.3
Loan Funding.
 
(a) . The Notice of Borrowing shall be delivered to Administrative Agent in accordance with Section 8.1. Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the contents of each Notice of Borrowing.
Notice
 
(b) . Each Loan shall be made on a pro rata basis by the Lenders in accordance with their respective Proportionate Shares, with each Borrowing to consist of a Loan by each Lender equal to such Lender's Proportionate Share of such Borrowing.
Pro Rata Loans
 
(c) . Each Lender shall, before 12:00 noon in the case of LIBOR Loans and 2:00 p.m. in the case of Base Rate Loans, in each case, on the date of each Borrowing, make available to Administrative Agent at its office specified in Section 8.1, in same day funds, such Lender's Proportionate Share of such Borrowing. The failure of any Lender to make the Loan to be made by it as part of any Borrowing shall not relieve any other
Lender Funding
 
Lender of its obligation hereunder to make its Loan on the date of such Borrowing. No Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to make the Loan to be made by such other Lender on the date of any Borrowing.
 
(d) . No later than 2:00 p.m. in the case of LIBOR Loans and 3:00 p.m. in the case of Base Rate Loans, in each case, on the date specified in each Notice of Borrowing, if the applicable conditions precedent listed in Article III have been satisfied or waived and to the extent Administrative Agent shall have received the appropriate funds from the Lenders, Administrative Agent shall make available the Loans requested in such Notice of Borrowing in Dollars and in immediately available funds, at Administrative Agent's New York Branch, and shall transfer such funds to the bank account(s) specified by Borrower in the Notice of Borrowing delivered in respect of such Borrowing.
Funding of Loans
 
2.1.2 Interest Provisions Applicable to all Loans.
 
2.1.2.1 Borrower shall pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Loan from the date of such Loan until the maturity or prepayment thereof at one of the following rates per annum:
Loan Interest Rates.
 
(a) With respect to the principal portion of such Loan which is, and during such periods as such Loan is, a Base Rate Loan, at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate (such rate to change from time to time as the Base Rate shall change) plus the Applicable Margin.
 
(b) With respect to the principal portion of such Loan which is, and during such periods as such Loan is, a LIBOR Loan, at a rate per annum during each Interest Period for such LIBOR Loan equal to the LIBOR Rate for such Interest Period plus the Applicable Margin.
 
2.1.2.2 Unless otherwise specified by Borrower in a Notice of Borrowing or Notice of Conversion of Loan Type and except as otherwise provided for herein, all Loans shall be Base Rate Loans. Subject to the applicable limitations set forth herein, Loans shall bear interest based upon the LIBOR Rate as specified by Borrower in the applicable Notice of Borrowing or Notice of Conversion of Loan Type. Borrower shall not request, and the Lenders shall not be obligated to make, LIBOR Loans at any time an Inchoate Default or Event of Default exists. If an Event of Default exists at the end of an Interest Period, the LIBOR Loans whose Interest Period is then ending shall automatically convert to Base Rate Loans at such time.
Interest Provisions.
 
2.1.2.3 Borrower shall pay accrued interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Loan (i) in the case of each Base Rate Loan, on the last Banking Day of each calendar quarter, (ii) in the case of each LIBOR Loan, on the last day of each Interest Period related to each LIBOR Loan and, with respect to Interest Periods longer than three months, the last Banking Day of each calendar quarter, and (iii) in all cases, upon prepayment (to the extent thereof and including any optional prepayments), upon conversion from one Type of Loan to another Type and at maturity (whether by acceleration or otherwise).
Interest Payment Dates.
 
2.1.2.4
Interest Periods.
 
(a) Each Interest Period selected by Borrower for all LIBOR Loans shall be one, two, three or six months or such other period as close to six months as is practicable to enable Borrower to limit the number of LIBOR Loans as required by this Section 2.1.2.4(a) or to comply with clause (C) of the next sentence. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the previous sentence, (A) any Interest Period which would otherwise end on a day which is not a Banking Day shall be extended to the next succeeding Banking Day unless such next Banking Day falls in another calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the immediately preceding Banking Day; (B) any Interest Period which begins on the last Banking Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Banking Day of the next calendar month; (C) any Interest Period for a Loan which would otherwise end after the Maturity Date shall end on the Maturity Date; (D) Borrower may not at any time have outstanding more than five different Interest Periods relating to LIBOR Loans; and (E) LIBOR Loans for each Interest Period shall be in the amount of at least $1,000,000.
 
(b) Borrower may contact Administrative Agent at any time prior to the end of an Interest Period for a quotation of interest rates in effect at such time for given Interest Periods and Administrative Agent shall promptly provide such quotation. Borrower may select an Interest Period telephonically within the time periods specified in Section 2.1.1.2, which selection shall be irrevocable on and after commencement of the applicable Minimum Notice Period. Borrower shall confirm such telephonic notice to Administrative Agent by telecopy on the day such notice is given (in substantially the form of Exhibit C-3, a "") and Administrative Agent shall promptly forward the same to the Lenders. Borrower shall promptly deliver to Administrative Agent the original of the Confirmation of Interest Period Selection initially delivered by telecopy. If Borrower fails to notify Administrative Agent of the next Interest Period for any LIBOR Loans in accordance with this Section 2.1.2.4(b), such Loans shall automatically convert to Base Rate Loans on the last day of the current Interest Period therefor. Administrative Agent shall as soon as practicable (and, in any case, within two Banking Days after delivery of the Confirmation of Interest Period Selection by telecopy as provided for above) notify Borrower of each determination of the interest rate applicable to each Loan.
Confirmation of Interest Period Selection
 
2.1.2.5 . Borrower authorizes Administrative Agent to record in an account or accounts maintained by Administrative Agent on its books (i) the interest rates applicable to all Loans and the effective dates of all changes thereto, (ii) the Interest Period for each LIBOR Loan, (iii) the date and amount of each principal and interest payment on each Loan and (iv) such other information as Administrative Agent may determine is necessary for the computation of interest payable by Borrower hereunder. Borrower agrees that all computations by Administrative Agent of interest shall be conclusive in the
Interest Account and Interest Computations
 
absence of demonstrable error. All computations of interest on Base Rate Loans shall be based upon a year of 365 or 366 days and the actual days elapsed since the last interest payment date, and shall be adjusted in accordance with any changes in the Base Rate to take effect on the beginning of the day of such change in the Base Rate. All computations of interest on LIBOR Loans shall be based upon a year of 360 days and the actual days elapsed.
 
2.1.3 Conversion of Loans. Borrower may convert any Loan from one Type of Loan to another Type; , , that (i) any conversion of LIBOR Loans into Base Rate Loans shall be made on, and only on, the first day after the last day of an Interest Period for such LIBOR Loans, and (ii) Loans shall be converted only in amounts of $10,000,000 and increments of $1,000,000 in excess thereof. Borrower shall request such a conversion by a written notice to Administrative Agent in the form of Exhibit C-2, appropriately completed (a ""), which specifies:
provided
however
Notice of Conversion of Loan Type
 
(a) The Loans, or portion thereof, which are to be converted;
 
(b) The Type into which such Loans, or portion thereof, are to be converted;
 
(c) If such Loans are to be converted into LIBOR Loans, the initial Interest Period selected by Borrower for such Loans in accordance with Section 2.1.2.4(b); and
 
(d) The date of the requested conversion, which shall be a Banking Day.
 
Borrower shall give each Notice of Conversion of Loan Type to Administrative Agent so as to provide at least the applicable Minimum Notice Period. Any Notice of Conversion of Loan Type may be modified or revoked by Borrower through the Banking Day prior to the Minimum Notice Period, and shall thereafter be irrevocable. Each Notice of Conversion of Loan Type shall be delivered by first-class mail or telecopy to Administrative Agent at the office or to the telecopy number and as otherwise specified in Section 8.1; , , that Borrower shall promptly deliver to Administrative Agent the original of any Notice of Conversion of Loan Type initially delivered by telecopy. Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the contents of each Notice of Conversion of Loan Type.
provided
however
 
2.1.4 Loan Principal Payment. On the Maturity Date, Borrower shall repay to Administrative Agent, for the account of each Lender, the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Loans made by such Lender, with any remaining unpaid principal, interest, fees and costs due and payable on such date. From and after the Maturity Date, upon payment in full of the aggregate principal amount of the Loans, all accrued and unpaid interest thereon and all other amounts owed by Borrower to Administrative Agent or the Lenders hereunder and under the other Credit Facility Documents, the Lenders shall promptly mark any Notes cancelled and return such cancelled Notes to Borrower.
 
2.1.5 Promissory Notes. The obligation of Borrower to repay the Loans made by each Lender and to pay interest thereon at the rates provided herein shall, upon the written request of any Lender, be evidenced by Notes in the form of Exhibit B (each, a ""), each payable to the order of such Lender and in the principal amount of such Lender's Commitment. Borrower authorizes each Lender to record on the schedule annexed to such Lender's Note or Notes, and/or in the Lenders internal records, the date and amount of each Loan made by such Lender, and each payment or prepayment of principal thereunder and agrees that all such notations shall constitute prima facie evidence of the matters noted. Borrower further authorizes each Lender to attach to and make a part of such Lender's Note or Notes continuations of the schedule attached thereto as necessary. No failure to make any such notations, nor any errors in making any such notations shall affect the validity of Borrower's obligation to repay the full unpaid principal amount of the Loans or the duties of Borrower hereunder or thereunder.
Note
 
2.1.6 Prepayments.
 
2.1.6.1 . Upon the prepayment of any Loan, Borrower shall pay to Administrative Agent for the account of the Lender which made such Loan (i) all accrued interest to the date of such prepayment on the amount prepaid and (ii) if such prepayment is the prepayment of a LIBOR Loan on a day other than the last day of an Interest Period for such LIBOR Loan, all Liquidation Costs incurred by such Lender as a result of such prepayment (pursuant to the terms of Section 2.7).
Terms of all Prepayments
 
2.1.6.2 . Subject to Section 2.1.6.1, Borrower may, at its option and without penalty, upon three Banking Days' notice to Administrative Agent, prepay any Loans in whole or in part in an amount of $10,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof (except in the case of a prepayment of all the Loans under the Facility).
Optional Prepayments
 
2.2
Total Commitments and Fees.
 
2.2.1 Total Commitment. The aggregate principal amount of all Loans made by the Lenders and outstanding at any one time shall not exceed $150,000,000, subject to reductions by Borrower to a lower amount pursuant to Section 2.2.2 (as so reduced from time to time, the "").
Total Commitment
 
2.2.2 Reductions and Cancellations. Borrower may, from time to time upon three Banking Days' written notice to Administrative Agent (who shall promptly deliver such notice to the Lenders), permanently reduce, by an amount of $10,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof or cancel in its entirety, the Total Commitment. Notwithstanding anything in this Section 2.2.2 to the contrary, Borrower may not reduce or cancel any portion of the Total Commitment if, after giving effect to such reduction or cancellation, (a) the aggregate principal amount of all Loans then outstanding would exceed the Total Commitment or (b) such reduction or cancellation would cause a violation of any provision of this Agreement or the other Credit Facility Documents. Borrower shall pay to Administrative Agent any Facility Fees then
 
due on such cancelled amount upon any such reduction or cancellation. From the effective date of any such reduction, the Facility Fees shall be computed on the basis of the Total Commitment as so reduced. Once reduced or cancelled, the Total Commitment may not be increased or reinstated. Any reductions pursuant to this Section 2.2.2 shall be applied ratably to each Lender's respective Commitments in accordance with Section 2.5.1.
 
2.3
Fees
 
2.3.1 Up Front Fees. On the Closing Date, Borrower shall pay to Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Lenders, the up-front fee (the "") described in the Fee Letter (but only to the extent such Up-Front Fee is payable as of the Closing Date pursuant to the Fee Letter).
Up-Front Fee
 
2.3.2 Facility Fees. On the last Banking Day in each calendar quarter (where all or any portion of such calendar quarter occurs on or after the Closing Date and prior to the Maturity Date) and on the Maturity Date (or, if the Total Commitment is cancelled prior to such date, on the date of such cancellation), Borrower shall pay to Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Lenders, accruing from the Closing Date or the first day of such quarter, as the case may be, a facility fee (collectively, the "") for such quarter (or portion thereof) then ending equal to the sum of the products obtained by multiplying, (i) each applicable percentage set forth below based on Borrower's senior unsecured long term debt rating(s) during the period of determination times (ii) the daily average Total Commitment in each case irrespective of usage, times (iii) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days in such quarter (or portion thereof) on which such applicable percentage applies to Borrower and the denominator of which is three hundred sixty (360).
Facility Fees
 
 
2.4
Other Payment Terms.
 
2.4.1 Place and Manner. Borrower shall make all payments due to each Lender hereunder to Administrative Agent, for the account of such Lender, to Citibank, N.A., ABA 021000089, Account Number: 36852248, in lawful money of the United States and in immediately available funds not later than 12:00 noon, on the date on which such payment is due. Any payment received after such time on any day shall be deemed received on the Banking Day after such payment is received. Administrative Agent shall disburse to each Lender each such payment received by Administrative Agent for such Lender, such disbursement to occur on the day such payment is received if received by 12:00 noon, otherwise on the next Banking Day.
 
2.4.2 Date. Whenever any payment due hereunder shall fall due on a day other than a Banking Day, such payment shall be made on the next succeeding Banking Day, and such extension of time shall be included in the computation of interest or fees, as the case may be, without duplication of any interest or fees so paid in the next subsequent calculation of interest or fees payable.
 
2.4.3 Late Payments. If any amounts required to be paid by Borrower under this Agreement or the other Credit Facility Documents (including principal or interest payable on any Loan, and any fees or other amounts otherwise payable to Administrative Agent or any Lender) remain unpaid after such overdue amounts are due, Borrower shall pay interest (including following any Bankruptcy Event with respect to Borrower) on the aggregate, outstanding balance of such amounts from the date due until those amounts are paid in full at a per annum rate equal to the Default Rate.
 
2.4.4 Net of Taxes, Etc.
 
2.4.4.1 . Subject to each Lender's compliance with Section 2.4.7, any and all payments to or for the benefit of Administrative Agent or any Lender by Borrower hereunder or under any other Credit Facility Document shall be made free and clear of and without deduction, setoff or counterclaim of any kind whatsoever and in such amounts as may be necessary in order that all such payments, after deduction for or on account of any present or future taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges or withholdings, and all liabilities with respect thereto (excluding income and franchise taxes, which include taxes imposed on or measured by the net income, net profits or capital of Administrative Agent or such Lender by any jurisdiction or any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof or therein as a result of a connection between such Lender and such jurisdiction or political subdivision, unless such connection results solely from such Lender's executing, delivering or performing its obligations or receiving a payment under, or enforcing, this Agreement or any Note) (all such non-excluded taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges, withholdings and liabilities being hereinafter referred to as ""), shall be equal to the amounts otherwise specified to be paid under this Agreement and the other Credit Facility Documents. If Borrower shall be required by law to withhold or deduct any Taxes from or in respect of any sum payable hereunder or under any other Credit Facility Document to Administrative Agent or any Lender, (i) the sum payable shall be increased as may
Taxes
Taxes
 
be necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section 2.4.4), Administrative Agent or such Lender receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant taxation authority or other authority in accordance with applicable law. In addition, Borrower agrees to pay any present or future stamp, recording or documentary taxes and any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies (not including income or franchise taxes) that arise under the laws of the United States of America, the State of New York or the State of Florida from any payment made hereunder or under any other Credit Facility Document or from the execution or delivery or otherwise with respect to this Agreement or any other Credit Facility Document (hereinafter referred to as "").
Other Taxes
 
2.4.4.2 . Borrower shall indemnify each Lender for and hold it harmless against the full amount of Taxes and Other Taxes (including any Taxes or Other Taxes imposed by any jurisdiction on amounts payable under this Section 2.4.4) paid by any Lender, or any liability (including penalties, interest and expenses) arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally asserted; provided that Borrower shall not be obligated to indemnify any Lender for any penalties, interest or expenses relating to Taxes or Other Taxes arising from such Lender's gross negligence or willful misconduct. Each Lender agrees to give notice to Borrower of the assertion of any claim against such Lender relating to such Taxes or Other Taxes as promptly as is practicable after being notified of such assertion, and in no event later than 90 days after the principal officer of such Lender responsible for administering this Agreement obtains knowledge thereof; provided that any Lender's failure to notify Borrower of such assertion within such 90 day period shall not relieve Borrower of its obligation under this Section 2.4.4 with respect to Taxes or Other Taxes, penalties, interest or expenses arising prior to the end of such period, but shall relieve Borrower of its obligations under this Section 2.4.4 with respect to Taxes and Other Taxes, penalties, interest or expenses accruing between the end of such period and such time as Borrower receives notice from such Lender as provided herein. Payments by Borrower pursuant to this indemnification shall be made within 30 days from the date such Lender makes written demand therefor (submitted through Administrative Agent), which demand shall be accompanied by a certificate describing in reasonable detail the basis thereof.
Indemnity
 
2.4.4.3 Within 30 days after the date of any payment of Taxes by Borrower, Borrower shall furnish to Administrative Agent, at its address referred to in Section 8.1, the original or a certified copy of a receipt evidencing payment thereof or if such receipt is not obtainable, other evidence of such payment by Borrower reasonably satisfactory to Administrative Agent. Borrower shall compensate each Lender for all reasonable losses and expenses sustained by such Lender as a result of any failure by Borrower to so furnish such copy of such receipt.
Notice.
 
2.4.4.4 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Section 2.4.4, if a Lender is a conduit entity participating in a conduit financing arrangement (as defined in Section 7701(l) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations issued thereunder) then
Conduits.
 
with respect to any payments made by Borrower under this Agreement or under any Note, Borrower shall not be obligated to pay additional amounts to such Lender pursuant to this Section 2.4.4 to the extent that the amount of United States Taxes exceeds the amount that would have otherwise been payable if such Lender were not a conduit entity participating in a conduit financing arrangement.
 
2.4.4.5 The obligations of Borrower under this Section 2.4.4 shall survive the termination of this Agreement and the repayment of the Obligations.
Survival of Credit Facility Obligations.
 
2.4.5 Application of Payments. Payments made under this Agreement or the other Credit Facility Documents shall (a) first be applied to any fees, costs, charges or expenses due and payable to Administrative Agent and the Lenders hereunder or under the other Credit Facility Documents, (b) next to any accrued but unpaid interest then due and owing and (c) then to outstanding principal then due and payable or otherwise to be prepaid.
 
2.4.6 Failure to Pay Administrative Agent. Unless Administrative Agent shall have received notice from Borrower at least two Banking Days prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Lenders hereunder that Borrower will not make such payment in full, Administrative Agent may assume that Borrower has made such payment in full to Administrative Agent on such date and Administrative Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, cause to be distributed to each Lender on such due date an amount equal to the amount then due such Lender. If and to the extent Borrower shall not have so made such payment in full to Administrative Agent, such Lender shall repay to Administrative Agent forthwith upon demand such amount distributed to such Lender, together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is distributed to such Lender until the date such Lender repays such amount to Administrative Agent, at the Federal Funds Rate for the first five days after such date, and subsequent thereto at the Base Rate. A certificate of Administrative Agent submitted to any Lender with respect to any amounts owing by such Lender under this Section 2.4.6 shall be conclusive in the absence of demonstrable error.
 
2.4.7 Withholding Exemption Certificates. Administrative Agent on the Closing Date and each Lender upon becoming a Lender hereunder including any entity to which any Lender grants a participation or otherwise transfers its interest in this Agreement agrees that it will deliver to Administrative Agent and Borrower either (A) a statement that it is formed under the laws of the United States of America or a state thereof or (B) if it is not so incorporated, two duly completed copies of United States Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI or W-8BEN or successor applicable form, as the case may be, certifying in each case that such Lender is entitled to receive payments under this Agreement without deduction or withholding of any United States federal income taxes. Each Lender which delivers to Borrower and Administrative Agent a Form W-8ECI or W-8BEN pursuant to the preceding sentence further undertakes to deliver to Borrower and Administrative Agent further copies of the said letter and Form W-8ECI or W-8BEN, or successor applicable forms, or other manner of certification or procedure, as the case may be, on or before the date that any such letter or form
 
expires or becomes obsolete or within a reasonable time after gaining knowledge of the occurrence of any event requiring a change in the most recent letter and forms previously delivered by it to Borrower, and such extensions or renewals thereof as may reasonably be requested by Borrower, certifying in the case of a Form W-8ECI or W-8BEN that such Lender is entitled to receive payments under this Agreement without deduction or withholding of any United States federal income taxes, unless in any such cases an event (including any change in any treaty, law or regulation) has occurred prior to the date on which any such delivery would otherwise be required which renders all such forms inapplicable or which would reasonably prevent a Lender from duly completing and delivering any such letter or form with respect to it and such Lender advises Borrower that it is not capable of receiving payments without any deduction or withholding of United States federal income tax, and in the case of Form W-8ECI or W-8BEN, establishing an exemption from United States backup withholding tax. Borrower shall not be obligated, however, to pay any additional amounts in respect of United States Federal income tax pursuant to Section 2.4.4.1 (or make an indemnification payment pursuant to Section 2.4.4.2) to any Lender (including any entity to which any Lender sells, assigns, grants a participation in, or otherwise transfers its rights under this Agreement) if the obligation to pay such additional amounts (or such indemnification) would not have arisen but for a failure of such Lender to comply with its obligations under this Section 2.4.7.
 
2.5
Pro Rata Treatment.
 
2.5.1 Borrowings, Commitment Reductions, Etc. Except as otherwise provided herein, (a) each Borrowing and each reduction of the Total Commitment shall be made or allocated among the Lenders according to their respective Proportionate Shares, (b) each payment of principal and interest on Loans shall be made or shared among the Lenders holding such Loans, according to their respective Proportionate Shares and (c) each payment of Facility Fees shall be shared among the Lenders according to (i) their respective Proportionate Shares of the Commitments and (ii) in the case of each Lender which becomes a Lender hereunder after the date hereof, the date upon which such Lender so became a Lender.
pro rata
pro rata
pro rata
 
2.5.2 Sharing of Payments, Etc. If any Lender shall obtain any payment (whether voluntary, involuntary, through the exercise of any right of set-off, or otherwise) hereunder in excess of its ratable share of payments in accordance with Section 2.5.1, such Lender shall forthwith purchase from the other Lenders such participations in the Loans as shall be necessary to cause such purchasing Lender to share the excess payment ratably with each of them; , , that if all or any portion of such excess payment is thereafter recovered from such purchasing Lender, such purchase from such Lender shall be rescinded and each other Lender shall repay to the purchasing Lender the purchase price to the extent of such recovery together with an amount equal to such other Lender's ratable share (according to the proportion of (a) the amount of such other Lender's required repayment to (b) the total amount so recovered from the purchasing Lender) of any interest or other amount paid or payable by the purchasing Lender in respect of the total amount so recovered. Borrower agrees that any Lender so purchasing a participation from another Lender pursuant to this Section 2.5.2 may, to the fullest
provided
however
 
extent permitted by law, exercise all its rights of payment (including the right of set-off) with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were the direct creditor of Borrower in the amount of such participation.
 
2.6
Change of Circumstances.
 
2.6.1 Inability to Determine Rates. If, on or before the first day of any Interest Period for any LIBOR Loans, (a) Administrative Agent determines that the LIBOR Rate for such Interest Period cannot be adequately and reasonably determined due to the unavailability of funds in or other circumstances affecting the London interbank market, or (b) Lenders holding aggregate Proportionate Shares of 33
 1
/
3
% or more shall advise Administrative Agent that (i) the rates of interest for such LIBOR Loans do not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders of making or maintaining such Loans or (ii) deposits in Dollars in the London interbank market are not available to such Lenders (as conclusively certified by each such Lender in good faith in writing to Administrative Agent and to Borrower) in the ordinary course of business in sufficient amounts to make and/or maintain its LIBOR Loans, Administrative Agent shall immediately give notice of such condition to Borrower. After the giving of any such notice and until Administrative Agent shall otherwise notify Borrower that the circumstances giving rise to such condition no longer exist, Borrower's right to request the making of or conversion to, and the Lenders' obligations to make or convert to, LIBOR Loans shall be suspended. Any LIBOR Loans outstanding at the commencement of any suspension shall be converted at the end of the then current Interest Period for such Loans into Base Rate Loans, as applicable, unless such suspension has then ended.
 
2.6.2 Illegality. If, after the date of this Agreement, the adoption of any Governmental Rule, any change in any Governmental Rule or the application or requirements thereof (whether such change occurs in accordance with the terms of such Governmental Rule as enacted, as a result of amendment, or otherwise), any change in the interpretation or administration of any Governmental Rule by any Governmental Authority, or compliance by any Lender or Borrower with any request or directive (whether or not having the force of law, but if not having the force of law, being of the type with which a Lender customarily complies) of any Governmental Authority (a "") shall make it unlawful or impossible for any Lender to make or maintain any LIBOR Loan, such Lender shall immediately notify Administrative Agent and Borrower of such Change of Law. Upon receipt of such notice, (a) Borrower's right to request the making of or conversion to, and the Lenders' obligations to make or convert to, LIBOR Loans, as the case may be, shall be suspended for so long as such condition shall exist, and (b) Borrower shall, at the request of such Lender, either (i) pursuant to Section 2.1.3, convert any then outstanding LIBOR Loans into Base Rate Loans at the end of the current Interest Periods for such Loans, or (ii) immediately repay or convert (at Borrower's option) LIBOR Loans into Base Rate Loans if such Lender shall notify Borrower that such Lender may not lawfully continue to fund and maintain such Loans as LIBOR Loans. Any conversion or prepayment of LIBOR Loans made pursuant to the preceding sentence prior to the last day of an Interest Period for such Loans shall be deemed a prepayment thereof for purposes of Section 2.7.
Change of Law
 
2.6.3 Increased Costs. If, after the date of this Agreement, any Change of Law:
 
2.6.3.1 Shall subject any Lender to any tax, duty or other charge with respect to any LIBOR Loan, or Commitment in respect thereof, or shall change the basis of taxation of payments by Borrower to any Lender on such a Loan or with respect to any such Commitment (except for Taxes, Other Taxes or changes in the rate of taxation on the overall net income of any Lender); or
 
2.6.3.2 Shall impose, modify or hold applicable any reserve, special deposit or similar requirement (without duplication of any reserve requirement included within the applicable interest rate through the definition of "Reserve Requirement") against assets held by, deposits or other liabilities in or for the account of, advances or loans by, or any other acquisition of funds by, any Lender for any LIBOR Loan; or
 
2.6.3.3 Shall impose on any Lender any other condition directly related to any LIBOR Loan or Commitment in respect thereof;
 
and the effect of any of the foregoing is to increase the cost to such Lender of making, issuing, creating, renewing, participating in or maintaining any such LIBOR Loan or Commitment in respect thereof or to reduce any amount receivable by such Lender hereunder; then Borrower shall from time to time, within 30 days after demand by such Lender, pay to such Lender additional amounts sufficient to reimburse such Lender for such increased costs or to compensate such Lender for such reduced amounts. A certificate setting forth in reasonable detail the amount of such increased costs or reduced amounts and the basis for determination of such amount, submitted by such Lender to Borrower, shall, in the absence of demonstrable error, be conclusive and binding on Borrower for purposes of this Agreement.
 
2.6.4 Capital Requirements. If any Lender determines that (a) any Change of Law after the date of this Agreement increases the amount of capital required or expected to be maintained by such Lender, or the Lending Office of such Lender or any Person controlling such Lender (a ""), and (b) the amount of capital maintained by such Lender or such Person which is attributable to or based upon the Loans, the Commitments or this Agreement must be increased as a result of such Capital Adequacy Requirement (taking into account such Lender's or such Person's policies with respect to capital adequacy), Borrower shall pay to Administrative Agent on behalf of such Lender or such Person, within 30 days after demand of Administrative Agent on behalf of such Lender or such Person, such amounts as such Lender or such Person shall reasonably determine are necessary to compensate such Lender or such Person for the increased costs to such Lender or such Person of such increased capital. A certificate of such Lender or such Person, setting forth in reasonable detail the computation of any such increased costs, delivered to Borrower by Administrative Agent on behalf of such Lender or such Person shall, in the absence of demonstrable error, be conclusive and binding on Borrower for purposes of this Agreement.
Capital Adequacy Requirement
 
2.6.5 Notice; Participating Lenders' Rights. Each Lender shall notify Borrower of any event occurring after the date of this Agreement that will entitle such Lender to compensation pursuant to this Section 2.6, as promptly as practicable, and in no event later than 180 days after the principal officer of such Lender responsible for administering this Agreement obtained knowledge thereof; , , that the failure to give Borrower notice within such 180 day period and to make such determination during such periods shall not relieve Borrower of the obligation under this Section 2.6 with respect to any claim arising prior to the end of such period, but shall relieve Borrower of its obligations under this Section 2.6 with respect to the time between the end of such period and such time as Borrower receives notice from such Lender as provided herein. No Person purchasing from a Lender a participation in any Commitment (as opposed to an assignment) shall be entitled to any payment from or on behalf of Borrower pursuant to Section 2.6.3 or Section 2.6.4 which would be in excess of the applicable proportionate amount (based on the portion of the Commitments in which such Person is participating) which would then be payable to such Lender if such Lender had not sold a participation in that portion of the Commitment.
provided
however
 
2.7 If Borrower shall (a) repay or prepay any LIBOR Loans on any day other than the last day of an Interest Period for such Loans, (b) fail to borrow any LIBOR Loans in accordance with a Notice of Borrowing delivered to Administrative Agent (whether as a result of the failure to satisfy any applicable conditions or otherwise) after such notice has become irrevocable, (c) fail to convert any Base Rate Loans into LIBOR Loans, as applicable, in accordance with a Notice of Conversion of Loan Type delivered to Administrative Agent (whether as a result of the failure to satisfy any applicable conditions or otherwise) after such notice has become irrevocable, (d) fail to continue a LIBOR Loan in accordance with a Confirmation of Interest Period Selection after such notice of confirmation has become irrevocable, or (e) fail to make any prepayment in accordance with any notice of prepayment delivered to Administrative Agent, Borrower shall, within 30 days after demand by any Lender, reimburse such Lender for all reasonable costs and losses incurred by such Lender ("") due to such payment, prepayment or failure. Borrower understands that such costs and losses may include losses incurred by a Lender as a result of funding and other contracts entered into by such Lender to fund LIBOR Loans (other than non receipt of the Applicable Margin). Each Lender demanding payment under this Section 2.7 shall deliver to Borrower a certificate setting forth in reasonable detail the amount of costs and losses for which demand is made. Such a certificate so delivered to Borrower shall, in the absence of demonstrable error, be conclusive and binding as to the amount of such loss for purposes of this Agreement.
Funding Losses.
Liquidation Costs
 
2.8
Alternate Office, Minimization of Costs.
 
2.8.1 Minimization of Costs. To the extent reasonably possible, each Lender shall designate an alternative Lending Office with respect to its LIBOR Loans and otherwise take any reasonable actions to reduce any liability of Borrower to any Lender under Sections 2.4.4, 2.6.3, 2.6.4 or 2.7, or to avoid the unavailability of any Type of Loans under Section 2.6.2 so long as (in the case of the designation of an alternative Lending Office) such Lender, in its sole discretion, does not determine that such designation is disadvantageous to such Lender.
 
2.8.2 Replacement Rights. If and with respect to each occasion that a Lender either makes a demand for compensation pursuant to Section 2.4.4, 2.6.3 or 2.6.4 or is unable for a period of three consecutive months to fund LIBOR Loans pursuant to Section 2.6.2 or such Lender wrongfully fails to fund a Loan, Borrower may, upon at least 5 Banking Days' prior irrevocable written notice to each of such Lenders and Administrative Agent, in whole permanently replace the Loans and Commitments of such Lender; that Borrower shall replace such Loans and Commitments with the Loans and Commitments of a lender reasonably satisfactory to Administrative Agent. Such replacement Lender shall upon the effective date of replacement purchase the Obligations owed to such replaced Lender for the aggregate amount thereof and shall thereupon and for all purposes become a "Lender" hereunder. Such notice from Borrower shall specify an effective date for the replacement of such Lender's Loans and Commitments, which date shall not be later than the fourteenth (14
provided
th
) day after the day such notice is given. On the effective date of any replacement of a Lender's Loans and Commitments and Obligations pursuant to this Section 2.8.2, Borrower shall pay to Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender (a) any fees due to such Lender to the date of such replacement; (b) the principal of and accrued interest on the principal amount of outstanding Loans held by such Lender to the date of such replacement (such amount to be represented by the purchase of the Obligations of such replaced Lender by the replacing Lender and not as a prepayment of such Loans), and (c) the amount or amounts due to such Lender pursuant to each of Sections 2.4.4, 2.6.3 or 2.6.4, as applicable, and any other amount then payable hereunder to such Lender. In addition, if the replacement Lender was not previously a "Lender" hereunder, Borrower shall pay to Administrative Agent an administrative fee of $3,500. Borrower will remain liable to such replaced Lender for any Liquidation Costs that such Lender may sustain or incur as a consequence of the purchase of such Lender's Loans (unless such Lender has defaulted on its obligation to fund a Loan hereunder). Upon the effective date of the purchase of any Lender's Loans and termination of such Lender's Commitments pursuant to this Section 2.8.2, such Lender shall cease to be a Lender hereunder. No such termination of such Lender's Commitments and the purchase of such Lender's Loans pursuant to this Section 2.8.2 shall affect (i) any liability or obligation of Borrower or any other Lender to such terminated Lender, or any liability or obligation of such terminated Lender to Borrower or any other Lender, which accrued on or prior to the date of such termination or (ii) such terminated Lender's rights hereunder in respect of any such liability or obligation.
 
2.8.3 Alternate Office. Any Lender may designate a Lending Office other than that set forth on Schedule 1 and may assign all of its interests under the Credit Facility Documents, and its Notes, to such Lending Office, provided that such designation and assignment do not at the time of such designation and assignment increase the reasonably foreseeable liability of Borrower under Sections 2.4.4, 2.6.3 or 2.6.4, or make an interest rate option unavailable pursuant to Section 2.6.2.
 
 
3.1 . The obligation of the Lenders to execute this Agreement and make any requested Loans on the Closing Date is subject to the prior satisfaction of each of the following conditions (unless waived in writing by Administrative Agent with the consent of the Lenders):
Conditions Precedent to the Closing Date
 
3.1.1 Credit Facility Documents. Delivery to Administrative Agent of executed originals of each Credit Facility Document, all of which shall be in form and substance satisfactory to the Lenders, and shall have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the parties thereto.
 
3.1.2 Resolutions. Delivery to Administrative Agent of a copy of one or more resolutions or other authorizations of Borrower in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Lenders and certified by the appropriate officers of Borrower as being in full force and effect on the Closing Date, authorizing the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and the other Credit Facility Documents and any instruments or agreements required hereunder or thereunder to which such entity is a party.
 
3.1.3 Incumbency. Delivery to Administrative Agent of a certificate in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Lenders, from Borrower signed by the appropriate authorized officer and dated the Closing Date, as to the incumbency of the natural persons authorized to execute and deliver this Agreement and the other Credit Facility Documents and any instruments or agreements required hereunder or thereunder to which Borrower is a party.
 
3.1.4 Legal Opinions. Delivery to Administrative Agent of legal opinions of counsel to Borrower and counsel to Administrative Agent, each in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Lenders.
 
3.1.5 Accuracy of Representations and Warranties. Each representation and warranty set forth in Article IV shall be true and correct in all material respects.
 
3.1.6 Financial Statements. Administrative Agent shall have received the most recent annual audited financial statements or Form 10-K from Borrower and, to the extent obtainable, the most recent quarterly financial statements or Form 10-Q of Borrower, with certificates from the appropriate Responsible Officer thereof, stating that no material adverse change in the consolidated assets, liabilities, operations or financial condition of Borrower has occurred from those set forth in the most recent financial statements or the balance sheet, as the case may be, so provided to Administrative Agent.
 
3.1.7 No Defaults. No Event of Default or Inchoate Default shall have occurred and is continuing or will result from the execution of this Agreement or any other Credit Facility Document.
 
3.1.8 Notice of Borrowing. If a Loan is to be made on the Closing Date, Administrative Agent shall have received a Notice of Borrowing meeting the requirements of Section 2.1.1.2.
 
3.1.9 Certificate of Borrower. Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate, dated as of the Closing Date, signed by a Responsible Officer of Borrower, in substantially the form of Exhibit D.
 
3.1.10 Payment of Fees. All amounts required to be paid to Administrative Agent under the Credit Facility Documents, and all taxes, fees and other costs payable in connection with the execution and delivery of the documents and instruments referred to in this Section 3.1 (or incorporated herein by reference) shall have been paid in full or, as approved by Administrative Agent, provided for.
 
3.1.11 Termination of Credit Facility. Borrower's right to borrow under the 364-Day Revolving Facility Credit Agreement, dated as of November 7, 2003, among Borrower, Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Suntrust Capital Markets, Inc., as Co-Lead Arrangers, Suntrust Bank as Co-Syndication Agent and Morgan Stanley Bank and The Bank of New York as Co-Documentation Agents and the financial institutions parties thereto, shall have been terminated and all amounts owed by Borrower thereunder shall have been paid in full.
 
3.2
Conditions Precedent to Each Borrowing.
 
The obligation of the Lenders to make Loans subsequent to the Closing Date is subject to the prior satisfaction of each of the following conditions ( waived by Administrative Agent with the consent of the Majority Lenders):
unless
 
3.2.1 Accuracy of Representations and Warranties. Each representation and warranty set forth in Article IV shall be true and correct in all material respects as if made on and as of the date of such Borrowing, before and after giving effect thereto and the application of the proceeds therefrom, unless such representation or warranty relates solely to another time, in which event such representation or warranty shall be true and correct in all material respects as of such other time.
 
3.2.2 No Defaults. No Event of Default or Inchoate Default shall have occurred and is continuing or will result from such Borrowing.
 
3.2.3 No Material Adverse Effect. No event or circumstance shall have occurred and is continuing which is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect on Borrower or will result from such Borrowing.
 
3.2.4 Notice of Borrowing. Delivery to Administrative Agent of a Notice of Borrowing meeting the requirements of Section 2.1.1.2.
 
 
Borrower makes the following representations and warranties to and in favor of Administrative Agent and the Lenders as of the Closing Date and, unless otherwise expressly limited to the Closing Date, as of the date of each Borrowing. All of these representations and warranties shall survive the Closing Date, the issuance of any Notes and the making of the Loans:
 
4.1 Borrower is a corporation duly organized and validly existing in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation and is duly qualified to do business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is necessary to execute, deliver and perform this Agreement and each other Credit Facility Document to which it is or is to become a party.
Corporate Existence and Business.
 
4.2 Borrower has full power and authority and the legal right to execute, deliver and perform this Agreement and each other Credit Facility Document to which it is or is to become a party and to take all action as may be necessary to complete the transactions contemplated hereunder and thereunder. Borrower has taken all necessary corporate action to authorize the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and each other Credit Facility Document to which it is or is to become a party to complete the transactions contemplated hereby. No consent or authorization of, filing with, or other act by or in respect of any other Person or Governmental Authority is required in connection with the execution, delivery or performance by Borrower, or the validity or enforceability as to Borrower, of this Agreement and each other Credit Facility Document to which it is or is to become a party, except such consents or authorizations or filings or other acts as have already been obtained or where the failure to obtain such consent or authorization could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Borrower. This Agreement and each other Credit Facility Document to which Borrower is a party have been duly executed and delivered by Borrower and constitute, and each other Credit Facility Document to which it is to become a party will upon execution and delivery thereof by Borrower and the other parties thereto (if any) constitutes, a legal, valid and binding obligation of Borrower enforceable against it in accordance with its terms except as enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting the right of creditors generally and by general principles of equity.
Power and Authorization; Enforceable Obligations.
 
4.3 The execution, delivery and performance by Borrower of this Agreement and each other Credit Facility Document to which it is or is to become a party to complete the transactions contemplated hereby and the making by Borrower of any payments hereunder or under any other Credit Facility Document to which it is a party will not violate any applicable law or any material contractual obligation of Borrower and will not result in, or require, the creation or imposition of any Lien on any of the properties or revenues of Borrower pursuant to any applicable law or any such contractual obligation except, in each case, where such violation, creation or imposition could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Borrower.
No Legal Bar.
 
4.4 No litigation, proceeding or investigation of or before any Governmental Authority is pending or, to the knowledge of Borrower, threatened in writing against Borrower, except where such litigation, proceeding or investigation could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Borrower.
No Proceeding, Litigation or Investigation.
 
4.5 All governmental authorizations and actions necessary in connection with the execution and delivery by Borrower of this Agreement and the performance of its obligations hereunder have been obtained or performed and remain valid and in full force and effect.
Governmental Approvals.
 
4.6 All quarterly and annual financial statements of Borrower and its consolidated subsidiaries heretofore delivered by Borrower to Administrative Agent were true, correct and complete in all material respects, did not fail to disclose any material liabilities, whether direct or contingent, and fairly presented in all material respects the financial condition of Borrower and its consolidated subsidiaries, as the case may be, in each case as of the date delivered and were prepared in accordance with GAAP. Since June 30, 2004, there has been no material adverse change in the business, operations, property, assets or financial condition of Borrower and its consolidated subsidiaries taken as a whole.
Financial Statements.
 
4.7 All factual information heretofore or contemporaneously furnished by Borrower or its representatives in writing to Administrative Agent or any Lender for purposes of or in connection with this Agreement or any transaction contemplated herein was true and accurate in all material respects on the date as of which such information was dated or certified and at such date did not omit to state any fact necessary to make such information not misleading at such time in light of the circumstances under which such information was provided. The information referred to in the immediately preceding sentence furnished to Administrative Agent or any Lender on or prior to the Closing Date, taken as a whole, as updated or supplemented from time to time, is true and correct in all material respects as of the Closing Date, and as of the Closing Date all such information does not omit to state any fact which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Borrower.
True and Complete Disclosure.
 
4.8 Borrower is not an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended and is exempt from regulation under PUHCA and the Federal Power Act.
Investment Company Act.
 
4.9 There is no violation by Borrower or any Significant Subsidiary of any Governmental Rule which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Borrower. Except as have been delivered to Administrative Agent, no notices of violation of any Governmental Rule have been issued, entered or received by Borrower.
Compliance with Law.
 
4.10 Borrower and any other Person which is under common control (within the meaning of Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code) with Borrower have fulfilled their obligations (if any) under the minimum funding standards of ERISA and the Code for each ERISA Plan in compliance in all material respects with the currently applicable provisions of ERISA and the Code and have not incurred any liability to the PBGC or an ERISA Plan under Title IV of ERISA (other than liability for premiums due in the ordinary course). Assuming that the credit extended hereunder does not involve the assets of any employee benefit plan subject to ERISA, neither the execution of this Agreement nor the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby will involve a Prohibited Transaction.
ERISA.
 
4.11 Borrower and each Significant Subsidiary is, and after giving effect to the incurrence of all Indebtedness and obligations being incurred in connection with this Agreement and the other Credit Facility Documents, will be and will continue to be, Solvent.
Solvency.
 
4.12 No indebtedness being reduced or retired out of the proceeds of the Loans was or will be incurred for the purpose of purchasing or carrying any "margin stock" (within the meaning of Regulation U).
Margin Stock.
 
 
Borrower covenants and agrees that until the repayment in full of the Obligations (other than those contingent obligations that are intended to survive the termination of this Agreement or the other Credit Facility Documents) and the expiration and termination of all Commitments, unless Administrative Agent on behalf of the Lenders waives compliance in writing:
 
5.1 Borrower shall, and shall cause each Significant Subsidiary to, maintain and preserve its existence in good standing in the state of its formation and its qualification to do business in each other jurisdiction where such qualification is necessary and all material rights, privileges and franchises necessary in the normal conduct of its business.
Existence.
 
5.2 Borrower shall maintain in full force and effect all consents of any Governmental Authority that are required to be obtained by it in order for it to perform its obligations under this Agreement and will obtain any that may become necessary in the future.
Consents, Legal Compliance.
 
5.3
Prohibition of Certain Transfers.
 
5.3.1 Borrower shall not, and shall not permit any Significant Subsidiary to, liquidate or dissolve, or combine, consolidate or merge with or into another Person (other than any consolidation or mergers between or among Borrower and its Significant Subsidiaries); except that Borrower or any Significant Subsidiary may combine, consolidate or merge with another Person if (i) Borrower or a Significant Subsidiary, as the case may be, is the surviving corporation of such merger, consolidation or combination; (ii) after giving effect thereto, Borrower's long term unsecured indebtedness ratings from Moody's and S&P are at least Baa2
 
and BBB-, respectively, or Baa3 and BBB, respectively; (iii) prior to such merger, consolidation or combination, and after giving effect thereto, no Inchoate Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing; (iv) Borrower shall have provided pro forma calculations to Administrative Agent demonstrating that, to the reasonable satisfaction of Administrative Agent, after giving effect to such merger, consolidation or combination, the projected ratio of Total Debt to Capitalization for the next succeeding fiscal quarter will be less than or equal to 0.60 to 1.00 and the projected EBITDA to Interest Ratio for the next succeeding twelve months will be greater than or equal to 2.00 to 1.00; and (v) Borrower's rights and obligations under this Agreement and Administrative Agent's rights and obligations under this Agreement shall not be diminished in any manner as a result of such merger, consolidation or combination.
 
5.3.2 Except as set forth in this Section 5.3 or sales that are in the nature of financing leases, Borrower shall not, and shall not permit any Significant Subsidiary to, sell, lease, assign or otherwise transfer or dispose of, directly or indirectly, all or any substantial part of its or such Significant Subsidiary's property, business or assets; provided that (i) Borrower or any Significant Subsidiary may sell, lease or otherwise transfer or dispose of, directly or indirectly, assets to Borrower or any Significant Subsidiary and (ii) Borrower may sell, contribute or otherwise transfer its transmission and transmission-related assets for fair value to a regional transmission organization.
 
5.3.3 Except as set forth in this Section 5.3 or on Schedule 5.3, Borrower shall not, and shall not permit any Significant Subsidiary to, mortgage, pledge or encumber all or substantially all of its assets; provided that Borrower and any subsidiary of Borrower may enter into limited recourse project financing transactions (including in the form of synthetic leases) in the ordinary course of Borrower's or such subsidiary's business.
 
5.3.4 Except as set forth in this Section 5.3, Borrower shall not sell, assign or otherwise transfer, by way of collateral assignment or otherwise, or dispose of, directly or indirectly (by way of collateral assignment or otherwise) any Equity Interest in any Significant Subsidiary; provided that Borrower or any subsidiary of Borrower may engage in limited recourse project financing transactions as provided in Section 5.3.3; and provided further that the foregoing shall not limit the Borrower's ability to enter into securitization transactions secured by a transfer of the Borrower's receivables up to a maximum aggregate amount of $150,000,000.
 
5.4 Borrower shall, and shall cause each Significant Subsidiary to, pay and perform all its material obligations, howsoever arising, as and when due and payable or required to be performed, except (a) such as may be contested in good faith or as to which a bona fide dispute may exist; that adequate reserves have been established in accordance with GAAP, and (b) trade payables which shall be paid in the ordinary course of business.
Payment and Performance of Material Obligations.
provided
 
5.5 Borrower shall, and shall cause each Significant Subsidiary to, file all tax returns and pay, or cause to be paid, as and when due and prior to delinquency, all material taxes,
Taxes.
 
assessments and governmental charges of any kind that may at any time be lawfully assessed or levied against or with respect to it; that Borrower or any Significant Subsidiary may contest in good faith any such taxes, assessments and other charges and, in such event, may permit the taxes, assessments or other charges so contested to remain unpaid during any period, including appeals, when such Person is in good faith contesting the same, so long as (a) adequate reserves have been established in accordance with GAAP, (b) enforcement of the contested tax, assessment or other charge is effectively stayed for the entire duration of such contest if such enforcement could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Borrower, and (c) any tax, assessment or other charge determined to be due, together with any interest or penalties thereon, is promptly paid as required after final resolution of such contest.
provided
 
5.6 Borrower shall, and shall cause each Significant Subsidiary to, (a) keep all property useful and necessary in its business in good working order and condition except where the failure to so maintain could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Borrower, (b) maintain proper books and records in accordance with GAAP, (c) permit Administrative Agent to visit and inspect its properties at reasonable times and upon reasonable notice, (d) maintain with financially sound and reputable insurance companies insurance on all its property in at least such amounts and against at least such risks as are in accordance with normal industry practice, or make provisions reasonably satisfactory to Administrative Agent for self-insurance in accordance with normal industry practice, and (e) furnish to Administrative Agent, upon written request, full information as to the insurance carried.
Maintenance of Property, Insurance.
 
5.7 Borrower shall, and shall cause each Significant Subsidiary to, promptly comply, or cause compliance, with all Governmental Rules (except where the failure to comply could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Borrower) including Governmental Rules relating to pollution control, environmental protection, equal employment opportunity or employee benefit plans, ERISA Plans and employee safety.
Compliance with Laws, Instruments, Etc.
 
5.8 Borrower shall maintain a substantial part of its business in the power industry and businesses reasonably related thereto and Borrower shall cause each Significant Subsidiary to maintain as a substantial part of its business the general type of business now conducted by such Significant Subsidiary. Borrower shall not extend credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock (as defined in Regulations T, U or X of the Federal Reserve Board).
No Change in Business.
 
5.9 Unless Administrative Agent otherwise consents, deliver or cause to be delivered to Administrative Agent, in form and detail reasonably satisfactory to Administrative Agent:
Financial Statements.
 
5.9.1 As soon as practicable and in any event within 60 days after the end of the first, second and third quarterly accounting periods of its fiscal year, an unaudited consolidated balance sheet of Borrower and its consolidated subsidiaries as of the last day of
 
such quarterly period and the related statements of income, cash flow, and shareholder's equity (where applicable) for such quarterly period and (in the case of the second and third quarterly periods) for the portion of the fiscal year ending with the last day of such quarterly period, setting forth in each case in comparative form corresponding unaudited figures from the preceding fiscal year; and
 
5.9.2 As soon as practicable and in any event within 120 days after the close of each applicable fiscal year, audited consolidated financial statements of Borrower and its consolidated subsidiaries. Such financial statements shall include a statement of equity, a balance sheet as of the close of such year, an income and expense statement, reconciliation of capital accounts (where applicable) and a statement of cash flow, all prepared in accordance with GAAP, certified by an independent certified public accountant selected by Borrower. Such certificate shall not be qualified or limited because of restricted or limited examination by such accountant of any material portion of the records of Borrower.
 
5.9.3 Each time the financial statements are delivered under Sections 5.9.1 or 5.9.2, deliver, along with such financial statements, a certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of Borrower (i) setting forth reasonably detailed calculations demonstrating compliance with Section 5.11 and including a schedule describing all Contingent Obligations of Borrower, and (ii) certifying that (A) such Responsible Officer has made or caused to be made a review of the transactions and financial condition of Borrower during the relevant fiscal period and that, to such Responsible Officer's knowledge, Borrower is in compliance with all applicable material provisions of each Credit Facility Document to which Borrower is a party or, if such is not the case, stating the nature of such non-compliance and the corrective actions which Borrower has taken or proposes to take with respect thereto, and (B) such financial statements are true and correct in all material respects and that no material adverse change in the consolidated assets, liabilities, operations, or financial condition of Borrower has occurred since the date of the immediately preceding financial statements provided to Administrative Agent or, if a material adverse change has occurred, the nature of such change.
 
5.9.4 As long as Borrower is required or permitted to file reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, a copy of its report on Form 10-Q shall satisfy the requirements of Section 5.9.1 and a copy of Borrower's report on Form 10-K shall satisfy the requirements of Section 5.9.2.
 
5.10 Borrower shall promptly, upon acquiring notice or giving notice, as the case may be, or obtaining knowledge thereof, deliver written notice to Administrative Agent of:
Notices.
 
5.10.1 Any litigation or investigation pending or threatened in writing against Borrower or any Significant Subsidiary involving claims against Borrower or such Significant Subsidiary that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Borrower, such notice to include copies of all papers filed in such litigation or investigation and to be given monthly if any such papers have been filed since the last notice given;
 
5.10.2 Any dispute or disputes which may exist between Borrower or any Significant Subsidiary and any Governmental Authority and which involve (i) claims against Borrower or such Significant Subsidiary that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Borrower, (ii) injunctive or declaratory relief that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Borrower, (iii) revocation or material modification or the like of any applicable material permit or imposition of additional material conditions with respect thereto, or (iv) any liens for any material amount of taxes due but not paid;
 
5.10.3 Any default under this Agreement or under any other agreement with respect to any Indebtedness of Borrower outstanding in an amount equal to or in excess of $50,000,000 or the acceleration of Indebtedness of Borrower for borrowed money in an amount equal to or in excess of $10,000,000;
 
5.10.4 Borrower being placed on watch or review for possible rating down-grade by S&P or Moody's;
 
5.10.5 Any negative change, from the date hereof, from the rating given to Borrower's long-term senior unsecured debt by either S&P or Moody's; and
 
5.10.6 Any event or circumstance which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Borrower.
 
5.11
Financial Covenants.
 
5.11.1 Borrower shall maintain, as of the last day of each fiscal quarter, a ratio of Total Debt to Capitalization, for the fiscal quarter then ended, of less than or equal to 0.60 to 1.00.
 
5.11.2 Borrower shall maintain, as of the last day of each fiscal quarter, an EBITDA to Interest Ratio of greater than or equal to 2.00 to 1.00.
 
5.11.3 Borrower shall comply with the limitation on short-term indebtedness imposed on Borrower by the Florida Public Service Commission.
 
5.12
Indemnification.
 
5.12.1 Borrower shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless Administrative Agent and each Lender, each of their Affiliates and their respective officers, directors, shareholders, controlling persons, employees, agents and servants (collectively, the "") from and against and reimburse the Indemnitees for any and all penalties, claims, damages, losses, liabilities and obligations, of any kind or nature whatsoever, that may be imposed upon, incurred by or asserted or awarded against any Indemnitee in any way relating to or arising out of or in connection with this Agreement, the other Credit Facility Documents, the use by Borrower of the proceeds hereof, or any related claim or investigation, litigation or
Indemnitees
 
proceeding, or the preparation of any defense with respect thereto, and will reimburse each Indemnitee for all reasonable expenses (including all reasonable costs and expenses of a single legal counsel, together with a single legal counsel in each applicable jurisdiction, and all reasonable costs and expenses of multiple legal counsels to the extent necessary in the event that (i) the circumstances giving rise to such indemnification create an ethical conflict for such single counsel or (ii) the Indemnitees have inconsistent or conflicting defenses) incurred in connection with the investigation of, preparation for or defense of any pending or threatened claim, investigation, litigation or proceeding, whether or not such investigation, litigation or proceeding is brought by Borrower, or an Indemnitee is otherwise a party thereto (but not in respect of any claim or action brought by Borrower against any Indemnitee to enforce its rights hereunder or under any other Credit Facility Document), and whether or not the transactions contemplated by the Credit Facility Documents are consummated (collectively, "").
Subject Claims
 
5.12.2 The foregoing indemnities shall not apply with respect to an Indemnitee, to the extent any such claim, penalty, damage, loss, liability, obligation, cost, disbursement or expense incurred by or asserted or awarded against such Indemnitee is found in a final, non-appealable judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee, but shall continue to apply to other Indemnitees. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Borrower shall not be liable for any special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages suffered by an Indemnitee, including any loss of profits, business or anticipated savings of such Indemnitee, other than any such damages or losses imposed upon or asserted or awarded against any Indemnitee by a third party.
 
5.12.3 If for any reason the foregoing indemnification is unavailable to any Indemnitee or is insufficient to hold it harmless, then Borrower shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such Indemnitee as a result of such loss, claim, damage or liability in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative economic interests of Borrower and its equity holders on the one hand and such Indemnitee on the other hand in the matters contemplated by this Agreement and the other Credit Facility Documents as well as the relative fault of Borrower and such Indemnitee with respect to such loss, claim, damage or liability and any other relevant equitable considerations.
 
5.12.4 The provisions of this Section 5.12 shall survive the satisfaction or discharge of Borrower's obligations hereunder, and shall be in addition to any other rights and remedies of the Lenders.
 
5.12.5 In case any action, suit or proceeding shall be brought against any Indemnitee, such Indemnitee shall promptly notify Borrower of the commencement thereof, and Borrower shall be entitled, at its expense, acting through counsel reasonably acceptable to such Indemnitee, to participate in, and, to the extent that Borrower desires, to assume and control the defense thereof. Such Indemnitee shall be entitled, at its expense, to participate in any action, suit or proceeding the defense of which has been assumed by Borrower. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Borrower shall not be entitled to assume and control the defense of any such action, suit or proceedings if and to the extent that, in the reasonable opinion of such Indemnitee and its
 
counsel, such action, suit or proceeding involves the potential imposition of criminal liability upon such Indemnitee or a conflict of interest between such Indemnitee and Borrower (unless such conflict of interest is waived in writing by the affected Indemnitees), and in such event (other than with respect to disputes between such Indemnitee and another Indemnitee) Borrower shall pay the reasonable expenses of such Indemnitee in such defense to the extent provided in Sections 5.12.1 and 5.12.2.
 
5.12.6 Borrower shall promptly report to the relevant Indemnitee(s) on the status of such action, investigation, suit or proceeding the defense of which is assumed by Borrower in accordance with Section 5.12.5, as material developments shall occur and from time to time as requested by such Indemnitee (but not more frequently than every 60 days). Borrower shall deliver to such Indemnitee a copy of each document filed or served on any party in such action, investigation, suit or proceeding, and each material document which Borrower possesses relating to such action, investigation, suit or proceeding.
 
5.12.7 Notwithstanding Borrower's rights hereunder to control certain actions, investigations, suits or proceedings, if any Indemnitee reasonably determines that failure to compromise or settle any Subject Claim made against such Indemnitee is reasonably likely to have an imminent and material adverse effect on such Indemnitee or such Indemnitee's interest in Borrower, such Indemnitee shall be entitled to compromise or settle such Subject Claim; provided that such Indemnitee consults with and coordinates such compromise or settlement with Borrower (although no prior consent by Borrower to any such compromise or settlement shall be required); and provided further that with respect to any Indemnitee other than a Lender, such right may be exercised only with the consent of the Lender or Lenders which such Indemnitee is affiliated with or engaged by. Any such compromise or settlement shall be binding upon Borrower for the purposes of this Section 5.12. Notwithstanding Borrower's rights hereunder, Borrower shall not be entitled to settle any Subject Claim of an Indemnitee without the prior written consent of such Indemnitee or a full release of such Indemnitee, in form and substance satisfactory to such Indemnitee. Upon payment of any Subject Claim by Borrower pursuant to this Section 5.12 or other similar indemnity provisions contained herein to or on behalf of an Indemnitee, Borrower, without any further action, shall be subrogated to any and all claims that such Indemnitee may have relating thereto, and such Indemnitee shall cooperate with Borrower and Borrower's insurance carrier, and give such further assurances as are necessary or advisable to enable Borrower vigorously to pursue such claims.
 
5.12.8 Any amounts payable by Borrower pursuant to this Section 5.12 shall be regularly payable within 30 days after Borrower receives an invoice for such amounts from any applicable Indemnitee, and if not paid within such 30-day period, shall bear interest at the Default Rate.
 
5.12.9 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth herein, except as provided in Section 5.12.1 or 5.12.5, Borrower shall not, in connection with any one legal proceeding or claim, or separate but related proceedings or claims arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances, in which the interests of the Indemnitees do not materially differ,
 
be liable to the Indemnitees (or any of them) under any of the provisions set forth in this Section 5.12 for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm of attorneys (which firm shall be selected by the affected Indemnitees, or upon failure to so select, by Administrative Agent).
 
5.13 Borrower shall not use any part of the proceeds of the Loans to purchase or carry any "margin stock" (within the meaning of Regulation U) or to purchase, carry or trade in any securities under such circumstances as to involve Borrower in a violation of Regulation X or to involve any broker or dealer in Regulation T.
Federal Regulations.
 
5.14 Borrower shall not, and shall not permit any subsidiary to, enter into any transaction with any of its Affiliates (other than the Borrower or any subsidiary) unless such transaction is on terms no less favorable to the Borrower or such subsidiary than if the transaction had been negotiated in good faith on an arm's-length basis with a non-Affiliate.
Transactions With Affiliates.
 
 
6.1 Events of Default. The occurrence of any of the following events shall constitute an event of default ("") hereunder:
Event of Default
 
6.1.1 Payments. Borrower shall fail to pay, in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, (i) any principal on any Loan on the date such sum is due, (ii) any interest on any Loan or any scheduled fee, cost, charge or sum due hereunder or under any other Credit Facility Document, within three Banking Days after the date that such sum is due, or (iii) any other fee, cost, charge or other sum due under this Agreement or any other Credit Facility Document, within 30 days after written notice that such sum is due and has not been paid.
 
6.1.2 Debt Cross Default. (i) Borrower or any Significant Subsidiary shall default for a period beyond any applicable grace period (a) in the payment of any principal, interest or other amount due under any Indebtedness (other than trade payables or non-recourse indebtedness), or (b) any other event shall occur or condition shall exist under an agreement, or related agreements, under which Borrower or any Significant Subsidiary has outstanding Indebtedness (other than trade payables or non-recourse indebtedness), if the effect of such event or condition is to permit the acceleration of the maturity of such Indebtedness (other than trade payables or non-recourse indebtedness), and the outstanding amount or amounts payable under all such Indebtedness under clauses (a) and (b) equals or exceeds $50,000,000 or (ii) an event of default shall have occurred and be continuing under an agreement, or related agreements, under which Borrower or any Significant Subsidiary has outstanding Indebtedness (other than trade payables or non-recourse indebtedness) of $10,000,000 or more and, in the case of this clause (ii), such debt has been accelerated by the holder of such debt, or the holder of such debt has attempted to accelerate but such acceleration was prevented by applicable Governmental Rule.
 
6.1.3 Bankruptcy; Insolvency . Borrower or any Significant Subsidiary shall become subject to a Bankruptcy Event.
 
6.1.4 Misstatements; Omissions . Any representation or warranty of Borrower set forth in this Agreement or any other Credit Facility Document shall be untrue or misleading in any material respect as of the time made and such untrue or misleading representation or warranty (i) is having or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect on Borrower and (ii) shall remain unremedied by Borrower for a period of 30 days after the earlier of the date that Borrower becomes aware thereof or receives written notice thereof from Administrative Agent.
 
6.1.5 Breach of Terms of Agreement . Borrower shall fail to perform or observe any of the covenants set forth in this Agreement and (except with respect to any covenants set forth in Section 5.1 (with respect to its obligation to maintain its existence), 5.3, 5.8, 5.11 or 5.14) such failure shall continue unremedied for 30 days after Borrower becomes aware thereof or receives written notice with respect thereto from Administrative Agent.
 
6.1.6 Judgments . A final judgment or judgments shall be entered against Borrower or any Significant Subsidiary in the amount of $50,000,000 or more (net of amounts covered by insurance) individually or in the aggregate (other than (i) a judgment which is fully discharged within 30 days after its entry, or (ii) a judgment, the execution of which is effectively stayed within 30 days after its entry but only for 30 days after the date on which such stay is terminated or expires) or, in the case of injunctive relief, which if left unstayed could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Borrower.
 
6.1.7 Change in Control . Without the consent of the Majority Lenders, TECO shall cease to directly or indirectly own and control at least 80% of (i) the economic interests and (ii) the voting interests (whether by committee, contract or otherwise) in Borrower.
 
6.1.8 ERISA Violations. If Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate should establish, maintain, contribute to or become obligated to contribute to any ERISA Plan and (a) a Reportable Event shall have occurred with respect to any ERISA Plan; or (b) a trustee shall be appointed by a United States District Court to administer any ERISA Plan; or (c) the PBGC shall institute proceedings to terminate any ERISA Plan; or (d) a complete or partial withdrawal by Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from any Multiemployer Plan shall have occurred, or any Multiemployer Plan shall enter reorganization status, become insolvent, or terminate (or notify Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate of its intent to terminate) under Section 4041A of ERISA; or (e) any ERISA Plan experiences an accumulated funding deficiency under Code Section 412(b); or (f) Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate incurs any liability for a Prohibited Transaction under ERISA Section 502; that any of the events described in this Section 6.1.8 shall result in joint liability to Borrower and all ERISA Affiliates in excess of $5,000,000.
provided
 
6.1.9 Security. Any of the Credit Facility Documents, once executed and delivered, shall, except as the result of acts or omissions of Administrative Agent or the Lenders, fail to provide Administrative Agent and the Lenders the liens, security interest, rights, titles, interest, remedies permitted by law, powers or privileges intended to be created thereby or cease to be in full force and effect (except as expressly contemplated by the terms thereof), or the validity thereof or the applicability thereof to the Loans or other obligations purported to be secured or guaranteed thereby or any part thereof shall be disaffirmed by or on behalf of Borrower or any other party thereto (other than Administrative Agent or the Lenders).
 
6.2 . Upon the occurrence and during the continuation of an Event of Default, Administrative Agent and the Lenders may, at the election of the Required Lenders, without further notice of default, presentment or demand for payment, protest or notice of nonpayment or dishonor, or other notices or demands of any kind, all such notices and demands other than notices required by this Agreement or any of the other Credit Facility Documents being waived (to the extent permitted by Governmental Rule), exercise any or all of the following rights and remedies, in any combination or order that the Required Lenders may elect, in addition to such other rights or remedies as the Lenders may have hereunder, under the other Credit Facility Documents or at law or in equity.
Remedies
 
6.2.1 No Further Loans. Administrative Agent and the Lenders may refuse and shall not be obligated to continue any Loans or to make any additional Loans; that in the event of an Event of Default occurring under Section 6.1.3 of this Agreement with respect to Borrower, the foregoing shall take effect immediately and without further act of Administrative Agent or the Lenders.
provided
 
6.2.2 Cure by Administrative Agent. Without any obligation to do so but only during any time when a Loan is outstanding or any other amounts are due and owing hereunder to Administrative Agent or the Lenders, Administrative Agent may make disbursements or Loans to or on behalf of Borrower to cure any Event of Default or Inchoate Default hereunder as the Required Lenders in their sole discretion may consider necessary or appropriate, whether to preserve and protect the Lenders' interests under this Agreement or any Credit Facility Documents or for any other reason, and all sums so expended, together with interest on such total amount at the Default Rate (but in no event shall the rate exceed the maximum lawful rate, if applicable), shall be repaid by Borrower to Administrative Agent on demand and shall be secured by this Agreement and the other Credit Facility Documents and shall constitute an Obligation, notwithstanding that such expenditures may, together with amounts advanced under this Agreement, exceed the amount of the Total Commitment.
 
6.2.3 Acceleration. Administrative Agent and the Lenders may declare and make all sums of accrued and outstanding principal and accrued but unpaid interest remaining under this Agreement together with all unpaid fees, costs (including Liquidation Costs) and charges due hereunder or under any other Credit Facility Document, immediately due and payable and require Borrower immediately, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which Borrower hereby expressly waives, to pay Administrative Agent or the
 
Lenders an amount in immediately available funds equal to the aggregate amount of any outstanding Loans; that in the event of an Event of Default occurring under Section 6.1.3 of this Agreement with respect to Borrower, all such amounts shall become immediately due and payable without further act of Administrative Agent or the Lenders.
provided
 
 
7.1
Appointment, Powers and Immunities.
 
7.1.1 Each Lender hereby appoints and authorizes Administrative Agent to act as its agent hereunder and under the other Credit Facility Documents with such powers as are expressly delegated to Administrative Agent by the terms of this Agreement and the other Credit Facility Documents, together with such other powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or responsibilities except those expressly set forth in this Agreement or in any other Credit Facility Document, or be a trustee for any Lender. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, Administrative Agent shall not be required to take any action which is contrary to this Agreement or any other Credit Facility Document or any Governmental Rule or exposes Administrative Agent to any liability. Each of Administrative Agent, the Lenders and any of their respective Affiliates shall not be responsible to any other Lender for any recitals, statements, representations or warranties made by Borrower or its Affiliates contained in this Agreement or in any certificate or other document referred to or provided for in, or received by Administrative Agent, or any Lender under this Agreement, for the value, validity, effectiveness, genuineness, enforceability or sufficiency of this Agreement, the Notes or any other document referred to or provided for herein or for any failure by Borrower, its respective Affiliates to perform their respective obligations hereunder or thereunder. Administrative Agent may employ agents and attorneys in fact and shall not be responsible for the negligence or misconduct of any such agents or attorneys in fact selected by it with reasonable care.
 
7.1.2 Administrative Agent and its directors, officers, employees or agents shall not be responsible for any action taken or omitted to be taken by it or them hereunder or under any other Credit Facility Document or in connection herewith or therewith, except for its or their own gross negligence or willful misconduct. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Administrative Agent (a) may treat the payee of any Note as the holder thereof until Administrative Agent receives written notice of the assignment or transfer thereof signed by such payee and in form satisfactory to Administrative Agent; (b) may consult with legal counsel (including counsel for Borrower), independent public accountants and other experts selected by it and shall not be liable for any action taken or omitted to be taken in good faith by them in accordance with the advice of such counsel, accountants or experts; (c) makes no warranty or representation to any Lender for any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with any Credit Facility Document; (d) shall not have any duty to ascertain or to inquire as to the performance or observance of any of the terms, covenants or conditions of any Credit Facility Document on the part of any party thereto or to inspect the property (including the
 
books and records) of Borrower or any other Person; and (e) shall not be responsible to any Lender for the due execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of any Credit Facility Document or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto. Except as otherwise provided under this Agreement and the other Credit Facility Documents, Administrative Agent shall take such action with respect to the Credit Facility Documents as shall be directed by the Majority Lenders or Required Lenders, as the case may be.
 
7.2 Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon any certificate, notice or other document (including any cable, telegram, telecopy or telex) believed by it to be genuine and correct and to have been signed or sent by or on behalf of the proper Person or Persons, and upon advice and statements of legal counsel, independent accountants and other experts selected by Administrative Agent. As to any other matters not expressly provided for by this Agreement, Administrative Agent shall not be required to take any action or exercise any discretion, but shall be required to act or to refrain from acting upon instructions of the Majority Lenders or Required Lenders, as the case may be (except that Administrative Agent shall not be required to take any action which exposes Administrative Agent to personal liability or which is contrary to this Agreement, any other Credit Facility Document or any Governmental Rule). Administrative Agent shall in all cases (including when any action by Administrative Agent alone is authorized hereunder, if Administrative Agent elects in its sole discretion to obtain instructions from the Majority Lenders or Required Lenders, as the case may be) be fully protected in acting, or in refraining from acting, hereunder or under any other Credit Facility Document in accordance with the instructions of the Majority Lenders or the Required Lenders, as the case may be, and such instructions of the Majority Lenders or the Required Lenders, as the case may be, and any action taken or failure to act pursuant thereto shall be binding on all of the Lenders.
Reliance
.
 
7.3 Each Lender represents that it has, independently and without reliance on Administrative Agent or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own appraisal of the financial condition and affairs of Borrower and decision to enter into this Agreement and agrees that it will, independently and without reliance upon Administrative Agent, or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own appraisals and decisions in taking or not taking action under this Agreement. Each of Administrative Agent and any Lender shall not be required to keep informed as to the performance or observance by Borrower or its Affiliates under this Agreement or any other document referred to or provided for herein or to make inquiry of, or to inspect the properties or books of Borrower or its Affiliates.
Non-Reliance
.
 
7.4 Administrative Agent shall not be deemed to have knowledge or notice of the occurrence of any Inchoate Default or Event of Default, unless such default relates to the payment of principal, interest and fees required to be paid to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders, or Administrative Agent has received a notice from a Lender or Borrower, referring to this Agreement, describing such Inchoate Default or Event of Default and indicating that such notice is a notice of default. If Administrative Agent receives such a notice
Defaults
.
 
of the occurrence of an Inchoate Default or Event of Default, Administrative Agent shall give notice thereof to the Lenders. Administrative Agent shall take such action with respect to such Inchoate Default or Event of Default as is provided in Article VI or if not provided for in Article VI, as Administrative Agent shall be reasonably directed by the Required Lenders; , , unless and until Administrative Agent shall have received such directions, Administrative Agent may (but shall not be obligated to) take such action, or refrain from taking such action, with respect to such Inchoate Default or Event of Default as it shall deem advisable in the best interest of the Lenders.
provided
however
 
7.5 Without limiting the Obligations of Borrower hereunder, each Lender agrees to indemnify Administrative Agent, ratably in accordance with its Proportionate Share for any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever which may at any time be imposed on, incurred by or asserted against Administrative Agent in any way relating to or arising out of this Agreement or any documents contemplated by or referred to herein or therein or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby or the enforcement of any of the terms hereof or thereof or of any such other documents; , , that no Lender shall be liable for any of the foregoing to the extent they arise from Administrative Agent's gross negligence or willful misconduct. Administrative Agent shall be fully justified in refusing to take or to continue to take any action hereunder or under any other Credit Facility Document unless it shall first be indemnified to its satisfaction by the Lenders against any and all liability and expense which may be incurred by it by reason of taking or continuing to take any such action. Without limitation of the foregoing, each Lender agrees to reimburse Administrative Agent promptly upon demand for its Proportionate Share of any out-of-pocket expenses (including counsel fees) incurred by Administrative Agent in connection with the preparation, execution, administration or enforcement of, or legal advice in respect of rights or responsibilities under, the Credit Facility Documents, to the extent that Administrative Agent is not reimbursed for such expenses by Borrower. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Administrative Agent shall not be entitled to indemnification or reimbursement of its expenses under this Section 7.5 if it would not be entitled to indemnification or reimbursement under Sections 5.12 and 8.4, respectively.
Indemnification
.
provided
however
 
7.6 Administrative Agent may resign hereunder at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Lenders and the Borrower. Administrative Agent may be removed involuntarily only for a material breach of its duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Credit Facility Documents, or for gross negligence or willful misconduct in connection with the performance of its duties hereunder or under the other Credit Facility Documents and then only upon the affirmative vote of the Majority Lenders (excluding Administrative Agent's Proportionate Share of the Total Commitment from the amounts used to determine the portion of the Total Commitment necessary to constitute the required Proportionate Shares of the remaining Lenders. Upon any such resignation or removal, the Majority Lenders, shall have the right to appoint the successor Administrative Agent hereunder with the consent of Borrower, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed; that Borrower's consent shall not be required if an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing at such time hereunder. If no successor Administrative Agent shall have been
Successor Administrative Agent
.
provided
 
so appointed by the Majority Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment, within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent's giving of notice of resignation or the Lenders' removal of the retiring Administrative Agent, the retiring Administrative Agent may, on behalf of the Lenders with the consent of Borrower (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) appoint the successor Administrative Agent hereunder which shall be a Lender, if any Lender shall be willing to serve, and otherwise shall be a commercial bank having a combined capital and surplus of at least $500,000,000. Upon the acceptance of any appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder by a successor Administrative Agent such successor Administrative Agent shall thereupon succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Administrative Agent and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations as Administrative Agent only under the Credit Facility Documents. After any retiring Administrative Agent's resignation or removal hereunder as Administrative Agent, the provisions of this Article VII shall inure to its benefit as to any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was Administrative Agent under the Credit Facility Documents.
 
7.7 Administrative Agent is hereby authorized by the Lenders to execute, deliver and perform each of the Credit Facility Documents to which Administrative Agent is or is intended to be a party and each Lender agrees to be bound by all of the agreements of Administrative Agent contained in the Credit Facility Documents. Administrative Agent is further authorized by the Lenders to enter into agreements supplemental hereto for the purpose of curing any formal defect, inconsistency, omission or ambiguity in this Agreement or any Credit Facility Document to which it is a party.
Authorization
.
 
7.8 With respect to its Commitments, the Loans made by it and any Notes issued to it, Administrative Agent shall have the same rights and powers hereunder as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not Administrative Agent. The term "Lender" or "Lenders" shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated, include Administrative Agent in its individual capacity. Administrative Agent and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as trustee under indentures of, and generally engage in any kind of business with Borrower or any other Person, without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders. For the avoidance of doubt, Administrative Agent may act as TECO Credit Facility Administrative Agent notwithstanding any potential or actual conflict of interest presented by the foregoing and Borrower and each of the Lenders hereby waives any claim against Administrative Agent or any of its affiliates based upon any conflict of interest that Administrative Agent may have with regard to acting as Administrative Agent hereunder and acting in such other role.
Administrative Agent's Other Roles
.
 
7.9 Subject to the provisions of this Section 7.9, unless otherwise specified in this Agreement or another Credit Facility Document, the Majority Lenders (or Administrative Agent with the consent in writing of the Majority Lenders) and Borrower may enter into agreements supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding, modifying or waiving any provisions to the Credit Facility Documents or changing in any manner the rights of the Lenders or Borrower hereunder or waiving any Inchoate Default or Event of Default; , , that no such supplemental agreement shall, without the consent of all of the Lenders:
Amendments; Waivers
.
provided
however
 
(a) Modify Section 2.1.4, 2.4.1, 2.4.2, 2.4.3, 2.5, 2.6, 2.7, 3.1 7.1, 7.13, or 7.14; or
 
(b) Reduce the percentage specified in the definition of Majority Lenders or Required Lenders; or
 
(c) Permit Borrower to assign its rights under this Agreement; or
 
(d) Amend this Section 7.9 or amend any defined term set forth herein, in any Credit Facility Document or in Exhibit A, to the extent such amendment would have the effect of violating the effect of the provisions of this Section 7.9; or
 
(e) Release any collateral from a lien securing the Obligations of Borrower hereunder or release any funds from any account otherwise than in accordance with the terms hereof; or
 
(f) Extend the maturity of any Loans (including any extension of the Maturity Date) or any Notes or reduce the principal amount thereof; or
 
(g) Reduce the rate or change the time of payment of interest due on any Loan or any Note; or
 
(h) Reduce the amount or change the time of payment of any fee or other amount due or payable; or
 
(i) Increase the amount of the Commitment of any Lender.
 
7.10
Withholding Tax
.
 
7.10.1 If the forms or other documentation required by Section 2.4.7 are not delivered to Administrative Agent, then Administrative Agent may withhold from any interest payment to any Lender not providing such forms or other documentation, an amount equivalent to the applicable withholding tax.
 
7.10.2 If the Internal Revenue Service or any authority of the United States or other jurisdiction asserts a claim that Administrative Agent did not properly withhold tax from amounts paid to or for the account of any Lender (because the appropriate form was not delivered, was not properly executed, or because such Lender failed to notify Administrative Agent of a change in circumstances which rendered the exemption from, or reduction of, withholding tax ineffective, or for any other reason) such Lender shall indemnify Administrative
 
Agent fully for all amounts paid, directly or indirectly, by Administrative Agent as tax or otherwise, including penalties and interest, together with all expenses incurred, including legal expenses, allocated staff costs, and any out of pocket expenses. Borrower shall not be responsible for any amounts paid or required to be paid by a Lender under this Section 7.10.2.
 
7.10.3 If any Lender sells, assigns, grants participations in, or otherwise transfers its rights under this Agreement, the purchaser, assignee, transferee or participant shall comply with and be bound by the terms of Sections 2.4.7, 7.10.1 and 7.10.2 as though it were such Lender.
 
7.11 Administrative Agent shall promptly distribute to each Lender its share of each payment of principal and interest payable to the Lenders on the Loans and of fees hereunder received by Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders and of any other amounts owing under the Loans. The payments made for the account of each Lender shall be made, and distributed to it, for the account of (a) its domestic lending office in the case of payments of principal of, and interest on, its Base Rate Loans, (b) its domestic or foreign lending office, as each Lender may designate in writing to Administrative Agent, in the case of payments of principal of, and interest on, its LIBOR Loans and (c) its domestic lending office, or such other lending office as it may designate for the purpose from time to time, in the case of payments of fees and other amounts payable hereunder. Each Lender shall have the right to alter its designated domestic lending office upon notice to Administrative Agent and Borrower.
General Provisions as to Payments
.
pro rata
 
7.12 Should any Lender fail to make a Loan in violation of its obligations under this Agreement (a ""), Administrative Agent shall (a) in its sole discretion fund the Loan on behalf of the Non-Advancing Lender (b) cooperate with Borrower or any other Lender to find another Person that shall be acceptable to Administrative Agent and Borrower (unless an Event of Default shall have occurred and is continuing) and that shall be willing to assume the Non-Advancing Lender's obligations under this Agreement (including the obligation to make the Loan which the Non-Advancing Lender failed to make but without assuming any liability for damages for failing to have made such Loan or any previously required Loan). Subject to the provisions of the next following sentence, such Person shall be substituted for the Non-Advancing Lender hereunder upon the payment by such Person of all interest and fees owed to the Non-Advancing Lender and execution and delivery to Administrative Agent of an agreement acceptable to Administrative Agent and Borrower by such Person assuming the Non-Advancing Lender's obligations under this Agreement, and all interest and fees which would otherwise have been payable to the Non-Advancing Lender shall thereafter be payable to such Person. Nothing in (and no action taken pursuant to) this Section 7.12 shall relieve the Non-Advancing Lender from any liability it might have to Borrower or to the other Lenders as a result of its failure to make any Loan.
Substitution of Lender
.
Non-Advancing Lender
 
7.13 .
Participations
 
7.13.1 Nothing herein provided shall prevent any Lender from selling a participation in its Commitments (and/or Loans made thereunder); provided that (a) no such sale of a participation shall alter such Lender's or Borrower's obligations hereunder and (b) any agreement pursuant to which any Lender may grant a participation in its rights with respect to its Commitments (and/or Loans) shall provide that, with respect to such Commitments (and/or Loans), subject to the following proviso, such Lender shall retain the sole right and responsibility to exercise the rights of such Lender, and enforce the obligations of Borrower relating to such Commitments (and/or Loans), including the right to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any other Credit Facility Document and the right to take action to have the Notes declared due and payable pursuant to Article VI; provided, however, that such agreement may provide that the participant may have rights to approve or disapprove decreases in principal, interest rates or fees, lengthening of maturity of any Loans, postponements of any due dates for payments hereunder. No recipient of a participation in any Commitments or Loans of any Lender shall have any rights under this Agreement or shall be entitled to any reimbursement for taxes, other taxes, increased costs or reserve requirements under Section 2.6.3 or any other indemnity or payment rights against Borrower in excess of a proportionate amount which would have been payable to the Lender from whom such Person acquired its participation.
 
7.13.2 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any Lender (a "") may grant to a special purpose funding vehicle (a ""), identified as such in writing from time to time by the Granting Lender to Administrative Agent and Borrower, the option to provide to Borrower all or any part of any Loan that such Granting Lender would otherwise be obligated to make to Borrower pursuant to this Agreement; provided that (a) nothing herein shall constitute a commitment by any SPC to make any Loan, and (b) if an SPC elects not to exercise such option or otherwise fails to provide all or any part of such Loan, the Granting Lender shall be obligated to make such Loan pursuant to the terms hereof. The making of a Loan by an SPC hereunder shall utilize the Commitment of the Granting Lender to the same extent, and as if, such Loan were made by such Granting Lender. Each party hereto hereby agrees that no SPC shall be liable for any indemnity or similar payment obligation under this Agreement (all liability for which shall remain with the Granting Lender). In furtherance of the foregoing, each party hereto hereby agrees (which agreement shall survive the termination of this Agreement) that, prior to the date that is one year and one day after the payment in full of all outstanding commercial paper or other senior indebtedness of any SPC, it will not institute against, or join any other person in instituting against, such SPC any bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency or liquidation proceedings under the laws of the United States or any state thereof. In addition, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Section 7.13, any SPC may (x) with notice to, but without the prior written consent of, Borrower and Administrative Agent and without paying any processing fee therefor, assign all or a portion of its interests in any Loans to the Granting Lender or to any financial institutions (consented to by Borrower and Administrative Agent) providing liquidity and/or credit support to or for the account of such SPC to support the funding or maintenance of Loans and (y) disclose on a
Granting Lender
SPC
 
confidential basis any non-public information relating to its Loans to any rating agency, commercial paper dealer or provider of any surety, guarantee or credit or liquidity enhancement to such SPC. This section may not be amended without the written consent of all SPCs having outstanding Loans or Commitments hereunder.
 
7.14 . Notwithstanding anything else herein to the contrary (but subject to Section 7.13.2), any Lender, after receiving Administrative Agent's prior written consent (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed) and unless an Event of Default shall have occurred and is continuing, the prior written consent of Borrower (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed) may, from time to time, at its option, sell, assign, transfer, negotiate or otherwise dispose of a portion of its Commitment (and Loans made hereunder), in the minimum amount of $5,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof, to any institution which in such assigning Lender's judgment is reasonably capable of performing the obligations of a Lender hereunder and reasonably experienced in corporate financing; , , that in the case of an assignment by a Lender to another Lender or Affiliate of a Lender, the prior consent of Administrative Agent and Borrower shall not be required and the minimum assignment amount specified above shall not apply as long as the assigning Lender continues to hold a Commitment of no less than $5,000,000. In the event of any assignment made pursuant to this Section 7.14, (a) the assigning Lender's Proportionate Share shall be reduced by the amount of the Proportionate Share assigned to the new Lender, (b) the parties to such assignment shall execute and deliver an appropriate agreement evidencing such sale, assignment, transfer or other disposition, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Administrative Agent and Borrower, (c) the parties to the sale, assignment, transfer or other disposition, excluding Borrower, shall collectively pay to Administrative Agent an administrative fee of $3,500 and (d) at the assigning Lender's option, Borrower shall execute and deliver to such new Lender Notes in the forms attached hereto as Exhibit B, in a principal amount equal to its Proportionate Share but only if it shall also be executing or exchanging with the assigning Lender a replacement note for any Note in an amount equal to the Proportionate Share retained by the Lender, if any (provided that Borrower shall have received for cancellation the existing Note held by the assigning Lender). Thereafter, such new Lender shall be deemed to be a Lender and shall have all of the rights and duties of a Lender (except as otherwise provided in this Article VII), in accordance with its Proportionate Share, under each of the Credit Facility Documents.
Transfer of Commitments
provided
however
 
7.15 . Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Article VII, no sale, assignment, transfer, negotiation or other disposition of the interests of any Lender hereunder or under the other Credit Facility Documents shall be allowed if it would require registration under the federal Securities Act of 1933, as then amended, any other federal securities laws or regulations or the securities laws or regulations of any applicable jurisdiction. Borrower shall, from time to time at the request and expense of Administrative Agent, execute and deliver to Administrative Agent, or to such party or parties as Administrative Agent may designate, any and all further instruments as may in the reasonable opinion of Administrative Agent be necessary or advisable on the part of Borrower to give full force and effect to such disposition.
Laws
 
7.16 . Notwithstanding any other provision contained in this Agreement or any other Credit Facility Document to the contrary, any Lender may assign all or any portion of the Loans or Notes held by it as collateral security provided that any payment in respect of such assigned Loans or Notes made by Borrower to or for the account of the assigning and/or pledging Lender in accordance with the terms of this Agreement shall satisfy Borrower's obligations hereunder in respect to such assigned Loans or Notes to the extent of such payment. No such assignment shall release the assigning Lender from its obligations hereunder.
Assignability as Collateral
 
 
8.1 . Any communications between the parties hereto or notices provided herein to be given shall be given to the following addresses:
Addresses
 
 
8.1.1 All notices or other communications required or permitted to be given hereunder shall be in writing and shall be considered as properly given (a) if delivered in person, (b) if sent by overnight delivery service (including Federal Express, ETA, Emery, DHL, AirBorne and other similar overnight delivery services), (c) if mailed by first class United States Mail, postage prepaid, registered or certified with return receipt requested or (d) if sent by facsimile. Notice so given shall be effective upon receipt by the addressee, except that communication or notice so transmitted by telecopy or other direct written electronic means shall be deemed to have been validly and effectively given on the day (if a Banking Day and, if not, on the next following Banking Day) on which it is transmitted if transmitted before 4:00 p.m., recipient's time, and if transmitted after that time, on the next following Banking Day; , , that if any notice is tendered to an addressee and the delivery thereof is refused by such addressee, such notice shall be effective upon such tender. Any party shall have the right to change its address for notice hereunder to any other location within the continental United States
provided
however
 
by giving of 30 days' notice to the other parties in the manner set forth above; , , that a Lender shall have the right to change its address for notice hereunder by giving notice to Administrative Agent and Borrower only.
provided
however
 
8.1.2 The Borrower hereby agrees that it will provide to the Administrative Agent all information, documents and other materials that it is obligated to furnish to the Administrative Agent pursuant to this Agreement or any other Credit Facility Document, including, without limitation, all notices, requests, financial statements, financial and other reports, certificates and other information materials, but excluding any such communication that (a) relates to a request for a new, or a conversion of an existing, borrowing or other extension of credit (including any election of an interest rate or interest period relating thereto), (b) relates to the payment of any principal or other amount due under this Agreement prior to the scheduled date therefor, (c) provides notice of any default or event of default under this Agreement or (d) is required to be delivered to satisfy any condition precedent to the effectiveness of this Agreement and/or any borrowing or other extension of credit thereunder (all such non-excluded communications being referred to herein collectively as ""), by transmitting the Communications in an electronic/soft medium in a format acceptable to the Administrative Agent to .
Communications
oploanswebadmin@citigroup.com
 
8.1.3 The Borrower further agrees that the Administrative Agent may make the Communications available to the Lenders by posting the Communications on Intralinks or a substantially similar electronic transmission systems (the ""). The Borrower acknowledges that the distribution of material through an electronic medium is not necessarily secure and that there are confidentiality and other risks associated with such distribution.
Platform
 
8.1.4 THE PLATFORM IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND "AS AVAILABLE". THE AGENT PARTIES (AS DEFINED BELOW) DO NOT WARRANT THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF THE COMMUNICATIONS, OR THE ADEQUACY OF THE PLATFORM AND EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM LIABILITY FOR ERRORS OR OMISSIONS IN THE COMMUNICATIONS. NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS OR FREEDOM FROM VIRUSES OR OTHER CODE DEFECTS, IS MADE BY THE AGENT PARTIES IN CONNECTION WITH THE COMMUNICATIONS OR THE PLATFORM. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT OR ANY OF ITS AFFILIATES OR ANY OF THEIR RESPECTIVE OFFICERS, DIRECTORS, EMPLOYEES, AGENTS, ADVISORS OR REPRESENTATIVES (COLLECTIVELY, "") HAVE ANY LIABILITY TO THE BORROWER, ANY LENDER OR ANY OTHER PERSON OR ENTITY FOR DAMAGES OF ANY KIND, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, DIRECT OR INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, LOSSES OR EXPENSES (WHETHER IN TORT, CONTRACT OR OTHERWISE) ARISING OUT OF THE BORROWER'S OR THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT'S TRANSMISSION OF COMMUNICATIONS THROUGH THE INTERNET, EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT THE
AGENT PARTIES
 
LIABILITY OF ANY AGENT PARTY IS FOUND IN A FINAL NON-APPEALABLE JUDGMENT BY A COURT OF COMPETENT JURISDICTION TO HAVE RESULTED PRIMARILY FROM SUCH AGENT PARTY'S GROSS NEGLIGENCE OR WILLFUL MISCONDUCT.
 
8.1.5 The Administrative Agent agrees that the receipt of the Communications by the Administrative Agent at its e-mail address set forth above shall constitute effective delivery of the Communications to the Administrative Agent for purposes of this Agreement and the other Credit Facility Documents. Each Lender agrees that notice to it (as provided in the next sentence) specifying that the Communications have been posted to the Platform shall constitute effective delivery of the Communications to such Lender for purposes of the Credit Agreement or any other Credit Facility Document. Each Lender agrees to notify the Administrative Agent in writing (including by electronic communication) from time to time of such Lender's e-mail address to which the foregoing notice may be sent by electronic transmission and (ii) that the foregoing notice may be sent to such e-mail address.
 
8.1.6 Nothing herein shall prejudice the right of the Administrative Agent or any Lender to give any notice or other communication pursuant to this Agreement or under any other Credit Facility Document in any other manner specified in such document.
 
8.2 Any deposits or other sums at any time credited or due from the Lenders and any securities or other property of Borrower in the possession of Administrative Agent may at all times be treated as collateral security for the payment of the Loans and any Notes and all other obligations of Borrower to the Lenders under this Agreement and the other Credit Facility Documents, and Borrower hereby pledges to Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Lenders and grants Administrative Agent a security interest in and to all such deposits, sums, securities or other property. Regardless of the adequacy of any other collateral, Administrative Agent may execute or realize on the Lenders security interest in any such deposits or other sums credited by or due from the Lenders to Borrower, and may apply any such deposits or other sums to or set them off against Borrower's obligations to the Lenders under any Notes and this Agreement at any time after the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default.
Additional Security; Right to Set-Off
.
 
8.3 No delay or omission to exercise any right, power or remedy accruing to the Lenders upon the occurrence of any Event of Default, Inchoate Default or any breach or default of Borrower under this Agreement or any other Credit Facility Document shall impair any such right, power or remedy of the Lenders, nor shall it be construed to be a waiver of any such breach or default, or an acquiescence therein, or of or in any similar breach or default thereafter occurring, nor shall any waiver of any single Event of Default, Inchoate Default or other breach or default be deemed a waiver of any other Event of Default, Inchoate Default or other breach or default theretofore or thereafter occurring. Any waiver, permit, consent or approval of any kind or character on the part of Administrative Agent and/or the Lenders of any Event of Default, Inchoate Default or other breach or default under this Agreement or any other Credit Facility Document, or any waiver on the part of Administrative Agent and/or the Lenders
Delay and Waiver
.
 
of any provision or condition of this Agreement or any other Credit Facility Document, must be in writing and shall be effective only to the extent in such writing specifically set forth. All remedies, either under this Agreement or any other Credit Facility Document or by law or otherwise afforded to Administrative Agent and the Lenders, shall be cumulative and not alternative.
 
8.4 Borrower will pay to Administrative Agent all of its reasonable costs and expenses in connection with the preparation, negotiation, closing and administering of this Agreement and the documents contemplated hereby and any participation or syndication of the Loans or this Agreement, including the reasonable fees, expenses and disbursements of a single legal counsel, together with a single legal counsel in each applicable local jurisdiction, retained by Administrative Agent in connection with the preparation of such documents and any amendments hereof. Borrower will reimburse (a) Administrative Agent for all costs and expenses, including reasonable attorneys' fees, expended or incurred by Administrative Agent, and the Lenders for their reasonable internal out-of-pocket expenses (but not, in the case of the Lenders for attorney's fees) in enforcing this Agreement or the other Credit Facility Documents in connection with an Event of Default or Inchoate Default, in actions for declaratory relief in any way related to this Agreement or in collecting any sum which becomes due Administrative Agent or the Lenders on the Notes or under the Credit Facility Documents and (b) Administrative Agent and the Lenders for their reasonable out-of-pocket expenses, including reasonable attorney fees, in the case of a restructuring or other workout of the Loans in connection with the bankruptcy or insolvency of Borrower or any payment default requiring, among other things, amendments to the interest rates and/or repayment dates for the Loans. Borrower shall not be responsible for any counsel fees of Administrative Agent or the Lenders other than as set forth above.
Costs, Expenses and Attorneys' Fees
.
 
8.5 This Agreement and any agreement, document or instrument attached hereto or referred to herein integrate all the terms and conditions mentioned herein or incidental hereto and supersede all oral negotiations and prior writings in respect to the subject matter hereof. In the event of any conflict between the terms, conditions and provisions of this Agreement and any such agreement, document or instrument, the terms, conditions and provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
Entire Agreement
.
 
8.6 THIS AGREEMENT, AND ANY INSTRUMENT OR AGREEMENT REQUIRED HEREUNDER (TO THE EXTENT NOT OTHERWISE EXPRESSLY PROVIDED FOR THEREIN), SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED UNDER, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REFERENCE TO CONFLICTS OF LAWS (OTHER THAN SECTION 5-1401 AND SECTION5-1402 OF THE NEW YORK GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW).
Governing Law
.
 
8.7 In case any one or more of the provisions contained in this Agreement should be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Severability
.
 
8.8 Paragraph headings have been inserted in this Agreement as a matter of convenience for reference only; such paragraph headings are not a part of this Agreement and shall not be used in the interpretation of any provision of this Agreement.
Headings
.
 
8.9 All accounting terms not specifically defined herein shall be construed in accordance with GAAP and practices consistent with those applied in the preparation of the financial statements submitted by Borrower to Administrative Agent, and all financial data submitted pursuant to this Agreement shall be prepared in accordance with such principles and practices.
Accounting Terms
.
 
8.10 The Lenders and Borrower intend that the relationship between them shall be solely that of creditor and debtor. Nothing contained in this Agreement, the Notes or in any of the other Credit Facility Documents shall be deemed or construed to create a partnership, tenancy-in-common, joint tenancy, joint venture or co-ownership by or between the Lenders and Borrower or any other Person.
No Partnership, Etc
.
 
8.11 No claim shall be made by Borrower or any of its Affiliates against the Lenders or any of their Affiliates, directors, employees, attorneys or agents for any loss of profits, business or anticipated savings, special or punitive damages or any indirect or consequential loss whatsoever in respect of any breach or wrongful conduct (whether or not the claim therefor is based on contract, tort or duty imposed by law), in connection with, arising out of or in any way related to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the other Credit Facility Documents or any act or omission or event occurring in connection therewith; and Borrower hereby waives, releases and agrees not to sue upon any such claim for any such damages, whether or not accrued and whether or not known or suspected to exist in its favor.
Limitation on Liability
.
 
8.12 THE LENDERS, ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND BORROWER HEREBY KNOWINGLY, VOLUNTARILY, AND INTENTIONALLY WAIVE ANY RIGHTS THEY MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN RESPECT OF ANY LITIGATION BASED HEREON, OR ARISING OUT OF, UNDER, OR IN CONNECTION WITH, THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER CREDIT FACILITY DOCUMENT, OR ANY COURSE OR CONDUCT, COURSE OF DEALING, STATEMENTS (WHETHER VERBAL OR WRITTEN), OR ACTIONS OF ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT, THE LENDERS OR BORROWER. THIS PROVISION IS A MATERIAL INDUCEMENT FOR THE LENDERS AND ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT.
Waiver of Jury Trial
.
 
8.13 The Lenders, Administrative Agent and Borrower agree that any legal action or proceeding by or against Borrower or with respect to or arising out of this Agreement, the Notes, or any other Credit Facility Document may be brought in or removed to the courts of the State of New York, in and for the County of New York, or of the United States of America for the Southern District of New York, as Administrative Agent may elect. By execution and delivery of this Agreement, the Lenders, Administrative Agent and Borrower accept, for themselves and in respect of their property, generally and unconditionally,
Consent to Jurisdiction
.
 
the jurisdiction of the aforesaid courts. The Lenders, Administrative Agent and Borrower irrevocably consent to the service of process out of any of the aforementioned courts in any manner permitted by law. Nothing herein shall affect the right of Administrative Agent to bring legal action or proceedings in any other competent jurisdiction. Notwithstanding the foregoing, service of process shall not be deemed served or mailed to Administrative Agent or the Lenders until a copy of all matters to be served have been mailed to Shearman & Sterling, 599 Lexington Avenue, New York, NY 10022, Attn: Denise Grant or such other Person as Administrative Agent or the Lenders may hereafter designate by notice specifically referring to this Section 8.13 given pursuant to Section 8.1. The Lenders, Administrative Agent and Borrower further agree that the aforesaid courts of the State of New York and of the United States of America shall have exclusive jurisdiction with respect to any claim or counterclaim of Borrower based upon the assertion that the rate of interest charged by the Lenders on or under this Agreement, the Loans and/or the other Credit Facility Documents is usurious. The Lenders, Administrative Agent and Borrower hereby waive any right to stay or dismiss any action or proceeding under or in connection with this Agreement or any other Credit Facility Document brought before the foregoing courts on the basis of forum non-conveniens.
 
8.14 . References in this Agreement and the other Credit Facility Documents to the "knowledge," "best knowledge" or facts and circumstances "known to" Borrower, and all like references, mean facts or circumstances of which a Responsible Officer of Borrower has actual knowledge.
Knowledge and Attribution
 
8.15 . The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. Borrower may not assign or otherwise transfer any of their rights under this Agreement, and the Lenders may not assign or otherwise transfer any of their rights under this Agreement except as provided in Article VII.
Successors and Assigns
 
8.16 . Each Lender and the Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the Patriot Act, it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower, which information includes the name and address of such Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify the Borrower in accordance with the Patriot Act. The Borrower shall, and shall cause each of its Significant Subsidiaries to, provide, to the extent commercially reasonable, such information and take such actions as are reasonably requested by the Administrative Agent or any Lender in order to assist the Administrative Agent and the Lenders in maintaining compliance with the Patriot Act.
Patriot Act Notice
 
8.17 . This Agreement may be executed in one or more duplicate counterparts and when signed by all of the parties listed below shall constitute a single binding agreement.
Counterparts
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their officers thereunto duly authorized as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" means Citibank, N.A., acting in its capacity as administrative agent for the Lenders under the Credit Agreement, or its successor appointed pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement.
Administrative Agent
 
"" of a specified Person means any other Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with the Person specified, or who holds or beneficially owns 25% or more of the equity interest in the Person specified or 25% or more of any class of voting securities of the Person specified.
Affiliates
 
"" means, for any day during the term of the Facility, the applicable margin set forth below, as adjusted pursuant to the proviso set forth immediately below the following chart:
Applicable Margin
 
 
, , that (a) for any day on which the aggregate amount of outstanding Loans exceeds 33% of the Total Commitment at such time and Borrower's long term senior unsecured non credit enhanced debt is rated at least BBB- by S&P and Baa3 by Moody's at such time, the Applicable Margin for LIBOR Loans for such day shall be increased by 0.125% per annum and (b) for any day on which the aggregate amount of outstanding Loans exceeds 33% of the Total Commitment at such time and Borrower's long term senior unsecured non credit enhanced debt is rated less than BBB- by S&P or Baa3 by Moody's at such time, the Applicable Margin for LIBOR Loans for such day shall be increased by 0.25% per annum.
provided
however
 
"" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which banks are or are authorized to be closed in New York, New York and, where such term is used in any respect relating to a LIBOR Loan, which is also a day on which dealings in Dollar deposits are carried out in the London interbank market.
Banking Day
 
"" shall be deemed to occur, with respect to any Person, if that Person shall institute a voluntary case seeking liquidation or reorganization under the Bankruptcy Law, or shall consent to the institution of an involuntary case thereunder against it; or such Person shall file a petition or consent or shall otherwise institute any similar proceeding under any other applicable Federal or state law, or shall consent thereto; or such Person shall apply for, or by consent or acquiescence there shall be an appointment of, a receiver, liquidator, sequestrator, trustee or other officer with similar powers for itself or any substantial part of its assets; or such Person shall make a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors; or such Person shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due; or if an involuntary case shall be commenced seeking liquidation or reorganization of such Person under the Bankruptcy Law or any similar proceedings shall be commenced against such Person under any other applicable Federal or state law and (a) the petition commencing the involuntary case is not timely controverted, (b) the petition commencing the involuntary case is not dismissed within 60 days of its filing, (c) an interim trustee is appointed to take possession of all or a substantial portion of the property, and/or to operate all or any material part of the business of such Person and such appointment is not vacated within 60 days, or (d) an order for relief shall have been issued or entered therein; or a decree or order of a court having jurisdiction in the premises for the appointment of a receiver, liquidator, sequestrator, trustee or other officer having similar powers, over such Person or all or a substantial part of its property shall have been entered; or any other similar relief shall be granted against such Person under any applicable Federal or state law.
Bankruptcy Event
 
"" means Title 11, United States Code, and any other state or federal insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar law for the relief of debtors, or any successor statute.
Bankruptcy Law
 
"" means, for any day, a rate per annum (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) equal to the greater of (a) the Prime Rate in effect on such day and (b) the Federal Funds Rate in effect on such day plus 1/2 of 1%. If for any reason Administrative Agent shall have determined that it is unable to ascertain the Federal Funds Rate, the Base Rate shall be determined without regard to clause (b) hereof, until the circumstances giving rise to such inability no longer exist. Any change in the Base Rate due to a change in the Prime Rate or the Federal Funds Rate shall be effective on the effective date of such change in the Prime Rate or the Federal Funds Rate, respectively.
Base Rate
 
"" has the meaning given in Section 2.1.1.2(a) of the Credit Agreement.
Base Rate Loan
 
"" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States (or any successor).
Board
 
"" means Tampa Electric Company, a Florida corporation
Borrower
.
 
"" means any borrowing by Borrower of Loans made pursuant to a Notice of Borrowing, as provided in Section 2.1.1.2 of the Credit Agreement.
Borrowing
 
"" has the meaning given in Section 2.6.4 of the Credit Agreement.
Capital Adequacy Requirement
 
"" means, as to Borrower, the sum of Total Debt and Consolidated Shareholders Equity, in each case, as of the date of any determination thereof.
Capitalization
 
"" means, as to any Person, all rental obligations as lessee which, under GAAP, are or will be required to be capitalized on the books of such Person, in each case taken at the amount thereof accounted for as indebtedness in accordance with GAAP.
Capitalized Lease Obligations
 
"" has the meaning given in Section 2.6.2 of the Credit Agreement.
Change of Law
 
"" means the date when each of the conditions precedent listed in Section 3.1 of the Credit Agreement has been satisfied (or waived in accordance with the terms of the Credit Agreement).
Closing Date
 
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
 
"" means at any time with respect to each Lender, such Lender's Proportionate Share of the Total Commitment and, with respect to all Lenders, the Total Commitment.
Commitment
 
"" means, with respect to the Borrower, any and all shares, interests, participations or other equivalents (however designated, whether voting or non-voting) of the Borrower's common stock, whether now outstanding or issued after the date of this Agreement, including without limitation, all series and classes of such common stock.
Common Stock
 
"" has the meaning given in Section 2.1.2.4(b) of the Credit Agreement.
Confirmation of Interest Period Selection
 
"" means, as of the date of any determination, the consolidated tangible net worth of Borrower and its subsidiaries, and including amounts attributable to (a) junior subordinated debentures, that such junior subordinated debentures have subordination and deferral features substantially similar to those in the TECO Subordinated Debentures; and (b) preferred stock to the extent excluded from Total Debt, minus the value of minority interests in any of Borrower's subsidiaries, and disregarding unearned compensation associated with Borrower's employee stock ownership plan or other benefit plans, foreign currency translation adjustments and other comprehensive income adjustments, all determined in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Shareholders Equity
provided
 
"" means, as to any Person, any obligation of such Person guaranteeing any Indebtedness or lease obligation (each a "") of any other Person (the "") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, including any obligation of such Person, whether or not contingent, (a) to purchase any such primary obligation or any property constituting direct or indirect security therefor, (b) to advance or supply funds
Contingent Obligation
primary obligation
primary obligor
 
(i) for the purchase or payment of any such primary obligation or (ii) to maintain working capital or equity capital of the primary obligor or otherwise to maintain the net worth or solvency of the primary obligor or (c) otherwise to assure or hold harmless the holder of such primary obligation against loss in respect thereof; , , that the term Contingent Obligation shall not include endorsements of instruments for deposit or collection in the ordinary course of business. The amount of any Contingent Obligation shall be deemed to be the maximum probable liability in respect thereof (assuming such Person is required to perform thereunder) as determined in good faith by Borrower in accordance with GAAP.
provided
however
 
"" or "" means the 3-Year Revolving Facility Credit Agreement, dated as of October 22, 2004 among Borrower, Administrative Agent, and the financial institutions parties thereto, to which this Exhibit A is attached.
Credit Agreement
Agreement
 
"" means, collectively, the Credit Agreement, any Notes, the Fee Letter and any other letter agreements or similar documents entered into by Administrative Agent (in its capacity as administrative agent under the Credit Agreement) and Borrower in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Credit Facility Documents mentioned above.
Credit Facility Documents
 
"" means the interest rate per annum equal to the Base Rate or the LIBOR Rate (as applicable) plus the Applicable Margin, plus two percent (2%). Interest computed with reference to the Default Rate shall be adjusted and calculated in the same manner as interest computed with reference to the Base Rate or the LIBOR Rate (as applicable).
Default Rate
 
"" and "" means United States dollars or such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment shall be legal tender for the payment of public and private debts in the United States of America.
Dollar
$
 
"" means, for any period, the consolidated Net Income of Borrower and its subsidiaries for such period plus (a) without duplication and to the extent deducted in determining such consolidated Net Income, the sum of (i) Interest Expense for such period, (ii) consolidated income tax expense for such period, and (iii) all amounts attributable to depreciation and amortization for such period and (iv) any extraordinary non-cash charges for such period, minus (b) without duplication and to the extent included in determining such consolidated Net Income, any extraordinary gains for such period, all determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
EBITDA
 
"" shall mean, as of the last day of each calendar quarter, the ratio of (a) Borrower's EBITDA for the 12-month period ending on such day to (b) Borrower's Interest Expense for the 12-month period ending on such day.
EBITDA to Interest Ratio
 
"" means (a) shares of capital stock, partnership interests, membership interests in a limited liability company, beneficial interests in a trust or other equity ownership interests in a Person or (b) any warrants, options or other rights to acquire such shares or interests.
Equity Interests
 
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
ERISA
 
"" means (a) a corporation which is a member of a controlled group of corporations with Borrower within the meaning of Section 414(b) of the Code, (b) a trade or business (including a sole proprietorship, partnership, trust, estate or corporation) which is under common control with Borrower within the meaning of Section 414(c) of the Code or Section 4001(b)(1) of ERISA, (c) a member of an affiliated service group with Borrower within the meaning of Section 414(m) of the Code, or (d) an entity treated as under common control with Borrower by reason of Section 414(o) of the Code.
ERISA Affiliate
 
"" means any employee benefit plan (a) maintained by Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate, or to which any of them contributes or is obligated to contribute, for its employees and (b) covered by Title IV of ERISA or to which Section 412 of the Code applies.
ERISA Plan
 
"" has the meaning given in Section 6.1 of the Credit Agreement.
Event of Default
 
"" has the meaning given in the Recitals to the Credit Agreement.
Facility
 
"" has the meaning given in Section 2.3.2 of the Credit Agreement.
Facility Fees
 
"" means, for any day, the weighted average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the per annum rates on overnight federal funds transactions with member banks of the Federal Reserve System arranged by federal funds brokers, as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York for such day (or, if such rate is not so published for any day, the average rate charged by Administrative Agent on such day on such transactions as determined by Administrative Agent).
Federal Funds Rate
 
"" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
Federal Reserve Board
 
"" means that certain Fee Letter, dated as of September 23, 2004, among Administrative Agent, Borrower and Citigroup Global Markets Inc.
Fee Letter
 
"" means the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and its successors.
FERC
 
"" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States consistently applied.
GAAP
 
"" means any national, state or local government (whether domestic or foreign), any political subdivision thereof or any other governmental, quasi-governmental, judicial, regulatory, public or statutory instrumentality, authority, body, agency, bureau or entity (including any zoning authority, FERC, PUHCA, the Comptroller of the Currency or the Federal Reserve Board, any central bank or any comparable authority) or any arbitrator with authority to bind a party to the Credit Agreement at law.
Governmental Authority
 
"" means any law, rule, regulation, ordinance, order, code interpretation, treaty, judgment, decree, directive, guidelines, policy or similar form of decision of any Governmental Authority.
Governmental Rule
 
"" has the meaning given in Section 7.13.2 of the Credit Agreement.
Granting Lender
 
"" means transactions under any interest swap agreements, caps, collars or other interest rate hedging mechanisms.
Hedge Transactions
 
"" means any occurrence, circumstance or event, or any combination thereof, which, with the lapse of time and/or the giving of notice, would constitute an Event of Default.
Inchoate Default
 
"" of any Person means, without duplication, (a) all indebtedness of such Person for borrowed money, (b) the deferred purchase price of assets or services which in accordance with GAAP would be shown on the liability side of the balance sheet of such Person, (c) the face amount of all letters of credit issued for the account of such Person (other than letters of credit issued to secure a financial obligation of such Person to the extent such obligation is not outstanding at the time) and all unreimbursed drafts drawn thereunder, (d) all Indebtedness of another Person secured by any Lien on any property owned by such Person, whether or not such Indebtedness has been assumed by such Person, (e) all Capitalized Lease Obligations of such Person, (f) all obligations of such Person under any subscription or similar agreement, (g) the discounted present value of all obligations of such Person (other than the Borrower) payable under agreements for the payment of a specified purchase price for the purchase and resale of power whether or not delivered or accepted, take-or-pay and similar obligations, (h) any unfunded or underfunded obligation subject to the minimum funding standards of Section 412 of the Code of such Person to any "employee pension benefit plan" (as defined in Section 3(2) of ERISA) maintained at any time, or contributed to, by such Person or any other Person which is under common control (within the meaning of Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code) with such Person, (i) all Contingent Obligations of such Person and (j) all obligations of such Person in respect of Hedge Transactions; , , that Indebtedness shall specifically exclude accounts payable arising in the ordinary course of business.
Indebtedness
i.e.,
provided
however
 
"" has the meaning given in Section 5.12.1.
Indemnitees
 
"" means, for any period, the sum of Base Interest Expense (a) of Borrower and its subsidiaries and (b) accruing on any Indebtedness of any other Person to the extent such Indebtedness is guaranteed by Borrower or any of its subsidiaries, but excluding any Interest Expense (i) on Non-Recourse Indebtedness; and (ii) on Indebtedness of a Person before the date (A) it becomes a subsidiary of Borrower, (B) it is merged or consolidated with Borrower or (C) a subsidiary of Borrower or its assets are acquired by Borrower to the extent that income or loss of such Person is excluded under the definition of Net Income, each determined for such period on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP. For purposes of this definition, "" means, with respect to any Person, for any period, total cash interest expense of such Person payable for such period with respect to all outstanding Indebtedness of such Person, including all commissions, discounts and other fees and charges owed with respect to letters of credit and bankers' acceptance financing and net costs under hedging agreements to the extent such net costs are allocable to such period in accordance with GAAP.
Interest Expense
Base Interest Expense
 
"" means, with respect to any LIBOR Loan, the time period selected by Borrower which commences on the first day of such Loan, or on the first day after the last day of the immediately preceding Interest Period, or the effective date of any conversion (as the case may be) and ends on the last day of such time period; provided that no single day shall be deemed to be a part of two Interest Periods.
Interest Period
 
"" means, as to any Person, the articles of incorporation, bylaws or other organizational or governing documents of such Person, and any requirement under a Permit, and any Governmental Rule in each case applicable to or binding upon such Person or any of its properties or to which such Person or any of its property is subject.
Legal Requirements
 
"" or "" means the banks and other financial institutions (including any finance company, insurance company or other financial institution or fund (whether a corporation, partnership, trust or other entity) that is engaged in making, purchasing or otherwise investing in commercial loans in the ordinary course of business and having total assets in excess of $100,000,000) that are or become parties to the Credit Agreement and their successors and assigns.
Lender
Lenders
 
"" means, with respect to any Lender, the office designated as such beneath the name of such Lender on Schedule 1 or such other office of such Lender as such Lender may specify from time to time to Administrative Agent and Borrower.
Lending Office
 
"" has the meaning given in Section 2.1.1.2(a) of the Credit Agreement.
LIBOR Loan
 
"" means, for any LIBOR Loan, a rate per annum (rounded upwards if necessary, to the nearest 1/16
LIBOR Rate
th
of 1%) equal to (a)(i) the offered rate for deposits in Dollars (in the approximate amount and having approximately the same Interest Period as the LIBOR Loan to be made) in the London Interbank Market at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) two Banking Days prior to the commencement of the applicable Interest Period, which appears on the Telerate Screen, or, (ii) if such rate does not appear on the Telerate Screen, the rate per annum determined by Administrative Agent in good faith to be the average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the nearest 1/16
th
of 1%) of the rates per annum at which Administrative Agent, at approximately 11:00 a.m. London time, two Banking Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, is offered, by prime banks in the London interbank market selected by Administrative Agent, for deposits in Dollars for a period approximately equal to such Interest Period and in an amount approximately equal to the principal amount of the Loan scheduled to be outstanding during such Interest Period, divided by (b) 100% minus the Reserve Requirement (expressed as a percentage) for such LIBOR Loan for such Interest Period.
 
"" on any asset means any mortgage, deed of trust, lien, pledge, charge, security interest, or easement or encumbrance of any kind in respect of such asset, whether or not filed, recorded or otherwise perfected or effective under applicable law, as well as the interest of a vendor or lessor under any conditional sale agreement, capital lease or other title retention agreement relating to such asset.
Lien
 
"" has the meaning given in Section 2.7 of the Credit Agreement.
Liquidation Costs
 
"" has the meaning given in Section 2.1.1.1 of the Credit Agreement.
Loan
 
"" means, at any time, Lenders holding in excess of 50% of the Proportionate Shares.
Majority Lenders
 
"" means with respect to any Person,
Material Adverse Effect
 
(a) a material adverse change in the business, property, results of operations, or financial condition of such Person and any Significant Subsidiary thereof, taken as a whole; or
 
(b) any event or occurrence of whatever nature which materially and adversely:
 
(i) changes such Person's ability to perform its obligations under the Credit Facility Documents to which it is a party, or
 
(ii) impairs the legality, validity, binding effect or enforceability of the Credit Agreement or Notes.
 
"" means October 22, 2007.
Maturity Date
 
"" means (a) at least three Banking Days before the date of any Borrowing, continuation or conversion of a Loan resulting in whole or in part in one or more LIBOR Loans and (b) before 11:00 a.m. on the Banking Day of any Borrowing or conversion of a Loan is requested resulting in whole or in part in one or more Base Rate Loans.
Minimum Notice Period
 
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
Moody's
 
"" means any ERISA Plan that is a multiemployer plan (as defined in Section 3(37) of ERISA).
Multiemployer Plan
 
"" means, for any period, the net income or loss of Borrower and its subsidiaries for such period determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP (and before giving effect to any elimination of minority interests in non-wholly owned subsidiaries); that there shall be excluded the income or loss of any Person accrued before (a) the date it becomes a subsidiary of Borrower, (b) the date it is merged into or consolidated with Borrower or any subsidiary of Borrower or (c) the date its assets are acquired by Borrower or any subsidiary of Borrower, other than amounts of income accrued before such date which are actually paid as dividends after such date.
Net Income
provided
 
"" has the meaning given in Section 7.12 of the Credit Agreement.
Non-Advancing Lender
 
"" means Indebtedness which is not an obligation of, and is otherwise without recourse to, the assets or revenues of Borrower or any subsidiary of Borrower.
Non-Recourse Indebtedness
 
"" has the meaning given in Section 2.1.5 of the Credit Agreement.
Note
 
"" has the meaning given in Section 2.1.1.2 of the Credit Agreement.
Notice of Borrowing
 
"" has the meaning given in Section 2.1.3 of the Credit Agreement.
Notice of Conversion of Loan Type
 
"" means all obligations of Borrower under the Credit Agreement and the other Credit Facility Documents.
Obligations
 
"" has the meaning given in Section 2.4.4.1 of the Credit Agreement.
Other Taxes
 
"" means the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001, Pub. L. 107-56, signed into law October 26, 2001.
Patriot Act
 
"" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation established pursuant to Subtitle A of Title IV of ERISA.
PBGC
 
"" means any action, approval, consent, waiver, exemption, variance, franchise, order, permit, authorization, right or license of or from a Governmental Authority.
Permit
 
"" means any natural person, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, firm, association, Governmental Authority, trust, trustee or any other entity whether acting in an individual, fiduciary or other capacity.
Person
 
"" means the rate of interest per annum publicly announced from time to time by Administrative Agent as its prime rate in effect at its principal office in New York City (the Prime Rate not being intended to be the lowest rate of interest charged by Administrative Agent in connection with extensions of credit to debtors).
Prime Rate
 
"" means any transaction set forth in Section 406 of ERISA or Section 4975 of the Code which is not exempt under Section 408 of ERISA or Section 4975(d) of the Code.
Prohibited Transaction
 
"" means, with respect to each Lender at any time, the percentage participation of such Lender in the Total Commitment as set forth on Schedule 1 to the Credit Agreement.
Proportionate Share
 
Upon any transfer by a Lender of all or part of its Commitment, the Administrative Agent may revise Schedule 1 to reflect the Lenders' Proportionate Shares after giving effect to such transfer.
 
"" means the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, as amended.
PUHCA
 
"" means any change after the date of the Credit Agreement in federal, state, local or foreign laws, regulations, Legal Requirements or requirements under applicable permits, or the adoption or making after such date of any interpretations, directives or requests of or under any federal, state, local or foreign laws, regulations, Legal Requirements or requirements under applicable permits (whether or not having the force of law) by any Governmental Authority charged with the interpretation or administration thereof.
Regulatory Change
 
"" means Regulation D of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (or any successor).
Regulation D
 
"" means Regulation T of the Board as in effect from time to time (and any successor to all or a portion thereof).
Regulation T
 
"" means Regulation U of the Board as in effect from time to time (and any successor to all or a portion thereof).
Regulation U
 
"" means Regulation X of the Board as in effect from time to time (and any successor to all or a portion thereof).
Regulation X
 
"" means (i) at any time, except in connection with the election or enforcement of remedies, Lenders having Proportionate Shares which in the aggregate exceed 66.7% and (ii) with respect to the election or enforcement of remedies under Section 6.2, Lenders holding Loans which in the aggregate exceed 66.7% of all outstanding Loans (without including any unfunded Commitments).
Required Lenders
 
"" means, for LIBOR Loans, the maximum rate (expressed as a percentage) at which reserves (including any marginal, supplemental or emergency reserves) are required to be maintained during the Interest Period therefor under Regulation D by member banks of the Federal Reserve System in New York City with deposits exceeding $1,000,000,000 against "Eurocurrency liabilities" (as such term is used in Regulation D). Without limiting the effect of the foregoing, the Reserve Requirement shall reflect any other reserves required to be maintained by such member banks by reason of any Regulatory Change against (i) any category of liabilities which includes deposits by reference to which the LIBOR Rate or LIBOR Loans is to be determined, (ii) any category of liabilities or extensions of credit or other assets which include LIBOR Loans or (iii) any category of liabilities or extensions of credit which are considered irrevocable commitments to lend.
Reserve Requirement
 
"" means, as to any Person, its president, chief executive officer, any vice president, treasurer, or secretary or any managing general partner or manager or managing member of a limited liability company (or any of the preceding with regard to such managing general partner, manager or managing member).
Responsible Officer
 
"" means Standard & Poor's Corporation.
S&P
 
"" means any subsidiary of Borrower formed or acquired after the Closing Date the total assets (after intercompany eliminations) of which exceed 10% of the total assets of Borrower and its subsidiaries (taken as a whole).
Significant Subsidiary
 
"" means, when used with respect to any Person, as of any date of determination, (a) the amount of the "present fair saleable value" of the assets of such Person will, as of such date, exceed the amount of all "liabilities of such Person, contingent or otherwise", as of such date, as such quoted terms are determined in accordance with applicable federal and state laws governing determinations of the insolvency of debtors, (b) the present fair saleable value of the assets of such Person will, as of such date, be greater than the amount that will be required to pay the liability of such person on its debts as such debts become absolute and matured, (c) such Person will not have, as of such date, an unreasonably small amount of capital with which to conduct its business, (d) such Person will be able to pay its debts as they mature, and (e) such Person is not insolvent within the meaning of any applicable Legal Requirements. For purposes of this definition, (i) "debt" means liability on a "claim", and (ii) "claim" means any (x) right to payment, whether or not such a right is reduced to judgment, liquidated, unliquidated, fixed, contingent, matured, unmatured, disputed, undisputed, legal, equitable, secured or unsecured or (y) right to an equitable remedy for breach of performance if such breach gives rise to a right to payment, whether or not such right to an equitable remedy is reduced to judgment, fixed, contingent, matured or unmatured, disputed, undisputed, secured or unsecured.
Solvent
 
"" has the meaning given in Section 7.13.2 of the Credit Agreement.
SPC
 
"" has the meaning given in Section 5.12.1.
Subject Claims
 
"" has the meaning given in Section 2.4.4.1 of the Credit Agreement.
Taxes
 
"" means TECO Energy, Inc., a Florida corporation.
TECO
 
"" means the Credit Agreement, dated as of November 14, 2001 among TECO, Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent, and the financial institutions parties thereto.
TECO Credit Agreement
 
"" means Citibank, N.A., acting in its capacity as administrative agent for the TECO Credit Facility Lenders under the TECO Credit Agreement, or its successor appointed pursuant to the terms of the TECO Credit Agreement.
TECO Credit Facility Administrative Agent
 
"" has the meaning given the term "Lenders" in Exhibit A to the TECO Credit Agreement.
TECO Credit Facility Lenders
 
"" means the 8.50% Junior Subordinate Notes due 2041, issued by TECO on December 20, 2000, in the original principal amount of $206,200,000.
TECO Subordinated Debentures
 
"" means the display designated as Page 3750 on the Reuters Monitor Money Rates Service (or such page as may replace such page for the purpose of displaying London Interbank offered rates of major banks, or, if discontinued, any replacement service designated by Administrative Agent).
Telerate Screen
 
"" means the 364-Day Revolving Facility Credit Agreement, dated as of November 7, 2003, among the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders (as defined therein) party thereto.
364-Day Revolving Facility Credit Agreement
 
"" has the meaning given in Section 2.2.1 of the Credit Agreement.
Total Commitment
 
"" means, without duplication, Indebtedness of Borrower and its Significant Subsidiaries determined on a consolidated basis outstanding at the date of any determination thereof, but expressly excluding (a) Non-Recourse Indebtedness of Borrower and its subsidiaries, (b) junior subordinated debentures issued by Borrower and its subsidiaries; that such junior subordinated debentures have subordination and deferral features substantially similar to those in the TECO Subordinated Debentures, and (c) preferred stock of Borrower and its subsidiaries in an amount not to exceed 10% of Borrower's Capitalization on such date.
Total Debt
provided
 
"" means the type of Loan, whether a Base Rate Loan or LIBOR Loan.
Type
 
"" has the meaning given in Section 2.3.1 of the Credit Agreement.
Up-Front Fee
 
RULES OF INTERPRETATION
 
1. The singular includes the plural and the plural includes the singular.
 
2. "or" is not exclusive.
 
3. A reference to a Governmental Rule or Legal Requirement includes any amendment or modification to such Governmental Rule or Legal Requirement, and all regulations, rulings and other Governmental Rules or Legal Requirement promulgated under such Governmental Rule.
 
4. A reference to a Person includes its permitted successors and permitted assigns.
 
5. Accounting terms have the meanings assigned to them by GAAP, as applied by the accounting entity to which they refer.
 
6. The words "include," "includes" and "including" are not limiting.
 
7. A reference in a document to an Article, Section, Exhibit, Schedule, Annex, Appendix or Attachment is to the Article, Section, Exhibit, Schedule, Annex, Appendix or Attachment of such document unless otherwise indicated. Exhibits, Schedules, Annexes, Appendices or Attachments to any document shall be deemed incorporated by reference in such document.
 
8. References to any document, instrument or agreement (a) shall include all exhibits, schedules and other attachments thereto, (b) shall include all documents, instruments or agreements issued or executed in replacement thereof, and (c) shall mean such document, instrument or agreement, or replacement or predecessor thereto, as amended, modified and supplemented from time to time and in effect at any given time.
 
9. The words "hereof," "herein" and "hereunder" and words of similar import when used in any document shall refer to such document as a whole and not to any particular provision of such document.
 
10. References to "days" shall mean calendar days, unless the term "Banking Days" shall be used. References to a time of day shall mean such time in New York, New York, unless otherwise specified.
 
11. The Credit Facility Documents are the result of negotiations between, and have been reviewed by Borrower, Administrative Agent, each Lender and their respective counsel. Accordingly, the Credit Facility Documents shall be deemed to be the product of all parties thereto, and no ambiguity shall be construed in favor of or against Borrower, Administrative Agent or any Lender solely as a result of any such party having drafted or proposed the ambiguous provision.
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
EXHIBIT B
to 3-Year Revolving Facility Credit Agreement
 
 
 
For value received, the undersigned TAMPA ELECTRIC COMPANY, a Florida corporation (""), promises to pay to (""), or order, at the office of located at , Attn: , in lawful money of the United States of America and in immediately available funds, the principal amount of DOLLARS ($), or if less, the aggregate unpaid and outstanding principal amount of Loans advanced by Lender to Borrower pursuant to that certain 3-Year Revolving Facility Credit Agreement, dated as of October 22, 2004 (as amended, amended and restated or otherwise modified from time to time, the ""), by and among Borrower, the financial institutions named therein (the "") and Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent for the Lenders (""), and all other amounts owed by Borrower to Lender hereunder.
Borrower
                                
Lender
            
                                
                            
                        
                    
Credit Agreement
Lenders
Administrative Agent
 
This is one of the Notes referred to in the Credit Agreement and is entitled to the benefits thereof and is subject to all terms, provisions and conditions thereof. Capitalized terms used and not defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Credit Agreement.
 
The principal amount hereof is payable in accordance with the Credit Agreement, and such principal amount may be prepaid solely in accordance with the Credit Agreement, including, without limitation, any prepayment fees and premiums provided for therein.
 
Borrower further agrees to pay, in lawful money of the United States of America and in immediately available funds, interest from the date hereof on the unpaid and outstanding principal amount hereof until such unpaid and outstanding principal amount shall become due and payable (whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise) at the rates of interest and at the times set forth in the Credit Agreement and Borrower agrees to pay other fees and costs as stated in the Credit Agreement.
 
If any payment on this Note becomes due and payable on a date which is not a Banking Day, such payment shall be made on the first succeeding, or next preceding, Banking Day, in accordance with the terms of the Credit Agreement.
 
All Loans made by Lender pursuant to the Credit Agreement and other Credit Facility Documents, and all payments and prepayments made on account of the principal balance hereof shall be recorded by Lender on the grid attached hereto, provided that failure to make such a notation shall not affect or diminish Borrower's obligation to repay all amounts due on this Note as and when due.
Upon the occurrence and during the continuation of any one or more Events of Default, all amounts then remaining unpaid on this Note may become or be declared to be immediately due and payable as provided in the Credit Agreement and other Credit Facility Documents, without notice of default, presentment or demand for payment, protest or notice of nonpayment or dishonor, or notices or demands of any kind, all of which are expressly waived by Borrower.
 
Borrower agrees to pay costs and expenses, including without limitation attorneys' fees, as set forth in Section 8.4 of the Credit Agreement.
 
This Note has been executed and delivered in and shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of New York, without reference to conflicts of laws (other than Section 5-1401 and Section 5-1402 of the New York General Obligations Law).
 
 
EXHIBIT C-1
to 3-Year Revolving Facility Credit Agreement
 
 
 
Citibank, N.A.,
    as Administrative Agent for the Lenders
2 Penns Way, Suite 200
New Castle, Delaware 19720
Attention: Jacqueline Caine
Tel: (302) 894-6079
Fax: (302) 894-6120
 
 
This Notice of Borrowing is delivered to you pursuant to Section 2.1.1.2 of the 3-Year Revolving Facility Credit Agreement dated as of October 22, 2004 (as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, the ""), among Tampa Electric Company, a Florida corporation (""), the financial institutions named therein (the "") and Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent for the Lenders (""). All capitalized terms used herein shall have the respective meanings specified in Exhibit A to the Credit Agreement unless otherwise defined herein or unless the context requires otherwise.
Credit Agreement
Borrower
Lenders
Administrative Agent
 
This Notice of Borrowing constitutes a request for a Borrowing as set out below:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The undersigned further confirms and certifies to Administrative Agent and each Lender that (i) the requested Loan, when aggregated with all Loans then outstanding, will not exceed the Total Commitment, and (ii) the conditions set forth in Section of the Credit Agreement have been satisfied or waived in accordance with the terms thereof.
[3.1][3.2]
 
 
EXHIBIT C-2
to 3-Year Revolving Facility Credit Agreement
 
 
 
Citibank, N.A.,
    as Administrative Agent for the Banks
2 Penns Way, Suite 200
New Castle, Delaware 19720
Attention: Jacqueline Caine
Tel: (302) 894-6079
Fax: (302) 894-6120
 
 
Reference is hereby made to that certain 3-Year Revolving Facility Credit Agreement dated as of October 22, 2004 (as amended, amended and restated or otherwise modified from time to time, the ""), among Tampa Electric Company, a Florida corporation (""), the financial institutions named therein (the "") and Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent for the Lenders (""). All capitalized terms used herein shall have the respective meanings specified in Exhibit A to the Credit Agreement unless otherwise defined herein or unless the context requires otherwise.
Credit Agreement
Borrower
Lenders
Administrative Agent
 
Pursuant to Section 2.1.3 of the Credit Agreement, Borrower hereby requests conversion of the following Loans as set forth below :
[include only those which are applicable]
 
 
 
 
 
 
The effective date of the conversion shall be , which is a Banking Day and which shall be the first day after the last day of an Interest Period if converting from LIBOR Loans.
                    
            
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Borrower has executed this Notice of Conversion of Loan Type on the date set forth above.
 
 
The undersigned acknowledges receipt of a copy of this Notice of Conversion of Loan Type:
 
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
EXHIBIT C-3
to 3-Year Revolving Facility Credit Agreement
 
 
 
Citibank, N.A.,
    as Administrative Agent for the Banks
2 Penns Way, Suite 200
New Castle, Delaware 19720
Attention: Jacqueline Caine
Tel: (302) 894-6079
Fax: (302) 894-6120
 
 
This Confirmation of Interest Period Selection is delivered to you pursuant to Section 2.1.2.4(b) of the 3-Year Revolving Facility Credit Agreement dated as of October 22, 2004 (""), among Tampa Electric Company, a Florida corporation (""), the financial institutions named therein (the "") and Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent for the Lenders (""). All capitalized terms used herein shall have the respective meanings specified in Exhibit A to the Credit Agreement unless otherwise defined herein or unless the context requires otherwise.
Credit Agreement
Borrower
Lenders
Administrative Agent
 
This Confirmation of Interest Period Selection relates to $ of the LIBOR Loans with an Interest Period ending on . This Confirmation of Interest Period Selection constitutes a confirmation that effective (which shall be the last day of an Interest Period):
                    
                    
                    
 
The requested Interest Period for of such LIBOR Loans shall be months.
                    
    
 
This notice shall be effective only if delivered to Administrative Agent as a Confirmation of Interest Period Selection made pursuant to Section 2.1.2.4(b) of the Credit Agreement.
 
The undersigned confirms and certifies to each Lender that as of the date of this Confirmation of Interest Period Selection, no Event of Default or Inchoate Default exists under the Credit Agreement.
 
 
 
The undersigned acknowledges receipt of a copy of this Confirmation of Interest Period Selection:
 
EXHIBIT D
to 3-Year Revolving Facility Credit Agreement
 
 
Pursuant to Section 3.1.9 of the 3-Year Revolving Facility Credit Agreement (as defined below), the undersigned hereby certifies on this []th day of []2004 to CITIBANK, N.A., as administrative agent ("") for the Lenders under that certain 3-Year Revolving Facility Credit Agreement, dated as of October 22, 2004 (as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, the "") among Tampa Electric Company, Inc., a Florida corporation (""), the financial institutions named therein (the "") and Administrative Agent, that:
    
                    
Administrative Agent
Credit Agreement
Borrower
Lenders
 
1. Borrower is not or, but for the passage of time or the giving of notice or both will be, in breach of any material obligation thereunder which is reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Borrower.
 
2. Each representation and warranty made in Article IV of the Credit Agreement is true and correct as of the Closing Date (unless such representation or warranty expressly relates to another time).
 
3. There exists no Event of Default or Inchoate Default as of the Closing Date.
 
4. The conditions precedent set forth in Section 3.1 of the Credit Agreement have been satisfied or have been waived in writing by Administrative Agent with, as applicable, the consent of the Lenders.
 
All capitalized terms used herein which are defined in the Credit Agreement shall have the meaning given to them in Exhibit A to the Credit Agreement.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Borrower has executed this Certificate on the date set forth above.
 

Exhibit 4.2
 
 
Dated as of October 22, 2004
 
among Tampa Electric Company, a Florida corporation (the ""), the banks, financial institutions and other institutional lenders parties to the Credit Agreement referred to below (collectively, the "") and CITIBANK, N.A., as administrative agent (the "Administrative ") for the Lenders.
AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO THE 3-YEAR REVOLVING FACILITY CREDIT AGREEMENT
Borrower
Lenders
Agent
 
PRELIMINARY STATEMENTS:
 
(1) The Borrower, the Lenders and the Administrative Agent entered into a 3-Year Revolving Facility Credit Agreement dated as of November 7, 2003 (such Credit Agreement, as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified through the date hereof, the ""). Capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this Amendment have the same meanings as specified in the Credit Agreement.
Credit Agreement
 
(2) The Borrower and the Majority Lenders have agreed to amend the Credit Agreement as hereinafter set forth.
 
(3) The Majority Lenders are, on the terms and conditions stated below, willing to grant the request of the Borrower and the Borrower and the Majority Lenders have agreed to amend the Credit Agreement as hereinafter set forth.
 
SECTION 1. . The Credit Agreement is, effective as of the date hereof and subject to the satisfaction of the conditions precedent set forth in Section 2, hereby amended as follows:
Amendments to Credit Agreement
 
(a) Section 5.3 is amended by (i) adding the number "5.3.1" at the beginning of the first paragraph therein; (ii) replacing the number "5.3.1" at the beginning of the second paragraph therein with the number "5.3.2"; (iii) replacing the number "5.3.2" at the beginning of the third paragraph therein with the number "5.3.3"; and (iv) replacing the number "5.3.3" at the beginning of the fourth paragraph therein with the number "5.3.4".
 
(b) Section 5.3 is further amended by (i) replacing the number "2.50" with the number "2.00" in the sixth line of clause (iv) of the first paragraph therein; and (ii) adding the following words to the end of the fourth paragraph therein: "; and provided
further that the foregoing shall not limit the Borrower's ability to enter into securitization transactions secured by a transfer of the Borrower's receivables up to a maximum aggregate amount of $150,000,000."
 
(c) Section 5.9.1 is amended by replacing the words "partner's capital" on the fourth line therein with the words "shareholder's equity".
 
(d) Section 5.11.2 is amended by replacing the number "2.50" in the second line therein with the number "2.00".
 
(e) Section 5.15 and the last paragraph of Article V, which begins with the words "For the purpose of this section", are each deleted in full.
 
(f) Section 8.1 is amended by: (i) adding the number "8.1.1" at the beginning of the last paragraph therein which begins with the words "All notices or other communications"; (ii) adding the following language immediately after Section 8.1.1:
 
"8.1.2. The Borrower hereby agrees that it will provide to the Administrative Agent all information, documents and other materials that it is obligated to furnish to the Administrative Agent pursuant to this Agreement or any other Credit Facility Document, including, without limitation, all notices, requests, financial statements, financial and other reports, certificates and other information materials, but excluding any such communication that (a) relates to a request for a new, or a conversion of an existing, borrowing or other extension of credit (including any election of an interest rate or interest period relating thereto), (b) relates to the payment of any principal or other amount due under this Agreement prior to the scheduled date therefor, (c) provides notice of any default or event of default under this Agreement or (d) is required to be delivered to satisfy any condition precedent to the effectiveness of this Agreement and/or any borrowing or other extension of credit thereunder (all such non-excluded communications being referred to herein collectively as ""), by transmitting the Communications in an electronic/soft medium in a format acceptable to the Administrative Agent to .
Communications
oploanswebadmin@citigroup.com
 
8.1.3. The Borrower further agrees that the Administrative Agent may make the Communications available to the Lenders by posting the Communications on Intralinks or a substantially similar electronic transmission systems (the ""). The Borrower acknowledges that the distribution of material through an electronic medium is not necessarily secure and that there are confidentiality and other risks associated with such distribution.
Platform
 
8.1.4. THE PLATFORM IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND "AS AVAILABLE". THE AGENT PARTIES (AS DEFINED BELOW) DO NOT WARRANT THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF THE COMMUNICATIONS, OR THE ADEQUACY OF THE PLATFORM AND
EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM LIABILITY FOR ERRORS OR OMISSIONS IN THE COMMUNICATIONS. NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS OR FREEDOM FROM VIRUSES OR OTHER CODE DEFECTS, IS MADE BY THE AGENT PARTIES IN CONNECTION WITH THE COMMUNICATIONS OR THE PLATFORM. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT OR ANY OF ITS AFFILIATES OR ANY OF THEIR RESPECTIVE OFFICERS, DIRECTORS, EMPLOYEES, AGENTS, ADVISORS OR REPRESENTATIVES (COLLECTIVELY, "") HAVE ANY LIABILITY TO THE BORROWER, ANY LENDER OR ANY OTHER PERSON OR ENTITY FOR DAMAGES OF ANY KIND, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, DIRECT OR INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, LOSSES OR EXPENSES (WHETHER IN TORT, CONTRACT OR OTHERWISE) ARISING OUT OF THE BORROWER'S OR THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT'S TRANSMISSION OF COMMUNICATIONS THROUGH THE INTERNET, EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT THE LIABILITY OF ANY AGENT PARTY IS FOUND IN A FINAL NON-APPEALABLE JUDGMENT BY A COURT OF COMPETENT JURISDICTION TO HAVE RESULTED PRIMARILY FROM SUCH AGENT PARTY'S GROSS NEGLIGENCE OR WILLFUL MISCONDUCT.
AGENT PARTIES
 
8.1.5. The Administrative Agent agrees that the receipt of the Communications by the Administrative Agent at its e-mail address set forth above shall constitute effective delivery of the Communications to the Administrative Agent for purposes of this Agreement and the other Credit Facility Documents. Each Lender agrees that notice to it (as provided in the next sentence) specifying that the Communications have been posted to the Platform shall constitute effective delivery of the Communications to such Lender for purposes of the Credit Agreement or any other Credit Facility Documents. Each Lender agrees to notify the Administrative Agent in writing (including by electronic communication) from time to time of such Lender's e-mail address to which the foregoing notice may be sent by electronic transmission and (ii) that the foregoing notice may be sent to such e-mail address.
 
8.1.6. Nothing herein shall prejudice the right of the Administrative Agent or any Lender to give any notice or other communication pursuant to this Agreement or under any other Credit Facility Document in any other manner specified in such document.";
(iii) adding the following language immediately below Section 8.15:
 
"8.16. . Each Lender and the Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the Patriot Act, it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower, which information includes the name and address of such Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify the Borrower in accordance with the Patriot Act. The Borrower shall, and shall cause each of its Significant Subsidiaries to, provide, to the extent commercially reasonable, such information and take such actions as are reasonably requested by the Administrative Agent or any Lender in order to assist the Administrative Agent and the Lenders in maintaining compliance with the Patriot Act.";
Patriot Act Notice
 
        (iv) replacing the number "8.16" at the beginning of the last paragraph of Section 8.1 with the number "8.17"; and
 
(g) Exhibit A, "Definitions", is amended by (i) adding the following language immediately after the definition of "Other Taxes" and before the definition of "PBGC":
 
"" means the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001, Pub. L. 107-56, signed into law October 26, 2001"; and
Patriot Act
 
(ii) replacing the words "p.m." with the words "a.m." immediately after the number "11:00" in the first line of clause (b) in the definition of "Minimum Notice Period."
 
SECTION 2. . This Amendment shall become effective as of the date first above written when, and only when, the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts of this Amendment executed by the Borrower and the Majority Lenders or, as to any of the Lenders, advice satisfactory to the Agent that such Lender has executed this Amendment. This Amendment is subject to the provisions of Section 7.9 of the Credit Agreement, and Section 1 hereof shall become effective when, and only when, the Agent shall have additionally received all of the following documents, each such document (unless otherwise specified) dated the date of receipt thereof by the Administrative Agent (unless otherwise specified) and in sufficient copies for each Lender, in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders who have executed this Amendment (unless otherwise specified) and in sufficient copies for each Lender:
Conditions of Effectiveness
 
(a) Certified copies of one or more resolutions or other authorizations of the Borrower and certified by the appropriate officer of the Borrower as being in full force and effect on the date of effectiveness of this Amendment, authorizing the execution, delivery and performance of this Amendment and any instruments or agreements required hereunder or thereunder to which the Borrower is a party.
 
(b) A certificate from Borrower signed by the appropriate authorized officer and dated the Closing Date, as to the incumbency of the natural persons authorized to execute and deliver this Amendment and any instruments or agreements required hereunder or thereunder to which Borrower is a party.
(c) Evidence that all fees and expenses required to be paid to the Administrative Agent (or its counsel) in connection with the execution of this Amendment have been or will be paid.
 
(d) A certificate signed by a duly authorized officer of the Borrower stating that:
 
(i) The representations and warranties contained in Section 3 below are correct on and as of the date of such certificate as though made on and as of such date; and
 
(ii) No event has occurred and is continuing that constitutes a Default.
 
SECTION 3. The Borrower represents and warrants as follows:
Representations and Warranties of the Borrower
 
(a) The Borrower is a corporation duly organized and validly existing in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation and is duly qualified to do business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is necessary to execute, deliver and perform this Amendment.
 
(b) The Borrower has full power and authority and the legal right to execute, deliver and perform this Amendment and to take all action as may be necessary to complete the transactions contemplated hereunder. Borrower has taken all necessary corporate action to authorize the execution, delivery and performance of this Amendment and to complete the transactions contemplated hereby. No consent or authorization of, filing with, or other act by or in respect of any other Person or Governmental Authority is required in connection with the execution, delivery or performance by Borrower, or the validity or enforceability as to Borrower, of this Amendment, except such consents or authorizations or filings or other acts as have already been obtained or where the failure to obtain such consent or authorization could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Borrower. This Amendment has been duly executed and delivered by the Borrower and constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrower enforceable against it in accordance with its terms except as such enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting the right of creditors generally and by general principles of equity.
 
(c) The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Amendment and the transactions contemplated hereby will not violate any applicable law or any material contractual obligation of the Borrower and will not result in, or require, the creation or imposition of any Lien on any of the properties or revenues of the Borrower pursuant to any applicable law or any such contractual obligation except, in each case, where such violation, creation or imposition could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on the Borrower.
(d) No litigation, proceeding or investigation of or before any Governmental Authority is pending or, to the knowledge of the Borrower, threatened in writing against the Borrower, except where such litigation, proceeding or investigation could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on the Borrower.
 
(e) All governmental authorizations and actions necessary in connection with the execution and delivery by the Borrower of this Amendment and the performance of its obligations hereunder have been obtained or performed and remain valid and in full force and effect.
 
(f) All factual information heretofore or contemporaneously furnished by the Borrower or its representatives in writing to Administrative Agent or any Lender for purposes of or in connection with this Amendment or any transaction contemplated herein was true and accurate in all material respects on the date as of which such information was dated or certified and at such date did not omit to state any fact necessary to make such information not misleading at such time in light of the circumstances under which such information was provided. The information referred to in the immediately preceding sentence furnished to Administrative Agent or any Lender on or prior to the effectiveness of this Amendment, taken as a whole, as updated or supplemented from time to time, is true and correct in all material respects as of the date of effectiveness of this Amendment, and as such date all such information does not omit to state any fact which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Borrower.
 
(g) The Borrower is not an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended and is exempt from regulation under PUHCA and the Federal Power Act.
 
(h) There is no violation by the Borrower or any Significant Subsidiary of any Governmental Rule which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on the Borrower. Except as have been delivered to Administrative Agent, no notices of violation of any Governmental Rule have been issued, entered or received by the Borrower.
 
(i) The Borrower and any other Person which is under common control (within the meaning of Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code) with the Borrower have fulfilled their obligations (if any) under the minimum funding standards of ERISA and the Code for each ERISA Plan in compliance in all material respects with the currently applicable provisions of ERISA and the Code and have not incurred any liability to the PBGC or an ERISA Plan under Title IV of ERISA (other than liability for premiums due in the ordinary course). Assuming that the credit extended hereunder does not involve the assets of any employee benefit plan subject to ERISA, neither the execution of this Agreement nor the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby will involve a Prohibited Transaction.
 
(j) The Borrower and each Significant Subsidiary are individually, and taken as a whole, Solvent.
SECTION 4. . On and after the effectiveness of this Amendment, each reference in the Credit Agreement to "this Agreement", "hereunder", "hereof" or words of like import referring to the Credit Agreement, and each reference in any Note and each of the other Credit Facility Documents to "the Credit Agreement", "thereunder", "thereof" or words of like import referring to the Credit Agreement, shall mean and be a reference to the Credit Agreement, as amended by this Amendment.
Reference to and Effect on the Credit Agreement
(a)
 
(b) The Credit Agreement, as specifically amended by this Amendment, is and shall continue to be in full force and effect and is hereby in all respects ratified and confirmed.
 
(c) The execution, delivery and effectiveness of this Amendment shall not, except as expressly provided herein, operate as a waiver of any right, power or remedy of any Lender or the Administrative Agent under the Credit Agreement or any of the Credit Facility Documents, nor constitute a waiver of any provision of the Credit Agreement or any of the Credit Facility Documents.
 
SECTION 5. . The Borrower agrees to pay on demand all costs and expenses of the Administrative Agent in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery and administration, modification and amendment of this Amendment and the other instruments and documents to be delivered hereunder (including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel for the Administrative Agent) in accordance with the terms of Section 8.4 of the Credit Agreement.
Costs, Expenses
 
SECTION 6. . This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute but one and the same agreement. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page to this Amendment by telecopier shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Amendment.
Execution in Counterparts
 
SECTION 7. . This Amendment shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
 


