FILE:TE/TE-8K-20040727165203.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.
Other Events
 
See TECO Energy, Inc.'s press release dated July 19, 2004 filed as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference announcing that TECO Wholesale Generation, Inc. subsidiaries have sold their interest in the Hamakua Power Station in Hawaii.
 
See also TECO Energy, Inc.'s press release dated July 27, 2004 filed as Exhibit 99.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference announcing that TECO Wholesale Generation, Inc. subsidiaries have reached an agreement to sell their interest in Texas Independent Energy, LP (TIE).
 
Item 7.
Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
[TECO Energy Logo]
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
TECO Energy, Inc. (NYSE: TE) announced that its TECO Wholesale Generation subsidiaries have sold their 50 percent indirect interest in the Hamakua Power Station in Hawaii.
Tampa, Florida, July 19, 2004 
 
TECO's interest in the 60-megawatt Hamakua Power Station, which was acquired in 2000, was sold to an affiliate of Black River Energy, an affiliate of Energy Investors Funds' US Power Fund, L.P. Via its ownership of Black River Energy, which already owns 50 percent of the plant, Energy Investors Funds is now the sole owner of Hamakua.
 
Cash proceeds from the sale were approximately $12 million. As a result of the transaction TECO Energy was also relieved of certain financial guarantees related to the facility. The company will record a small gain as a result of the transaction.
 
Additional information related to the company and its operations is available at TECO Energy's web site at .
www.teconergy.com
 
TECO Energy is a diversified energy-related holding company headquartered in Tampa. TECO Energy's principal businesses are Tampa Electric, Peoples Gas System, TECO Transport, TECO Coal and TECO Wholesale Generation.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
[TECO Energy, Inc. Logo]
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
TECO Energy, Inc. (NYSE: TE) announced that its subsidiaries have signed an agreement to sell their 50-percent interest in the Texas Independent Energy (TIE) partnership for nominal consideration to an affiliate of Public Service Enterprise Group (PSEG), whose affiliate owns the remaining interests. The PSEG affiliate will continue to manage the TIE assets. TIE owns two 1,000-megawatt gas-fired, combined-cycle power stations in Texas: Odessa and Guadelupe. The sale is expected to close within 30 days, subject to certain regulatory approvals.
Tampa, July 27, 2004 
 
Executive Vice President and CFO Gordon Gillette said, "This agreement is yet another completed step in TECO Energy's reduction of its exposure to the merchant power markets. It eliminates the ongoing earnings drag from these projects, and eliminates the requirement to make an immediate incremental $10 million investment and an additional $6 million next year to maintain our current interest in the project. In addition, the disposition of our investment is expected to generate $53 million of tax benefits, which will be used to reduce future cash tax payments."
 
TECO Energy's second quarter results will include the write off of its equity investment in the projects, which will result in an after-tax charge of approximately $99 million. Results for the second quarter will also include charges associated with the refinancing of the San Jose Power Station in Guatemala, and the continued reduction in TECO Energy's investments in smaller, non-core unregulated businesses in Florida.
 
TECO Energy, Inc. is a diversified energy-related holding company headquartered in Tampa. Its principal businesses are Tampa Electric Company, Peoples Gas System, Inc., TECO Wholesale Generation, Inc. including TWG merchant, Inc. and TWG Non-merchant, Inc., TECO Transport Corporation and TECO Coal Corporation.
 
Additional information related to the company and its operations is available at TECO Energy's web site at .
www.teconergy.com
 
Note: This press release contains forward-looking statements relating to the company's expected accounting charges and tax benefits, which are dependent upon the level of taxable income in the future. Some of the factors affecting taxable income and others are
 
discussed more fully under "Investment Considerations" in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2003.
 
 


