FILE:TE/TE-8K-20041019165801.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
 
Item 2.03: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of the Registrant
 
In connection with the previously disclosed unsecured bridge loan facility with JP Morgan Chase Bank and Merrill Lynch Bank USA, TECO Energy, Inc. (the company) has borrowed $124,081,721, the proceeds of which were used to purchase trust preferred securities in the remarketing of the $162,723,175 aggregate stated liquidation amount of TECO Capital Trust II trust preferred securities. The company received the proceeds of this loan on October 15, 2004 and expects to repay the loan with the proceeds to be received upon the settlement of the purchase contracts that are a part of the company's equity security units. The purchase contracts are scheduled to settle on January 15, 2005, and the loan matures on January 20, 2005 subject to the company's right to extend the maturity until February 22, 2005.
 
Section 8  Other Events
 
Item 8.01: Other Events
 
(a) On October 12, 2004, $162,723,175 of TECO Capital Trust II trust preferred securities out of a total $180,223,175 aggregate stated liquidation amount of such trust preferred securities outstanding were remarketed, and the distribution rate on the trust preferred securities was reset to a coupon rate of 5.934% per annum, payable quarterly, effective on and after October 16, 2004 in connection with the remarketing. At the closing of the remarketing on October 15, 2004, the company purchased $122,723,175 of the trust preferred securities that were remarketed. The company will retire the trust preferred securities it purchased.
 
(b) In a press release dated October 18, 2004 filed as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference, TECO Energy, Inc. announced certain leadership changes.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
[TECO ENERGY Logo
]
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
TECO ENERGY ANNOUNCES LEADERSHIP CHANGES
 
TECO Energy today announced leadership changes as part of its continued focus on the success and growth of the company's regulated businesses and profitable unregulated businesses.
Tampa, Florida (October 18, 2004) 
 
Chairman and CEO said, "TECO Energy's corporate emphasis, and our continued course of reducing risk in the wholesale power business and the regulatory environment in which we expect to operate, calls for a new structure."
Sherrill Hudson
 
Leadership changes include the following:
 
, senior vice president of External Affairs has elected to take early retirement.
Richard Lehfeldt
 
"I thank Richard for his five years of excellent service to the company, overseeing our Regulatory Affairs, Governmental Affairs and Corporate Communications efforts through difficult times," said Hudson.
 
, President and Chief Operating Officer will continue to lead TECO Energy's operating companies, with their individual presidents reporting to him. He will also assume responsibility for Regulatory, Federal and State Governmental Affairs, which formerly reported to Lehfeldt. Ramil will continue to report to Hudson.
John Ramil
 
, formerly senior vice president-Generation, will become the President of Tampa Electric Company, TECO Energy's integrated electric utility. Black will oversee the Energy Supply, Energy Delivery and Customer Service, Fuels Management, Engineering and Construction, Environmental Health and Safety and Community Affairs areas. Black will continue to report to Ramil.
Chuck Black
 
, formerly president-Tampa Electric and Peoples Gas, will now focus all his attention on the operations and growth opportunities in the natural gas business as president of Peoples Gas System. Cantrell will continue to report to Ramil.
Bill Cantrell
, formerly senior vice president-Human Resources and Services, has been named senior vice president-Corporate Services and Chief Human Resources Officer for TECO Energy. Functional areas reporting to Childress will include Human Resources, Diversity, Information Technology, Purchasing and Contract Services, Telecommunications, Facilities Services and Real Estate. Childress will continue to report to Hudson.
Clint Childress
 
, senior vice president and general counsel will continue to lead the Legal function and oversee Corporate Compliance functions for TECO Energy. In addition, she will assume responsibility for the daily operations of the company's Corporate Communications area, which formerly reported to Lehfeldt. McDevitt will continue to report to Hudson.
Sheila McDevitt
 
, executive vice president and CFO will now also become president of TECO Energy's Guatemalan companies, including the San Jose and Alborada power stations and the company's interest in the Guatemalan distribution system, EEGSA. Gillette will report to Hudson, with the exception of the Guatamalan operations, on which he will report to Ramil.
Gordon Gillette
 
"These changes, along with the dedication of our team and our focus on safety and compliance, align the organization to continue the successful implementation of our strategic plan," said Hudson.
 
TECO Energy, Inc. (NYSE: TE) is an integrated energy-related holding company with core businesses in the utility sector, complemented by a family of unregulated businesses. Its principal subsidiary, Tampa Electric Company, is a regulated utility with both electric and gas divisions (Tampa Electric and Peoples Gas System). Other subsidiaries are engaged in waterborne transportation, coal and synthetic fuel production and independent power.
 


