FILE:TE/TE-8K-20040729140550.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.
Other Events
 
See TECO Energy, Inc.'s Press Release dated July 29, 2004, filed as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference, announcing that TECO Energy, Inc. has entered into a supplemental term sheet for the transfer of the Union and Gila River Power Stations to the lending banks.
 
Item 7.
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 12 -
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
See the Press Release dated July 29, 2004, included as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference, reporting on TECO Energy, Inc.'s financial results for the six-month period ended June 30, 2004.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
[TECO Energy, Inc. Logo]
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
TECO Energy, Inc. (NYSE: TE) announced that it (along with the Union and Gila River project companies) has executed a term sheet, which supplements the February letter of intent, with the steering committee of the lending bank group for the Union and Gila River power stations that provides for the final transfer of ownership of the plants, associated employees and infrastructure to the banks in exchange for final releases from the Undertaking agreement, and other associated project agreements. The final transfer will result in the elimination of the non-recourse project debt consolidated on TECO Energy's balance sheet. The term sheet is subject to definitive agreements which are being drafted for final approval and signing by TECO Energy, the projects and the bank group.
Tampa, July 29, 2004 
 
TECO Energy Chairman and CEO Sherrill Hudson said, "This term sheet brings us one step closer to closing the book on the Union and Gila River projects and completing our exit from these two large merchant power plants. The exit from these projects is a goal that we set for ourselves several months ago, and we have worked diligently toward the final transfer. We believe this agreement incents the banks to approve the transfer and approve the release in a timely and consensual manner."
 
Under the term sheet, upon closing of the transfer a TECO Energy subsidiary, TPGC, the owner of the two project companies, will pay the lending bank group $30 million in exchange for full releases by the lending banks and the projects of TECO Energy and all other TECO-owned entities from any obligations under the construction undertakings and any other claims, except for warranty items identified prior to the expiration of the original warranty period.
 
TECO Energy Executive Vice President and CFO Gordon Gillette noted, "In terms of our cash outlay on merchant power, we view the cash payment required under the agreement as essentially a wash with the $28 million of cash raised and outlays that were avoided in 2004 and 2005 from the recently announced Hamakua and TIE sale transactions. We had not included any estimate of cash payments for these projects or the Union and Gila transfers in our prior estimates, due to the uncertainty of the outcome."
 
Completion of the definitive agreements, which is expected in early September, is subject to final approval by the lending bank group. The commencement of the bank vote and the required Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) filing are expected to be
made in early September. Closing is now expected as soon as the bank group and regulatory approvals are achieved, which are expected to occur between mid-October and the end of November. Until closing, the project companies and other TECO Energy subsidiaries will continue to operate the plants consistent with previous practice.
 
TECO Energy, Inc. (NYSE: TE) is an integrated energy-related holding company with core businesses in the utility sector, complemented by a family of unregulated businesses. Its principal subsidiary, Tampa Electric Company, is a regulated utility with both electric and gas divisions (Tampa Electric and Peoples Gas System). Other subsidiaries are engaged in waterborne transportation, coal and synthetic fuel production and independent power.
 
Additional information related to the company and its operations is available at TECO Energy's web site at .
www.teconergy.com
 
Note: This press release contains forward-looking statements relating to the company's anticipated transfer of ownership in the Union and Gila River facilities. Important factors which impact the company's ability to close the transaction within the time-frame, and on the terms, anticipated include (i) the company's ability to reach a definitive agreement with the bank group, (ii) the bank group's ability to obtain 100 percent approval for the transfer and associated debt restructuring and approval of 66 2/3 percent of the bank group (in dollars) for any releases to be provided to the company and (iii) the parties' ability to receive regulatory approvals, including from the FERC. Additional information is contained under "Investment Considerations" in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2003.
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 TECO Energy, Inc. (NYSE:TE) today reported a second quarter loss of $108.2 million, compared with a loss of $101.9 million for the same period in 2003. The loss on a per-share basis was $0.57, compared with a loss of $0.58 per share in the 2003 period. The number of common shares outstanding was 7 percent higher in the 2004 quarter than for the same period in 2003. The year-to-date loss was $105.7 million, compared with a loss of $99.2 million for the same period in 2003. The loss on a per-share basis was $0.56 for both the 2004 and 2003 periods. Shares outstanding for the first six months of 2004 were 7 percent higher than for the same period in 2003.
TAMPA, July 29, 2004
 
TECO Energy Chairman and CEO Sherrill Hudson said, "Although the charges related to the announced sale of our interest in the Texas Independent Energy (TIE) project hurt our earnings for the quarter, we believe that our strategy to reduce our merchant exposure will benefit investors over the longer term. The positive news in the quarter includes the continued strong Florida energy market and the good customer growth in our utility operations, and our coal company is benefiting from higher coal prices in its metallurgical coal contracts."
 
"We have also been active on the financial front. In early July, we completed the early replacement of our TECO Energy bank credit facility, which is sized to meet our anticipated needs over the next three years, and launched the early exchange offer for our equity units," Hudson noted.
 
Charges and Gains:
 
Second quarter results were driven primarily by a $98.7 million after-tax write off of the investment in the TIE project due to the previously announced agreement to sell TECO Energy's indirect ownership interest; a $6.7 million after-tax charge associated with the extinguishment of debt following the refinancing of the San Jos Power Station in Guatemala; and a $19.3 million book accrual for income taxes related to the repatriation of cash from Guatemala. Results in 2003 included $61.2 million of goodwill impairments required under FAS 142, , associated with the Frontera Power Station in Texas and the Commonwealth Chesapeake Power Station in Virginia, and $94.7 million of after-tax accounting charges related to the partnership termination and resulting consolidation of the Union and Gila River power stations.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
 
In addition to the second quarter charges and gains, year-to-date results also include first quarter charges and gains for after-tax valuation adjustments of $3.4 million at TECO Solutions and $0.8 million at TECO Transport, and the $10.6 million after-tax gain from the sale of TECO Energy's interest in its propane business. Results in 2003 included the second quarter charges, as well as first quarter after-tax charges of $48.9 million for turbine purchase cancellations at Tampa Electric, $15.3 million for non-merchant turbine purchase cancellations, (which were reflected in the Other Unregulated Companies segment), the
$22.7 million after-tax gain on the sale of the coalbed methane gas production assets and $1.1 million for the cumulative effect of an accounting change to reflect the adoption of FAS 143, .
Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations
 
Non-GAAP Earnings
 
Second quarter non-GAAP net income from continuing operations, excluding the effects of gains and charges, was $42.1 million, compared with $63.2 million in 2003. Year-to-date non-GAAP net income from continuing operations, excluding the effects of gains and charges, was $64.4 million, compared with $104.3 million in 2003.
 
The table below reconciles net income after elimination of the effects of gains and charges. Management believes that this non-GAAP presentation provides useful supplemental information by providing a measure that is more closely related to the company's ongoing operations.
 
Operating Results:
 
 
Tampa Electric
 
Tampa Electric's net income for the second quarter was $41.9 million, compared with $39.5 million for the same period in 2003. There was no equity Allowance for Funds Used During Construction income (AFUDC, which represents allowed equity cost capitalized to construction costs) recorded in the quarter, compared to $4.1 million for the same period in 2003, reflecting the commercial operation of Bayside Unit 2 in January 2004. Depreciation expense decreased in the 2004 period, reflecting the end of accelerated depreciation on the Gannon coal assets; results in the same period in 2003 included $13 million pretax of accelerated depreciation expense. Interest expense decreased due to lower long-term debt balances after the first quarter repayment of $75 million of first mortgage bonds. Operations and maintenance expense, excluding fuel and purchased power, was essentially unchanged in the quarter compared to 2003. Savings from the retirement of the coal-fired Gannon Station were offset by higher pension, benefits and insurance-related costs.
 
Retail energy sales decreased 0.7 percent in the quarter, as average customer growth of 2.5 percent was offset by milder weather early in the quarter. Cooling degree days in the quarter were 2 percent below normal and 14 percent below 2003, when cooling degree days were significantly above normal due to unusually hot weather in April of 2003.
 
Tampa Electric's year-to-date net income was $65.8 million, compared to $79.4 million excluding the $48.9 million charge related to turbine purchase cancellations in 2003. Equity AFUDC decreased to $0.7 million, from $11.7 million for the same period in 2003. Tampa Electric's 2003 year-to-date net income, including the turbine purchase cancellation charge, was $30.5 million.
 
Year-to-date results also reflect average customer growth of 2.6 percent and retail energy sales that were 0.2 percent higher than last year. Total degree days for the year-to-date
period were more than 3 percent below normal and almost 13 percent below 2003, when total degree days were significantly above normal.
 
Peoples Gas
 
Peoples Gas System reported net income of $5.9 million for the quarter, compared with $4.8 million in the same period in 2003. Quarterly results reflected favorable late spring weather and customer growth of 5.6 percent, partially offset by increased operations and maintenance costs and lower volumes for the low-margin transportation service for electric power generators due to higher gas prices. Year-to-date net income was $18.7 million, compared with $16.7 million for the same period in 2003. Customer growth of 5.3 percent and favorable winter weather in the first quarter contributed to these results.
 
TECO Transport
 
TECO Transport recorded net income of $1.9 million in the second quarter, compared with $5.2 million in the same period last year. Results for the quarter and year-to-date periods reflect the impact of lower Tampa Electric volumes, as a result of the Bayside repowering, and higher operating costs, which were only partially offset by improved northbound river shipments and increased export coal volume at the river terminal. Results in 2003 included a $1.5 million after-tax gain on the disposition of ocean-going equipment no longer used by TECO Ocean Shipping.
 
Year-to-date net income was $3.8 million, excluding a $0.8 million first quarter valuation adjustment, compared to $9.8 million, excluding a $0.8-million charge due to the adoption of FAS 143, for the same period in 2003. Year-to-date results were driven by the lower Tampa Electric volumes, higher operating expenses, higher fuel costs and unusual operating conditions in the first quarter due to higher than normal shipyard activity and a five day closing of the Mississippi River.
 
Volumes transported for Tampa Electric declined more than one million tons in the first six months of 2004, but are expected to be at levels comparable to 2003 in the second half of 2004. The impact of higher fuel prices is expected to be partially offset by fuel adjustment factors, which are contained in many of TECO Transport's agreements, although the fuel adjustments lag actual fuel cost expenses.
 
TECO Coal
 
TECO Coal achieved second quarter net income of $17.7 million, compared to $20.8 million in the same period in 2003. Results in the second quarter of both 2004 and 2003 reflect effective third-party ownership interests in TECO Coal's synthetic fuel production facilities of more than 90 percent; however, synthetic fuel volumes were slightly lower in 2004 due to unavailability of rail transportation. TECO Coal's results in 2004 reflect no Section 29 tax credits due to the third party ownership and TECO Energy's expected tax position in 2004, which is expected to be driven by the tax losses expected from the transfer of the Union and Gila River projects to the lending banks.
 
Year-to-date net income was $33.1 million, compared to $46.5 million excluding a $0.3-million after-tax charge due to the adoption of FAS 143, in 2003. Year-to-date results in 2004 reflect an effective third-party ownership interest in TECO Coal's synthetic fuel production facilities of more than 90 percent, compared to 49 percent in 2003. Results also reflect lower volumes of conventional metallurgical and steam coals in the first quarter, higher
mining costs and costs associated with the use of marginal coals for the production of synfuel, partially offset by higher volumes of synthetic fuel and higher coal prices. Year-to-date results in 2003 included $36.2 million of Section 29 tax credits.
 
Other Unregulated Companies
 
TECO Energy's other unregulated companies recorded a loss of $17.9 million for the second quarter, compared to net income of $4.1 million for the same period in 2003. Results for the quarter were driven by the $6.7 million after-tax charge associated with the debt extinguishment related to the refinancing of the debt associated with the San Jos Power Station in Guatemala and the $19.3 million provision for income taxes due to the repatriation of cash from Guatemala following the financing. Results also include a $1.5 million after-tax asset valuation adjustment at TECO Solutions related to a district cooling plant in Tampa which was essentially offset by a $1.6 million after-tax gain on the sale of the remaining interest in the propane business, the majority of which was sold in the first quarter. Results in 2003 include net income from the Hardee Power Station of $3.0 million which was sold in October 2003.
 
The $19.3 million tax provision is related to the termination of a US income tax deferral strategy and $51.2 million of cash repatriated during the quarter. With these tax provisions the company has completely accrued for US income taxes on all GAAP earnings from this project to date. For segment reporting purposes, the $19.3 million includes $27.3 million of income tax expense recorded in the Other Unregulated Companies and $8 million of benefit to the provision for income taxes recorded at TECO Energy.
 
Year-to-date net income for the other unregulated companies was $0.8 million, compared to $1.9 million for the same period in 2003. In addition to the second quarter effects, the year-to-date results also include a $3.4 million valuation adjustment at TECO Solutions for its minority interest in a fiber optics business in bankruptcy and a $10.6 million after-tax gain on the sale of the propane business in the first quarter. Results in 2003 include net income of $5.8 million from the Hardee Power Station, which was sold in October 2003.
 
Excluding the $6.7 million after-tax charge related to the San Jos debt refinancing and the associated $19.3 million in tax provisions, the non-merchant unregulated power operations recorded second quarter net income of $9.7 million, compared to $4.0 million for the same period in 2003. These results were driven by continued good operating performance at the Guatemalan generating facilities and higher energy sales and prices at EEGSA, the Guatemalan distribution utility. Year-to-date net income excluding the second quarter charges was $20.8 million, compared to $13.6 million, excluding $15.3 million after-tax turbine cancellation charges, for the six-month period in 2003. The results were driven by the same factors as the quarter.
 
TWG Merchant
 
TWG Merchant's loss for the second quarter, excluding the $98.7 million after-tax write-off of the investment in the TIE project, was $12.0 million, compared with a loss, excluding the $61.2 million goodwill write-off, of $11.1 million for the same period in 2003. The second quarter loss including the charges was $110.7 million, compared to a loss of $72.3 million including charges in 2003. Although TECO Energy announced the sale of its indirect ownership interest in the TIE project, because TIE is an unconsolidated equity investment, TIE results and the write-off are reflected in continuing operations. Despite
lower sales and margins, Commonwealth Chesapeake Station reported improved net income due to lower overhead expense. Weak power prices in the Texas market due to mild weather and adequate capacity were partially offset by the recovery of previously incurred maintenance expenses through an insurance settlement at the Frontera Power Station. In 2003, a nuclear plant outage and unseasonably hot weather contributed to higher margins in Texas.
 
TWG Merchant's year-to-date loss, excluding the TIE write-off, was $30.7 million, compared to a loss, excluding the $61.2 million goodwill impairments, of $22.9 million for the same period in 2003. The year-to-date loss including the charges was $129.4 million, compared to $84.1 million including charges for the same period in 2003. These results reflect improved results at the Commonwealth Chesapeake station in the first quarter due to favorable winter weather, which were more than offset by the operating losses on the TIE projects, lower net income from Frontera due to a major maintenance outage in the first quarter and the cost associated with the incomplete Dell and McAdams power stations, as well as the factors affecting the second quarter.
 
The TWG Merchant segment results include allocated TECO Energy interest expense of $9.9 million after-tax and $17.9 million after-tax for the quarter and year-to-date periods, respectively.
 
Parent / Other
 
Interest expense increased with the completion of construction of the Union and Gila River projects and the resulting discontinuance of capitalized interest as well as higher overall levels of debt. In the second quarter of 2003, $7.0 million of interest on debt at the TECO Energy level related to investment in the Union and Gila River projects was capitalized. For the first six months of 2003, capitalized interest on the debt of TECO Energy was $17 million. Capitalization of interest ended with commercial operation of all phases in July 2003.
 
The provision for income taxes from continuing operations for the 2004 second quarter and year-to-date periods was a benefit of $15.8 million and $7.1 million, respectively, compared to benefits of $20.1 million and $59.6 million, respectively, for the same periods in 2003. The 2004 benefit is due primarily to the write-off associated with the TIE projects partially offset by the provision for taxes on repatriated cash from Guatemala. The 2003 benefit is due primarily to goodwill write-offs and turbine purchase cancellation charges. Second quarter results in 2003 included the reversal of $15.4 million of previously deferred Section 29 tax credits for the production of synthetic fuel.
 
Discontinued Operations
 
The net loss from discontinued operations for the 2004 second quarter and year-to-date periods was $25.7 million and $51.9 million, respectively, compared to losses of $106.9 million and $82.8 million, respectively, for the same periods in 2003. Discontinued operations in 2004 include the operating losses for the Union and Gila River power stations. Discontinued operations in 2003 include the results from Union and Gila River, which entered service over the first six months of 2003; results from Prior Energy, which was sold in January; and the gain on the final installment of the sale of the coalbed methane gas production assets.
Cash and Liquidity
 
TECO Energy's consolidated cash and cash equivalents, excluding all restricted cash, totaled $85.6 million at June 30, 2004. Restricted cash of $49.5 million includes $41.9 million held in escrow related to the sale of the 49 percent interest in the synthetic coal production facilities due to TECO Energy's current non-investment grade credit rating. Cash at June 30 excludes the San Jos and Alborada power stations unrestricted cash balances of $27.4 million, and restricted cash of $8.3 million as these companies were deconsolidated due to the adoption of FIN 46R, effective Jan. 1, 2004.
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities,
 
In addition, at June 30, aggregate availability under bank credit facilities was $537.5 million, net of letters of credit of $32.5 million outstanding under these facilities and $30 million drawn on the Tampa Electric credit facility. Therefore, total liquidity, cash plus credit facilities, totaled $650.5 million, including $229.5 million at Tampa Electric, at the end of the second quarter. On July 7, 2004, TECO Energy replaced its $350 million credit facility with a new $200 million three-year facility.
 
Additional financial information related to the company's results through June 30, 2004, including unaudited financial statements, segment information, and electric and gas volumes, is also available at the Investor Relations section of TECO Energy's web site at .
www.tecoenergy.com
 
TECO Energy, Inc. (NYSE: TE) is an integrated energy-related holding company with core businesses in the utility sector, complemented by a family of unregulated businesses. Its principal subsidiary, Tampa Electric Company, is a regulated utility with both electric and gas divisions (Tampa Electric and Peoples Gas System). Other subsidiaries are engaged in waterborne transportation, coal and synthetic fuel production and independent power.
 
Note: This press release may be deemed to contain forward-looking statements, which are subject to the inherent uncertainties in predicting future results and conditions. Important factors that could impact actual results include unexpected capital needs or unanticipated reductions in cash flow that affect liquidity; declines in the anticipated waterborne fuel volumes transported by TECO Transport for Tampa Electric; general economic conditions in Tampa Electric's service area affecting energy sales; economic conditions both national and international, that affect the demand for TECO Transport's waterborne transportation services; weather variations affecting energy sales and operating costs at Tampa Electric and TWG; commodity price changes affecting the margins at TWG and TECO Coal; the ability of TECO Energy's subsidiaries to operate equipment without undue accidents, breakdowns or failures; and energy prices in the markets served by TWG facilities. Additional information is contained under "Risk Factors" in the company's registration Statement on Form S-4 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 28, 2004.
 
 
 
Figures appearing in these statements are presented as general information and not in connection with any sale or offer to sell or solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, nor are they intended as a representation by the company of the value of its securities. All figures reported are subject to adjustments as the annual audit by independent accountants may determine to be necessary and to the explanatory notes affecting income and balance sheet accounts contained in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K. Reference should also be made to information contained in that and other reports filed by TECO Energy, Inc. and Tampa Electric Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


