FILE:TE/TE-8K-20040914113336.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 8  Other Events
 
Item 8.01: Other Events
 
In a press release issued on September 10, 2004 announcing the cancellation of a scheduled presentation to the financial community, filed as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference, TECO Energy announced that the estimated cost of restoration for Hurricanes Charley and Frances is expected to be between $25 million and $30 million, which is within Tampa Electric's storm damage reserve of $42 million.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
[TECO ENERGY LOGO]
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
 TECO Energy, Inc. (NYSE:TE) today announced that it has cancelled its presentation to financial analysts and webcast scheduled for Friday September 17, 2004 due to its continuing restoration efforts from the impact of Hurricane Frances, and the need to prepare for the potential impact of Hurricane Ivan. TECO Energy's management team is focused on restoring power to Tampa Electric customers as soon as possible, and on preparing for potential future storm effects. At this juncture, the cost of the restoration efforts for Hurricanes Charley and Frances are expected to be between $25 million and $30 million, which is within Tampa Electric's storm damage reserve of $42 million.
TAMPA, September 10, 2004
 
TECO Energy is currently scheduled to make a presentation to financial analysts and provide a webcast concurrently to investors at the Edison Electric Institute (EEI) Financial Conference on Tuesday October 26
th
at 9:00 AM. The company will reevaluate its schedule for financial communications prior to the EEI meeting over the next week.
 
TECO Energy, Inc. (NYSE: TE) is an integrated energy-related holding company with core businesses in the utility sector, complemented by a family of unregulated businesses. Its principal subsidiary, Tampa Electric Company, is a regulated utility with both electric and gas divisions (Tampa Electric and Peoples Gas System). Other subsidiaries are engaged in waterborne transportation, coal and synthetic fuel production and independent power.


