FILE:TE/TE-8K-20040303172943.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 12 - Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
See the Press Release dated Mar. 3, 2004, included as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference, reporting revised 2003 financial results for TECO Energy, Inc. The financial results reported in the attached Press Release are a revision to the results reported in TECO Energy's Press Release dated Feb. 9, 2004 and furnished to the Commission on a Current Report on Form 8-K filed on Feb. 9, 2004.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
 TECO Energy, Inc. (NYSE:TE) today issued revised 2003 results to reflect the treatment of the sale of Hardee Power Partners as a component of continuing, rather than discontinued, operations and to reflect the 2003 sale of Hardee in the fourth quarter, rather than the third quarter. Hardee Power Partners (HPP), which owns the 370-megawatt combined cycle Hardee Power Station, was sold by TECO Energy to a privately held third party in the fall of 2003. Total net income (loss), cash flows, and non-GAAP results from continuing operations for 2003 remain unchanged by the revised accounting treatment. The company and its independent auditors, in connection with the annual audit of the company's financial results, reevaluated the accounting originally applied in the third quarter As a result, TECO Energy has revised its 2003 results to reflect the $34.6 million after-tax gain on the sale of Hardee in continuing operations for the fourth quarter and to keep the Hardee net income of $9.0 million through September 30 in full-year continuing operations.
TAMPA, March 2, 2004
 
The accounting change moves $43.6 million for the year from discontinued operations to continuing operations. After the change, the overall TECO Energy year-to-date loss remains unchanged at $909.4 million. The loss on a per-share basis remained $5.05. The year-to-date loss from continuing operations is now $14.7 million compared with the previously reported loss of $58.3 million. The loss from continuing operations on a per-share basis was $0.08, compared to the previously reported loss of $0.32 per share. Discontinued operations, (which previously included the Union and Gila River power stations, TECO Coalbed Methane, Prior Energy, TECO Gas Services and HPP) now report a loss for the year of $890.4 million, excluding HPP, compared to the previously reported loss of $846.8 million, or a loss of $4.95 on a per-share basis compared to the previously reported $4.71 per share. The table below compares the previously reported results to the current accounting treatment.
 
Results from Hardee Power Partners included in continuing operations in the third quarter consist of net income of $2.9 million from operations. Results in the fourth quarter include the $34.6 million after-tax gain on the sale. Full-year results include the gain and net income of $9.0 million from operations in the first nine months.
 
TECO Energy's non-GAAP adjusted earnings are presented below. Results from Tampa Electric, Peoples Gas, TECO Transport and TECO Coal are not impacted by these accounting changes and remain unchanged from previous reporting. The impact of these changes is limited to the "Other Unregulated Companies" segment and discontinued operations.
 
Non-GAAP Earnings
 
Non-GAAP net income from continuing operations is unchanged from the February 9, 2004 earnings release for the fourth quarter and full year 2003. Fourth-quarter net income from continuing operations, excluding the charges identified in the following table, and the gain on sale and the operating results of Hardee was $26.3 million, compared to $59.9 million for the 2002 period. In 2003, net income from continuing operations, excluding these items, was $164.8 million, compared with $305.8 million for 2002.
 
The table below reconciles quarterly and year-to-date net income after elimination of the specified charges, and the gain on the sale and the operating results of Hardee. Management believes that this non-GAAP presentation provides useful supplemental information by providing a measure that is more closely related to the company's ongoing operations.
Net Income Reconciliation:
 
 
Included with this release are revised financial statements for the three months ended September 30 and December 31, 2003 and for the twelve months ended December 31, 2003. TECO Energy will reflect these changes in its Annual Report on Form 10-K, which will be filed on or before March 15, 2004.
 
TECO Energy is a diversified energy-related holding company headquartered in Tampa. Its principal businesses are Tampa Electric, Peoples Gas System, TECO Wholesale Generation, TECO Transport, TECO Coal and TECO Solutions. Additional information on the company is available on its website,
www.tecoenergy.com
 
Figures appearing in these statements are presented as general information and not in connection with any sale or offer to sell or solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, nor are they intended as a representation by the company of the value of its securities. All figures reported are subject to adjustments as the annual audit by independent accountants may determine to be necessary and to the explanatory notes affecting income and balance sheet accounts contained in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K. Reference should also be made to information contained in that and other reports filed by TECO Energy, Inc. and Tampa Electric Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
Notes:
 
Figures appearing in these statements are presented as general information and not in connection with any sale or offer to sell or solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, nor are they intended as a representation by the company of the value of its securities. All figures reported are subject to adjustments as the annual audit by independent accountants may determine to be necessary and to the explanatory notes affecting income and balance sheet accounts contained in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K. Reference should also be made to information contained in that and other reports filed by TECO Energy, Inc. and Tampa Electric Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
Notes:
 
The 12-month period ended Dec. 31, 2002 included a $7.7 million after tax gain on the first portion of the sale of the Coalbed Methane assets.
 
 
 


