FILE:TE/TE-8K-20040901165738.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
 
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
 
The previously announced sale by TECO Energy's subsidiaries of their 50-percent interest in Texas Independent Energy, LP (TIE) to an affiliate of Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated (PSEG) for the negotiated price of $500,000 was completed on Aug. 30, 2004. Prior to the sale, PSEG indirectly held 50-percent of the partnership interests in TIE. As a result of this acquisition, PSEG will indirectly hold 100-percent of the partnership interests in TIE, which owns two 1,000-megawatt gas-fired, combined cycle power stations in Texas, the Odessa and Guadalupe facilities.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information
 
The following unaudited pro forma consolidated balance sheet reflects the disposition of the equity investment in TIE as if it had occurred on June 30, 2004. The accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statement of income for the six months ended June 30, 2004 and the year ended Dec. 31, 2003, reflects the disposition of the TIE investment as if the sale had occurred on Jan. 1, 2003. The pro forma financial information does not purport to represent what TECO Energy, Inc.'s consolidated results would have been if the disposition had in fact occurred on these dates, nor does it purport to indicate the future consolidated financial position or future consolidated results of operations of TECO Energy. The pro forma adjustments are based on the equity earnings and related charges for TIE recorded for the periods.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


