FILE:TE/TE-8K-20050421153753.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 8  Other Events
 
Item 8.01: Other Events
 
TECO Energy, Inc. has announced the completion of the sale of Commonwealth Chesapeake Company, LLC (see press release dated April 19, 2005, attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report).
 
TECO Energy, Inc. has announced progress on the transfer of the Union and Gila River power stations to the lending bank group (see press release dated April 19, 2005, attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report).
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
[TECO Energy, Inc. Logo]
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 TECO Energy, Inc. (NYSE: TE) announced that one of its subsidiaries has completed the sale of the Commonwealth Chesapeake Company, LLC, the owner of the Commonwealth Chesapeake Power Station in Virginia, to an affiliate of Tenaska Power Fund, L.P. for $89 million. Net proceeds, which were received today, were also approximately $89 million after consideration for the value of working capital less transaction related expenses. Morgan Stanley served as TECO Energy's advisor for the transaction.
TAMPA, April 19, 2005
 
The Commonwealth Chesapeake Power Station is a 315-megawatt oil fired, simple-cycle peaking power plant located on the Delmarva Peninsula in Virginia. The facility sells capacity, energy and ancillary services in the Pennsylvania- Jersey-Maryland (PJM) market.
 
TECO Energy, Inc. (NYSE: TE) is an integrated energy-related holding company with core businesses in the utility sector, complemented by a family of unregulated businesses. Its principal subsidiary, , is a regulated utility with both electric and gas divisions ( and ). Other subsidiaries are engaged in waterborne transportation, coal and synthetic fuel production and independent power.
Tampa Electric Company
Tampa Electric
Peoples Gas System
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
[TECO Energy, Inc. Logo]
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
The transfer of the Union and Gila River power stations from TECO Energy subsidiaries to the lending bank group made major progress this week. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Charles G. Case today confirmed the plan for a prepackaged Chapter 11 reorganization of the project companies, Union Power Partners, L.P., Trans-Union Pipeline, L.P. and Panda Gila River, L.P. The final order will be entered subsequently.
Tampa, Florida  April 19, 2005 
 
Today's confirmation follows yesterday's action by the court, in which a stipulation resolving outstanding issues raised by two non-consenting members of the lending bank group was approved. To facilitate and speed the transfer, TECO Energy agreed to pay $1.8 million in legal fees for those non-consenting parties. TECO Energy and the debtors have also filed a stipulation authorizing reimbursement to TECO Energy of $400,000 for transition services it provided.
 
The closing of the transaction transferring the projects to the lender-owned entity is now expected to take place during the month of May.
 
TECO Energy, Inc. (NYSE: TE) is an integrated energy-related holding company with core businesses in the utility sector, complemented by a family of unregulated businesses. Its principal subsidiary, Tampa Electric Company, is a regulated utility with both electric and gas divisions (Tampa Electric and Peoples Gas System). Other subsidiaries are engaged in waterborne transportation, coal and synthetic fuel production and independent power.
 
Note: This press release contains forward-looking statements relating to the timing of the transfer of the Union and Gila River power stations. The timing of the transfer is dependent upon the parties' completing all the activities required to complete the transfer and the ability of the lending bank group to complete the necessary actions associated with the formation and organization of the new ownership entity.
 
 


