FILE:TE/TE-8K-20050113172917.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Material Impairments	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Material Impairments
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1  Registrant's Business and Operations
 
Item 1.01: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On January 13, 2005, an indirect subsidiary of TECO Energy, Inc. ("TECO Energy" or "Company") entered into a Purchase Agreement to sell its membership interests in Commonwealth Chesapeake Company, LLC ("CCC"), the owner of the Commonwealth Chesapeake Power Station in Virginia, to an affiliate of Tenaska Power Fund, L.P. The Commonwealth Chesapeake Power Station is a 315 megawatt oil-fired simple-cycle combustion turbine electric generating facility located in New Church, VA, operating in the Pennsylvania-Jersey-Maryland (PJM) market. Proceeds from the sale are expected to be approximately $86 million after adjustments at closing for the value of fuel, inventory and working capital items, and the payment of transaction-related expenses associated with the sale. The sale is expected to close by the end of the first quarter of 2005, subject to a financing contingency and certain regulatory approvals. See the press release dated January 13, 2005, which is attached as Exhibit 99.1, for additional information.
 
The Purchase Agreement provides for TPF Chesapeake, LLC ("TPF") to acquire all of the membership interests in CCC indirectly owned by TECO Energy, Inc. through its affiliate, TM Delmarva Power, L.L.C. ("TMDP"). It contains customary representations, warranties, covenants and closing conditions found in similar transactions. The closing conditions include expiration of the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act waiting period, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission approval under 203 and 205 of the Federal Power Act, and TPF's successful closing of financing for a substantial portion of the acquisition price. The Purchase Agreement also contains indemnification provisions subject to specified limitations as to time and amount, and the obligations of TMDP are guaranteed by TECO Energy, Inc. The Purchase Agreement terminates if the transaction is not completed by May 31, 2005. The Purchase Agreement is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and reference is made thereto.
 
Section 2  Financial Information
 
Item 2.01: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
 
On January 7, 2005, an indirect subsidiary of TECO Energy disposed of its 100% interest in BCH Mechanical, Inc. ("BCH") pursuant to a Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of December 31, 2004. BCH operates a combination of mechanical contracting businesses that include air conditioning, plumbing and piping, sheet metal, and owner-direct air conditioning services. The Stock Purchase Agreement is filed as Exhibit 2.1 hereto and reference is made thereto.
 
The purchaser of BCH was BCH Holdings, Inc., the majority owner of which is Daryl W. Blume, who was a Vice President of BCH and one of the owners of BCH when it was purchased by a subsidiary of TECO Energy, Inc. in September 2000.
 
Under the transaction, TECO Energy is retaining BCH's net working capital determined as of December 31, 2004, estimated to be about $2 million, and certain other existing obligations.
 
TECO Energy's fourth quarter 2004 pre-tax impairments previously announced in the Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 6, 2005, will include charges of $20.1 million ($14.3 million after-tax) to write-down the carrying value of BCH to the estimated fair value of the business as part of the normal year-end closing process and impairment testing in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 144, (FAS 144). No additional gain or loss was recorded as a result of the sale. BCH's results of operations and charges will be reported as discontinued operations on TECO Energy's consolidated statements of income. Pro forma financial information to reflect the disposition of BCH is included under Item 9.01(b).
Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets
 
Section 2  Financial Information - continued
 
Item 2.05: Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
 
On January 13, 2004, TECO Energy's Board of Directors authorized the transaction described in Item 1.01, and thereby committed the Company to a plan to dispose of Commonwealth Chesapeake Company, LLC, the owner of the Commonwealth Chesapeake Power Station in Virginia. TECO Energy's fourth quarter 2004 pre-tax impairment charges previously announced in the Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 6, 2005, will include a pre-tax charge of $81.3 million ($52.1 million after-tax) to write-down the carrying value of CCC to the estimated fair value of the CCC business as part of the normal year-end closing process and impairment testing in accordance with FAS 144. No additional material gain or loss is expected as a result of the proposed sale of CCC described in Item 1.01 above.
 
Item 2.06: Material Impairments
 
See Item 2.05 regarding the pre-tax impairment charge of $81.3 million ($52.1 million after-tax) related to TECO Energy's investment in CCC.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
The following unaudited pro forma consolidated balance sheet reflects the dispositions of Frontera Renovation Limited Partnership (Frontera) (incorporated by reference from TECO Energy's Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 22, 2004) of BCH as if they had occurred on Sept. 30, 2004. The accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed statements of income for the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2004 and 2003, and for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, no longer reflect the Frontera and BCH results of operations and charges as continuing operations since those results will be included in discontinued operations as if the dispositions had occurred on Dec. 31, 2001. The pro forma financial information does not purport to represent what TECO Energy, Inc.'s consolidated results would have been if the dispositions had in fact occurred on these dates, nor does it purport to indicate the future consolidated financial position or future consolidated results of operations of TECO Energy. The pro forma adjustments are based on the operating results and related charges for Frontera and BCH recorded for the periods.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 2.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This (the "Agreement"), dated as of December 31, 2004, is made and entered into by and between ., a Florida corporation ("Seller"), and BCH Holdings, Inc., a Florida corporation ("Purchaser"). Purchaser on one hand and Seller on the other being sometimes hereinafter referred to individually as a "Party" and collectively as the "Parties". Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings set forth in .
STOCK PURCHASE AGREEMENT
TECO SOLUTIONS, INC
Section 9.01
 
, Seller owns, beneficially and of record, all of the outstanding shares (the "Shares") of BCH Mechanical, Inc., a Florida corporation (the "Company");
WHEREAS
 
, the holder of a majority of shares of Purchaser is a current Vice President of the Company and is closely involved with all current operations of the Company; and
WHEREAS
 
, Seller desires to sell, and Purchaser desires to purchase, the Shares on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement.
WHEREAS
 
, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements set forth in this Agreement, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Parties agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
 
 
 
1.01 . Seller agrees to transfer and sell to Purchaser, and Purchaser agrees to purchase from Seller, all of the right, title and interest of Seller in and to the Shares at the Closing on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement.
Purchase and Sale
 
1.02 .
Purchase Price
 
(a) In consideration of the purchase and sale described above, subject to the conditions set forth below, Purchaser shall pay to Seller an aggregate sum (the "Purchase Price") equal to the sum of the following items, determined as of December 31, 2004: (i) the amount of the Accounts Receivable less (ii) Accounts Payable. The foregoing amount shall be reflected in a determination finalized by Seller (in the form of schedules) in cooperation with Purchaser within 10 days following Closing, subject to adjustment as appropriate based upon subsequent review of the Company's records in accordance with Section 1.06. Between December 14, 2004 and December 31, 2004, receivables and payables shall be accrued in the ordinary course of business consistent with GAAP and (to the extent consistent with GAAP) consistent with past practices. Notwithstanding the foregoing, it is understood and agreed that the first $110,000 of Accounts Payable payments made by the Company subsequent to Closing with respect to obligations under any rental agreement between the Company and Stephen G. Blume shall be excluded from the calculation of Accounts Payable paid within the meaning of Section 1.03(a)(ii).
(b) The Company shall be funded by Seller for accrued vacation time, projected insurance costs, certain payroll costs and payoff of the Vehicle Agreements as follows.
 
(i) The Company shall accrue vacation time earned by its employees during the 2004 calendar year as of the Closing and the amount of the accrued vacation time (earned but not used, and not to exceed 40 hours in the case of any individual employee) shall be paid by Seller to the Company within ten (10) days following the Closing.
 
(ii) In addition, Seller shall pay to Company the sum of $250,000 towards insurance or self-insurance costs of the Company for general liability and employer liability risks arising prior to the Closing, together with an additional sum of $250,000 towards post-Closing lease costs, and such sums shall be paid by Seller to the Company within ten (10) days following the Closing.
 
(iii) Seller is responsible for paying to the Company all Payroll Costs through December 31, 2004 (with payroll check-issuance date of January 7, 2005) or the Closing, whichever is later.
 
(iv) The Company currently uses the vehicles described in Schedule 1.02(b)(iv) and obtains certain services with respect to said vehicles pursuant to the Vehicle Agreements. On or after Closing, Seller shall pay to Gelco Corporation, d/b/a GE Fleet Capital Services ("GEFCS") the sum of $756,647 in consideration for contemporaneous delivery of a full and complete release by GEFCS of the Seller, its Affiliates and Company from, and termination of, the Vehicle Agreements and the transfer of title to said vehicles to the Company, on an "AS IS, WHERE IS" basis; provided that the Company pays to GEFCS the balance due upon any amounts payable to GEFCS in connection with the Vehicle Agreements (for vehicles used by the Company and described in ) which are in excess of the $756,647 amount set forth herein, and an original of the aforesaid release of Seller and its Affiliates (specifically identifying BCH Mechanical as a released party) is delivered to Company.
Schedule 1.02(b)(iv)
 
(c) If a dispute relating to the Purchase Price under this Section 1.02 arises, Purchaser and Seller shall submit the dispute to a mutually acceptable national practice certified public accounting firm ("Independent Firm") for a review and an independent determination of the amount of the Purchase Price. The Independent Firm shall resolve such dispute by selecting either the amount proposed to it by Seller or the amount proposed to it by the Purchaser, whichever is the closest to being correct in the Independent Firm's professional judgment. The Independent Firm shall take all such actions (including without limitation, any audit procedures) as shall be necessary to determine the Purchase Price and shall render a written report to the Purchaser and Seller stating its resolution of the dispute. The Independent Firm shall endeavor to provide this written report within thirty (30) days. During such thirty (30) day period, the parties shall afford the Independent Firm full access (subject to reasonable restrictions on the disclosure of confidential information) to any and all records and work papers relating to the
 
dispute. The parties shall use their reasonable best efforts to make available any work papers created in connection with the calculation of the Purchase Price and the assistance of their respective accountants as shall be necessary to enable the Independent Firm to review the calculation of the Purchase Price. The Independent Firm's decision shall be final, conclusive and binding on all parties. The fees and expenses of the Independent Firm shall be paid by the parties equally, but borne ultimately by the non-prevailing party.
 
1.03 .
Payment of Purchase Price
 
(a) Purchaser shall pay to Seller, for any month after Closing, the net of (i) any Accounts Receivable collected by the Company during such month, (ii) less Accounts Payable paid during such month and (iii) less the sum of $25,000 for the months of January through June 2005, until all Accounts Receivable are collected or, from an accounting standpoint, written off and all Accounts Payable are paid or excused. If the foregoing net amount is a negative number for any month, Seller shall pay such amount to Purchaser. Payment by Purchaser (or Seller) shall be made on the 15
th
day of the month following each month for which the above payments are calculated, except that payment for January 2005 shall be made on February 28, 2005. The Purchase Price is thus contingent on collection by Purchaser of Accounts Receivable. Purchaser and Company agree not to assign any Accounts Receivable, compromise or settle any Accounts Receivable, or to take any other action that would delay or prevent the collection of any such Accounts Receivable by the Company, without the prior written consent of Seller. Purchaser agrees to diligently pursue the collection of each Account Receivable, to report to Seller by the close of business Monday of each week the results of collection activity for the immediately preceding week, to promptly provide to Seller a copy of each item of written correspondence to or from each customer regarding payment or non-payment of any Account Receivable, and to respond to reasonable inquiry made by Seller from time to time on the status of collections. Seller shall be entitled, in furtherance of the collection process, to contact the obligor on any Account Receivable that Seller reasonably deems to be a slow pay account. In consideration for its diligent pursuit of collections, Purchaser shall be entitled to retain a collection fee on each Account Receivable collected, as follows (based on the age of such receivable as of December 14, 2004): 5% on each receivable aged 0-30 days or accrued on or after December 14, 2004, 15% on each receivable aged 31-60 days, 20% on each receivable aged 61-90 days, and 35% on each receivable aged 91-120 days. For the purposes of the foregoing, any Retainage amounts shall be treated as receivables aged 0-30 days, irrespective of the actual duration of the Retainage. Receivables aged greater than 120 days as of December 14, 2004 shall not be counted in determining the Purchase Price. Company shall be entitled to engage third parties to assist in collection efforts, such as attorneys or collection agencies, subject to the prior written approval of Seller respecting collection agency or attorney and their respective fees, and in such event the amount of the Account Receivable collected, for all purposes hereunder (including calculation of the percentage collection fee due Purchaser) shall be determined net of the third party collection fee described in this sentence. In the event that the Company is released in any month from any amount of any Account Payable existing as of Closing (or Purchaser agrees to excuse Seller from reimbursement for such amount), Purchaser shall be entitled to a credit (or payment) of 50% of any amount so released. Purchaser shall cause the Company to assign to Seller any Accounts Receivable which are uncollected 12 months after the Closing Date.
 
(b) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, with respect to Service Agreements of the Company, in the event that the Company has with any service customer and/or its Affiliates (i) Accounts Receivables for which payments are due Seller hereunder and (ii) accounts receivable for which no payments are due Seller, herunder, all payments received by the Company arising out of such Service Agreements from any such service customer and/or its Affiliates shall be allocated first to, and credited toward, Accounts Receivable for which payments are due Seller hereunder. For purposes of the foregoing, a "Service Agreement" shall mean any agreement between the Company and an owner of a facility for regularly scheduled maintenance of such facility or any portion thereof.
 
(c) The Purchaser shall pay the Purchase Price in cash by making all required payments via wire transfers of immediately available funds to the following account:
 
c/o Peoples Gas
Bank of America- Dallas, Texas
ABA # 111000012
Account # 375 082 9318
 
or such other account as shall be designated by Seller by written notice to Purchaser.
 
(d) Notwithstanding the determination of the Purchase Price from Accounts Receivable and Accounts Payable under Section 1.02, all Accounts Receivable shall be the property of the Company, subject to Section 1.05 below. The Company shall be responsible for all Accounts Payable except as stated below in Section 10.06.
 
(e) It is understood and agreed that Seller shall be entitled to distribute to itself in the form of dividends, cash management sweeps or otherwise, all of the Company's cash or cash equivalents on hand or in banks up through the Closing Date.
 
.
1.04
Closin
g
 
(a) The Closing will take place at the offices of Seller, 702 North Franklin Street, Tampa, FL 33602, or at such other place as Purchaser and Seller mutually agree, at 11:00 A.M. local time, on the Closing Date.
 
(b) At the Closing, Purchaser shall deliver each of the items specified in Article 5. Simultaneously, Seller shall deliver the Shares to Purchaser (i) duly endorsed (or accompanied by stock powers duly endorsed) in blank and (ii) free and clear of any and all Liens.
 
(c) At the Closing, the Parties shall execute and deliver each of the documents and instruments to be delivered on the Closing Date pursuant to Article 4 or Article 5.
 
(d) Either Party by notice to the other Party may from time to time postpone the Closing Date to a date not later than January 31, 2005, for the purpose of allowing any condition to close of either Party to be satisfied or waived.
 
(e) The Parties may terminate this Agreement as provided below:
 
(i) Seller and Purchaser may terminate this Agreement by mutual written consent at any time prior to the Closing Date;
 
(ii) Purchaser may terminate this Agreement by giving written notice to Seller at any time prior to the Closing Date (A) in the event Seller has breached any material representation, warranty, or covenant contained in this Agreement in any material respect, Purchaser has notified Seller in writing of the breach, and the breach has continued without cure for a period of 30 days after the notice of breach; or (B) if the Closing shall not have occurred on or before January 31, 2005, by reason of the failure of any condition precedent under Article 4 hereof (unless the failure results primarily from Purchaser breaching any representation, warranty, or covenant contained in this Agreement); or (C) if the tax election contemplated in Section 6.03 would create additional taxes for the Purchaser and the Seller is unwilling to compensate the Purchaser for such additional taxes; or (D) if there is a material change in the assets and/or business of the Company at Closing, when compared to the most recent financial statement of the Company issued prior to the date of this Agreement, unless said change is reflected in the Purchase Price.
 
(iii) Seller may terminate this Agreement by giving written notice to Purchaser at any time prior to the Closing Date (A) in the event Purchaser has breached any material representation, warranty, or covenant contained in this Agreement in any material respect, Seller has notified Purchaser in writing of the breach, and the breach has continued without cure for a period of 30 days after the notice of breach or (B) if the Closing shall not have occurred on or before January 31, 2005, by reason of the failure of any condition precedent under Article 5 hereof (unless the failure results primarily from Seller breaching any representation, warranty, or covenant contained in this Agreement)
 
(f) In the event of termination of this Agreement, and hereof shall survive termination, as would any claims for willful breach of any representations, warranties or covenants hereunder; otherwise upon termination the Parties shall be released from any further obligations hereunder.
Sections 11.03, 11.04
11.05
 
1.05 . As security for (i) the payment by Purchaser to Seller of the Purchase Price (as the corresponding Accounts Receivable are collected), (ii) performance of Purchaser's and Company's obligations under Section 10.07 ( of this Agreement and (iii) performance of Purchaser's and Company's obligations under Section 10.10 ( of this Agreement, the Company and/or Purchaser shall grant Seller a first priority security interest in the stock of the Company and selected other assets of the Company and/or the Purchaser, as listed on Schedule 1.05, and a first priority security interest in the Accounts Receivable (which by definition are accrued prior to the Closing Date). Seller shall receive a priority security interest, secondary to a lender, in: (i) the Company's accounts receivable accrued following the Closing Date, and (iii) selected personal assets of Daryl W. Blume listed on Schedule 1.05, executed by his spouse solely as to joint assets. The foregoing security interests shall be set forth in the Stock Pledge Agreement, the Security Agreement (corporate assets), the Security and Accounts Receivable First Priority Collateral Assignment Agreement,
Security
Vehicle Agreements)
Bonding)
 
the Security and Accounts Receivable Second Priority Collateral Assignment Agreement, and the Security Agreement (personal assets) in the forms attached hereto as . The foregoing agreements shall provide, among other things, that so long as any of the foregoing obligations remains due, (x) the Company shall not make any distributions with respect to its stock (other than to fund the payment of the Purchase Price by Purchaser), and shall not pay compensation or other amounts to Daryl W. Blume or any person related to Daryl W. Blume in excess of $175,000 per year in the aggregate for all such persons, and (y) Seller shall cause the Company to be operated in the ordinary course of business.
Exhibits "A", "B", "C-1", "C-2" and "D"
 
1.06 .
Further Assurances; Post-Closing Cooperation
 
(a) Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, at any time or from time to time after the Closing, each of the Parties shall execute and deliver such other documents and instruments, provide such materials and information and take such other actions as may reasonably be necessary, proper or advisable, to the extent permitted by Law, to fulfill its obligations under this Agreement.
 
(b) Following the Closing, each Party will cooperate in good faith with the other Party and afford the other Party, its counsel and its accountants, during normal business hours, reasonable access to the Books and Records in its or the Company's possession (whether created before, on or after the Closing Date) and the right to make copies and extracts therefrom, to the extent that such cooperation or access may be reasonably required by the requesting Party in connection with (i) the preparation of Tax Returns or any audit, examination or contest relating to Taxes, (ii) the integration of the accounting books and records, (iii) the determination or enforcement of rights and obligations of either Party under this Agreement, (iv) compliance with the requirements of any Governmental or Regulatory Authority in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, or (v) in connection with any actual or threatened Action or Proceeding.
 
(c) If, in order to properly prepare its Tax Returns, other documents or reports required to be filed with Governmental or Regulatory Authorities or its financial statements or to fulfill its obligations hereunder, it is necessary that a Party be furnished with additional information, documents or records relating to the Business or Condition of the Company not referred to in paragraph (b) above, and such information, documents or records are in the possession or control of the other Party or a member of the other Party's Affiliated Group, such other Party agrees to use commercially reasonable efforts to furnish or make available such information, documents or records (or copies thereof) at the recipient's request, cost and expense.
 
(d) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Section, if the Parties are in an adversarial relationship in litigation or arbitration, the furnishing of information, documents or records in accordance with any provision of this Section will be subject to applicable rules relating to discovery. Any information obtained in accordance with this Section shall be held confidential in accordance with Section 11.05.
 
 
 
Except as may be disclosed in Seller's Disclosure Schedule, attached hereto, or as otherwise noted, Seller hereby represents and warrants to Purchaser as follows:
 
2.01 Seller represents and warrants that Seller is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Florida. Seller has full power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and to perform its obligations hereunder and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby, including without limitation to own, hold, sell and transfer the Shares.
.
Existence
 
2.02 The execution and delivery by Seller of this Agreement, and the performance by Seller of its obligations hereunder, have been duly and validly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of Seller or its board of directors or shareholder(s). This Agreement has been duly and validly executed and delivered by Seller and constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of Seller enforceable against Seller in accordance with its terms.
.
Authority
 
2.03 The Company is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Florida with full corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its assets and properties and to carry on its business as now being and as heretofore conducted and is qualified to do business in all jurisdictions in which the nature of the business conducted by it makes such qualification necessary and where failure so to qualify would have a Material Adverse Effect. Seller has heretofore provided true, correct and complete copies of the articles of incorporation and bylaws of the Company. The minute books (containing the records of meetings of the stockholders, the board of directors, and any committees of the board of directors), the stock certificate books, and the stock record books of each of Company and Seller are correct and complete as to matters occurring on or after September 8, 2000.
.
Organization
 
2.04 The authorized capital stock of the Company consists of 7,500 shares of common stock, $1.00 par value per share, 500 shares of which are issued and outstanding as of the date of this Agreement and which constitute the Shares. The Shares have been and are duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable. All Shares are owned beneficially and of record by Seller, free and clear of any Liens. There are no outstanding subscriptions, rights, warrants, options, contracts, calls, commitments, agreements or arrangements of any kind whatsoever under which the Company is or may be obligated to issue capital stock or other securities of any kind. There are no outstanding or authorized stock appreciation, phantom stock, profit participation, or similar rights with respect to the Company created on or after September 8, 2000. There are no voting trusts, proxies, or other agreements or understandings with respect to the voting of the capital stock of the Company created on or after September 8, 2000.
.
Shares
 
2.05 The Company currently has two wholly owned Subsidiaries: SDB Leasing Corporation and Staffing Systems, Inc.
.
Subsidiaries
 
(a) Both Subsidiaries are corporations duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Florida. The Subsidiaries are not currently conducting active business. Seller has heretofore provided true, correct and complete copies of the articles of incorporation and bylaws of each Subsidiary.
Organization.
 
(b) The authorized capital stock of the SDB Leasing Corporation consists of 7,500 shares of common stock, $1.00 par value per share, 1,000 shares of which are issued and outstanding as of the date of this Agreement and which constitute the SDB Shares. The authorized capital stock of the Staffing Systems, Inc. consists of 7,500 shares of common stock, $1.00 par value per share, 500 shares of which are issued and outstanding as of the date of this Agreement and which constitute the SSI Shares. The SSI Shares and SDB Shares are hereinafter referred to as the "Subsidiary Shares". The Subsidiary Shares have been and are duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable. All outstanding Subsidiary Shares are owned beneficially and of record by the Company free and clear of any Liens, restrictions on transfer (other than restrictions under the Securities Act and state securities laws), Taxes, options, warrants, purchase rights, contracts, commitments, equities, claims, and demands. There are no outstanding or authorized options, warrants, purchase rights, subscription rights, conversion rights, exchange rights, or other contracts or commitments that could require the Company to sell, transfer, or otherwise dispose of any capital stock of any of its Subsidiaries or that could require any Subsidiary of the Company to issue, sell, or otherwise cause to become outstanding any of its own capital stock. There are no outstanding stock appreciation, phantom stock, profit participation, or similar rights with respect to any Subsidiary of the Company created on or after September 8, 2000. There are no voting trusts, proxies, or other agreements or understandings with respect to the voting of any capital stock of any Subsidiary of the Company created on or after September 8, 2000. To the Knowledge of Seller, the Company does not control directly or indirectly any corporation, partnership, trust, or other business association which is not a Subsidiary of the Company.
Shares.
 
2.06 The execution and delivery by Seller of this Agreement do not, and the performance by Seller of its obligations under this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby will not:
.
No Conflicts
 
(a) subject to obtaining the consents, approvals and actions, making the filings and giving the notices disclosed in the Seller's Disclosure Schedule, conflict with or result in a violation or breach of (i) any of the terms, conditions or provisions of the articles or bylaws of the Company or of Seller or (ii) any term or provision of any Law or Order applicable to the Company or Seller or any of their respective Assets and Properties; or (iii) create in any party the right to accelerate, terminate, modify, or cancel, or require any notice under any agreement, contract, lease, license, instrument, or other arrangement to which the Seller is a party or by which it is bound or to which any of his or its Assets is subject, or
 
(b) to the best Knowledge of Seller, (i) conflict with or result in a violation or breach of, (ii) constitute (with or without notice or lapse of time or both) a default under, (iii) require Seller to obtain any consent, approval or action of, make any filing with or give any notice to any Person (except as disclosed in the Seller's Disclosure Schedule) as a result or under the terms of, or (iv) result in the creation or imposition of any Lien upon Seller or any of its assets or properties under, any Contract or License to which Seller is a party or by which any of its assets and properties is bound.
 
2.07 . No Governmental Approval on the part of Seller or the Company is required in connection with the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, except those as would be required solely as a result of the identity or the legal or regulatory status of Purchaser.
Governmental Approvals and Filings
 
2.08 .
Taxes
 
(a) The common parent corporation of the Company's Affiliated Group has timely filed all Tax Returns that it was required to file for each taxable period during which the Company was a member of the group, and has paid all Taxes shown thereon as owing, except where a failure to file or pay Taxes would not have a Material Adverse Effect on the financial condition of the Company taken as a whole or otherwise require the Company to pay any Taxes relating to any period prior to the Closing Date. The Company has no liability for the Taxes of any Person other than the Company under Treasury Regulations section 1.1502-6 (or any similar provision of state, local, or foreign law) for any taxable period during which the Company was or will be a member of the Company's Affiliated Group, including the short year period ending on the Closing Date. All liabilities for Taxes of the Company up through the Closing Date shall be reported by the common parent corporation on a consolidated basis with the Company's Affiliated Group and shall be the obligation of the common parent corporation.
 
(b) Except as otherwise noted in this Agreement (including of the Seller's Disclosure Schedule), (i) there are no actions or proceedings currently pending or, to the Knowledge of Seller, threatened against the Company, by any Governmental or Regulatory Authority for the assessment or collection of Taxes, (ii) except for the current audit of Seller's Corporate Income Tax Return for the years ending December 31, 2001 and December 31, 2002, no audits or other examinations of any Tax Return are in progress nor has the Company or Seller been notified of any request for examination; (iii) no claims for assessment or collection of taxes have been asserted against the Company, and (iv) to the best Knowledge of Seller, there are no matters under discussion between the Company and any Governmental Authority regarding claims for assessment or collection of Taxes against the Company, and Seller has no reason to believe that any such claims for Taxes will be asserted.
Schedule 2.08
 
(c) Neither the Company nor Seller is a "foreign person" within the meaning of Section 1445(b)(2) of the Code.
 
2.09 . Neither Seller nor, subsequent to September 8, 2000, the Company has filed any voluntary petition in bankruptcy or been adjudicated as bankrupt or insolvent, filed any petition or answer seeking any reorganization, liquidation, dissolution or similar relief under any Federal bankruptcy act, insolvency, or other debtor relief law, nor sought or consented to or acquiesced in the appointment of any trustee, receiver, conservator or liquidator of all or any substantial part of its properties.
Bankruptcy
 
2.10 . All negotiations relative to this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby have been carried out by Seller directly with Purchaser without the intervention of any Person on behalf of Seller in such manner as to give rise to any valid claim by any Person against Purchaser or the Company for a finder's fee, brokerage commission or similar payment.
Brokers
 
2.11 . Schedule 2.11 of the Seller's Disclosure Schedule sets forth an accurate and complete list of the names and locations of financial institutions at which the Company maintains accounts of any nature or safe deposit boxes of the Company and the names of all Persons authorized to draw thereon, make withdrawals therefrom or have access thereto.
Bank Accounts
 
2.12 . Except for sales in the ordinary course of business, Seller has not entered into any agreement, commitment, or understanding with any other person with respect to the sale, transfer, lease, or other disposition of all or any portion of the Shares or any of the Assets and Properties of the Company.
No Other Agreements
 
2.13 .
Employee Benefits
 
(a) To the Knowledge of Seller, Schedule 2.13 of the Seller's Disclosure Schedule lists each Company Employee Benefit Plan and designates each such plan either as a "Company Sponsored Plan" or as a "Company Non-Sponsored Plan". The Company is a participant (but not a sponsor) in each Company Non-Sponsored Plan, and to the Knowledge of Seller the Company sponsors each Company Sponsored Plan. Except as set forth on Seller's Disclosure Schedule or elsewhere in this Agreement, the Company shall not be subject to any liability with respect to any Company Non-Sponsored Plan. With respect to such Company Non-Sponsored Plan, no event has occurred and, to the Knowledge of the Seller, there exists no condition or set of circumstances, in connection with which the Company is reasonably likely to be subject to any liability under the terms of such Company Non-Sponsored Plans.
 
(b) No liability under Title IV of ERISA has been incurred by the Company subsequent to September 8, 2000 and, to Seller's Knowledge, no condition exists that presents a risk to the Company of incurring liability under such title.
 
(c) Subsequent to September 8, 2000, (i) the Company never has had and currently has no obligation to contribute to any Multiemployer Plan, (ii) neither the Company nor any Company ERISA Affiliate has completely or partially withdrawn from any Multiemployer Plan, within the meaning of ERISA Section 3(37), and (iii) neither the Company nor any of its Company ERISA Affiliates have suffered a seventy-percent decline in "contribution base units," within the meaning of ERISA Section 4205(b)(1)(A).
 
(d) The Company does not maintain, does not contribute to, and subsequent to September 8, 2000 has neither contributed to, nor has been required to contribute to, any Employee Welfare Benefit Plan providing medical, health, or life insurance or other welfare-type benefits for retired or terminated employees, their spouses, or their dependents (other than in accordance with the requirements of COBRA), or to the Knowledge of Seller, any defined benefit plan.
 
(e) To the Knowledge of Seller, no individual shall accrue or receive any additional benefits or service under any Company Employee Benefit Plan as a result of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, except as provided in the first sentence of Section 10.11 hereof.
 
For purposes of this Section 2.13:
 
"COBRA" means the Consolidated Omnibus Reconciliation Act, 29 U.S.C. 1161 et. seq., as amended.
 
"Company ERISA Affiliate" means any trade or business, whether or not incorporated, that together with Company, would be deemed a "single employer" within the meaning of Section 4001 of ERISA.
 
"Company Employee Benefit Plan" means any - (a) nonqualified deferred compensation plan or arrangement, (b) qualified defined contribution or defined benefit retirement plan or arrangement that is an Employee Pension Benefit Plan (including any Multiemployer Plan), or (c) Employee Welfare Benefit Plan or material fringe benefit plan or program - that the Company maintains, to which the Company contributes, or to which the Company's employee's participate.
 
"Employee Pension Benefit Plan" means any such plan as defined in ERISA Section 3(2).
 
"Employee Welfare Benefit Plan" means any such plan as defined in ERISA Section 3(1).
 
"ERISA" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
 
"Multiemployer Plan" means any such plan as defined in ERISA Section 3(37).
 
2.14 . Since December 31, 2003, Seller has not, to the Knowledge of Seller:
Events Subsequent to Most Recent Fiscal Year End
 
(i) sold, leased, transferred, or assigned any of Company's assets, tangible or intangible, other than for a fair consideration in the Ordinary Course of Business;
 
(ii) entered into any agreement, contract, lease, or license (or series of related agreements, contracts, leases, and licenses) involving the Assets and Properties of Company, and either involving more than $500,000 or outside the Ordinary Course of Business;
 
(iii) accelerated, terminated, modified, or cancelled any agreement, contract, lease, or license (or series of related agreements, contracts, leases, and licenses) involving more than $100,000 to which Company is a party;
 
(iv) imposed any Security Interest upon any of the Company's or any Subsidiary's Assets and Properties, tangible or intangible;
 
(v) issued any note, bond, or other debt security or (except for intercorporate indebtedness to be forgiven or released under Section 4.05 hereof) created, incurred, assumed, or guaranteed any indebtedness for borrowed money or capitalized lease obligation relating to Company or its Assets and Properties, or any Subsidiary, either involving more than $10,000 in any instance, or $50,000 in the aggregate (except for allowing the issuance of construction bonds, if any, securing the performance by the Company of its obligations under certain contracts, with respect to which the Company has agreed to indemnify the issuer of the bonds, Travelers Casualty and Surety Company of America, for any losses thereunder pursuant to a General Contract of Indemnity dated January 18, 2002 and executed by the Company);
 
(vi) delayed or postponed the payment of accounts payable, Taxes or other Losses in connection with the Company or its Assets and properties, outside the Ordinary Course of Business;
 
(vii) cancelled, compromised, waived, or released any right or claim (or series of related rights and claims) with respect to Company either involving more than $10,000 or outside the Ordinary Course of Business; or
 
(viii) committed to any of the foregoing.
 
 
 
Except as may be disclosed in Purchaser's Disclosure Schedule, attached hereto, or as otherwise noted, Purchaser, and Daryl Blume solely as to Section 3.11, hereby represents and warrants to Seller as follows:
 
3.01 . Purchaser represents and warrants that Purchaser is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Florida. Purchaser has full power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and to perform its obligations hereunder and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby, including without limitation to own, hold, sell and transfer the Shares.
Existence
 
3.02 . The execution and delivery by Purchaser of this Agreement, and the performance by Purchaser of its obligations hereunder, have been duly and validly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of Purchaser or its board of directors or shareholder(s). This Agreement has been duly and validly executed and delivered by Purchaser and constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of Purchaser enforceable against Purchaser in accordance with its terms.
Authority
 
3.03 . The Company is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Florida with full corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its assets and properties and to carry on its business as
Organization
 
now being and as heretofore conducted and is qualified to do business in all jurisdictions in which the nature of the business conducted by it makes such qualification necessary and where failure so to qualify would have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
3.04 . The execution and delivery by Purchaser of this Agreement do not, and the performance by Purchaser of its obligations under this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby will not:
No Conflicts
 
(a) subject to obtaining the consents, approvals and actions, making the filings and giving the notices disclosed in the Purchaser's Disclosure Schedule, conflict with or result in a violation or breach of (i) any of the terms, conditions or provisions of the articles or bylaws of the Purchaser or (ii) any term or provision of any Law or Order applicable to Purchaser or any of its Assets and Properties; or
 
(b) (i) conflict with or result in a violation or breach of, (ii) constitute (with or without notice or lapse of time or both) a default under, (iii) require Purchaser to obtain any consent, approval or action of, make any filing with or give any notice to any Person (except as disclosed in the Purchaser's Disclosure Schedule) as a result or under the terms of, or (iv) result in the creation or imposition of any Lien upon Purchaser or any of its Assets or Properties under, any Contract or License to which such Purchaser is a party or by which any of its Assets and Properties is bound.
 
3.05 . Except as disclosed in Schedule 3.05 of the Purchaser's Disclosure Schedule, no Governmental Approval on the part of Purchaser is required in connection with the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby.
Governmental Approvals and Filings
 
3.06 . There are no Actions or Proceedings pending or, to the Knowledge of Purchaser, threatened against, relating to or affecting such Purchaser or any of its Assets and Properties which could reasonably be expected to result in the issuance of an Order restraining, enjoining or otherwise prohibiting or making illegal the consummation of any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Legal Proceedings
 
3.07 . The Shares will be acquired by Purchaser (or, if applicable, its assignee pursuant to ) for its own account for the purpose of investment, it being understood that the right to dispose of such Shares shall be entirely within the discretion of such Purchaser (or such assignee, as the case may be). Purchaser (or such assignee, as the case may be) will refrain from transferring or otherwise disposing of any of the Shares, or any interest therein, in such manner as to cause Seller to be in violation of the registration requirements of the Securities Act or applicable state securities or blue sky laws.
Purchase for Investment
Section 11.09
 
3.08 . Purchaser has sufficient cash or ready access to sufficient cash to pay the Purchase Price on the Closing Date and to make all other necessary payments of fees and expenses incurred by Purchaser in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Financing
 
3.09 . All negotiations relative to this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby have been carried out by Purchaser directly with Seller without the
Brokers
 
intervention of any Person on behalf of such Purchaser in such manner as to give rise to any valid claim by any Person against Seller or the Company for a finder's fee, brokerage commission or similar payment.
 
3.10 .
Investment; Reliance
 
(a) Purchaser (i) understands that the Shares have not been, and will not be, registered under the Securities Act, or under any state securities laws, and is being offered and sold in reliance upon federal and state exemptions for transactions not involving any public offering, (ii) is acquiring the Shares solely for its own account for investment purposes, and not with a view to the distribution thereof, provided, however, Purchaser may issue Company shares subject to the restrictions of the Stock Pledge Agreement described in Section 1.05, to other investors (not to exceed twenty (20) investors), members of the Company's Board of Directors and employees, in the form of (without limitation), stock, stock options, restricted stock, warrants and other securities, (iii) has received certain information concerning the Company and has had the opportunity to obtain additional information as desired in order to evaluate the merits and the risks inherent in holding the Shares, and; (iv) is able to bear the economic risk and lack of liquidity inherent in holding the Shares.
 
(b) Purchaser (i) is represented by competent legal, tax and financial counsel in connection with the negotiation, execution, and delivery of this Agreement, (ii) is an entity owned by a key employee and Vice President of the Company with extensive knowledge concerning the business and operations of the Company and sufficient knowledge and experience to enable it to evaluate the Company and the business of the Company and the technical, commercial, financial, legal, regulatory and other risks associated with owning the Shares and the Company, (iii) acknowledges that pursuant to this Agreement it will have, prior to the Closing Date, performed all due diligence that it has deemed necessary to perform in order to close the transactions contemplated hereby, and in making the decision to enter into this Agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby, (iv) has relied on its own independent investigation, analysis and evaluation of the Company and its properties, assets, business, financial condition and prospects and upon the express representations and warranties of Seller in this Agreement, and is not relying on any other representations, warranties, documents or statements of or provided by Seller or any Affiliate thereof, whether in writing or orally, and (v) is financially capable of purchasing and owning the Shares and performing its obligations under this Agreement.
 
3.11 . Daryl Blume: (i) is a sophisticated investor with knowledge and experience in business and financial matters; and (ii) is an Accredited Investor as set forth in Regulation D promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended and (iii) owns a majority of the outstanding and issued stock of the Purchaser.
Accredited Investor
 
 
 
This Agreement and the obligations of Purchaser hereunder to purchase the Shares are subject to the fulfillment, at or before the Closing, of each of the following conditions (all or any of which may be waived in whole or in part by Purchaser in its sole discretion):
 
4.01 . The representations and warranties made by Seller in this Agreement, individually and taken as a whole, shall be true and correct on and as of the Closing Date, in all material respects.
Representations and Warranties
 
4.02 . Seller shall have performed and complied with, in all material respects, the agreements, covenants and obligations required by this Agreement to be so performed or complied with by Seller at or before the Closing.
Performance
 
4.03 . There shall not be in effect on the Closing Date any Order or Law restraining, enjoining or otherwise prohibiting or making illegal the consummation of any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Orders and Laws
 
4.04 . Seller shall have caused to be executed and delivered, effective as of the Closing Date, resignations of the then-current officers and directors of the Company, other than Daryl W. Blume.
Officers and Directors
 
4.05. On or before the Closing, the Seller and its affiliates will forgive, release, and cause to be contributed to the capital of the Company (as an accounting entry), all inter-company indebtedness owed by the Company, in a manner such that there would be no adverse tax impact to the Company following the Closing as a result of the debt contribution.
Inter-company Debt
 
4.06 . Seller and the Company shall have made all required accounting adjustments to eliminate balances related to the Seller's prior acquisition of the Company and any continuing obligations of the Seller related to said acquisition, including but not limited to the payment of any remaining earnout amounts shall be solely the obligation of Seller and Seller shall hold the Company harmless from any tax cost as a result of said adjustments pursuant to Section 8.01(a).
Accounting Adjustments
 
4.07 . Seller shall have caused the removal of the Company as a participating employer in the TECO Energy Group Retirement Savings Plan, effective as of the Closing Date, and shall have delivered to Purchaser evidence of said removal reasonably acceptable to Purchaser.
Removal of Company from Retirement Plan
 
4.08 Seller shall have delivered to Purchaser a confirmation letter from TECO Energy, Inc. with respect to the maintenance to full term under Section 10.11 of certain stock options for Daryl W. Blume.
.
Confirmation
 
4.09 . Seller shall have delivered to Purchaser an opinion of counsel to Seller and Guarantor in a form reasonably acceptable to Purchaser with respect to this Agreement.
Opinion of Counsel
 
 
 
This Agreement and the obligations of Seller hereunder to sell the Shares are subject to the fulfillment, at or before the Closing, of each of the following conditions (all or any of which may be waived in whole or in part by Seller in its sole discretion):
 
5.01 . The representations and warranties made by Purchaser in this Agreement, taken as a whole, shall be true and correct in all material respects on and as of the Closing Date.
Representations and Warranties
 
5.02 Purchaser shall have performed and complied with, in all material respects, the agreements, covenants and obligations required by this Agreement to be so performed or complied with by such Purchaser at or before the Closing.
.
Performance
 
5.03 . There shall not be in effect on the Closing Date any Order or Law restraining, enjoining or otherwise prohibiting or making illegal the consummation of any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Orders and Laws
 
5.04 . Purchaser and the Company shall have executed and delivered to Seller the security agreements described in Section 1.05, together with all other financing statements or other instruments reasonably required to perfect the security interests therein granted.
Security Instruments
 
5.05 Purchaser shall have delivered to Seller a Guaranty executed by Daryl W. Blume guaranteeing the obligations of the Purchaser and Company hereunder in the form attached hereto as .
.
Guaranty
Exhibit "E"
 
5.06 . Purchaser shall have delivered to Seller an opinion of counsel to Seller and Guarantor in a form acceptable to Seller with respect to this Agreement and the security agreements described in Section 1.05 that are signed by the Purchaser.
Opinion of Counsel
 
 
 
6.01 .
Certain Taxes
 
(a) Seller shall pay and indemnify, defend, protect and hold harmless Purchaser and the Company on an After-Tax Basis from and against any Taxes imposed upon Purchaser or the Company arising or accruing prior to the Closing Date as detailed herein. Such indemnity shall include all unpaid tax liabilities of the Company for the period prior to the Closing but subsequent to September 8, 2000, including but not limited to any tax liabilities arising as a result of the currently ongoing IRS or other tax audit and any tax liabilities related to the inclusion of the Company in a consolidated group for tax purposes or any tax sharing agreement related thereto, and SEC investigations, proceedings or actions with respect to the Company for the period prior to the Closing but subsequent to September 8, 2000.
 
(b) (a) shall be subject to of this Agreement. The Seller shall have the right, at its option and expense, to control any contest, settlement or audit with respect to which it has an obligation or potential obligation to indemnify the Purchaser under this .
Section 6.01
Section 8.01(c)(i)
Section 6.01
 
(c) Seller shall cause the income and other Tax items of the Company for the taxable period ending on or before the Closing Date to be included in the consolidated federal and state income Tax Returns of the Seller's Affiliated Group. Seller shall prepare and timely file all said Tax Returns required to be filed for said taxable period with respect to the Company, if any, and shall duly and timely pay all such Taxes arising from the filing of said Tax Returns.
 
6.02 . On or before the Closing Date, Seller shall ensure that no Tax indemnity agreement, Tax allocation agreement, or Tax sharing agreement with respect to the Company is in force or effect and that, as of the Closing Date, there shall be no liability of the Company under such agreements.
Termination of Tax Sharing Agreement
 
6.03 . Purchaser and Seller shall jointly make an election under Section 338(h)(10) of the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code") with respect to the purchase and sale of the Shares and with respect to the SSI Shares and SDB Shares. The Seller shall join with the Purchaser in the preparation and timely filing of a Form 8023. All Parties shall report the purchase and sale of the Shares for tax purposes in accordance with fair market value of the assets and liabilities of the Company and its Subsidiaries as set forth in Schedule 6.03 of the Disclosure Schedule, and no Party hereto shall take any action inconsistent with the election under Section 338(h)(10). Seller, at its sole cost, will prepare the initial draft of the forms to be filed with regard to this Section 6.03. Upon presentation of the applicable invoices containing adequate detail as to time, date and description of services performed and applicable fee rates, Seller shall reimburse Purchaser up to the amount of $25,000 towards reasonable professional service fees of accounting firm(s) engaged to assist Purchaser in complying with this Section 6.03.
Section 338(h)(10) Election
 
6.04 . Purchaser and Seller agree that for purposes of this Agreement, Purchaser and Seller shall allocate the Purchase Price to the acquired Assets and Properties in accordance with the allocation mutually agreed upon and set forth in Schedule 6.04 of the Disclosure Schedule attached hereto. Each party shall execute and deliver to the other IRS Form 8594 reflecting such allocations. Seller, at its sole cost, will prepare the initial draft of the forms to be filed with regard to this Section 6.04.
Purchase Price Allocation
 
 
 
7.01 . The representations, warranties, covenants and agreements of Seller and Purchaser contained in this Agreement will survive the Closing (it being understood that representations and warranties relate to the date when they are made or deemed to be made and not to subsequent periods) until the Cut-Off Date (as defined below), except that any representation, warranty, covenant or agreement that would otherwise terminate shall continue to survive if a Claim Notice or Indemnity Notice (as applicable) shall have been timely given in good faith based on facts reasonably expected to establish a valid claim under Article 8 on or prior to such termination date, until the related claim for indemnification has been satisfied or otherwise resolved as provided in Article 8. "" means 11:59 P.M. Tampa, Florida time on the date twelve (12) months from the Closing Date; provided, however, (i) with respect to claims for breach of any covenant or agreement of Seller, Purchaser or Company contained in this Agreement, the Cut-Off Date will coincide with first anniversary of the date upon which performance of such covenant or agreement was due or twelve (12) months from the Closing Date, whichever is later, (ii) with respect to claims for breach of the representations and warranties of Seller contained in relating to ownership of the Shares and claims for breach of the representations and warranties of Purchaser contained in , the Cut-Off Date will coincide with last date of the limitations period applicable to actions relating to the breach of written contracts, and (iii) with respect to claims for breach of the representations and warranties of Seller contained in relating to tax matters, the Cut-Off Date will coincide with last date of the limitations period applicable to pertinent taxing authority in collecting taxes, as it may be extended from time to time.
Survival of Representations, Warranties, Covenants and Agreements
Cut-Off Date
Section 2.04
Sections 3.07, 3.10 and 3.11
Section 2.08
 
7.02 .
No Other Representations
 
(a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, the Purchaser agrees that Seller is making no representation or warranty whatsoever, express or implied, except those representations and warranties contained in Article 2. In particular, except as otherwise expressly provided for in Article 2, (i) the Business or Condition of the Company, (ii) the accuracy of any financial statements prepared by the Company, (iii) the title or condition of any real or personal property owned, leased, used or controlled by the Company (including the presence or absence of any Hazardous Materials on, under or about such real property or the compliance or non-compliance of the Company with any Environmental Laws, (iv) labor relations of the Company, or (v) any Liabilities of the Company, whether known or unknown. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, the Seller agrees that Purchaser is making no representation or warranty whatsoever, express or implied, except those representations and warranties contained in this Agreement and the agreements described in Section 1.05.
Seller makes no representation or warranty to Purchaser, and Purchaser assume all risks (except as may be expressly provided otherwise in Section 8.01(a) hereof), with respect to
 
(b) With respect to any projection or forecast delivered by or on behalf of Seller to Purchaser, Purchaser acknowledges that (i) there are uncertainties inherent in
 
attempting to make such projections and forecasts, (ii) such Purchaser is familiar with such uncertainties, or (iii) such Purchaser is a sophisticated party with respect to such matters, is an officer or high-level employee of the Company and is taking full responsibility for making his own evaluation of the adequacy and accuracy of all such projections and forecasts furnished to him.
 
 
 
8.01 .
Indemnification
 
(a) Subject to paragraphs (c) and (d) of this Section, the applicable Cut-Off Date and Sections 8.02 and 8.03 hereof, Seller shall indemnify the Purchaser Indemnified Parties in respect of, and hold each of them harmless from and against, any and all Losses (on an After-Tax Basis) suffered, incurred or sustained by any of them or to which any of them become subject, resulting from, arising out of or relating to:
 
(i) any breach of representation or warranty or nonfulfillment of or failure to perform any covenant or agreement on the part of Seller contained in this Agreement
 
(ii) all unpaid Taxes and tax liabilities of the Company for the period prior to the Closing but subsequent to September 8, 2000, including but not limited to any tax liabilities arising as a result of the currently ongoing IRS or other tax audit and any Taxes or tax liabilities related to the inclusion of the Company in a consolidated group for tax purposes or any tax sharing agreement related thereto, and a sales tax audit regarding years 2001 through 2004, following notification dated 09/27/2004 from the State of Florida Department of Revenue, and SEC investigations, proceedings or actions with respect to the Company for the period prior to the Closing but subsequent to September 8, 2000;
 
(iii) all workers' compensation claims arising out of occurrences prior to Closing;
 
(iv) to the extent listed on Schedule 8.01(a), claims brought by former employees, or current employees who may be terminated prior to the Closing, not covered by insurance;
 
(v) to the extent listed on Schedule 8.01(a), any and all judgments and settlements for any claim asserted against the Company or Purchaser for any act or omission related to the Company which act or omission is alleged to have occurred after September 8, 2000 and prior to Closing;
 
(vi) any and all judgments and settlements for any claim asserted against the Company or Purchaser for any act or omission related to the Company which act or omission is alleged to have occurred after September 8, 2000 and prior to Closing, if such claim is not listed on Schedule 8.01(a); but only for Losses hereunder to the extent of insurance proceeds received by Seller corresponding to said Losses;
 
(vii) all liabilities associated with the Construction Agreement with University of Miami dated April 15, 2004 ("University Contract") subject to the provisions of Section 8.01(e) hereof; and
 
(viii) amounts due and owing the Stephen G. Blume under a deferred compensation plan with the Company, Seller, or an Affiliate of Seller.
 
(b) Subject to paragraphs (c) and (d) of this Section, the applicable Cut-Off Date and Sections 8.02 and 8.03 hereof, Purchaser and the Company shall indemnify the Seller Indemnified Parties in respect of, and hold each of them harmless from and against, any and all Losses (on an After-Tax Basis) suffered, incurred or sustained by any of them or to which any of them becomes subject, resulting from, arising out of or relating to
 
(i) any breach of representation or warranty or nonfulfillment of or failure to perform any covenant or agreement on the part of Purchaser or Company contained in this Agreement (including without limitations the covenants in Sections 1.02 , 10.07 and 10.10 ;
Payment of Purchase Price
GE Capital Leases
Bonding)
 
(ii) any costs or Losses, including but not limited to draws on the bonds, incurred by the Seller or TECO Energy, Inc. following Closing relating to outstanding bonds described in Section 10.10; and
 
(iii) any pending and threatened litigation, disputes, settlements, judgments and court proceedings that arise out of an act or omission alleged to have occurred following Closing.
 
(c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, no amounts of indemnity shall be payable as a result of any claim under or in respect of a Loss by an Indemnified Party:
Section 6.01
Section 8.01
 
(i) unless the Indemnified Party has given the Indemnifying Party a Claim Notice or Indemnity Notice, as applicable, with respect to such claim, setting forth in reasonable detail the specific facts and circumstances pertaining thereto, as soon as practical following the time at which the Indemnified Party discovered or reasonably should have discovered such claim (except to the extent the Indemnifying Party is not prejudiced by any delay in the delivery of such notice);
 
(ii) to the extent that the Indemnified Party had a reasonable opportunity but failed to pursue such opportunities in good faith, to mitigate the Loss, including but not limited to the failure to use commercially reasonable efforts to recover under a policy of insurance in effect at the time of the Loss and applicable thereto or under a contractual right of set-off or indemnity in effect at the time of the Loss and applicable thereto (except to the extent that the Indemnifying Party is not prejudiced by any such failure to mitigate);
 
(iii) to the extent it arises from or was caused by the Indemnified Party's fraud, willful misconduct or bad faith;
 
(iv) to the extent that, in the case of a claim by a Purchaser Indemnified Party, such Purchaser Indemnified Party and all other Purchaser Indemnified Parties would receive payments in respect of claims made under or in an aggregate amount that exceeds the Net Received Purchase Price; provided, however, this limit would not apply with respect to (a) the indemnity under Section 8.01(a)(iii) relating to workers' compensation claims, (b) the indemnity under Section 6.01(a) as it relates to tax liabilities related to the inclusion of the Company in a consolidated group for tax purposes or any tax sharing agreement related thereto, (c) the indemnity under Section 8.01(a)(vii) relating to Stephen G. Blume's deferred compensation, and (d) any indemnity for Losses hereunder to the extent of insurance proceeds paid to Seller which correspond to said Losses;
Section 6.01
Section 8.01(a)
 
(v) unless, in the case of a claim by a Purchaser Indemnified Party, such Purchaser Indemnified Party and all other Purchaser Indemnified Parties would receive payments in respect of all claims made under or in an aggregate amount that would exceed $25,000 (in which case, first dollar coverage shall apply); provided, however, this requirement would not apply with respect to (a) the indemnity under Section 8.01(a)(iii) relating to workers' compensation claims, (b) the indemnity under Section 6.01(a) as it relates to tax liabilities related to the inclusion of the company in a consolidated group for tax purposes or any tax sharing agreement related thereto, (c) the indemnity under Section 8.01(a)(vii) relating to Stephen G. Blume's deferred compensation, (d) and any indemnity for Losses hereunder to the extent of insurance proceeds paid to Seller which correspond to said Losses;
Section 6.01
Section 8.01(a)
 
(vi) unless, in the case of a claim by a Seller Indemnified Party, such Purchaser Indemnified Party and all other Purchaser Indemnified Parties would receive payments in respect of all claims made under in an aggregate amount that would exceed $25,000 (in which case, first dollar coverage shall apply).
Section 8.01(b)
 
(d) To the extent that a Seller Indemnified Party or a Purchaser Indemnified Party receives insurance proceeds compensating such party for a Loss regarding which an indemnity payment is owing (or was made) to it under this Agreement, such proceeds shall be credited to (or paid over) to the party owing (or making) such indemnity payment.
 
(e) Seller undertakes to use commercially reasonable efforts to obtain for the Company, on or before March 31, 2005, all necessary permits to enable the Company to install chilled water lines beneath a city street in performance of a Construction Agreement with University of Miami dated April 15, 2004 ("University Contract"). In the event that the Seller is successful in obtaining said permits by said date, the Seller shall pay over to the Company $78,000 in funds prepaid by the University of Miami with respect the University Contract ("the Prepaid Funds"), the Purchaser agrees to cause the Company (and the Company agrees) to perform the University Contract, and the Seller will have no obligation to indemnify the Purchaser Indemnified Parties with respect thereto. In the event that the Seller is unable to obtain said permits by said date, Seller has the option to use reasonable commercial efforts to negotiate a release of the Company and Seller from all obligations under the University Contract,
 
and shall pay the costs of such settlement. In the event that Seller does not or is unable to negotiate a release of the Company and Seller from all obligations under the University Contract at a cost reasonably acceptable to the Seller, the Seller agrees to indemnify the Company for all liabilities arising therefrom, including but not limited to penalties, any alleged damages including but not limited to liquidated damages, and actual damages, contract termination costs including but not limited to legal fees and any return payments required of the Company for executing the contract on the University of Miami project; provided however, that the Company makes available to Seller at no charge all drawings purchased by the Company in connection with this project; and provided further indemnification under this paragraph (e) shall be limited to $75,000 plus the amount of the Prepaid Funds.
 
8.02 . All claims for indemnification by any Indemnified Party under or will be asserted and resolved as follows:
Method of Asserting Claims
Section 6.01
Section 8.01
 
(a) In the event any claim or demand in respect of which an Indemnified Party might seek indemnity under or is asserted against or sought to be collected from such Indemnified Party by a Person other than Seller, Purchaser, the Company or any Affiliate of Seller, Purchaser or the Company (a "Third Party Claim"), the Indemnified Party shall deliver a Claim Notice with reasonable promptness to the Indemnifying Party. The Indemnifying Party will notify the Indemnified Party as soon as practicable within the Dispute Period whether the Indemnifying Party disputes its liability to the Indemnified Party under and whether the Indemnifying Party desires, at its sole cost and expense, to defend the Indemnified Party against such Third Party Claim.
Section 6.01
Section 8.01
Section 8.01
 
(i) If the Indemnifying Party notifies the Indemnified Party within the Dispute Period that the Indemnifying Party desires to defend the Indemnified Party with respect to the Third Party Claim pursuant to this , then the Indemnifying Party will have the right to defend, at the sole cost and expense of the Indemnifying Party, such Third Party Claim by all appropriate proceedings, which proceedings will be vigorously and diligently prosecuted by the Indemnifying Party to a final conclusion or will be settled at the discretion of the Indemnifying Party (but only with the consent of the Indemnified Party, which consent will not be unreasonably withheld). The Indemnifying Party will have full control of such defense and proceedings, including (except as provided in the immediately preceding sentence) any settlement thereof; , , that the Indemnified Party may, at the sole cost and expense of the Indemnified Party, at any time prior to the Indemnifying Party's delivery of the notice referred to in the first sentence of this clause (i), file any motion, answer or other pleadings or take any other action that the Indemnified Party reasonably believes to be necessary or appropriate to protect its interests and is not prejudicial to the Indemnifying Party (it being understood and agreed that, except as provided in clause (ii) below, if an Indemnified Party takes any such action that is prejudicial and causes a final adjudication that is adverse to the Indemnifying Party, the Indemnifying Party will be relieved of its obligations hereunder with respect to the portion of such Third Party Claim prejudiced by the Indemnified Party's action); and , that if requested by the Indemnifying Party, the Indemnified Party will, at the sole cost and expense of the Indemnifying Party, cooperate with the Indemnifying Party and its counsel in contesting any Third Party Claim that the Indemnifying Party elects to contest, or, if appropriate and related to the Third Party Claim in question, in making any counterclaim against the Person asserting the Third Party Claim, or any cross-complaint against any Person
Section 8.02(a)
provided
however
provided
further
 
(other than the Indemnified Party or any of its Affiliates). Cooperation by a Party shall include making available its personnel, providing such testimony and access to its books and records as shall be reasonably necessary in connection with contesting any Third Party Claim, all at the sole cost and expense of the Indemnifying Party. The Indemnified Party may retain separate counsel to represent it in, but not control, any defense or settlement of any Third Party Claim controlled by the Indemnifying Party pursuant to this clause (i), and the Indemnified Party will bear its own costs and expenses with respect to such separate counsel except as provided in the preceding sentence and except that the Indemnifying Party will pay the costs and expenses of such separate counsel if (x) in the Indemnified Party's good faith judgment, it is advisable, based on advice of counsel, for the Indemnified Party to be represented by separate counsel because a conflict or potential conflict exists between the Indemnifying Party and the Indemnified Party which makes representation of both parties inappropriate under applicable standards of professional conduct or (y) the named parties to such Third Party Claim include both the Indemnifying Party and the Indemnified Party and the Indemnified Party determines in good faith, based on advice of counsel, that defenses are available to it that are unavailable to the Indemnifying Party. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Indemnified Party may retain or take over the control of the defense or settlement of any Third Party Claim the defense of which the Indemnifying Party has elected to control if the Indemnified Party irrevocably waives its right to indemnity under with respect to such Third Party Claim.
Section 8.01
 
(ii) If the Indemnifying Party fails to notify the Indemnified Party within the Dispute Period that the Indemnifying Party desires to defend the Third Party Claim pursuant to , or if the Indemnifying Party gives such notice but fails to prosecute vigorously and diligently or settle the Third Party Claim, then the Indemnified Party will have the right to defend, at the sole cost and expense of the Indemnifying Party, the Third Party Claim by all appropriate proceedings, which proceedings will be vigorously and diligently prosecuted by the Indemnified Party to a final conclusion or will be settled at the discretion of the Indemnified Party (with the consent of the Indemnifying Party, which consent will not be unreasonably withheld). The Indemnified Party will have full control of such defense and proceedings, including (except as provided in the immediately preceding sentence) any settlement thereof; , , that if requested by the Indemnified Party, the Indemnifying Party will, at the sole cost and expense of the Indemnifying Party, cooperate with the Indemnified Party and its counsel in contesting any Third Party Claim which the Indemnified Party is contesting, or, if appropriate and related to the Third Party Claim in question, in making any counterclaim against the Person asserting the Third Party Claim, or any cross-complaint against any Person (other than the Indemnifying Party or any of its Affiliates). Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this clause (ii), if the Indemnifying Party has notified the Indemnified Party within the Dispute Period that the Indemnifying Party disputes its liability hereunder to the Indemnified Party with respect to such Third Party Claim and if such dispute is resolved in favor of the Indemnifying Party, the Indemnifying Party will not be required to bear the costs and expenses of the Indemnified Party's defense pursuant to this clause (ii) or of the Indemnifying Party's participation therein at the Indemnified Party's request, and the Indemnified Party will reimburse the Indemnifying Party in full for all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by the Indemnifying Party in connection with such litigation. The Indemnifying Party may retain separate counsel to represent it in, but not control, any defense or settlement controlled by the Indemnified Party pursuant to this clause (ii), and the Indemnifying Party will bear its own costs and expenses with respect to such participation.
Section 8.02 (a)
provided
however
 
(iii) If the Indemnifying Party notifies the Indemnified Party that it does not dispute its liability to the Indemnified Party with respect to the Third Party Claim under or fails to notify the Indemnified Party within the Dispute Period whether the Indemnifying Party disputes its liability to the Indemnified Party with respect to such Third Party Claim, the Loss (determined on an After-Tax Basis) arising from such Third Party Claim will be conclusively deemed a liability of the Indemnifying Party under Section 8.01 and the Indemnifying Party shall pay the amount of such Loss (determined on an After-Tax Basis) to the Indemnified Party on demand following the final determination thereof.
Section 8.01
 
(b) In the event any Indemnified Party should have a claim under or against any Indemnifying Party that does not involve a Third Party Claim, the Indemnified Party shall deliver an Indemnity Notice with reasonable promptness to the Indemnifying Party. If the Indemnifying Party notifies the Indemnified Party that it does not dispute the claim described in such Indemnity Notice or fails to notify the Indemnified Party within the Dispute Period whether the Indemnifying Party disputes the claim described in such Indemnity Notice, the Loss (determined on an After-Tax Basis) arising from the claim specified in such Indemnity Notice will be conclusively deemed a liability of the Indemnifying Party under or and the Indemnifying Party shall pay the amount of such Loss (determined on an After-Tax Basis) to the Indemnified Party on demand following the final determination thereof. In the event that the Indemnifying Party disputes the claim described in the Indemnity Notice, the Indemnified Party may proceed to take any and all actions available to it in law or equity to recover any amounts due to it pursuant to this
Section 6.01
Section 8.01
Section 6.01
Section 8.01
Article 8.
 
(c) In the event of any claim for indemnity under or (a), Purchaser agrees to give Seller and its Representatives reasonable access to the Books and Records and employees of the Company in connection with the matters for which indemnification is sought to the extent such Seller reasonably deems necessary in connection with its rights and obligations under this
Section 6.01
Section 8.01
Article 8.
 
8.03 . After the Closing, to the extent permitted by Law, the indemnities set forth in or this shall be the exclusive remedies of Purchaser and its Affiliates and Seller and its Affiliates for any misrepresentation, breach of warranty or non-fulfillment or failure to be performed of any covenant or agreement contained in this Agreement; provided, that the foregoing provision shall not preclude equitable remedies to the extent that monetary damages are not an adequate remedy. Each of the Parties hereto reserves the right to set off, against any amounts due and owing by such Party ("First Party") to another Party hereto ("Second Party") arising under this Agreement or otherwise between said Parties, amounts due and owing by the Second Party to the First Party under this Agreement or otherwise between the Parties.
Exclusivity
Section 6.01
Article 8
 
 
 
9.01 .
Definitions
 
(a) Defined Terms. As used in this Agreement, the following defined terms have the meanings indicated below:
 
"" means the accounts payable of the Company, determined as of December 31, 2004, from the financial statements of the Company, prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Accounts Payable
 
"" means the accounts receivable of the Company, determined as of December 31, 2004 (and either aged 120 days or less as of December 14, 2004 or accrued on or after December 14, 2004, through December 31, 2004) from the financial statements of the Company, prepared in accordance with GAAP (including, without limitation, any Retainage amounts held back by counterparties under contracts with the Company).
Accounts Receivable
 
"" means any action, suit, proceeding, arbitration or Governmental or Regulatory Authority investigation.
Actions or Proceedings
 
"" means any Person that directly, or indirectly through one of more intermediaries, controls or is controlled by or is under common control with the Person specified. For purposes of this definition, control of a Person means the power, direct or indirect, to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person whether by Contract or otherwise and, in any event and without limitation of the previous sentence, any Person owning fifty percent (50%) or more of the voting securities or other equity interests of another Person shall be deemed to control that Person. When Affiliate refers to Seller's Affiliate, the Company shall not be considered part of the definition of "Affiliate."
Affiliate
 
"" means a Person's affiliated group within the meaning of Section 1504(a) of the Code or any similar group defined under a similar provision of state, local or foreign law.
Affiliated Group
 
"" means on a basis that will make the Indemnitee whole after taking into account (i) any Tax benefit arising from the Losses subject to indemnification and (ii) the combined Taxes that the Indemnitee must pay on account of receiving the indemnity payment. In case of an indemnity payment subject to Income Tax, the highest Statutory Rate will be used to determine the After-Tax Basis.
After-Tax Basis
 
"" means this Stock Purchase Agreement and the Exhibits, the Disclosure Schedule and the Schedules hereto and the certificates delivered in accordance with and , as the same shall be amended from time to time.
Agreement
Sections 4.03
5.03
 
"" of any Person means all assets and properties of every kind, nature, character and description (whether real, personal or mixed, whether tangible or intangible, and wherever situated), including the goodwill related thereto, operated, owned or leased by such Person.
Assets and Properties
 
"" means all files, documents, instruments, papers, books and records relating to the Business or Condition of the Company, including without limitation financial statements, Tax Returns and related work papers and letters from accountants, budgets, pricing guidelines, ledgers, journals, deeds, title policies, minute books, stock certificates and books, stock transfer ledgers, Contracts, Licenses, customer lists, computer files and programs, retrieval programs, operating data and plans and environmental studies and plans.
Books and Records
 
"" means a day other than Saturday, Sunday or any day on which banks located in the State of Florida are authorized or obligated to close.
Business Day
 
"" means the business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects of the Company taken as a whole.
Business or Condition of the Company
 
"" means written notification pursuant to of a Third Party Claim as to which indemnity under is sought by an Indemnified Party, enclosing a copy of all papers served, if any, and specifying the nature of and basis for such Third Party Claim and for the Indemnified Party's claim against the Indemnifying Party under , together with the amount or, if not then reasonably determinable, the estimated amount, determined in good faith, of the Loss arising from such Third Party Claim.
Claim Notice
Section 8.02(a)
Section 8.01
Section 8.01
 
"" means the closing of the transactions contemplated by .
Closing
Section 1.04
 
"" shall mean December 31, 2004, or as otherwise postponed under Section 1.04(d).
Closing Date
 
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Code
 
"" has the meaning ascribed thereto in the forepart of this Agreement, and shall include any successor to the Company or any assignee of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company.
Company
 
"" means any agreement, lease, license, evidence of Indebtedness, mortgage, indenture, security agreement or other contract.
Contract
 
"" means schedules that are attached hereto, and (i) if designated "Seller's Disclosure Schedule" therein contain all lists, descriptions, exceptions and other information and materials as are required to be included therein by Seller, and (ii) if designated "Purchaser's Disclosure Schedule" therein contain all lists, descriptions, exceptions and other information and materials as are required to be included therein by Purchaser.
Disclosure Schedule
 
"" means the period ending thirty (30) days following receipt by an Indemnifying Party of either a Claim Notice or an Indemnity Notice.
Dispute Period
 
"" means all federal, state, local, and foreign statutes, regulations, and ordinances concerning public health and safety, worker health and safety, pollution, or protection of the environment, including all those relating to the presence, use, production, generation, handling, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal, distribution, labeling, testing, processing, discharge, release, threatened release, control, or cleanup of any hazardous materials, substances, or wastes, as such requirements are enacted and in effect on or prior to the Closing Date.
Environmental, Health, and Safety Requirements
 
"" means any Law or Order relating to the regulation or protection of human health, safety or the environment or to emissions, discharges, releases or threatened releases of pollutants, contaminants, chemicals or industrial, toxic or hazardous substances or wastes into the environment (including, without limitation, ambient air, soil, surface water, ground water, wetlands, land or subsurface strata), or otherwise relating to the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, disposal, transport or handling of pollutants, contaminants, chemicals or industrial, toxic or hazardous substances or wastes.
Environmental Law
 
"" means generally accepted accounting principles, consistently applied throughout any specified period and in the immediately prior comparable period.
GAAP
 
"" means any consent, approval or action of, filing with or notice to any Governmental or Regulatory Authority.
Governmental Approval
 
"" means any court, tribunal, arbitrator, authority, agency, commission, official or other instrumentality of the United States or any state, county, city or other political subdivision.
Governmental or Regulatory Authority
 
"" means (A) any petroleum or petroleum products, flammable explosives, radioactive materials, asbestos in any form that is or could become friable, urea formaldehyde foam insulation and transformers or other equipment that contain dielectric fluid containing levels of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs); (B) any chemicals or other materials or substances which are now or hereafter become defined as or included in the definition of "" "" "" "" "" "" "" or words of similar import under any Environmental Law; and (C) any other chemical or other material or substance, exposure to which is now or hereafter prohibited, limited or regulated by any Governmental or Regulatory Authority under any Environmental Law.
Hazardous Material
hazardous substances,
hazardous wastes,
hazardous
materials,
extremely hazardous wastes,
restricted hazardous wastes,
toxic substances,
toxic pollutants
 
"" of any Person means all obligations of such Person (i) for borrowed money, (ii) evidenced by notes, bonds, debentures or similar instruments, (iii) for the deferred purchase price of goods or services (other than trade payables or accruals incurred in the ordinary course of business), (iv) under capital leases and (v) in the nature of guaranties of the obligations described in clauses (i) through (iv) above of any other Person.
Indebtedness
 
"" means any Person claiming indemnification under any provision of Article 8.
Indemnified Party
 
"" means any Person against whom a claim for indemnification is being asserted under any provision of .
Indemnifying Party
Article 8
 
"" means written notification pursuant to of a claim for indemnity under by an Indemnified Party, specifying the nature of and basis for such claim, together with the amount or, if not then reasonably determinable, the estimated amount, determined in good faith, of the Loss arising from such claim.
Indemnity Notice
Section 8.02(b)
Article 8
 
"" means all of the following in any jurisdiction throughout the world: (a) all inventions (whether patentable or unpatentable and whether or not reduced to practice), all improvements thereto, and all patents, patent applications, and patent disclosures, together with all reissuances, continuations, continuations-in-part, revisions, extensions, and reexaminations thereof, (b) all trademarks, service marks, trade dress, logos, slogans, trade names, corporate names, Internet domain names, websites, and rights in telephone numbers, together with all translations, adaptations, derivations, and combinations thereof and including all goodwill associated therewith, and all applications, registrations, and renewals in connection therewith, (c) all copyrightable works, all copyrights, and all applications, registrations, and renewals in connection therewith, (d) all mask works and all applications, registrations, and renewals in connection therewith, (e) all trade secrets and confidential business information (including ideas, research and development, know-how, formulas, compositions, manufacturing and production processes and techniques, technical data, designs, drawings, specifications, customer and supplier lists, pricing and cost information, and business and marketing plans and proposals), (f) all computer software (including source code, executable code, data, databases and related documentation), (g) all advertising and promotional materials, (h) all other proprietary rights, and (i) all copies and tangible embodiments thereof (in whatever form or medium).
Intellectual Property
 
"" means the United States Internal Revenue Service.
IRS
 
"" means the actual knowledge of Daryl W. Blume or John Fields.
Knowledge of Purchaser
 
"" means the actual knowledge of one or more officers of Seller or of the Company, excluding Daryl W. Blume and John Fields.
Knowledge of Seller
 
"" means all laws, statutes, rules, regulations, ordinances, and other pronouncements having the effect of law, of the United States or any state, county, city or other political subdivision or of any Governmental or Regulatory Authority.
Laws
 
"" means all Indebtedness, obligations and other liabilities of a Person (whether absolute, accrued, contingent, fixed or otherwise, or whether due or to become due), including without limitation claims of other Persons for Taxes or for Losses.
Liabilities
 
"" means all licenses, permits, certificates of authority, authorizations, approvals, registrations, franchises and similar consents granted or issued by any Governmental or Regulatory Authority.
Licenses
 
"" means any mortgage, pledge, assessment, security interest, lease, lien, adverse claim, levy, charge or other encumbrance of any kind, or any conditional sale Contract, title retention Contract or other Contract to give any of the foregoing.
Liens
 
"" means any and all actions, suits, proceedings, hearings, investigations, charges, complaints, claims, demands, injunctions, judgments, orders, decrees, rulings, damages, dues, penalties, fines, costs, amounts paid in settlement, liabilities, obligations, liens, losses, expenses, and fees (including without limitation interest, court costs, reasonable fees of attorneys, accountants and other experts or other reasonable expenses of litigation or other proceedings or of any claim, default or assessment) but excluding Taxes.
Loss
 
"" shall mean any effect that causes a material adverse change in the Business or Condition of the Company.
Material Adverse Effect
 
"Purchase Price" shall mean, as of any date, the amount of the Purchase Price, as defined in Section 1.02(a), net of (a) the collection fees payable to Purchaser or third parties under Section 1.03(a), (b) the $25,000 per month reduction taken by Purchaser under Section 1.03(a)(iii) for the months of January through June, 2005, (c) the $250,000 allowance toward Purchaser's insurance or self-insurance costs provided in Section 1.02(b) and (d) amounts paid Purchaser under Section 6.03 toward the cost of professional services, to the extent such net amount has been actually collected and paid to Seller as of that date pursuant to Section 1.03(a).
Net Received
 
"" means any writ, judgment, decree, injunction or similar order of any Governmental or Regulatory Authority (in each such case whether preliminary or final).
Order
 
"" or "" shall have the meaning set forth in the introductory paragraph to this Agreement.
Party
Parties
 
"" means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, general partnership, limited partnership, proprietorship, other business organization, trust, union, association or Governmental or Regulatory Authority.
Person
 
"" means wages, salaries and other compensation including without limitation vacation, holiday pay, sick pay, jury duty pay, bereavement pay; state and federal taxes, medicare, Social Security, unemployment related taxes and insurance, Company Employee Benefit Plan, and other health and welfare benefit plans.
Payroll Costs
 
"" has the meaning ascribed to it in .
Purchase Price
Section 1.02
 
"" has the meaning ascribed to it in the forepart of this Agreement, together with its successors and assigns.
Purchaser
 
"" means Purchaser, and, after the Closing Date, the Company, its successors and assigns, shareholders, officers, directors and employees.
Purchaser Indemnified Parties
 
"" means, with respect to a Party, the officers, employees, counsel, accountants, financial advisors, consultants and other representatives of such Party.
Representatives
 
"" means portions of Accounts Receivable which are billed yet withheld (by pre-agreement) by customers of the Company prior to December 31th, 2004 pursuant to contractual arrangements in the ordinary course of business.
Retainage
 
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
 
"" has the meaning ascribed to it in the forepart of this Agreement, and includes its successors and assigns.
Seller
 
"" means Seller, its Affiliates (other than the Company), their respective successors and assigns, shareholders, officers, directors and employees.
Seller Indemnified Parties
 
"" shall mean all of the outstanding shares of the Company and its Subsidiaries.
Shares
 
"" means any Person in which the Company, directly or indirectly through Subsidiaries or otherwise, beneficially owns more than fifty percent (50%) of either the equity interests in, or the voting control of, such Person.
Subsidiary
 
"" means any report, return or similar documentation (including any amendments) required to be supplied to a Governmental or Regulatory Authority by the Company with respect to Taxes.
Tax Returns
 
"" means any income, gross or net receipts, property, sales, use, capital gain, transfer, excise, license, production, franchise, employment, social security, occupation, payroll, registration, governmental pension or insurance, withholding, royalty, severance, stamp or documentary, value added, or other tax, charge, assessment, duty, levy, compulsory loan, business or occupation (including any interest, additions to tax, or civil or criminal penalties thereon) of the United States or any state or local taxing jurisdiction therein, or of any other nation or any jurisdiction therein whether disputed or not.
Taxes
 
"" has the meaning ascribed to it in .
Third Party Claim
Section 8.02(a)
 
"" has the meaning ascribed to it in .
Transfer Taxes
Section 6.01
 
"" means the Master Lease Agreement between Gelco Corporation, d/b/a GE Fleet Capital Services as the lessor and TECO Energy Inc. purportedly as Customer, dated December 28, 2000, and the Master Services Agreement, between Gelco Corporation, d/b/a GE Fleet Capital Services and TECO Energy Inc. purportedly as Customer, effective date December 20, 2002, the Maintenance Management Addendum between Gelco Corporation, d/b/a GE Fleet Capital Services and TECO Energy Inc. purportedly as Customer, effective date 3/10/03 and the Electronic Fuel Card Addendum between Gelco Corporation, d/b/a GE Fleet Capital Services and TECO Energy Inc. purportedly as Customer, effective date December 20, 2002.
Vehicle Agreements
 
(b) . Unless the context of this Agreement otherwise requires, (i) words of any gender include each other gender; (ii) words using the singular or plural number also include the plural or singular number, respectively;
Construction of Certain Terms and Phrases
 
(iii) the terms "hereof," "herein," "hereby" and derivative or similar words refer to this entire Agreement; and (iv) the terms "Article" or "Section" refer to the specified Article or Section of this Agreement. Whenever this Agreement refers to a number of days, such number shall refer to calendar days unless Business Days are specified. All accounting terms used herein and not expressly defined herein shall have the meanings given to them under GAAP. Any representation or warranty contained herein as to the enforceability of a Contract shall be subject to the effect of any bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar law affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and to general equitable principles (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
 
 
 
10.01 Each of the Parties will use his, her, or its reasonable best efforts to take all action and to do all things necessary in order to consummate and make effective the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
.
General
 
10.02 .Seller and Purchaser will permit, and the Seller and Purchaser will cause each of its Subsidiaries to permit, representatives of the other (including legal counsel and accountants) to have full access at all reasonable times, and in a manner so as not to interfere with the normal business operations of the Company and its Subsidiaries, to all premises, properties, personnel, books, records (including tax records), contracts, and documents of or pertaining to each of the Company and its Subsidiaries. Purchaser and Seller will treat and hold as such any Confidential Information it receives from the other party in the course of the reviews contemplated by this Section 10.04, will not use any of the Confidential Information except in connection with this Agreement, and, if this Agreement is terminated for any reason whatsoever, will return to the other party all tangible embodiments (and all copies) of the Confidential Information which are in its possession.
Full Access
 
10.03 . Purchaser acknowledges that all insurance provided to the Company by Seller or any Affiliate thereof will be terminated as of Closing, and that following the Closing, Purchaser shall be responsible for obtaining its own insurance coverage.
Insurance
 
10.04 . Seller and the Company shall agree upon reasonable transition procedures with respect to the Company's use of Seller's services and facilities, including but not limited to Groupwise (email) and IT support services, at currently charged costs, for a period of up to three months following Closing.
Services Following Closing
 
10.05 . Seller will not compete with the business, products and services of the Company, nor attempt to solicit employment of any employees of the Company (other than through any general solicitation not directed specifically to said employees), within the state of Florida for a period of 3 years, commencing on the date of the Closing, pursuant to the provisions of a Non-Competition Agreement in the form attached hereto as . A portion of the Purchase Price shall be allocated as the consideration for said restrictive covenant.
Non-Compete
Exhibit "F"
 
10.06 . Purchaser acknowledges that certain leases between the Company and Stephen G. Blume are subject to the disputes and counterclaims described in hereto and that neither the Seller nor any Affiliate thereof has any obligation or liability towards Purchaser or the Company with respect thereto. Notwithstanding the foregoing, upon reasonable request Seller agrees to cooperate with the Company in the defense of said disputes and in the prosecution of said claims. Cooperation by Seller shall include making available its personnel, providing such testimony and access to its books and records as shall be reasonably necessary in connection with the defense of said disputes and the prosecution of said claims, at the cost of the Company for any reasonable out-of-pocket costs of Seller. Said cooperation shall be provided for a period of twelve months after the Closing Date and thereafter for any formal proceedings commenced during such twelve month period until settled or finally determined.
Real Property Leases
Schedule 10.06
 
10.07 . It is the intent of the Parties hereto that the Vehicle Agreements shall be terminated and released on or after Closing as provided in Section 1.02(b)(iv) hereof. Subject to the provisions of Section 1.02(b)(iv), hereof, and prior to such termination and release, the Company and, for all periods following the Closing, the Purchaser will be responsible for all costs associated with, and hereby agrees to fully and timely perform and pay under the Vehicle Agreements, for the life of the agreements' terms. Unless and until Seller and TECO Energy, Inc. are fully released from any and all liability under said Vehicle Agreements, (i) no additional vehicles may be added to the Vehicle Agreements (ii) Purchaser and Company shall indemnify Seller and TECO Energy, Inc. for any costs or losses incurred subsequent to assignment of the Vehicle Agreements to the Purchaser or the Company, and (iii) Company shall not waive any rights under or amend any of said agreements to the extent such waiver or amendment would increase the exposure of Seller or TECO Energy thereunder. In the event that the Vehicle Agreements are not terminated and released, Seller agrees to obtain assignments thereof to Company and to pay any fees associated with the assignments, provided, however, Seller may elect to terminate the transaction prior to Closing in the event that any consent or assignment is not timely received or is conditioned upon terms (including payment of fees) unacceptable to Seller in its sole discretion.
Vehicle Agreements
 
10.08 . Purchaser shall cause the Company to discontinue using the names "TECO" and TECO Solutions on its signage and vehicles not later than sixty (60) days from the date of Closing, and to discontinue immediately such use on advertising, stationary and business cards subsequent to Closing. Purchaser further agrees to discontinue the marketing or association, direct or indirect, of the Company with "TECO" or "TECO Solutions."
Seller Trademarks
 
10.09 . Seller at its own cost shall complete all filings required of it by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC Filings
 
10.10 . Seller and/or its ultimate parent company, TECO Energy, Inc,. will continue to provide bonding in the amounts and with respect to the contracts set forth in attached hereto until the Closing and shall continue after Closing to guarantee all outstanding performance bonds issued in said amounts with respect to said contracts ("Bonded Contracts"), until completion of said contracts. Purchaser shall cause the Company (and the
Bonding
Schedule 10.10
 
Company agrees) to timely perform each Bonded Contract and, without the prior written consent of Seller, shall not waive any rights under or amend any Bonded Contract (by change order or otherwise) to the extent such waiver or amendment would increase the exposure of Seller or TECO Energy thereunder or would diminish or delay receivables due Company thereunder. Purchaser shall cause the Company (and the Company agrees) to allow Seller to step in and perform, at Company's expense, any Bonded Contract if reasonably necessary to prevent or cure any threatened or actual default under such Bonded Contract that could result in Seller or TECO Energy, Inc., becoming liable with respect thereto. In accordance therewith, Seller shall have the right to inspect any jobsite and to meet with any counterparty on reasonable notice to the Company. The Company shall provide Seller (i) a progress report on outstanding Bonded Contracts on the 5
th
of each month after Closing (or upon reasonable request) until said contracts are completed and (ii) promptly with any correspondence (including any notice of default) tendered by a counterparty under any Bonded Contract describing any threatened or actual default. Purchaser and Company shall be solely responsible for bonding all new projects following Closing.
 
10.11 . Seller and /or its parent company shall maintain current stock options for Daryl W. Blume to full term. Seller is responsible for administration of the stock option execution for the full term, and the Parties will cooperate to assure a smooth transition of the Company's 401(k) plan as a result of the change of ownership and Seller shall bear the cost of such transition.
Blume Stock Options; Transition of 401(k) Plan
 
10.12 . Company shall have the sole and exclusive right to retain ownership of the Intellectual Property currently owned by the Company. With respect thereto, Company shall license to the Seller, under commercially reasonable terms and conditions, including license fees, for a commercially reasonable time, the non-exclusive right to continue the use of such Intellectual Property as may be used by the Seller prior to Closing. With respect to any Intellectual Property owned by the Seller and currently used by the Company (excluding any rights to Seller's or its Affiliate's "TECO" and "TECO Solutions" marks specified in article 10.08, above), the Seller shall license to the Company, under commercially reasonable terms and conditions, including license fees, for a commercially reasonable time, the non-exclusive right to continue the use of such Intellectual Property. With respect to computer software currently available to the Company under a blanket license to Seller or its Affiliates and listed on Schedule 10.12, Seller will use commercially reasonable efforts to assist the Company in obtaining its own license to use such software after the Closing, but shall not be obligated to expend funds out-of-pocket to do so. Seller makes no representations or warranties as to the title, ownership or condition of any Intellectual Property hereunder. Seller shall permit Purchaser to retain for its exclusive use at its expense all telephone numbers and T1 lines currently used by Company, and shall do all things reasonably required to effectuate a transfer of such numbers and T1 lines to Company post-Closing, if such items are in the name of Seller or a Seller Affiliate. Seller shall remove the Company website from Seller's server(s) and, subject to the provisions of this article, allow the Company to host such website elsewhere.
Trade Names, Secrets and Related Property
 
 
 
11.01 . All notices, requests and other communications hereunder must be in writing and will be deemed to have been duly given only if delivered personally or by facsimile transmission or mailed (Certified Mail, Return Receipt Requested) to the Parties at the following addresses or facsimile numbers:
Notices
 
If to Purchaser:
 
BCH Holdings, Inc.
6354 118
th
Ave., N.
Largo, FL, 33733
Facsimile: 727-545-1801
 
with a copy to:
 
Philip W. Engle
Attorney At Law
P.O. Box 800022
Roswell, GA 30075
Facsimile 678-352-0489
 
If to Seller, to:
 
TECO Solutions, Inc.
702 North Franklin Street
Tampa, Florida 33602
Facsimile No.: (813) 228-4643
Attn: Bruce Narzissenfeld
 
with a copy to:
 
TECO Energy, Inc.
Legal Department
702 North Franklin Street
Tampa, Florida 33602
Facsimile No.: (813) 228-1328
Attn: Douglas M. Bagge
          Assistant General Counsel
 
All such notices, requests and other communications will (i) if delivered personally to the address as provided in this Section, be deemed given upon delivery, (ii) if delivered by facsimile transmission to the facsimile number as provided in this Section, be deemed given upon receipt but with subsequent confirmation by other permitted means, and (iii) if delivered by mail in the manner described above to the address as provided in this Section, be deemed given upon receipt
 
(in each case regardless of whether such notice, request or other communication is received by any other Person to whom a copy of such notice, request or other communication is to be delivered pursuant to this Section). Any Party from time to time may change its address, facsimile number or other information for the purpose of notices to that Party by giving notice specifying such change to the other Party.
 
11.02 . This Agreement supersedes all prior discussions and agreements among the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and contains the sole and entire agreement among the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof.
Entire Agreement
 
11.03 . Except as set forth herein, each of the Purchaser and the Seller will be responsible for and bear all of its own costs and expenses (including any broker's or finder's fees and the expenses of its representatives) incurred at any time in connection with pursuing or consummating the transactions contemplated hereby, whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated.
Expenses
 
11.04 . Except as and to the extent required by law, without the prior written consent of the other Party, neither the Purchaser nor the Seller will, and each will direct its representatives not to make, directly or indirectly, any public comment, statement, or communication with respect to, or otherwise to disclose or to permit the disclosure of the existence of discussions regarding, a possible transaction between the Parties or any of the terms, conditions, or other aspects of the transaction proposed in this letter. If a Party is required by law or stock exchange rules to make any such disclosure, it must first provide to the other Party the content of the proposed disclosure, the reasons that such disclosure is required by law and the time and place that the disclosure will be made, and thereafter such Party may make or issue the such required disclosure.
Public Announcements
 
11.05 . Except as and to the extent required by law or stock exchange rules, the Purchaser will not disclose or use, and will direct its representatives (including in the case of Purchaser, any person who has provided, or who is considering providing, financing to such Purchaser or the Company) not to disclose or use to the detriment of the Seller or the Company, any Confidential Information (as defined below) with respect to the Company or Seller furnished, or to be furnished, by either Seller, the Company, or their respective representatives to the Purchaser or its representatives at any time or in any manner other than in connection with its evaluation of the transaction contemplated herein. For purposes of this Paragraph, "Confidential Information" means any information about the Company or Seller provided to Purchaser in relation to this transaction, unless (a) such information is publicly available through no fault of the Purchaser or his representatives, (b) the use of such information is necessary or appropriate in making any filing or obtaining any consent or approval required for the consummation of the transaction contemplated hereunder, or (c) the furnishing or use of such information is required by or necessary or appropriate in connection with legal proceedings. Upon the written request of the Seller, the Purchaser will promptly return to the Seller or the Company or destroy any Confidential Information in its possession and certify in writing to the Seller that it has done so.
Confidentiality
 
11.06 Any term or condition of this Agreement may be waived at any time by the Party that is entitled to the benefit thereof, but no such waiver shall be effective
.
Waiver
 
unless set forth in a written instrument duly executed by or on behalf of the Party waiving such term or condition. No waiver by any Party of any term or condition of this Agreement, in any one or more instances, shall be deemed to be or construed as a waiver of the same or any other term or condition of this Agreement on any future occasion. All remedies, either under this Agreement or by Law or otherwise afforded, will be cumulative and not alternative.
 
11.07 . This Agreement may be amended, supplemented or modified only by a written instrument duly executed by or on behalf of each Party.
Amendment
 
11.08 . The terms and provisions of this Agreement are intended solely for the benefit of each Party and their respective successors or permitted assigns, and it is not the intention of the Parties to confer third-party beneficiary rights upon any other Person other than any Person entitled to indemnity under .
No Third Party Beneficiary
Article 8
 
11.09 . Neither this Agreement nor any right, interest or obligation hereunder may be assigned by any Party without the prior written consent of the other Party and any attempt to do so will be void, except for assignments and transfers by operation of Law. Subject to the preceding sentence, this Agreement is binding upon, inures to the benefit of and is enforceable by the Parties and their respective successors and assigns.
No Assignment; Binding Effect
 
11.10 The headings used in this Agreement have been inserted for convenience of reference only and do not define or limit the provisions hereof.
.
Headings
 
11.11 . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable under any present or future Law, and if the rights or obligations of any Party under this Agreement will not be materially and adversely affected thereby, (a) such provision will be fully severable, (b) this Agreement will be construed and enforced as if such illegal, invalid or unenforceable provision had never comprised a part hereof, and (c) the remaining provisions of this Agreement will remain in full force and effect and will not be affected by the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provision or by its severance herefrom.
Invalid Provisions
 
11.12 . In the event of any suit or other proceeding between any of the Parties with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or subject matter hereof, the prevailing Party shall, in addition to such other relief as the court may award, be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys' fees, costs (including at the trial and appellate levels and in any bankruptcy proceeding) and expenses of investigation.
Attorney's Fees
 
11.13 . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA WITHOUT REGARD TO ANY OTHERWISE APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS. EACH OF THE PARTIES HEREBY IRREVOCABLY CONSENTS AND AGREES THAT ANY LEGAL ACTION OR PROCEEDINGS WITH RESPECT TO THIS AGREEMENT MAY BE BROUGHT IN ANY OF THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA LOCATED IN HILLSBOROUGH COUNTY OR THE COURTS OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA FOR THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF FLORIDA HAVING SUBJECT MATTER JURISDICTION AND, BY EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF THIS AGREEMENT AND SUCH OTHER
Governing Law; Venue
 
DOCUMENTS EXECUTED IN CONNECTION HEREWITH, EACH PARTY HEREBY (I) ACCEPTS THE NON-EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE AFORESAID COURTS, (II) IRREVOCABLY AGREES TO BE BOUND BY ANY FINAL JUDGMENT (AFTER ANY AND ALL APPEALS) OF ANY SUCH COURT WITH RESPECT TO SUCH DOCUMENTS, (III) IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, ANY OBJECTION WHICH IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE LAYING OF VENUE OF ANY SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDINGS WITH RESPECT TO SUCH DOCUMENTS BROUGHT IN ANY SUCH COURT, AND FURTHER IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, ANY CLAIM THAT ANY SUCH SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDINGS BROUGHT IN ANY SUCH COURT HAS BEEN BROUGHT IN ANY INCONVENIENT FORUM, (IV) AGREES THAT SERVICE OF PROCESS IN ANY SUCH ACTION MAY BE EFFECTED BY MAILING A COPY THEREOF BY REGISTERED OR CERTIFIED MAIL (OR ANY SUBSTANTIALLY SIMILAR FORM OF MAIL), POSTAGE PREPAID, TO SUCH PARTY AT ITS ADDRESS SET FORTH IN THE SIGNATURE BLOCK BELOW, OR AT SUCH OTHER ADDRESS OF WHICH THE OTHER PARTIES SHALL HAVE BEEN NOTIFIED AND (V) AGREES THAT NOTHING HEREIN SHALL AFFECT THE RIGHT TO EFFECT SERVICE OF PROCESS IN ANY OTHER MANNER PERMITTED BY LAW OR LIMIT THE RIGHT TO BRING ANY SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN ANY OTHER JURISDICTION.
 
11.14 . EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY KNOWINGLY, VOLUNTARILY AND INTENTIONALLY WAIVE THE RIGHT ANY OF THEM MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN RESPECT OF ANY LITIGATION BASED HEREON, OR ARISING OUT OF, UNDER OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT AND ANY AGREEMENT CONTEMPLATED TO BE EXECUTED IN CONJUNCTION HEREWITH, OR ANY COURSE OF CONDUCT, COURSE OF DEALING, STATEMENTS (WHETHER VERBAL OR WRITTEN) OR ACTIONS OF ANY PARTY HERETO. THIS PROVISION IS A MATERIAL INDUCEMENT FOR THE PARTIES ENTERING INTO THIS AGREEMENT.
Waiver of Trial by Jury
 
11.15 . Except as set forth in Article 2, SELLER HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL OTHER WARRANTIES AND REPRESENTATIONS, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION ANY IMPLIED WARRANTY OR REPRESENTATION AS TO FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE, MERCHANTABILITY, PHYSICAL CONDITION, OPERATION, ABSENCE OF UNKNOWN PHYSICAL DEFECTS OR DAMAGE, OR ANY OTHER MATTER AFFECTING OR RELATED TO THE COMPANY. SUBJECT TO THE FOREGOING AND EXCEPT AS SET FORTH HEREIN, PURCHASER ACKNOWLEDGES THAT PURCHASER HAS INSPECTED AND WILL INSPECT FURTHER, THE PROPERTY RELATED TO THE COMPANY AND ACCEPTS SUCH PROPERTY "AS IS", "WHERE IS" AND "WITH ALL FAULTS" EXCEPT AS SET FORTH HEREIN, SELLER IS NOT LIABLE OR BOUND IN ANY MANNER BY ANY VERBAL OR WRITTEN STATEMENTS, REPRESENTATIONS, OR INFORMATION PERTAINING TO SUCH PROPERTY FURNISHED BY ANY AGENT, EMPLOYEE, SERVANT, AFFILIATE OR OTHER PERSON, UNLESS THE SAME ARE SPECIFICALLY SET FORTH HEREIN, AND SELLER SHALL NOT BE LIABLE OR BOUND IN ANY MANNER BY ANY STATEMENT OR INFORMATION CONTAINED IN ANY STUDIES OR REPORTS PROVIDED TO PURCHASER PURSUANT TO ANY PROVISIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT, OR ANY OMISSION WITH RESPECT TO ANY SUCH STUDIES OR REPORTS.
Waiver of Implied Warranties; Reliance
.
 
11.16 . NOTWITHSTANDING ANY PROVISION IN THIS AGREEMENT TO THE CONTRARY, IN NO EVENT SHALL EITHER PARTY OR ITS AFFILIATES, OR THEIR RESPECTIVE OFFICERS, DIRECTORS, EMPLOYEES OR REPRESENTATIVES, BE LIABLE HEREUNDER AT ANY TIME FOR PUNITIVE, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL, OR INDIRECT LOSS OR DAMAGE OF THE OTHER PARTY OR ANY OF ITS AFFILIATES, INCLUDING LOSS OF PROFIT, LOSS OF REVENUE OR ANY OTHER SPECIAL OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), STRICT LIABILITY OR OTHERWISE, AND EACH PARTY HEREBY EXPRESSLY RELEASES THE OTHER PARTY, ITS AFFILIATES, AND THEIR RESPECTIVE OFFICERS, DIRECTORS, EMPLOYEES AND REPRESENTATIVES THEREFROM.
Waiver of Consequential Damages
 
11.17 The preparation of this Agreement has been a joint effort of the Parties and the resulting document shall not be construed more severely against one of the Parties than against the other.
.
Interpretation
 
11.18 . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which will be deemed an original, but all of which together will constitute one and the same instrument. This Agreement shall not be binding on any Party unless Seller and Purchaser have duly executed this Agreement; provided however that a Party's delivery via telecopier of a signature page to this Agreement executed by such Party shall have the same force and effect as the delivery by such Party of a manually signed counterpart of this Agreement (and will constitute a waiver by such Party of any legal objection to the admission into evidence of such signature page in any legal proceeding).
Execution; Counterparts
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the duly authorized officer of each Party as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
The Schedules to the Stock Purchase Agreement by and between TECO Solutions, Inc., a Florida corporation (the and BCH Holdings, Inc. (the ), dated as of December 31, 2004 (the ") are set forth on the following pages. All capitalized terms not otherwise defined in the Schedules are as defined in the Agreement.
"Seller"),
"Purchaser"
"Agreement
 
To the extent that any representation or warranty contained in the Agreement is limited or qualified by the materiality of the matters to which the representation or warranty is given, the inclusion of any matter in these Schedules does not constitute a determination by any of the Sellers that such matters are material. Nor in such cases where a representation or warranty is given or other information is provided shall the disclosure of any matter in these Schedules imply that any other, undisclosed matter having a greater value or other significance is material.
 
The inclusion in these Schedules of any matter or document shall not imply any representation, warranty or undertaking not expressly given in the Agreement nor shall such disclosure be taken as extending the scope of any of the representations or warranties. Nothing in these Schedules constitutes an admission to any third party of any liability or obligation of the Sellers, nor an admission against Sellers' interests.
 
The date of all Schedules is the date set forth above, unless specified otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Shares in TECO Energy, Inc (31,566 shares)
 
Certificate of Deposit in the amount of $1,125,092.47, issued by a U.S. bank rated A-/A3 or better and with at least $1 billion in assets, in a form and having a term acceptable to Seller.
 
 
Sheetmetal Coil Line Kenco Fabriduct Line Serial # 100017
 
 
 
Consent to assignment appears to be required under the Master Lease Agreement between Gelco Corporation, d/b/a GE Fleet Capital Services as the lessor and TECO Energy Inc. purportedly as Customer, dated December 28, 2000, and the Master Services Agreement, between Gelco Corporation, d/b/a GE Fleet Capital Services and TECO Energy Inc. purportedly as Customer, effective date December 20, 2002, the Maintenance Management Addendum between Gelco Corporation, d/b/a GE Fleet Capital Services and TECO Energy Inc. purportedly as Customer, effective date 3/10/03 and the Electronic Fuel Card Addendum between Gelco Corporation, d/b/a GE Fleet Capital Services and TECO Energy Inc. purportedly as Customer, effective date December 20, 2002. Seller is not a party to any of the above contracts.
 
 
 
The State of Florida Department of Revenue has advised that they will audit the Florida Consolidated Income Tax return for 2000 through 2002, commencing February 2005. There is a current sales tax audit going on at the Company for years 2001 through 2004, following notification dated 09/27/2004 from the State of Florida Department of Revenue.
 
 
 
 
 
Schedule 2.13  Seller's Disclosure Schedule
 
 
 
TECO Energy Group Retirement Savings Plan (401(k) plan)
TECO Energy Group Deferred Compensation Plan
TECO Energy 2004 Equity Incentive Plan
 
 
CIGNA Health Care Plan (Medical)
EPP Plan Select (HMO)
EPP Plan (HNO)
PPO Plan
Guardian  Dental
DHMO Plan
PPO Plan
 
Guardian Group Insurance Plan
Aetna Group Term Life Plan
Life Plan
Accidental Plan
 
 
 
The Parties hereto shall prepare this schedule subsequent to Closing on a timely basis.
 
 
 
The Parties hereto shall prepare this schedule subsequent to Closing on a timely basis.
 
 
 
1. . Mr Tony Dema, a former employee, through his attorney, has contacted the Company regarding claims alleging that under his employment contract he was due a severance payment upon his termination. Additionally, he alleges that his termination was motivated by disclosures he made while having whistleblower status under Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In response, the Company contends that Mr. Dema's employment contract expired prior to his termination, therefore the severance provision in the contract is inapplicable. Additionally, the Company does not believe that Mr. Dema has the status of whistleblower under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. At this time a lawsuit has not been filed nor has a claim with the EEOC been made.
Tony Dema
 
 
 
1. (6
Flowline Constructors Inc. v. BCH Mechanical Inc. et al
th
Judicial Circuit, State of Florida). Plaintiff, a subcontractor to the Company on a job being performed for the Church of Scientology, filed a lawsuit alleging increased costs to perform and other damages. Travelers Casualty and Surety Company, which posted the construction bond, also was sued. A mediation was held in October 2003, and the plaintiff was asked to provide information to substantiate its damages claims. Plaintiff has yet to do so. No progress on the case has been made, aside from the Company responding to interrogatories regarding expert witnesses. The Company has booked a reserve of $100,000 for this Claim. The Company's attorney described the case as dormant and indicated that the plaintiff's attorney has been slow to return calls.
 
 
 
 
Stephen G. Blume, former President and majority shareholder of the Company, has or can be expected to assert, as landlord, certain claims as under Rental Agreements involving the Company as lessee.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BCH Mechanical has asserted certain counterclaims as follows:
 
Common Ground Maintenance charges paid to Stephen Blume for 2000 - 2002 The Company asserts that these charges, totaling $14,421.53, were not contemplated in the Rental Agreement and were paid in error.
 
Expenses paid to third party vendors with respect to Common Ground Maintenance at the Pyramid Center (which the Company believes were picked up by the Company instead of by Stephen Blume) known amount totaling $22,899.91.
 
Regarding the 66
th
Street location, reimbursement of rental charges paid under the lease in question ($53,045), less the fair rental value of the property during the five months of utilization, which the Company has asserted to be $1,000, yielding a net amount to be reimbursed of $52, 045.
 
Regarding 6350 118
th
Ave, $56,896.89 paid by the Company, which the Company asserts represents major repairs (and not improvements) to the then-existing building, for which the landlord is responsible under the applicable lease.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THIS STOCK PLEDGE AGREEMENT ("Pledge Agreement"), dated effective as of December 31, 2004, is made by , a Florida corporation ("BCH Holdings"), and , a Florida corporation ("BCH Mechanical")(BCH Holdings and BCH Mechanical shall collectively be referred to herein as the "Debtor"), in favor of , a Florida corporation (the "Creditor").
BCH Holdings, Inc.
BCH Mechanical, Inc.
TECO Solutions, Inc.
 
 
WHEREAS, Creditor has sold all of the issued and outstanding shares of BCH Mechanical to BCH Holdings pursuant to that certain Stock Purchase Agreement ("Stock Purchase Agreement") between BCH Holdings and Creditor of even date herewith;
 
WHEREAS, BCH Holdings has also agreed to indemnify the Creditor pursuant to the Stock Purchase Agreement;
 
WHEREAS, as security for the BCH Holdings' promise to pay the sum described in Section 1.02 of the Stock Purchase Agreement and its promise to perform its obligations under Sections 10.07 (Vehicle Agreements) and 10.10 (Bonding) of the Stock Purchase Agreement, the Debtor has agreed to pledge and grant to Creditor a security interest in the Collateral (as defined below);
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual premises and covenants contained in this Pledge Agreement, the parties agree as follows:
 
1. . Unless otherwise defined herein, terms that are defined in the Stock Purchase Agreement and used herein are so used as so defined, and the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Defined Terms
 
"": the Uniform Commercial Code from time to time in effect in the State of Florida.
Code
 
"": the Pledged Stock and all Proceeds thereof.
Collateral
 
": means any default of the Obligations.
"Event of Default
 
": means the obligation to pay the sum described in Section 1.02 of the Stock Purchase Agreement, BCH Holdings' obligations under Section 10.07 concerning the Vehicle Agreements, and BCH Holdings' obligations under Section 10.10 concerning the Bonding in place for current BCH Mechanical projects.
"Obligations
 
"": all of the shares of capital stock of BCH Mechanical listed on Schedule I hereto, together with all stock certificates, options or rights of any nature whatsoever that may be issued or granted by BCH Mechanical while this Pledge Agreement is in effect.
Pledged Stock
 
"": all "proceeds" as such term is defined in Section 9-102(a)(64) of the Code on the date hereof and, in any event, shall include, without limitation, all dividends or other income from the Pledged Stock and any and all collections on the foregoing or distributions with respect to the foregoing.
Proceeds
2. . BCH Holdings hereby delivers to the Creditor all of the Pledged Stock owned by it, and hereby grants to the Creditor a first security interest in all of the Debtor's right, title and interest in the Collateral, as collateral security for the prompt and complete payment and performance when due (whether at the stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise) of the Obligations. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, Debtor shall retain the voting rights of the Pledged Stock so long as there is no Event of Default
Pledge; Grant of Security Interest
 
3. . Concurrently with the delivery to the Creditor of each certificate representing one or more shares of Pledged Stock, the Debtor shall deliver an undated stock power covering such certificate, duly executed in blank by the Debtor.
Stock Powers; Endorsements
 
4. . BCH Holdings represents and warrants that:
Representations and Warranties of BCH Holdings concerning BCH Mechanical, Inc
 
(a) BCH Mechanical is a Florida corporation duly organized and validly existing in good standing under the laws of Florida and is duly qualified to do business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is necessary to execute, deliver and perform this Pledge Agreement.
 
(b) BCH Mechanical has full power and authority and the legal right to execute, deliver and perform this Pledge Agreement and to take all action as may be necessary to complete the transactions contemplated hereunder and thereunder. BCH Mechanical has taken all necessary corporate action to authorize the execution, delivery and performance of this Pledge Agreement. No consent or authorization of, filing with, or other act by or in respect of any other Person or Governmental or Regulatory Authority is required in connection with the execution, delivery or performance by the BCH Mechanical, or the validity or enforceability as to BCH Mechanical, of this Pledge Agreement. This Pledge Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by BCH Mechanical and constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of BCH Mechanical enforceable against it in accordance with its terms except as enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting the right of creditors generally and by general principles of equity; and
 
(c) upon delivery to the Creditor of the stock certificates evidencing the Pledged Stock together with any stock power or endorsement required hereunder, the Lien granted pursuant to this Pledge Agreement will constitute a valid, perfected first priority Lien on the Collateral (except, with respect to Proceeds, only to the extent permitted by Section 9-315 of the Code), enforceable as such against all creditors of the BCH Mechanical and any Persons purporting to purchase any Collateral from BCH Mechanical except in each case as enforceability may be affected by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance, reorganization, moratorium and other similar laws relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally, general equitable principles (whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law) and an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
 
5. . BCH Holdings represents and warrants that:
Representations and Warranties of BCH Holdings, Inc
 
(a) BCH Holdings is a Florida corporation duly organized and validly existing in good standing under the laws of Florida and is duly qualified to do business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is necessary to execute, deliver and perform this Pledge Agreement.
 
(b) BCH Holdings has full power and authority and the legal right to execute, deliver and perform this Pledge Agreement and to take all action as may be necessary to complete the transactions contemplated hereunder and thereunder. BCH Holdings has taken all necessary corporate action to authorize the execution, delivery and performance of this Pledge Agreement. No consent or authorization of, filing with, or other act by or in respect of any other Person or Governmental or Regulatory Authority is required in connection with the execution, delivery or performance by the BCH Holdings, or the validity or enforceability as to BCH Holdings, of this Pledge Agreement. This Pledge Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by BCH Holdings and constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of BCH Holdings enforceable against it in accordance with its terms except as enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting the right of creditors generally and by general principles of equity; and
 
(c) upon delivery to the Creditor of the stock certificates evidencing the Pledged Stock together with any stock power or endorsement required hereunder, the Lien granted pursuant to this Pledge Agreement will constitute a valid, perfected first priority Lien on the Collateral (except, with respect to Proceeds, only to the extent permitted by Section 9-315 of the Code), enforceable as such against all creditors of BCH Holdings and any Persons purporting to purchase any Collateral from BCH Holdings except in each case as enforceability may be affected by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance, reorganization, moratorium and other similar laws relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally, general equitable principles (whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law) and an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
 
6. . The Debtor covenants and agrees with the Creditor, that, from and after the date of this Pledge Agreement until the Obligations are performed and paid in full:
Covenants
 
(a) Subject to the provisions of Section 6, if the Debtor shall, as a result of its ownership of the Collateral, become entitled to receive or shall receive any stock certificate (including, without limitation, any certificate representing a stock dividend or a distribution in connection with any reclassification, increase or reduction of capital or any certificate issued in connection with any reorganization), promissory note or other instrument, option or rights, whether in addition to, in substitution of, as a conversion of, or in exchange for any of the Collateral, or otherwise in respect thereof, the Debtor shall accept the same as the agent of the Creditor, hold the same in trust for the Creditor and deliver the same forthwith to the Creditor in the exact form received, duly indorsed by the Debtor to the Creditor, if required, together with an undated stock power or endorsement, as appropriate, covering such certificate, note or instrument duly executed in blank by the Debtor to be held by the Creditor, subject to the terms hereof, as additional collateral security for the Obligations. Any sums paid upon or in respect of
 
the Collateral upon the liquidation or dissolution of BCH Mechanical shall be paid over to the Creditor to be held by it hereunder as additional collateral security for the Obligations, and in case any distribution of capital shall be made on or in respect of the Collateral or any property shall be distributed upon or with respect to the Collateral pursuant to the recapitalization or reclassification of the capital of BCH Mechanical or pursuant to the reorganization thereof, the property so distributed shall be delivered to the Creditor to be held by it hereunder as additional collateral security for the Obligations. Subject to the provisions of Section 6, if any sums of money or property so paid or distributed in respect of the Collateral shall be received by the Debtor, the Debtor shall, until such money or property is paid or delivered to the Creditor, keep such sums or property segregated from other funds of the Debtor, as additional collateral security for the Obligations.
 
(b) Without the prior written consent of the Creditor, which will not be unreasonably withheld, the Debtor will not (i) vote to enable, or take any other action to permit BCH Mechanical to issue any stock or other equity securities of any nature or to issue any other securities convertible into or granting the right to purchase or exchange for any stock or other equity securities of any nature of BCH Mechanical to any person other than an investor, board member or employee of BCH Mechanical (all of the foregoing consistent with article 3.10(a) of the Stock Purchase Agreement); provided, however, in no event shall BCH Holdings own less than the undivided, free and clear rights to eighty percent (80%) of the issued and outstanding shares of BCH Mechanical at any time, (ii) sell, assign, transfer, exchange, or otherwise dispose of, or grant any option with respect to, the Collateral, (iii) create, incur or permit to exist any Lien or option in favor of, or any claim of any Person with respect to, any of the Collateral, or any interest therein, except for the Lien provided for by this Pledge Agreement or (iv) enter into any agreement or undertaking restricting the right or ability of the Debtor or the Creditor to sell, assign or transfer any of the Collateral. The Debtor will defend the right, title and interest of the Creditor in and to the Collateral against the claims and demands of all Persons whomsoever. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Debtor may take action to permit BCH Holdings to issue stock in BCH Holdings provided that (1) BCH Holdings has no more than 20 additional investors (other than Daryl W. Blume), not including employees or Board Members of BCH Mechanical; and (2) Daryl W. Blume remains the majority owner of BCH Holdings, Inc. In addition, notwithstanding the foregoing the BCH Holdings may take action to permit BCH Mechanical to issue stock options to purchase stock of BCH Mechanical, provided the stock options may not be exercised so long as this Agreement remains in effect.
 
(c) At any time and from time to time, upon the written request of the Creditor, and at the sole expense of the Debtor, the Debtor will promptly and duly execute and deliver such further instruments and documents and take such further actions as the Creditor may reasonably request for the purposes of obtaining or preserving the full benefits of this Pledge Agreement and of the rights and powers herein granted. If any amount payable under or in connection with any of the Collateral shall be or become evidenced by any promissory note, other instrument or chattel paper, such note, instrument or chattel paper shall be promptly delivered to the Creditor, duly endorsed in a manner satisfactory to the Creditor, to be held as Collateral pursuant to this Pledge Agreement.
 
(d) The Debtor agrees to pay, and to save the Creditor harmless from, any and all liabilities with respect to, or resulting from any delay in paying, any and all stamp, excise, sales
 
or other similar taxes which may be payable or determined to be payable with respect to any of the Collateral or in connection with any of the transactions contemplated by this Pledge Agreement.
 
(e) The Debtor shall not make any distributions with respect to its stock (other than to fund the payment of the Purchase Price), and shall not pay compensation or other amounts to Daryl W. Blume or any person related to Daryl W. Blume in excess of $175,000 per year in the aggregate for all such persons.
 
(f) Debtor shall cause BCH Mechanical to be operated in the ordinary course of business.
 
7. . Unless an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing and the Creditor shall have given notice to the Debtor of the Creditor's intent to exercise its rights pursuant to paragraph 7 below, the Debtor shall be permitted to receive all cash dividends paid in the normal course of business of BCH Mechanical, subject to the limitations of Section 1.05 of the Stock Purchase Agreement (Debtor shall not make any distributions with respect to its stock other than to fund the payment of the Purchase Price, and shall not pay compensation or other amounts to Daryl W. Blume or any person related to Daryl W. Blume in excess of $175,000 per year in the aggregate for all such persons), in respect of the Pledged Stock and to exercise all voting and corporate rights with respect to the Pledged Stock, , , that no vote shall be cast or corporate right exercised or other action taken which, in the Creditor's reasonable judgment, would impair the Collateral or which would be inconsistent with or result in any violation of any provision of this Pledge Agreement or any other document related to the Obligations.
Cash Dividends; Voting Rights
provided
however
 
8. . (a) If an Event of Default shall occur and be continuing and the Creditor shall give notice of its intent to exercise its rights hereunder to the Debtor, (i) the Creditor shall have the right to receive any and all cash dividends paid in respect of the Pledged Stock and make application thereof to the Obligations in accordance with paragraph 8 hereof, and (ii) all shares of the Pledged Stock shall be registered in the name of the Creditor or its nominee, and the Creditor or its nominee may thereafter exercise (A) all voting, corporate and other rights pertaining to such shares of the Pledged Stock at any meeting of shareholders of BCH Mechanical or otherwise and (B) any and all rights of conversion, exchange, subscription and any other rights, privileges or options pertaining to such shares of the Pledged Stock as if it were the absolute owner thereof (including, without limitation, the right to exchange at its discretion any and all of the Pledged Stock upon the merger, consolidation, reorganization, recapitalization or other fundamental change in the corporate structure of BCH Mechanical, or upon the exercise by the Debtor or the Creditor of any right, privilege or option pertaining to such shares of the Pledged Stock, and in connection therewith, the right to deposit and deliver any and all of the Pledged Stock with any committee, depositary, transfer agent, registrar or other designated agency upon such terms and conditions as it may determine), all without liability except to account for property actually received by it and except for its gross negligence or willful misconduct, but the Creditor shall have no duty to the Debtor to exercise any such right, privilege or option and shall not be responsible for any failure to do so or delay in so doing.
Rights of the Creditor
 
(b) The rights of the Creditor hereunder shall not be conditioned or contingent upon the pursuit by the Creditor of any right or remedy against BCH Mechanical or BCH Holdings or against any other Person which may be or become liable in respect of all or any part of the Obligations or against any collateral security therefor, guarantee therefor or right of set-off with respect thereto. The Creditor shall not be liable for any failure to demand, collect or realize upon all or any part of the Collateral or for any delay in doing so, except to the extent that such failure constitutes gross negligence or willful misconduct, nor shall the Creditor be under any obligation to sell or otherwise dispose of any Collateral upon the request of the Debtor or any other Person or to take any other action whatsoever with regard to the Collateral or any part thereof.
 
9. . If an Event of Default shall occur and be continuing and the Creditor shall give notice of its intent to exercise its rights hereunder to the Debtor, the Creditor may exercise, in addition to all other rights and remedies granted in this Pledge Agreement and in any other instrument or agreement securing, evidencing or relating to the Obligations, all rights and remedies of a secured party under the Code. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Creditor, without demand of performance or other demand, presentment, protest, advertisement or notice of any kind (except any notice required by law referred to below) to or upon the Debtor or any other Person (all and each of which demands, defenses, advertisements and notices are hereby waived), may in such circumstances forthwith collect, receive, appropriate and realize upon the Collateral, or any part thereof, and/or may forthwith sell, assign, give option or options to purchase or otherwise dispose of and deliver the Collateral or any part thereof (or contract to do any of the foregoing), in one or more parcels at public or private sale or sales, in the over-the-counter market, at any exchange or broker's board or office of the Creditor or elsewhere upon such terms and conditions as it may deem advisable and at such prices as it may deem best, for cash or on credit or for future delivery without assumption of any credit risk. The Creditor shall have the right upon any such public sale or sales, and, to the extent permitted by law, upon any such private sale or sales, to purchase the whole or any part of the Collateral so sold, free of any right or equity of redemption in the Debtor, which right or equity is hereby waived or released. The Creditor shall hold any Proceeds hereunder as collateral security for the Obligations (whether matured or unmatured), and/or the net proceeds of any such collection, recovery, receipt, appropriation, realization or sale, may then or at any time thereafter, in the sole discretion of the Creditor, be applied by the Creditor against the Obligations then due and owing in the following order of priority:
Remedies
 
FIRST, to the payment of all reasonable costs and expenses of every kind incurred by the Creditor in connection with this Pledge Agreement or the Obligations, including, without limitation, (i) all costs incidental to the care or safekeeping of any of the Collateral or in any way relating to the Collateral or the rights of the Creditor hereunder, (ii) court costs, (iii) the reasonable fees and disbursements of legal counsel and agents to the Creditor, (iv) any other reasonable costs or expenses incurred in connection with the exercise by the Creditor of any right or remedy under this Pledge Agreement or any other document related to the Obligations, and (v) without duplication, any amounts which are required by any provision of law, including, without limitation, Section 9-615(a)(3) of the Code, to be paid by the Creditor;
 
SECOND, to the payment of the Obligations; and
 
THIRD, to the Debtor or its successors or assigns, or as a court of competent jurisdiction may otherwise direct.
 
To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Debtor waives all claims, damages and demands it may acquire against the Creditor arising out of the lawful exercise by them of any rights hereunder. If any notice of a proposed sale or other disposition of Collateral shall be required by law, such notice shall be deemed reasonable and proper if given at least 10 days before such sale or other disposition.
 
10. . The Debtor recognizes that the Creditor may be unable to effect a public sale of any or all the Pledged Stock by reason of certain prohibitions contained in the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws or otherwise, and may be compelled to resort to one or more private sales thereof to a restricted group of purchasers that will be obliged to agree, among other things, to acquire such securities for their own account for investment and not with a view to the distribution or resale thereof. The Debtor acknowledges and agrees that any such private sale may result in prices and other terms less favorable than if such sale were a public sale and, notwithstanding such circumstances, agrees that any such private sale shall be deemed to have been made in a commercially reasonable manner. The Creditor shall be under no obligation to delay a sale of any of the Pledged Stock for the period of time necessary to permit registration of such securities for public sale under the Securities Act, or under applicable state securities laws.
Private Sales
 
11. . The Creditor's sole duty with respect to the custody, safekeeping and physical preservation of the Collateral in its possession, under Section 9-207 of the Code or otherwise, shall be to deal with it in the same manner as the Creditor deals with similar securities and property for its own account. Neither the Creditor, nor its directors, officers, employees or agents shall be liable for failure to demand, collect or realize upon any of the Collateral or for any delay in doing so (except to the extent the same constitutes gross negligence or willful misconduct) or shall be under any obligation to sell or otherwise dispose of any Collateral upon the request of the Debtor or otherwise.
Limitation on Duties Regarding Collateral
 
12. . All authorizations and agencies herein contained with respect to the Collateral are irrevocable and powers coupled with an interest and are irrevocable until this Pledge Agreement is terminated and the security interests created hereby are released.
Powers Coupled with an Interest
 
13. . This Pledge Agreement may be executed on any number of separate counterparts (including by facsimile), and all of said counterparts taken together shall be deemed to constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
14. . Any provision of this Pledge Agreement which is prohibited or unenforceable shall be ineffective to the extent of such prohibition or unenforceability without invalidating the remaining provisions hereof.
Severability
 
15. . The paragraph headings used in this Pledge Agreement are for convenience of reference only and are not to affect the construction hereof or be taken into consideration in the interpretation hereof.
Paragraph Headings
 
16. . The Creditor shall not by any act (except by a written instrument pursuant to this paragraph 15) be deemed to have waived any right or remedy hereunder. No failure to exercise, nor any delay in exercising, any right, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof. No single or partial exercise of any right, power or privilege hereunder shall preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or privilege. A waiver by the Creditor of any right or remedy hereunder on any one occasion shall not be construed as a bar to any right or remedy which the Creditor would otherwise have on any future occasion. The rights and remedies herein provided are cumulative, may be exercised singly or concurrently and are not exclusive of any other rights or remedies provided by law.
No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies
 
17. . None of the terms or provisions of this Pledge Agreement may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified except by a written instrument executed by the Debtor and the Creditor. This Pledge Agreement shall be binding upon the successors and assigns of the Debtor and shall inure to the benefit of the Creditor and its respective successors and assigns. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA WITHOUT REGARD TO ANY OTHERWISE APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS. EACH OF THE PARTIES HEREBY IRREVOCABLY CONSENTS AND AGREES THAT ANY LEGAL ACTION OR PROCEEDINGS WITH RESPECT TO THIS AGREEMENT MAY BE BROUGHT IN ANY OF THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA LOCATED IN HILLSBOROUGH COUNTY OR THE COURTS OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA FOR THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF FLORIDA HAVING SUBJECT MATTER JURISDICTION AND, BY EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF THIS AGREEMENT AND SUCH OTHER DOCUMENTS EXECUTED IN CONNECTION HEREWITH, EACH PARTY HEREBY (I) ACCEPTS THE NON-EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE AFORESAID COURTS, (II) IRREVOCABLY AGREES TO BE BOUND BY ANY FINAL JUDGMENT (AFTER ANY AND ALL APPEALS) OF ANY SUCH COURT WITH RESPECT TO SUCH DOCUMENTS, (III) IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, ANY OBJECTION WHICH IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE LAYING OF VENUE OF ANY SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDINGS WITH RESPECT TO SUCH DOCUMENTS BROUGHT IN ANY SUCH COURT, AND FURTHER IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, ANY CLAIM THAT ANY SUCH SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDINGS BROUGHT IN ANY SUCH COURT HAS BEEN BROUGHT IN ANY INCONVENIENT FORUM, (IV) AGREES THAT SERVICE OF PROCESS IN ANY SUCH ACTION MAY BE EFFECTED BY MAILING A COPY THEREOF BY REGISTERED OR CERTIFIED MAIL (OR ANY SUBSTANTIALLY SIMILAR FORM OF MAIL), POSTAGE PREPAID, TO SUCH PARTY AT ITS ADDRESS SET FORTH IN THE SIGNATURE BLOCK BELOW, OR AT SUCH OTHER ADDRESS OF WHICH THE OTHER PARTIES SHALL HAVE BEEN NOTIFIED AND (V) AGREES THAT NOTHING HEREIN SHALL AFFECT THE RIGHT TO EFFECT SERVICE OF PROCESS IN ANY OTHER MANNER PERMITTED BY LAW OR LIMIT THE RIGHT TO BRING ANY SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN ANY OTHER JURISDICTION
Amendments; Successors and Assigns; Governing Law; Venue
.
 
18. . EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY KNOWINGLY, VOLUNTARILY AND INTENTIONALLY WAIVE THE RIGHT ANY OF
Waiver of Jury Trial
 
THEM MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN RESPECT OF ANY LITIGATION BASED HEREON, OR ARISING OUT OF, UNDER OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT AND ANY AGREEMENT CONTEMPLATED TO BE EXECUTED IN CONJUNCTION HEREWITH, OR ANY COURSE OF CONDUCT, COURSE OF DEALING, STATEMENTS (WHETHER VERBAL OR WRITTEN) OR ACTIONS OF ANY PARTY HERETO. THIS PROVISION IS A MATERIAL INDUCEMENT FOR THE PARTIES ENTERING INTO THIS AGREEMENT.
 
19. . All notices, requests and other communications hereunder must be in writing and will be deemed to have been duly given only if delivered personally or by facsimile transmission or mailed (Certified Mail, Return Receipt Requested) to the parties at the following addresses or facsimile numbers:
Notices
 
If to Debtor:
 
BCH Holdings, Inc.
6354 118
th
Ave., N.
Largo, FL, 33733
Facsimile: 727-545-1801
 
BCH Mechanical, Inc.
6354 118
th
Ave., N.
Largo, FL, 33733
Facsimile: 727-545-1801
 
with a copy to:
 
Philip W. Engle
Attorney At Law
P.O. Box 800022
Roswell, GA 30075
Facsimile 678-352-0489
 
If to Creditor, to:
 
TECO Solutions, Inc.
702 North Franklin Street
Tampa, Florida 33602
Facsimile No.: (813) 228-4643
Attn: Bruce Narzissenfeld
 
with a copy to:
 
TECO Energy, Inc.
Legal Department
702 North Franklin Street
Tampa, Florida 33602
Facsimile No.: (813) 228-1328
Attn:   Douglas M. Bagge
  Assistant General Counsel
 
All such notices, requests and other communications will (i) if delivered personally to the address as provided in this Section, be deemed given upon delivery, (ii) if delivered by facsimile transmission to the facsimile number as provided in this Section, be deemed given upon receipt but with subsequent confirmation by other permitted means, and (iii) if delivered by mail in the manner described above to the address as provided in this Section, be deemed given upon receipt (in each case regardless of whether such notice, request or other communication is received by any other person to whom a copy of such notice, request or other communication is to be delivered pursuant to this Section). Any party from time to time may change its address, facsimile number or other information for the purpose of notices to that party by giving notice specifying such change to the other party.
 
20. . BCH Holdings hereby authorizes and instructs BCH Mechanical to comply with any instruction received by it from the Creditor in writing that (a) states that an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and (b) is otherwise in accordance with the terms of this Pledge Agreement, without any other or further instructions from BCH Holdings, and BCH Holdings agrees that BCH Mechanical shall be fully protected in so complying.
Irrevocable Authorization and Instruction to BCH Mechanical, Inc
 
21. . (a) The Debtor hereby irrevocably constitutes and appoints the Creditor and any officer or agent of the Creditor, with full power of substitution, as its true and lawful attorney-in-fact with full irrevocable power and authority in the place and stead of the Debtor and in the name of the Debtor or in the Creditor's own name, from time to time in the Creditor's discretion, for the purpose of carrying out the terms of this Pledge Agreement, to take any and all appropriate action and to execute any and all documents and instruments which may be necessary or desirable to accomplish the purposes of this Pledge Agreement, including, without limitation, any financing statements, endorsements, assignments or other instruments of transfer.
Creditor's Appointment as Attorney-in-Fact
 
(b) The Debtor hereby ratifies all that said attorneys shall lawfully do or cause to be done pursuant to the power of attorney granted in paragraph 19.
 
22. . At such time as the Obligations shall have been performed and paid in full, the Collateral shall be released from the Liens created hereby, and this Pledge Agreement and all obligations (other than these expressly stated to survive such termination) of the Creditor and the Debtor hereunder shall terminate, all without delivery of any instrument or performance of any act by any party, and all rights to the Collateral shall revert to the Debtor. At the request and sole expense of the Debtor following any such termination, the Creditor shall promptly deliver to the Debtor any Collateral held by the Creditor hereunder, and execute and deliver to the Debtor such documents as the Debtor shall reasonably request to evidence such termination.
Release
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has caused this Pledge Agreement to be duly executed and delivered as of the date first above written.
 
 
    Accepted and Agreed:
 
TECO SOLUTIONS, INC.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THIS SECURITY AND ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE FIRST PRIORITY COLLATERAL ASSIGNMENT AGREEMENT (the "Agreement") is made effective as of the 31
st
day of December, 2004, by and between TECO Solutions, Inc., a Florida corporation ("Creditor"), and BCH Mechanical, Inc., a Florida corporation ("BCH Mechanical" or "Debtor").
 
 
WHEREAS, Creditor has sold all of the issued and outstanding shares of BCH Mechanical to BCH Holdings pursuant to that certain Stock Purchase Agreement ("Stock Purchase Agreement") between BCH Holdings and Creditor of even date herewith;
 
WHEREAS, BCH Holdings has also agreed to indemnify the Creditor pursuant to the Stock Purchase Agreement;
 
WHEREAS, as security for BCH Holdings' promise to pay the sum described in Sections 1.02 and 1.03 of the Stock Purchase Agreement and its promise to perform its obligations under the Sections 10.07 (Vehicle Agreements) and 10.10 (Bonding) of the Stock Purchase Agreement, the Debtor has agreed to pledge and grant to Creditor a security interest in the Collateral (as defined below); and
 
WHEREAS, Creditor would not complete the sale of the Shares to BCH Holdings absent the grant of the security interest in the collateral described herein.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual covenants and agreements contained in this Agreement, the parties mutually agree as follows:
 
1. . The foregoing recitals are true and correct and are incorporated herein by this reference. Unless otherwise defined herein, terms that are defined in the Stock Purchase Agreement and used herein are so used as so defined.
Recitals and Definitions
 
2. . In consideration of the transfer of Shares to BCH Holdings in consideration of the Purchase Price and other obligations, outlined in Sections 1.02, 10.07 and 10.10 of the Stock Purchase Agreement, Debtor hereby delivers and grants to Creditor a security interest in, and hereby assigns, transfers, pledges and sets over to Creditor and agrees and acknowledges that Creditor, without further action on its part, has and shall continue to have a continuing security interest, which together collectively constitute and are hereafter designated as the "Collateral," and which Collateral includes, without limitation, the following:
Security Interest
 
(a) A security interest in Debtor's Sheet Metal Machine, a Kenco Fabriduct Line Serial # 100017; and
 
(b) A security interest in all of Debtor's accounts receivable, defined to include the accounts receivable of the Debtor, determined as of December 31, 2004 and
either aged 120 days or less as of December 14, 2004 or accrued on or after December 14, 2004, through December 31, 2004, from the financial statements of the Company, prepared in accordance with GAAP (including, without limitation, any Retainage, as defined in the Stock Purchase Agreement, amounts held back by counterparties under contracts with the Company); and
 
(c) All proceeds, products, replacements, additions, substitutions and accessions of and to all of the foregoing.
 
3. . This Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, and Creditor shall continue to have the security interest on the Collateral herein described to secure payment of the Purchase Price and performance of the obligations under Sections 10.07 (Vehicle Agreements) and 10.10 (Bonding) of the Stock Purchase Agreement. In the event of any default by Debtor under this Agreement or under the Stock Purchase Agreement, Creditor shall have a right to set-off against Debtor with regard to any sums of Debtor held by Creditor.
Obligation
 
4. . BCH Mechanical hereby makes the following representations, warranties and covenants:
Representations, Warranties and Covenants of BCH Mechanical, Inc
 
(a) The execution, delivery and performance by BCH Mechanical of this Agreement has been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on behalf of BCH Mechanical and does not contravene (i) BCH Mechanical's Articles of Incorporation, Bylaws and related governing documents; or (ii) any law, rule, regulation, agreement, indenture, mortgage, loan agreement, writ, judgment, injunction, decree or other instrument or order binding on or affecting BCH Mechanical or its assets and will not result in the creation of a lien, security interest or other charge or encumbrance (other than those created by this Agreement). No further action is necessary on the part of BCH Mechanical to make this Agreement valid and binding upon it and enforceable against it in accordance with the terms hereof and to carry out the transactions contemplated hereby. No authorization, approval or other actions by, and no notice to or filing with, any governmental agency or authority is required for the due execution, delivery and performance by BCH Mechanical of this Agreement.
 
(b) BCH Mechanical has good and indefeasible market title to the Collateral and will warrant and defend the Collateral against all claims. Except for the security interest herein granted, BCH Mechanical is the owner of the Collateral free from any lien, security interest or encumbrance, and BCH Mechanical will defend the Collateral against anyone claiming the same or any interest therein.
 
(c) BCH Mechanical will not sell or offer to sell or otherwise transfer, encumber or impair the value of the Collateral or any interest therein without the prior written consent of Creditor.
 
(d) No financing statement or other filing covering any of the Collateral or any of the proceeds thereof, other than a financing statement in favor of Creditor, is now on file in any public office. At any time and from time to time, upon the request of Creditor, BCH Mechanical will give, execute, file and/or record any notice, financing
 
statement, continuation statement, instrument, document, agreement or assignment that Creditor may consider necessary or desirable to create, preserve, continue, perfect or validate any security interest granted hereunder or which Creditor may consider necessary or desirable to exercise or enforce its rights hereunder with respect to such security interest. BCH Mechanical expressly consents to the use in filing or recording of this Agreement as a financing statement in such places and jurisdictions as Creditor may deem necessary or desirable. BCH Mechanical hereby appoints any officer of Creditor as BCH Mechanical's attorney-in-fact to do any and every act which BCH Mechanical is obligated by this Agreement to do, including, without limitation, to execute financing statements in BCH Mechanical's name, to make corrections and exercise all rights of BCH Mechanical in the Collateral, and to execute any and all papers and instruments and to do all other things necessary to preserve and protect the Collateral and to protect Creditor's interest in the Collateral. Such power of attorney is coupled with an interest and is irrevocable and shall survive the insolvency or bankruptcy of BCH Mechanical.
 
(e) BCH Mechanical will perform all of its covenants and obligations under the Stock Purchase Agreement and any agreements delivered by it to Creditor.
 
(f) BCH Mechanical will not, without the prior written consent of Creditor, borrow from anyone except Creditor on the security of, or pledge or grant a security interest in, the Collateral to anyone except Creditor or permit any lien or encumbrance to attach to the Collateral, and any levy to be made thereon or any financing statement (except Creditor's financing statement) to be on file with respect thereto, or to sell or offer to sell or otherwise transfer, encumber or impair the value of the Collateral or any interest therein. BCH Mechanical will keep the Collateral free from any adverse liens, security interests or encumbrances whatsoever.
 
(g) BCH Mechanical's principal place of business and the office where its records concerning the Collateral are kept is located at 6354 118
th
Ave., N. Largo, FL 33733. BCH Mechanical will immediately notify Creditor in writing of any change in the location of the place of business where records concerning the Collateral are kept.
 
(h) Creditor may enter onto BCH Mechanical's property and may examine and inspect BCH Mechanical's books, records, papers, and journals at any time or times, upon reasonable advance written notice, wherever located.
 
(i) All taxes, levies or other charges upon the Collateral, including, without limitation, documentary stamp taxes, required to have been paid have been paid. BCH Mechanical shall pay and discharge when due all such taxes, levies or other charges on the Collateral or on account of or in connection with this Agreement.
 
(j) BCH Mechanical will at all times keep the Sheet Metal Machine, further defined in Section 2(a) above, insured against loss, damage, theft and other risks, in such amounts and with such companies and under such policies and in such form and for such periods as Creditor may request in its reasonable discretion. Creditor will be named as a loss payee under such insurance as its interest may appear. BCH Mechanical will not waste or destroy its assets or any part thereof or use its assets in violation of any statute or ordinance.
 
(k) At BCH Mechanical's expense, BCH Mechanical shall execute and file all such further instruments and provide such further information and perform such other options as Creditor may reasonably request and/or as may be necessary or appropriate to establish and maintain a valid and continuing security interest in the Collateral in favor of Creditor. All charges, expenses and fees that Creditor may incur in the filing or recording of the foregoing, and other taxes related thereto, shall be payable by BCH Mechanical. Creditor is hereby authorized to file such financing statements to perfect any security interests herein, together with any amendments and renewals thereto.
 
(l) BCH Mechanical will not use any of the Collateral for hire or in violation of any statute or ordinance.
 
(m) BCH Mechanical shall maintain the Collateral in a reasonably careful manner so as not to unreasonably or unnecessarily expose the same to waste, damage, wear or depreciation and shall keep the same in good order and repair. Creditor may examine and inspect the Collateral or any part thereof, wherever located, at any reasonable times. All equipment, accessories and parts related to the use of the Collateral shall become part of said Collateral by accession.
 
(n) BCH Mechanical shall not make any distributions with respect to its stock (other than to fund the payment of the Purchase Price by Purchaser), and shall not pay compensation or other amounts to Daryl W. Blume or any person related to Daryl W. Blume in excess of $175,000 per year in the aggregate for all such persons.
 
(o) BCH Mechanical shall operate in the ordinary course of business.
 
5. .
Defaults and Remedies
 
(a) . Each of the foregoing shall constitute an event of default ("Event of Default") hereunder:
Defaults
 
(i) Default by Debtor in the performance of observance of any of the representations, warranties, covenants or other obligations of Debtor contained herein, if such failure shall continue for a period of ten (10) days after delivery of written notice thereof by Creditor to Debtor.
 
(ii) Non-payment when due of the Purchase Price under the Stock Purchase Agreement, time being of the essence, or the failure by Debtor to perform obligations under Sections 10.07 (Vehicle Agreements) or 10.10 (Bonding) of the Stock Purchase Agreement or this Agreement.
 
(iii) Filing by or against Debtor of a petition in bankruptcy or for reorganization or arrangement under the bankruptcy Code.
 
(iv) Making a general assignment by Debtor for the benefit of creditors; the appointment of a receiver or trustee for Debtor or any of its assets; or the institution by or against Debtor of any insolvency proceedings or any proceeding for the dissolution or liquidation of Debtor.
 
(v) Material falsity in any certificate, statement, representation, warranty or audit at any time furnished to Creditor by or on behalf of Debtor or any other party liable for repayment of any part of the Loan pursuant to or in connection with this Agreement or otherwise and including any omission to disclose any substantial contingent or liquidated liabilities or any material adverse change in any facts disclosed by any certificate, statement, representation, warranty or audit furnished to Creditor.
 
(b) . Upon the happening of an Event of Default, or at any time thereafter, such defects not having been previously cured, Creditor, at its option, without notice or demand, may:
Remedies
 
(i) Creditor may avail itself of all rights and remedies granted a secured party under the Uniform Commercial Code or other applicable law including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the right to sell, assign and deliver the Collateral, or any part thereof, at public or private sale, at such place as Creditor may deem best. At such sale, Creditor shall have the right to purchase the Collateral, or any part thereof. At any such sale, Creditor may, in its discretion, restrict the prospective bidders or purchasers to persons who will represent and warrant that they are acquiring the Collateral, for their own account, for investment only and not with the view towards the resale or distribution thereof, and who will make such further representations and warranties as Creditor may, in its discretion, deem necessary or desirable to assure Creditor that such prospective bidders or purchasers are, with respect to the applicable federal and states' securities laws and rules, suitable bidders or purchasers of such Collateral, which restrictions, as to prospective bidders and purchasers, the parties agree are commercially reasonable. The parties agree that written notice mailed to Debtor five (5) business days prior to the date of public sale of the Collateral, or five (5) business days prior to the date after which private sale or any other disposition of the Collateral will be made, shall constitute reasonable notice (all such notices, demands or advertisements of any kind being hereby expressly waived), but notice given in any other reasonable manner or any other reasonable time shall be sufficient.
 
(ii) Creditor may proceed against such security as Creditor has with respect to the debts hereby secured, in such fashion and in such order as Creditor may desire, and Creditor shall not be deemed to have waived any of its security rights or other rights by virtue of the order or fashion in which it elects to realize on the various security interests which it has to secure said debt, or by virtue of bringing any action to realize on any of the various security interests.
 
(iii) Upon disposition by Creditor of any property in which Creditor has a security interest hereunder, Debtor shall be and remain liable for any deficiency; and Creditor shall account to Debtor for any surplus, but Creditor shall have the right to apply all or any part of such surplus to (or to hold the same as a reserve against) all or any liabilities of Debtor to Creditor then due, and in such order of application as Creditor may from time to time elect.
 
6.
Miscellaneous.
 
(a) . Debtor shall be liable for reasonable attorneys' fees, legal expenses and costs of collection incurred by Creditor in enforcing any of its rights or remedies under this Agreement and, without limiting the rights of Creditor, the proceeds of disposition may be applied, in Creditor's discretion, to the payment of such reasonable attorneys' fees (including fees for paralegal services), legal expenses and costs of collection.
Expenses of Collection
 
(b) .
Waivers
 
(i) Debtor waives protest of all commercial paper at any time held by Creditor on which Debtor is in any way liable, notice of nonpayment at maturity and except where required by law, notice of any action taken by Creditor, and hereby ratifies and confirms Creditor's action.
 
(ii) No waiver by Creditor of any default shall operate as a waiver of any other default or of the same default on a future occasion. No delay or omission on the part of Creditor in exercising any right or remedy shall operate as a waiver thereof, and no single or partial exercise by Creditor of any right or remedy shall preclude or affect any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right or remedy. The provisions of this Agreement are cumulative to the provisions of any note or other writing evidencing any liability secured by this Agreement, and Creditor shall have all of the benefits, rights and remedies of and under any note or other writing evidencing any liability secured hereby.
 
(c) . Time is of the essence of this Agreement.
Time
 
(d) . All rights of Creditor hereunder shall inure to the benefit of its successors and assigns, and all obligations of Debtor shall bind the successors and assigns of Debtor.
Successors and Assigns
 
(e) . Debtor releases Creditor from all claims for loss or damage caused by any act or omission on the part of Creditor, its officers, agents and employees, except willful misconduct.
Release
 
(f) . This Agreement and the legality, validity and performance of the terms hereof shall be governed by and enforced, determined and construed in all respects in accordance with the internal laws of the State of Florida applicable to contracts, transactions and obligations entered into and to be performed in
Governing Law
 
Florida (except any choice of law provision of Florida law shall not apply if the law of a jurisdiction other than Florida would apply thereby, and except to the extent that Federal law would apply to determine the maximum rate of interest payable).
 
(g) . Wherever possible, each provision of this Agreement shall be interpreted in such manner as to be effective and valid under applicable law, but if any provision of this Agreement shall be prohibited by or invalid under applicable law, such provision shall be ineffective only to the extent of such prohibition or invalidity, without invalidating the remainder of such provision or the remaining provisions of this Agreement. To the extent permitted by applicable law, Debtor hereby waives any provision of law that renders any provision hereof prohibited or unenforceable in any respect.
Severability
 
(h) . Debtor hereby agrees that any suit, action or proceeding with respect to this Agreement, any amendments or replacements hereof and any transactions related hereto or thereto may, at the option of Creditor, be brought in the state courts of, or in the federal courts in, the State of Florida having a situs within or whose jurisdiction includes Hillsborough County, Florida; and Debtor hereby irrevocably consents and submits to the jurisdiction of such courts for the purpose of any suit, action or proceeding. Debtor hereby waives and agrees not to assert against Creditor (or any assignee thereof), by way of motion, as a defense, or otherwise, in any such suit, action or proceeding (1) any claim that it is not personally subject to the jurisdiction of the above named courts or that its property is exempt or immune from setoff, execution or attachment, either prior to judgment or in aid of execution, and (2) to the extent permitted by applicable law, any claim that such suit, action or proceeding is brought in an inconvenient forum or that the venue of such suit, action or proceeding is improper or that this Agreement, the notes or any amendments or replacements hereof or thereof may not be enforced in or by such courts.
Jurisdiction and Venue
 
(i)
. Debtor hereby knowingly and voluntarily waives any right that it may have to seek a jury trial in any lawsuit, proceeding, counterclaim or any other litigation procedure based upon or arising out of this Agreement. Debtor acknowledges that the foregoing waiver has been a material inducement to Creditor in making the Loan to Debtor and that Debtor has made such waiver in good faith and without duress of any kind.
Waiver of Jury Trial
 
(j) . All notices, requests and other communications hereunder must be in writing and will be deemed to have been duly given only if delivered personally or by facsimile transmission or mailed (Certified Mail, Return Receipt Requested) to the parties at the following addresses or facsimile numbers:
Notices
 
If to Debtor:
 
BCH Mechanical, Inc.
6354 118
th
Ave., N.
Largo, FL, 33733
Facsimile: 727-545-1801
 
with a copy to:
 
Philip W. Engle
Attorney At Law
P.O. Box 800022
Roswell, GA 30075
Facsimile 678-352-0489
 
If to Creditor, to:
 
TECO Solutions, Inc.
702 North Franklin Street
Tampa, Florida 33602
Facsimile No.: (813) 228-4643
Attn: Bruce Narzissenfeld
 
with a copy to:
 
TECO Energy, Inc.
Legal Department
702 North Franklin Street
Tampa, Florida 33602
Facsimile No.: (813) 228-1328
Attn:   Douglas M. Bagge
     Assistant General Counsel
 
All such notices, requests and other communications will (i) if delivered personally to the address as provided in this Section, be deemed given upon delivery, (ii) if delivered by facsimile transmission to the facsimile number as provided in this Section, be deemed given upon receipt but with subsequent confirmation by other permitted means, and (iii) if delivered by mail in the manner described above to the address as provided in this Section, be deemed given upon receipt (in each case regardless of whether such notice, request or other communication is received by any other person to whom a copy of such notice, request or other communication is to be delivered pursuant to this Section). Any party from time to time may change its address, facsimile number or other information for the purpose of notices to that party by giving notice specifying such change to the other party.
 
(k) . This Agreement is made for Collateral purposes only and the duties and obligations of Debtor under this Agreement shall terminate when all obligations to pay the Purchase Price and perform the obligations under Sections 10.07 (Vehicle Agreements) and 10.10 (Bonding) of the Stock Purchase Agreement are paid in full and all obligations, covenants, conditions and agreements of Debtor contained therein are performed and discharged. Thereupon, this Agreement shall automatically terminate, and Creditor, at Debtor's reasonable cost, shall execute and file all such further instruments and provide such further information and provide such other assurances as BCH Mechanical may reasonably request and/or as may be necessary or appropriate to terminate the security interest in the Collateral.
Termination
 
(l) . Notwithstanding any subsequent execution or delivery of any other, additional or future security agreements, this Agreement shall survive such execution or delivery of such other, additional or future security agreements, and shall not be deemed to merge into or with any other agreement, or to be superceded or replaced by such other security agreement.
Survival
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE TO SECURITY AGREEMENT]
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
 
 
STATE OF FLORIDA
 
COUNTY OF HILLSBOROUGH
 
The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this day of January, 2005, by, as of BCH Mechanical, Inc., a Florida corporation, on behalf of the corporation. He is personally known to me or has produced a valid Florida driver's license as identification.
        
                                                     
                                                     
 
 
 
 
STATE OF FLORIDA
 
COUNTY OF HILLSBOROUGH
 
The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this day of January, 2005, by , as of TECO Solutions, Inc., a Florida corporation, on behalf of the corporation. He/She is personally known to me or has produced a valid Florida driver's license as identification.
        
                                             
                                                 
 
 
 
 
 
THIS SECURITY AND ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE SECOND PRIORITY COLLATERAL ASSIGNMENT AGREEMENT (the "Agreement") is made effective as of the 31
st
day of December, 2004, by and between TECO Solutions, Inc., a Florida corporation ("Creditor"), and BCH Mechanical, Inc., a Florida corporation ("BCH Mechanical" or "Debtor").
 
 
WHEREAS, Creditor has sold all of the issued and outstanding shares of BCH Mechanical to BCH Holdings pursuant to that certain Stock Purchase Agreement ("Stock Purchase Agreement") between BCH Holdings and Creditor of even date herewith;
 
WHEREAS, BCH Holdings has also agreed to indemnify the Creditor pursuant to the Stock Purchase Agreement;
 
WHEREAS, as security for BCH Holdings' promise to pay the sum described in Sections 1.02 and 1.03 of the Stock Purchase Agreement and its promise to perform its obligations under the Sections 10.07 (Vehicle Agreements) and 10.10 (Bonding) of the Stock Purchase Agreement, the Debtor has agreed to pledge and grant to Creditor a security interest in the Collateral (as defined below); and
 
WHEREAS, Creditor would not complete the sale of the Shares to BCH Holdings absent the grant of the security interest in the collateral described herein.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual covenants and agreements contained in this Agreement, the parties mutually agree as follows:
 
1. . The foregoing recitals are true and correct and are incorporated herein by this reference. Unless otherwise defined herein, terms that are defined in the Stock Purchase Agreement and used herein are so used as so defined.
Recitals and Definitions
 
2. . In consideration of the transfer of Shares to BCH Holdings in consideration of the Purchase Price and other obligations, including but not limited to the obligations outlined in Sections 1.02, 10.07 and 10.10 of the Stock Purchase Agreement, Debtor hereby delivers and grants to Creditor a security interest in, and hereby assigns, transfers, pledges and sets over to Creditor and agrees and acknowledges that Creditor, without further action on its part, has and shall continue to have a continuing security interest in all goods, fixtures, equipment, inventory, accounts, accounts receivable, contract rights, commissions, choses in action, money, general intangibles, documents, instruments and chattel paper and all other property of whatever nature of Debtor, now owned or hereafter acquired, and all proceeds (including insurance proceeds), products, replacements, additions, substitutions and accessions of and to all of the foregoing, which together collectively constitute and are hereafter designated as the "Collateral," and which Collateral includes, without limitation, the following:
Security Interest
 
(a) A security interest in all of Debtor's accounts and contract rights and all other forms of customer obligations, acquired or arising after December 31, 2004; and
(b) All proceeds, products, replacements, additions, substitutions and accessions of and to all of the foregoing.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, Creditor acknowledges that it has consented, in Section 1.05 of the Stock Purchase Agreement, to allowing a new lender to have a first priority security interest in the accounts receivable of the Debtor acquired or arising after December 31, 2004. Nothing herein shall be deemed or construed to waive, alter or amend the terms of any other security agreement or document given to Creditor by or on behalf of Debtor, except as expressly stated herein.
 
3. . This Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, and Creditor shall continue to have the security interest on the Collateral herein described to secure payment and performance of the Stock Purchase Agreement, and all other documents executed in connection therewith, and the payment and performance of all indebtedness and obligations from time to time owing by Debtor to Creditor under this Agreement so long as there is any outstanding indebtedness and liability whatsoever of Debtor to Creditor under the Stock Purchase Agreement, and all other documents executed in connection therewith, as the same may be amended, modified, extended or renewed. In the event of any default by Debtor under this Agreement or under the Stock Purchase Agreement, Creditor shall have a right to set-off against Debtor with regard to any sums of Debtor held by Creditor.
Obligation
 
4. . BCH Mechanical hereby makes the following representations, warranties and covenants:
Representations, Warranties and Covenants of BCH Mechanical, Inc
 
(a) The execution, delivery and performance by BCH Mechanical of this Agreement has been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on behalf of BCH Mechanical and does not contravene (i) BCH Mechanical's Articles of Incorporation, Bylaws and related governing documents; or (ii) any law, rule, regulation, agreement, indenture, mortgage, loan agreement, writ, judgment, injunction, decree or other instrument or order binding on or affecting BCH Mechanical or its assets and will not result in the creation of a lien, security interest or other charge or encumbrance (other than those created by this Agreement). No further action is necessary on the part of BCH Mechanical to make this Agreement valid and binding upon it and enforceable against it in accordance with the terms hereof and to carry out the transactions contemplated hereby. No authorization, approval or other actions by, and no notice to or filing with, any governmental agency or authority is required for the due execution, delivery and performance by BCH Mechanical of this Agreement.
 
(b) BCH Mechanical has good and indefeasible market title to the Collateral and will warrant and defend the Collateral against all claims. Except for the security interest herein granted and the security interest granted to a lender as provided for in Section 1.05 of the Stock Purchase Agreement, BCH Mechanical is the owner of the Collateral free from any lien, security interest or encumbrance, and BCH Mechanical will defend the Collateral against anyone claiming the same or any interest therein.
 
(c) BCH Mechanical will not sell or offer to sell or otherwise transfer, encumber or impair the value of the Collateral or any interest therein without the prior written consent of Creditor, except as provided for in Section 1.05 of the Stock Purchase Agreement.
 
(d) No financing statement or other filing covering any of the Collateral or any of the proceeds thereof, other than a financing statement in favor of Creditor, is now on file in any public office. At any time and from time to time, upon the request of Creditor, BCH Mechanical will give, execute, file and/or record any notice, financing statement, continuation statement, instrument, document, agreement or assignment that Creditor may consider necessary or desirable to create, preserve, continue, perfect or validate any security interest granted hereunder or which Creditor may consider necessary or desirable to exercise or enforce its rights hereunder with respect to such security interest. BCH Mechanical expressly consents to the use in filing or recording of this Agreement as a financing statement in such places and jurisdictions as Creditor may deem necessary or desirable. BCH Mechanical hereby appoints any officer of Creditor as BCH Mechanical's attorney-in-fact to do any and every act which BCH Mechanical is obligated by this Agreement to do, including, without limitation, to execute financing statements in BCH Mechanical's name, to make corrections and exercise all rights of BCH Mechanical in the Collateral, and to execute any and all papers and instruments and to do all other things necessary to preserve and protect the Collateral and to protect Creditor's interest in the Collateral. Such power of attorney is coupled with an interest and is irrevocable and shall survive the insolvency or bankruptcy of BCH Mechanical.
 
(e) BCH Mechanical will perform all of its covenants and obligations under the Stock Purchase Agreement and any agreements delivered by it to Creditor.
 
(f) Except as provided for in Section 1.05 of the Stock Purchase Agreement, BCH Mechanical will not, without the prior written consent of Creditor, borrow from anyone except Creditor on the security of, or pledge or grant a security interest in, the Collateral to anyone except Creditor or permit any lien or encumbrance to attach to the Collateral, and any levy to be made thereon or any financing statement (except Creditor's financing statement) to be on file with respect thereto, or to sell or offer to sell or otherwise transfer, encumber or impair the value of the Collateral or any interest therein. BCH Mechanical will keep the Collateral free from any adverse liens, security interests or encumbrances whatsoever.
 
(g) BCH Mechanical's principal place of business and the office where its records concerning the Collateral are kept is located at 6354 118
th
Ave., N. Largo, FL, 33733. BCH Mechanical will immediately notify Creditor in writing of any change in the location of the place of business where records concerning the Collateral are kept.
 
(h) Creditor may enter onto BCH Mechanical's property and may examine and inspect BCH Mechanical's books, records, papers, and journals at any time or times upon reasonable advance written notice,, wherever located.
 
(i) All taxes, levies or other charges upon the Collateral, including, without limitation, documentary stamp taxes, required to have been paid have been paid. BCH Mechanical shall pay and discharge when due all such taxes, levies or other charges on the Collateral or on account of or in connection with this Agreement.
 
(j) At BCH Mechanical's expense, BCH Mechanical shall execute and file all such further instruments and provide such further information and perform such other options as Creditor may reasonably request and/or as may be necessary or appropriate to establish and maintain a valid and continuing security interest in the Collateral in favor of Creditor. All charges, expenses and fees that Creditor may incur in the filing or recording of the foregoing, and other taxes related thereto, shall be payable by BCH Mechanical. Creditor is hereby authorized to file such financing statements to perfect any security interests herein, together with any amendments and renewals thereto.
 
(k) BCH Mechanical shall not make any distributions with respect to its stock (other than to fund the payment of the Purchase Price by Purchaser), and shall not pay compensation or other amounts to Daryl W. Blume or any person related to Daryl W. Blume in excess of $175,000 per year in the aggregate for all such persons.
 
(l) BCH Mechanical shall operate in the ordinary course of business.
 
5. .
Defaults and Remedies
 
(a) . Each of the foregoing shall constitute an event of default ("Event of Default") hereunder:
Defaults
 
(i) Default by Debtor in the performance of observance of any of the representations, warranties, covenants or other obligations of Debtor contained herein, if such failure shall continue for a period of ten (10) days after delivery of written notice thereof by Creditor to Debtor.
 
(ii) Non-payment when due of the Purchase Price under the Stock Purchase Agreement, time being of the essence, or the failure by Debtor to perform obligations under Sections 10.07 (Vehicle Agreements) or 10.10 (Bonding) of the Stock Purchase Agreement or this Agreement
 
(iii) Filing by or against Debtor of a petition in bankruptcy or for reorganization or arrangement under the bankruptcy Code.
 
(iv) Making a general assignment by Debtor for the benefit of creditors; the appointment of a receiver or trustee for Debtor or any of its assets; or the institution by or against Debtor of any insolvency proceedings or any proceeding for the dissolution or liquidation of Debtor.
 
(v) Material falsity in any certificate, statement, representation, warranty or audit at any time furnished to Creditor by or on behalf of Debtor or any other party liable for repayment of any part of the Loan pursuant to or in connection with this Agreement or otherwise and including any omission to
 
disclose any substantial contingent or liquidated liabilities or any material adverse change in any facts disclosed by any certificate, statement, representation, warranty or audit furnished to Creditor.
 
(b) . Upon the happening of an Event of Default, or at any time thereafter, such defects not having been previously cured, Creditor, at its option, without notice or demand, may:
Remedies
 
(i) Creditor may avail itself of all rights and remedies granted a secured party under the Uniform Commercial Code or other applicable law including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the right to sell, assign and deliver the Collateral, or any part thereof, at public or private sale, at such place as Creditor may deem best. At such sale, Creditor shall have the right to purchase the Collateral, or any part thereof. At any such sale, Creditor may, in its discretion, restrict the prospective bidders or purchasers to persons who will represent and warrant that they are acquiring the Collateral, for their own account, for investment only and not with the view towards the resale or distribution thereof, and who will make such further representations and warranties as Creditor may, in its discretion, deem necessary or desirable to assure Creditor that such prospective bidders or purchasers are, with respect to the applicable federal and states' securities laws and rules, suitable bidders or purchasers of such Collateral, which restrictions, as to prospective bidders and purchasers, the parties agree are commercially reasonable. The parties agree that written notice mailed to Debtor five (5) business days prior to the date of public sale of the Collateral, or five (5) business days prior to the date after which private sale or any other disposition of the Collateral will be made, shall constitute reasonable notice (all such notices, demands or advertisements of any kind being hereby expressly waived), but notice given in any other reasonable manner or any other reasonable time shall be sufficient.
 
(ii) Creditor may proceed against such security as Creditor has with respect to the debts hereby secured, in such fashion and in such order as Creditor may desire, and Creditor shall not be deemed to have waived any of its security rights or other rights by virtue of the order or fashion in which it elects to realize on the various security interests which it has to secure said debt, or by virtue of bringing any action to realize on any of the various security interests.
 
(iii) Upon disposition by Creditor of any property in which Creditor has a security interest hereunder, Debtor shall be and remain liable for any deficiency; and Creditor shall account to Debtor for any surplus, but Creditor shall have the right to apply all or any part of such surplus to (or to hold the same as a reserve against) all or any liabilities of Debtor to Creditor then due, and in such order of application as Creditor may from time to time elect.
 
6. .
Miscellaneous
 
(a) . Debtor shall be liable for reasonable attorneys' fees, legal expenses and costs of collection incurred by Creditor in enforcing any of its rights or remedies under this Agreement and, without limiting the rights of Creditor, the proceeds of disposition may be applied, in Creditor's discretion, to the payment of such reasonable attorneys' fees (including fees for paralegal services), legal expenses and costs of collection.
Expenses of Collection
 
(b).
Waivers
 
(i) Debtor waives protest of all commercial paper at any time held by Creditor on which Debtor is in any way liable, notice of nonpayment at maturity and except where required by law, notice of any action taken by Creditor, and hereby ratifies and confirms Creditor's action.
 
(ii) No waiver by Creditor of any default shall operate as a waiver of any other default or of the same default on a future occasion. No delay or omission on the part of Creditor in exercising any right or remedy shall operate as a waiver thereof, and no single or partial exercise by Creditor of any right or remedy shall preclude or affect any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right or remedy. The provisions of this Agreement are cumulative to the provisions of any note or other writing evidencing any liability secured by this Agreement, and Creditor shall have all of the benefits, rights and remedies of and under any note or other writing evidencing any liability secured hereby.
 
(c) . Time is of the essence of this Agreement.
Time
 
(d) . All rights of Creditor hereunder shall inure to the benefit of its successors and assigns, and all obligations of Debtor shall bind the successors and assigns of Debtor.
Successors and Assigns
 
(e) . Debtor releases Creditor from all claims for loss or damage caused by any act or omission on the part of Creditor, its officers, agents and employees, except willful misconduct.
Release
 
(f) . This Agreement and the legality, validity and performance of the terms hereof shall be governed by and enforced, determined and construed in all respects in accordance with the internal laws of the State of Florida applicable to contracts, transactions and obligations entered into and to be performed in Florida (except any choice of law provision of Florida law shall not apply if the law of a jurisdiction other than Florida would apply thereby, and except to the extent that Federal law would apply to determine the maximum rate of interest payable).
Governing Law
 
(g) . Wherever possible, each provision of this Agreement shall be interpreted in such manner as to be effective and valid under applicable law, but if any provision of this Agreement shall be prohibited by or invalid under applicable law, such
Severability
 
provision shall be ineffective only to the extent of such prohibition or invalidity, without invalidating the remainder of such provision or the remaining provisions of this Agreement. To the extent permitted by applicable law, Debtor hereby waives any provision of law that renders any provision hereof prohibited or unenforceable in any respect.
 
(h) . Debtor hereby agrees that any suit, action or proceeding with respect to this Agreement, any amendments or replacements hereof and any transactions related hereto or thereto may, at the option of Creditor, be brought in the state courts of, or in the federal courts in, the State of Florida having a situs within or whose jurisdiction includes Hillsborough County, Florida; and Debtor hereby irrevocably consents and submits to the jurisdiction of such courts for the purpose of any suit, action or proceeding. Debtor hereby waives and agrees not to assert against Creditor (or any assignee thereof), by way of motion, as a defense, or otherwise, in any such suit, action or proceeding (1) any claim that it is not personally subject to the jurisdiction of the above named courts or that its property is exempt or immune from setoff, execution or attachment, either prior to judgment or in aid of execution, and (2) to the extent permitted by applicable law, any claim that such suit, action or proceeding is brought in an inconvenient forum or that the venue of such suit, action or proceeding is improper or that this Agreement, the notes or any amendments or replacements hereof or thereof may not be enforced in or by such courts.
Jurisdiction and Venue
 
(i)
. Debtor hereby knowingly and voluntarily waives any right that it may have to seek a jury trial in any lawsuit, proceeding, counterclaim or any other litigation procedure based upon or arising out of this Agreement. Debtor acknowledges that the foregoing waiver has been a material inducement to Creditor in making the Loan to Debtor and that Debtor has made such waiver in good faith and without duress of any kind.
Waiver of Jury Trial
 
(j) . All notices, requests and other communications hereunder must be in writing and will be deemed to have been duly given only if delivered personally or by facsimile transmission or mailed (Certified Mail, Return Receipt Requested) to the parties at the following addresses or facsimile numbers:
Notices
 
If to Debtor:
 
BCH Mechanical, Inc.
6354 118
th
Ave., N.
Largo, FL, 33733
Facsimile: 727-545-1801
 
with a copy to:
 
Philip W. Engle
Attorney At Law
P.O. Box 800022
Roswell, GA 30075
Facsimile 678-352-0489
 
If to Creditor, to:
 
TECO Solutions, Inc.
702 North Franklin Street
Tampa, Florida 33602
Facsimile No.: (813) 228-4643
Attn: Bruce Narzissenfeld
 
with a copy to:
 
TECO Energy, Inc.
Legal Department
702 North Franklin Street
Tampa, Florida 33602
Facsimile No.: (813) 228-1328
Attn:   Douglas M. Bagge
    Assistant General Counsel
 
All such notices, requests and other communications will (i) if delivered personally to the address as provided in this Section, be deemed given upon delivery, (ii) if delivered by facsimile transmission to the facsimile number as provided in this Section, be deemed given upon receipt but with subsequent confirmation by other permitted means, and (iii) if delivered by mail in the manner described above to the address as provided in this Section, be deemed given upon receipt (in each case regardless of whether such notice, request or other communication is received by any other person to whom a copy of such notice, request or other communication is to be delivered pursuant to this Section). Any party from time to time may change its address, facsimile number or other information for the purpose of notices to that party by giving notice specifying such change to the other party.
 
(k) . This Agreement is made for Collateral purposes only and the duties and obligations of Debtor under this Agreement shall terminate when all obligations to pay the Purchase Price and perform the obligations under Sections 10.07 (Vehicle Agreements) and 10.10 (Bonding) of the Stock Purchase Agreement are paid in full and all obligations, covenants, conditions and agreements of Debtor contained therein are performed and discharged. Thereupon, this Agreement shall automatically terminate, and Creditor, at Debtor's reasonable cost, shall execute and file all such further instruments and provide such further information and provide such other assurances as BCH Mechanical may reasonably request and/or as may be necessary or appropriate to terminate the security interest in the Collateral.
Termination
 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE TO SECURITY AGREEMENT]
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
 
 
STATE OF FLORIDA
 
COUNTY OF HILLSBOROUGH
 
The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this day of January, 2005, by, as of BCH Mechanical, Inc., a Florida corporation, on behalf of the corporation. He is personally known to me or has produced a valid Florida driver's license as identification.
        
                                                     
                                                     
 
 
 
 
STATE OF FLORIDA
 
COUNTY OF HILLSBOROUGH
 
The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this day of January, 2005, by , as of TECO Solutions, Inc., a Florida corporation, on behalf of the corporation. He/She is personally known to me or has produced a valid Florida driver's license as identification.
        
                                             
                                                 
 
 
 
 
 
dated effective as of December 31, 2004is made and executed by and between TECO Solutions, Inc., a Florida corporation ("Creditor") and Daryl W. Blume, a Florida resident ("Debtor").
THIS PERSONAL
PLEDGE AGREEMENT
,
 
 
WHEREAS, Creditor has sold certain shares of BCH Mechanical, Inc. to BCH Holdings, Inc. pursuant to that certain Stock Purchase Agreement ("Stock Purchase Agreement") between BCH Holdings, Inc. and Creditor of even date herewith;
 
WHEREAS, BCH Holdings, Inc. has also agreed to indemnify the Creditor pursuant to the Stock Purchase Agreement;
 
WHEREAS, Debtor is the majority owner of BCH Holdings, Inc.;
 
WHEREAS, as security for BCH Holdings, Inc.'s (i) promise to pay the sum described in Section 1.02 of the Stock Purchase Agreement (Purchase Price), and (ii) its promise to perform its obligations under Sections 10.07 (Vehicle Agreements) and 10.10 (Bonding) of the Stock Purchase Agreement (the promises to pay and obligations concerning the Purchase Price, Vehicle Agreements and Bonding, including all principal and interest together with costs and expenses for which Debtor is responsible under this Agreement shall collectively be referred to as the "Indebtedness"), the Debtor has agreed to pledge and grant to Creditor a security interest in the Collateral (as defined below); and
 
WHEREAS, Creditor would not complete the sale of the Shares to BCH Holdings absent the grant of the security interest in the collateral described herein.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual covenants and agreements contained in this Agreement, the parties mutually agree as follows:
 
1. . For valuable consideration, Debtor grants to Creditor a security interest in the Collateral to secure the payment of, and not merely the collection of, the Indebtedness and agrees that Creditor shall have the rights stated in this Agreement with respect to the Collateral, in addition to all other rights which Creditor may have by law.
Grant of Security Interest
 
2. . The word "Collateral" as used in this Agreement means all of Debtor's right, title and interest, whether tangible or intangible in character, in all of the following:
Collateral Description
 
 
 
In addition, the word "Collateral" includes all Income and Proceeds from the Collateral as defined herein.
 
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, Debtor shall retain the voting rights of the TECO Energy, Inc. shares so long as there is no Event of Default.
 
3. . Except as otherwise required under this Agreement or by applicable law, (A) Debtor assumes the responsibility for being and keeping informed about the Collateral; and (B) Debtor waives any defenses that may arise because of any action or inaction of Creditor in enforcing its rights hereunder, including without limitation any failure of Creditor to realize upon the Collateral or any delay by Creditor in realizing upon the Collateral.
Debtor's Waivers and Responsibilities
 
4. . Debtor warrants that Debtor has the full right, power and authority to enter into this Agreement and to pledge the Collateral to Creditor.
Debtor's Representations and Warranties
 
5. . Debtor waives all requirements of presentment, protest, demand, and notice of dishonor or non-payment to Debtor or Debtor, or any other party to the Collateral. Creditor may do any of the following with respect to any obligation of Debtor, without first obtaining the consent of Debtor. (A) grant any extension of time for any payment, (B) grant any renewal, (C) permit any modification of payment terms or other terms, or (D) exchange or release any Collateral or other security. No such act or failure to act shall affect Creditor's rights against Debtor or the Collateral.
Debtor's Waivers
 
6. Reserved
 
7. . Debtor represents and warrants to Creditor that:
Representations and Warranties with Respect to the Collateral
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. . Debtor authorizes Creditor to file a UCC-1 financing statement, or alternatively, a copy of this Agreement to perfect Creditors security interest. The execution, delivery or filing of a financing statement shall not relieve Debtor of any responsibilities or requirements under this Agreement or any other document regarding the obligation of Debtor to execute and deliver a "control agreement" regarding the Collateral described above, and the obligation of Debtor to obtain and deliver the consent by the securities intermediary to said "control agreement". At Creditor's request, Debtor additionally agrees to sign all other documents that are necessary to perfect, protect, and continue Creditor's security interest in the Property, including but not limited to, any amendments or continuations of the financing statements. Debtor will pay all filing fees, title transfer fees, and other fees and costs involved unless prohibited by law or unless Creditor is required by law to pay such fees and costs. Debtor irrevocably appoints Creditor to execute financing statements and documents of title in Debtor's name and to execute all documents necessary to transfer title if there is a default. If Debtor changes Debtor's name or address, or the name or address of any person granting a security interest under this Agreement changes, Debtor will promptly notify the Creditor of such change.
Financing Statements
 
9. . Creditor may hold the Collateral until all Indebtedness has been paid and satisfied. Thereafter Creditor shall deliver the Collateral to Debtor or to any other owner of the Collateral. Creditor shall have the following rights in addition to all other rights Creditor may have by law:
Creditor's Rights and Obligations with respect to the Collateral
 
 
perfection of Creditor's security interest, Creditor may choose the method(s) to be used. If the Collateral consists of stock, bonds or other investment property for which no certificate has been issued, Debtor agrees, at Creditor's request, either to request issuance of an appropriate certificate or to give instructions on Creditor's forms to the issuer, transfer agent, mutual fund company, or broker, as the case may be, to record on its books or records Creditor's security interest in the Collateral.
 
 
 
 
 
 
time and in the manner specified by the Collateral, any necessary instruments or documents; and (e) to issue instructions to any securities intermediary pursuant to the "control agreement", which instructions shall be conclusively deemed to be "effective" under the meaning given to that term under chapter 678 of the Florida Statutes.
 
 
10. . If any action or proceeding is commenced that would materially affect Creditor's interest in the Collateral or if Debtor fails to comply with any provision of this Agreement or any Related Documents, including but not limited to Debtor's failure to discharge or pay when due any amounts Debtor is required to discharge or pay under this Agreement or any Related Documents, Creditor on Debtor's behalf may (but shall not be obligated to) take any action that Creditor deems appropriate, including but not limited to discharging or paying all taxes, liens, security interests, encumbrances and other claims, at any time levied or placed on the Collateral and paying all costs for insuring, maintaining and preserving the Collateral. All such expenditures incurred or paid by Creditor for such purposes will then bear interest at the prime rate of interest from the date incurred or paid by Creditor to the date of repayment by Debtor. All such expenses will become a part of the Indebtedness and, at Creditor's
Creditor's Expenditures
 
option, will be payable on demand. The Agreement also will secure payment of these amounts. Such right shall be in addition to all other rights and remedies to which Creditor may be entitled upon Default.
 
11. Each of the following shall constitute an Event of Default under this Agreement:
DEFAULT.
 
 
 
 
 
 
12. If an Event of Default occurs under this Agreement, at any time thereafter, Creditor may exercise any one or more of the following rights and remedies:
RIGHTS AND
REMEDIES ON DEFAULT.
 
 
 
 
 
name or in the name of Creditor's broker, agent or nominee; (2) cause any issuer, broker or other securities intermediary to deliver to Creditor any of the Collateral consisting of securities, or investment property capable of being delivered; (3) enter into a control agreement or power of attorney with any issuer or securities intermediary with respect to any Collateral consisting of investment property, on such terms as Creditor may deem appropriate, in its sole discretion, including without limitation, an agreement granting to Creditor any of the rights provided hereunder without further notice to or consent by Debtor; (4) execute any such control agreement on Debtor's behalf and in Debtor's name, and hereby irrevocably appoints Creditor as agent and attorney-In-fact, coupled with an interest, for the purpose of executing such control agreement on Debtor's behalf; (5) exercise any and all rights of Creditor under any such control agreement or power of attorney; (5) exercise any voting, conversion, registration, purchase, option, or other rights with respect to any Collateral; (7) collect, with or without legal action, and issue receipts concerning any notes, checks, drafts, remittances or distributions that are paid or payable with respect to any Collateral consisting of investment property. Any control agreement entered with respect to any Investment property shall contain the following provisions, at Creditor's discretion. Creditor shall be authorized to instruct the Issuer, broker or other securities intermediary to take or to refrain from taking such actions with respect to the investment property as Creditor may instruct, without further notice to or consent by Debtor. Such actions may include without limitation the issuance of entitlement orders, account instructions, general trading or buy or sell orders, transfer and redemption orders, and stop loss orders. Creditor shall be further entitled to instruct the issuer, broker or securities intermediary to sell or to liquidate any investment property, or to pay the cash surrender or account termination value with respect to any and all investment property, and to deliver all such payments and liquidation proceeds to Creditor. Any such control agreement shall contain such authorizations as are necessary to place Creditor in "control" of such investment collateral, as contemplated under the provisions of the Uniform Commercial Code, and shall fully authorize Creditor to issue "entitlement orders" concerning the transfer, redemption, liquidation or disposition of investment collateral, in conformance with the provisions of the Uniform Commercial Code.
 
 
 
 
 
 
13. The following miscellaneous provisions are a part of this Agreement:
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If to Debtor:
 
Daryl W. Blume
6354 118
th
Ave., N.
Largo, FL, 33733
Facsimile: 727-545-1801
 
with a copy to:
 
Philip W. Engle
Attorney At Law
P.O. Box 800022
Roswell, GA 30075
Facsimile 678-352-0489
 
If to Creditor, to:
 
TECO Solutions, Inc.
702 North Franklin Street
Tampa, Florida 33602
Facsimile No.: (813) 228-4643
Attn: Bruce Narzissenfeld
 
with a copy to:
 
TECO Energy, Inc.
Legal Department
702 North Franklin Street
Tampa, Florida 33602
Facsimile No.: (813) 228-1328
Attn:   Douglas M. Bagge
  Assistant General Counsel
 
All such notices, requests and other communications will (i) if delivered personally to the address as provided in this Section, be deemed given upon delivery, (ii) if delivered by facsimile transmission to the facsimile number as provided in this Section, be deemed given upon receipt but with subsequent confirmation by other permitted means, and (iii) if delivered by mail in the manner described above to the address as provided in this Section, be deemed given upon receipt (in each case regardless of whether such notice, request or other communication is received by any other person to whom a copy of such notice, request or other communication is to be delivered pursuant to this Section). Any party from time to time may change its address, facsimile number or other information for the purpose of notices to that party by giving notice specifying such change to the other party.
 
 
 
other than Debtor, Creditor, without notice to Debtor, may deal with Debtor's successors with reference to this Agreement and the Indebtedness by way of forbearance or extension without releasing Debtor from the obligations of this Agreement or liability under the Indebtedness.
 
 
 
14. The following capitalized words and terms shall have the following meanings when used in this Agreement. Unless specifically stated to the contrary, all references to dollar amounts shall mean amounts in lawful money of the United States of America. Words and terms used in the singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include the singular, as the context may require. Words and terms not otherwise defined in this Agreement shall have the meanings attributed to such terms in the Uniform Commercial Code:
DEFINITIONS.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DEBTOR HAS READ AND UNDERSTOOD ALL THE PROVISIONS OF THIS PERSONAL PLEDGE AGREEMENT AND AGREED TO ITS TERMS. THIS AGREEMENT IS DATED EFFECTIVE AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2004.
 
 
 
 
 
This PERSONAL GUARANTY is made effective as of the 31
st
day of December, 2004, by , a resident of the State of Florida (hereinafter referred to as "BLUME" or "Guarantor"), in favor of , a Florida corporation (hereinafter referred to as "Creditor").
Daryl W. Blume
TECO Solutions, Inc.
 
 
WHEREAS, BLUME is the majority stockholder of BCH Holdings, Inc.;
 
WHEREAS, BCH Holdings, Inc., is purchasing all of the issued and outstanding shares of stock of BCH Mechanical, Inc., pursuant to that certain Stock Purchase Agreement executed effective as of December 31, 2004 between BCH Holdings, Inc. as purchaser and TECO Solutions, Inc. as seller;
 
WHEREAS, BCH Holdings, Inc. and BCH Mechanical, Inc. are executing a Stock Pledge Agreement and a Security Agreement, both of even date herewith, in order to secure the obligations and duties owed by them to TECO; and
 
WHEREAS, as inducement for Creditor to enter into the Stock Purchase Agreement, without which Creditor would not have entered into the Stock Purchase Agreement, BLUME is executing this Guaranty in order to personally guaranty all of the obligations and duties of BCH Holdings, Inc. and BCH Mechanical, Inc. under the Stock Purchase Agreement.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual premises and covenants contained herein and in the above referenced agreements, and for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, BLUME agrees as follows:
 
 
(a) "BCH Holdings" means BCH Holdings, Inc., a Florida corporation.
 
(b) "BCH Mechanical" means BCH Mechanical, Inc., a Florida corporation.
 
(c) "Creditor" means TECO Solutions, Inc., a Florida corporation.
 
(d) "Guarantor" means Daryl W. Blume.
 
(e) "Principal Debtor" means BCH Holdings and BCH Mechanical, collectively or individually.
 
(f) "Principal Debtor's Liabilities" means all debts, obligations, and duties, whether absolute or contingent, of a Principal Debtor to Creditor, under the Stock Purchase Agreement of even date herewith.
 
This Guaranty has been executed and delivered contemporaneously with the execution of the Stock Purchase Agreement, all by and between Guarantor, Creditor, and Principal Debtor, and by this reference the terms and conditions of all of those agreements are
incorporated herein and made a part hereof. Capitalized terms used in this Guaranty without definition shall have the respective meanings as set forth in the Stock Purchase Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If to Guarantor:
 
Daryl W. Blume
6354 118
th
Ave., N.
Largo, FL, 33733
Facsimile: 727-545-1801
 
with a copy to:
 
Philip W. Engle
Attorney At Law
P.O. Box 800022
Roswell, GA 30075
Facsimile 678-352-0489
 
If to Creditor, to:
 
TECO Solutions, Inc.
702 North Franklin Street
Tampa, Florida 33602
Facsimile No.: (813) 228-4643
Attn: Bruce Narzissenfeld
 
with a copy to:
 
TECO Energy, Inc.
Legal Department
702 North Franklin Street
Tampa, Florida 33602
Facsimile No.: (813) 228-1328
Attn: Douglas M. Bagge
Assistant General Counsel
 
All such notices, requests and other communications will (i) if delivered personally to the address as provided in this Section, be deemed given upon delivery, (ii) if delivered by facsimile transmission to the facsimile number as provided in this Section, be deemed given upon receipt but with subsequent confirmation by other permitted means, and (iii)
 
if delivered by mail in the manner described above to the address as provided in this Section, be deemed given upon receipt (in each case regardless of whether such notice, request or other communication is received by any other person to whom a copy of such notice, request or other communication is to be delivered pursuant to this Section). Any party from time to time may change its address, facsimile number or other information for the purpose of notices to that party by giving notice specifying such change to the other party.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Executed at Tampa, Florida, as of the date first referenced above.
 
 
Sworn to and subscribed before me this day of January, 2005, by Daryl Blume:
        
 
 
Accepted and Agreed:
 
TECO SOLUTIONS, INC.
 
 
 
 
 
This Non-Competition Agreement (herein the "Non-Competition Agreement") is made and entered into effective the 31st day of December, 2004 between TECO Solutions, Inc., a Florida corporation ("Seller"), and BCH Holdings, Inc., a Florida corporation ("Buyer").
 
 
, Seller and Buyer entered into that Stock Purchase Agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter the "Agreement") for the sale by Seller and the purchase by Buyer of shares in BCH Mechanical, Inc. (the "Company") as defined and described in the Agreement, and
WHEREAS
 
, pursuant to the Agreement, Seller has agreed to comply with this Non-Competition Agreement.
WHEREAS
 
, in consideration of the payments to be made pursuant to the Agreement and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the Buyer and Seller do hereby agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
 
Except as permitted herein, Seller will not, for a period of three (3) years after the Closing, without Buyer's written consent, directly or indirectly, through any employee or Affiliate of Seller, compete with the business, products and services of the Company within the State of Florida (the "Territory"). As use herein, the term "compete" shall include, but not be limited to, promotion, solicitation of customers in, participation in or engagement in any activity or other business, whether as a partner, contractor, shareholder, or otherwise in competition with the business engaged in by Company at the time this Non-Competition Agreement is executed. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, nothing shall prohibit Seller or any Affiliate from competing with the business, products or services of the Company within the Territory to the extent that Seller or such Affiliate currently engages or offers any such business, products or services. "Affiliate" shall be defined to mean any Person that directly, or indirectly through one of more intermediaries, controls or is controlled by or is under common control with the Person specified. For purposes of this definition, control of a Person means the power, direct or indirect, to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person whether by Contract or otherwise and, in any event and without limitation of the previous sentence, any Person owning fifty percent (50%) or more of the voting securities or other equity interests of another Person shall be deemed to control that Person. When Affiliate refers to Seller's Affiliate, the Company shall not be considered part of the definition of "Affiliate." "Person" shall be defined to mean any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, general partnership, limited partnership, proprietorship, other business organization, trust, union, association or governmental or regulatory authority.
1. Covenant Not to Compete.
 
Seller will not, for a period of three (3) years after the Closing, without Buyer's written consent, solicit or recruit employment of any employee of the Company (other than any general solicitation or recruitment not directed specifically to said employees).
2. Covenant Not to Solicit or Recruit Employees.
 
. Seller has carefully read and considered the provisions of this Non-Competition Agreement and having done so, agrees that the restrictions set forth herein, including but not limited to the time periods of restrictions and the geographical area of restriction set forth as the Territory, are fair and reasonable and are reasonably required for the protection of the interests of Buyer.
3.
Reasonableness of Restrictions
 
Seller acknowledges and agrees that the covenants and obligations of Seller under this Non-Competition Agreement relate to special, unique and extraordinary matters and that the violation or threatened violation of any of the terms of such covenants and obligations may cause Buyer irreparable injury which cannot be reasonably or adequately compensated in damages and in addition to any other relief to which Buyer may be entitled by reason of such violation, including but not limited to the recovery from Seller of reasonable attorney's fees incurred in the enforcement of this Non-Competition Agreement as provided in Section 11 below.
4.
Violations.
 
Seller acknowledges and agrees that the covenants contained herein are fair and reasonable in light of the consideration paid hereunder and that damages alone may not be an adequate remedy for any breach by Seller of his covenants contained herein and accordingly, expressly agrees that in addition to any other remedies which Buyer may have, Buyer may also be entitled to permanent and temporary injunctive and other equitable relief (without the requirement of securing or posting any bond) as a court of competent jurisdiction may deem necessary or appropriate to restrain Seller from committing any violation of the covenants and obligations of Seller under this Non-Competition Agreement. Nothing herein shall prevent or delay Buyer from seeking in any court of competent jurisdiction specific performance or other equitable remedies in the event of any breach or intended breach by Seller of any of his obligations hereunder.
5. Injunctive and Other Relief.
 
For a period of one (1) year after the Closing, unless it has received Buyer's written consent to the contrary, or unless the Confidential Information (defined below) is in the public domain through no action of Seller, Seller, its officers, directors and shareholders, will:
6. Covenant Regarding Trade Secrets and Confidential Information of Company.
 
Not copy, reproduce or use any of the Confidential Information in connection with a business which is substantially similar to the business of the Company;
(a)
 
Not disclose or provide any of the Confidential Information to any third party for use in a business which is substantially similar to the business of the Company;
(b)
 
Not disclose any of the Confidential Information to its employees, agents or representatives for use in a business which is substantially similar to the business of the Company; and
(c)
 
Maintain the Confidential Information with at least the same degree of care that it uses to protect its own confidential and proprietary information of a similar nature.
(d)
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, either Seller or Buyer will be entitled to disclose Confidential Information to the extent required by a valid order or subpoena issued by a court or administrative agency of competent jurisdiction.
 
For the purposes of this Section 6 of the Non-Competition Agreement, "Confidential Information" shall be defined to include any trade secrets as defined in Chapter 812 of the Florida Statutes, of the Company, or commercial or financial information of the Company provided in a written form by or on behalf of the Company.
 
For a period of one (1) year after the Closing, unless it has received Seller's written consent to the contrary, or unless the Confidential Information (defined below) is in the public domain through no action of Buyer, Buyer, its officers, directors and shareholders, will:
7. Covenant Regarding Confidential Information of Seller.
 
Not copy, reproduce or use any of the Confidential Information in connection with a business which is substantially similar to the business of the Company;
(a)
 
Not disclose or provide any of the Confidential Information to any third party for use in a business which is substantially similar to the business of the Company;
(b)
 
Not disclose any of the Confidential Information to its employees, agents or representatives for use in a business which is substantially similar to the business of the Company; and
(c)
 
Maintain the Confidential Information with at least the same degree of care that it uses to protect its own confidential and proprietary information of a similar nature.
(d)
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, either Seller or Buyer will be entitled to disclose Confidential Information to the extent required by a valid order or subpoena issued by a court or administrative agency of competent jurisdiction.
 
For the purposes of this Section 7 of the Non-Competition Agreement, "Confidential Information" shall be defined to include any trade secrets of the Company as defined in Chapter 812 of the Florida Statutes, or commercial or financial information of the Seller or its Affiliates provided in a written form by or on behalf of the Seller or it Affiliates.
 
. In the event Buyer believes that Seller has violated any provision of this Non-Competition Agreement, Buyer shall give the Seller, written notice thereof, specifying in detail in the notice the violation and give Seller thirty (30) days, within which to cure said violation. If Seller does not cure said violation within said thirty (30) days, Buyer may seek any relief provided by law including but not limited to the remedies provided herein.
8. Notices and Cure
 
. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA WITHOUT REGARD TO ANY OTHERWISE APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS. EACH OF THE PARTIES HEREBY IRREVOCABLY CONSENTS AND AGREES THAT ANY LEGAL ACTION OR PROCEEDINGS WITH RESPECT TO THIS AGREEMENT MAY BE BROUGHT IN ANY OF THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA LOCATED IN HILLSBOROUGH COUNTY OR THE COURTS OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA FOR THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF FLORIDA HAVING SUBJECT MATTER JURISDICTION AND, BY EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF THIS AGREEMENT AND SUCH OTHER DOCUMENTS EXECUTED IN CONNECTION HEREWITH, EACH PARTY HEREBY (I) ACCEPTS THE NON-EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE AFORESAID COURTS, (II) IRREVOCABLY AGREES TO BE BOUND BY ANY FINAL JUDGMENT (AFTER ANY AND ALL APPEALS) OF ANY SUCH COURT WITH RESPECT TO SUCH DOCUMENTS, (III) IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, ANY OBJECTION WHICH IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE LAYING OF VENUE OF ANY SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDINGS WITH RESPECT TO SUCH DOCUMENTS BROUGHT IN ANY SUCH COURT, AND FURTHER IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, ANY CLAIM THAT ANY SUCH SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDINGS BROUGHT IN ANY SUCH COURT HAS BEEN BROUGHT IN ANY INCONVENIENT FORUM, (IV) AGREES THAT SERVICE OF PROCESS IN ANY SUCH ACTION MAY BE EFFECTED BY MAILING A COPY THEREOF BY REGISTERED OR CERTIFIED MAIL (OR ANY SUBSTANTIALLY SIMILAR FORM OF MAIL), POSTAGE PREPAID, TO SUCH PARTY AT ITS ADDRESS SET FORTH IN THE SIGNATURE BLOCK BELOW, OR AT SUCH OTHER ADDRESS OF WHICH THE OTHER PARTIES SHALL HAVE BEEN NOTIFIED AND (V) AGREES THAT NOTHING HEREIN SHALL AFFECT THE RIGHT TO EFFECT SERVICE OF PROCESS IN ANY OTHER MANNER PERMITTED BY LAW OR LIMIT THE RIGHT TO BRING ANY SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN ANY OTHER JURISDICTION.
9. Governing Law; Venue
 
. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY KNOWINGLY, VOLUNTARILY AND INTENTIONALLY WAIVE THE RIGHT ANY OF THEM MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN RESPECT OF ANY LITIGATION BASED HEREON, OR ARISING OUT OF, UNDER OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT AND ANY AGREEMENT CONTEMPLATED TO BE EXECUTED IN CONJUNCTION HEREWITH, OR ANY COURSE OF CONDUCT, COURSE OF DEALING, STATEMENTS (WHETHER VERBAL OR WRITTEN) OR ACTIONS OF ANY PARTY HERETO. THIS PROVISION IS A MATERIAL INDUCEMENT FOR THE PARTIES ENTERING INTO THIS AGREEMENT.
10. Waiver of Trial by Jury
 
If any action or proceeding relating to this Non-Competition Agreement or the enforcement of any provision of this Non-Competition Agreement brought against any other party hereto, the prevailing party shall be entitled to recover reasonable attorney's fees, costs and disbursements in addition to any other relief to which the prevailing party may be entitled.
11. Attorney's Fees.
 
This Non-Competition Agreement is entered pursuant to and as a part of the Stock Purchase Agreement. All monies to be paid to Seller pursuant to the Stock Purchase Agreement are subject to Buyer's right to setoff, if any, to the extent provided by law.
12. Setoff.
 
13. Miscellaneous.
 
(a) . The invalidity or unenforceability of any particular provision or part of any provision of this Non-Competition Agreement shall not effect the other provisions or other parts hereof. It is the intention of the parties to this Non-Competition Agreement that the non-competition covenants contained in this Non-Competition Agreement as well as the non-disclosure and non-pirating provisions of this Non-Competition Agreement shall be enforced to the greatest extent in time, area and degree of participation as is permitted by the law of the state of Florida whose law is to be applicable to any acts allegedly in breach of any covenants contained in this Non-Competition Agreement. To this end, the parties to this Non-Competition Agreement agree that if any court determines that any one or more of the restrictive covenants contained in the Non-Competition Agreement is unenforceable because of the duration of such provision, the Prohibited Activity or the territory covered thereby, such court shall have the power to reduce the duration, activities or territory of such provision and in its reduced for, such provision shall then be enforceable and shall be enforced.
Severability
 
(b) . All notices, requests and other communications hereunder must be in writing and will be deemed to have been duly given only if delivered personally or by facsimile transmission or mailed (Certified Mail, Return Receipt Requested) to the Parties at the following addresses or facsimile numbers:
Notices
 
If to Purchaser:
 
BCH Holdings, Inc.
6354 118
th
Ave., N.
Largo, FL, 33733
Facsimile: 727-545-1801
 
with a copy to:
 
Philip W. Engle
Attorney At Law
P.O. Box 800022
Roswell, GA 30075
Facsimile 678-352-0489
 
If to Seller, to:
 
TECO Solutions, Inc.
702 North Franklin Street
Tampa, Florida 33602
Facsimile No.: (813) 228-4643
Attn: Bruce Narzissenfeld
 
with a copy to:
 
TECO Energy, Inc.
Legal Department
702 North Franklin Street
Tampa, Florida 33602
Facsimile No.: (813) 228-1328
Attn:   Douglas M. Bagge
           Assistant General Counsel
 
All such notices, requests and other communications will (i) if delivered personally to the address as provided in this Section, be deemed given upon delivery, (ii) if delivered by facsimile transmission to the facsimile number as provided in this Section, be deemed given upon receipt but with subsequent confirmation by other permitted means, and (iii) if delivered by mail in the manner described above to the address as provided in this Section, be deemed given upon receipt (in each case regardless of whether such notice, request or other communication is received by any other Person to whom a copy of such notice, request or other communication is to be delivered pursuant to this Section). Any Party from time to time may change its address, facsimile number or other information for the purpose of notices to that Party by giving notice specifying such change to the other Party.
 
(c) This Non-Competition Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties hereto with respect to the matters contemplated herein and supercedes all prior agreements and understandings with respect thereto, excepting only the Stock Purchase Agreement to which this Non-Competition Agreement shall act to supplement. Any amendment, modification or waiver of this Non-Competition Agreement shall not be effective unless in writing. Neither the failure or any delay on the part of any party to exercise any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege preclude any other or further exercise of the same or of any other right, remedy, power or privilege with respect to any occurrence, be construed as a waiver of any right, remedy, power or privilege with respect to any other occurrence.
Entire Agreement; Modification
.
 
(d) . The headings of sections in this Non-Competition Agreement are for convenience only and shall not affect its interpretation. This Non-Competition Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original and all of which when taken together shall be deemed to constitute but one and the same Non-Competition Agreement.
Headings; Counterparts
 
 
, the Parties have set their hands and affixed their seals effective this the 31st day of December, 2004.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
 
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
 
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
 
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
 
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
 
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
 
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
Confidential Draft January 12, 2005
 
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
 
THIS PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT (the ""), dated as of January 13, 2005, is made and entered into by and between TM DELMARVA POWER, L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company (the "") on the one hand, and TPF Chesapeake, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the ""), on the other hand.
Agreement
Seller
Purchaser
 
 
A. Commonwealth Chesapeake Company, LLC, a Virginia limited liability company (the ""), owns the Facility (as defined in ).
Company
Section 1.1
 
B. Seller owns 100% of the membership interests in the Company (the "").
Membership Interests
 
C. Seller desires to sell to Purchaser, and Purchaser desires to purchase and acquire from Seller, all of the Membership Interests, on the terms and subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth.
 
D. Seller and Purchaser are entering into this Agreement to evidence their respective duties, obligations, and responsibilities in respect of the purchase and sale of the Membership Interests as contemplated herein (the "").
Transactions
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing recitals and the agreements contained herein, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound, do hereby agree as follows:
 
 
 
. The following terms when used in this Agreement (or in the Schedules and Exhibits to this Agreement) with initial letters capitalized have the meanings set forth below:
Section 1.1 Certain Defined Terms
 
"" means the difference between (x) the total current assets of the Company, excluding Inventory, Fuel Oil, any account receivables of the Company that have been outstanding and unpaid for a period of ninety (90) days or more () and any Excluded Assets, and (y) the total current liabilities of the Company, excluding any Excluded Liabilities.
Adjusted Net Working Capital
"Late Accounts"
 
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Adjusted Purchase Price
Section 3.3
 
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Adjustment Sections
Section 3.3
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
"" of a specified Person means any other Person that directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with the specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control," when used with respect to any specified Person, means the possession of the power to direct the management or policies of the specified Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, partnership or limited liability company interests, by contract or otherwise.
Affiliate
 
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Agents
Section 5.12
 
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Agreed Benchmark Price
Section 3.1(b)
 
"" means this Purchase and Sale Agreement, together with the Schedules and Exhibits hereto.
Agreement
 
"" means (i) Purchaser's Guaranty; (ii) Seller's Guaranty; (iii) the Amendment, Assignment and Assumption Agreement; (iv) the Assignment and Assumption Agreement (Excluded Assets and Liabilities); and (v) the additional agreements and instruments of sale, transfer, conveyance, assignment and assumption to be executed and delivered by any Party at the Closing, if any.
Ancillary Agreements
 
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Appurtenant Easements
Section 4.11
 
"" means that certain Amendment, Assignment and Assumption Agreement, substantially in the form of , to be executed and delivered by Seller and Purchaser at Closing.
Amendment, Assignment and Assumption Agreement
Exhibit A
 
" means that certain Assignment and Assumption Agreement, substantially in the form of , to be executed and delivered by Seller and the Company at Closing.
Assignment and Assumption Agreement (Excluded Assets and Liabilities)
Exhibit B
 
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Balance Sheet
Section 4.19
 
"" means a day other than Saturday, Sunday or a day on which banks are authorized to be closed for business in the State of Virginia, and with respect to the Closing Date, the State of Florida.
Business Day
 
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Closing
Section 3.1(c)
 
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Closing Balance Sheet
Section 3.4(b)
 
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Closing Date
Section 3.1(c)
 
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Closing Inventory and Fuel Oil Value
Section 3.4(a)
 
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended and interpreted as of the Effective Date or as of the date of Closing, as the case may be, and all references to Treasury Regulations shall mean such regulations as they exist and are interpreted as of the Effective Date or as of the date of Closing, as the case may be.
Code
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
"" means the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, or its regulatory successor, as applicable.
Communications Act
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the Recital A of this Agreement.
Company
 
has the meaning set forth in .
"Company Financial Statements"
Section 4.19
 
"" means all patents and industrial designs, copyrights, trademarks, trade names, service marks, service names, technology, know-how, processes, trade secrets, inventions, proprietary rights, proprietary data, formulae, research and development data, databases, computer software programs and any other intellectual property as provided by applicable Laws, (and any registrations or applications for the same and all goodwill associated therewith) necessary for the Company to conduct its business as currently conducted.
Company Intellectual Property
 
"" means any change (or changes taken together) in, or effect on, the Facility or the Company that is materially adverse to the operations or the physical or financial condition of the Facility or the Company, taken as a whole, but excluding (1) any change (or changes taken together) or effect generally affecting electric generating facilities located in PJM wholesale or retail markets for electric power or transmission thereof and not affecting the Facility in any materially different manner or degree therefrom; (2) any change (or changes taken together) or effect resulting from changes in or restructuring of the national or PJM wholesale or retail markets for electric power or the transmission thereof, or for fuel used at the Facility; or (3) any change which is cured (including by the payment of money through insurance proceeds or otherwise) before the earlier of the Closing or the termination of this Agreement under .
Company Material Adverse Effect
Section 10.1
 
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Confidential Information
Section 6.9
 
"" means that certain Confidentiality Agreement dated as of August 12, 2004 by and between TECO Energy, Inc., and Tenaska Power Fund, L.P.
Confidentiality Agreement
 
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Damaged Portion
Section 6.7(c)
 
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Deposit Funds
Section 3.2(a)
 
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Dispute
Section 11.8
 
"" or "" means the lawful currency of the United States of America.
Dollar
$
 
"" means the date on which this Agreement has been executed and delivered by Seller and Purchaser.
Effective Date
 
"" means any and all mortgages, pledges, claims, liens, security interests, options, warrants, purchase rights, conditional and installment sales agreements, easements, activity and use restrictions and limitations, exceptions, rights-of-way, deed restrictions, defects or imperfections of title, encumbrances and charges of any kind.
Encumbrances
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
"" means the presence at the Facility or Release to the environment at or from the Facility, of Hazardous Substances, including any migration of Hazardous Substances through air, soil or groundwater at, to or from the Facility, regardless of when such presence or Release occurred or is discovered.
Environmental Condition
 
"" means all applicable Federal, state, local and foreign civil and criminal laws, regulations, rules, ordinances, codes, decrees, judgments, directives, or judicial or administrative orders or common law relating to pollution or protection of the environment, natural resources or human health and safety, as in effect as of the Closing Date, including, without limitation, laws relating to noise, Releases or threatened Releases of Hazardous Substances (including, without limitation, Releases to ambient air, surface water, groundwater, land, surface and subsurface strata) or otherwise relating to the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, Release, transport, disposal or handling of Hazardous Substances, including, but not limited to: the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, 42 U.S.C.  9601 et seq.; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C.  6901 et seq.; the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, 33 U.S.C.  1251 et seq.; the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C.  7401 et seq.; the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act, 49 U.S.C.  1471 et seq.; the Toxic Substances Control Act, 15 U.S.C.  2601 through 2629; the Oil Pollution Act, 33 U.S.C.  2701 et seq.; the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act, 42 U.S.C.  11001 et seq.; the Safe Drinking Water Act, 42 U.S.C.  300f through 300j; the Occupational Safety and Health Act, 29 U.S.C.  651 et seq.; the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, 30 U.S.C.  1201 et seq.; any similar laws of the State of Virginia or of any other Governmental Authority having jurisdiction over any site at which the Facility is located or otherwise applicable to the Facility or its owners or operators; and regulations implementing the foregoing.
Environmental Laws
 
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
ERISA
 
"" means any Person that together with Seller or any Affiliate of Seller would be deemed a single employer within the meaning of Section 4001 of ERISA, or would otherwise have any liability for any benefit plan of Seller or any Seller Affiliate.
ERISA Affiliate of Seller
 
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Estimated ANWC Statement
Section 3.1(b)(i)
 
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Estimated Closing Inventory and Fuel Oil
Section 3.1(b)(ii)
 
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Estimated Closing Inventory and Fuel Oil Adjustment
Section 3.1(b)(ii)
 
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Excluded Assets
Section 6.13
 
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Excluded Liabilities
Section 6.14
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
"" has the meaning set forth in
EWG
Section 4.21.
 
means the written or oral contracts, agreements, arrangements, licenses and leases to which the Company has been a party, or to which the Company or the Facility has been bound or subject, that have expired, lapsed or otherwise terminated up to four (4) years prior to the Closing Date and which otherwise would constitute Material Facility Contracts (or would be a Material Facility Contract but for the exclusion in clause (ii) of the definition of Material Facility Contract) if in effect on the Effective Date.
"Expired Material Facility Contracts"
 
"" means the approximately 315 MW simple-cycle, oil fired combustion turbine electric generating facility known as the Commonwealth Chesapeake Facility and located New Church, Virginia, and all related personal, intellectual, and real property and interests therein (to the extent of the Company's interest).
Facility
 
"" means those insurance policies or binders identified on .
Facility Insurance Policies
Schedule 4.20
 
"" means that certain Operations and Maintenance Agreement, dated as of May 15, 2000, by and between the Company and the Facility Operator, as amended.
Facility Operations Agreement
 
"" means TPS Virginia Operations Company, a Virginia corporation.
Facility Operator
 
"" means the Federal Communications Commission as established by the Communications Act.
FCC
 
"" means the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission as established by the Department of Energy Organization Act of 1977, 42 U.S.C.  7171, as amended, or its regulatory successor, as applicable.
FERC
 
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Final Adjusted Purchase Price
Section 3.4(c)
 
has the meaning set forth in .
"Final Inventory and Fuel Oil Determination"
Section 3.4(a)
 
"" means the fuel oil used to power the Facility's turbines, a supply of which is maintained on site at the Facility.
Fuel Oil
 
"" means United States generally accepted accounting principles, as in effect from time to time and applied on a consistent basis.
GAAP
 
"" means collectively Alstom Power Inc. and Electric Motor & Contracting Co., Inc.
Generator Rotor Contractors
 
"" means certain ongoing repairs with respect to the generator rotors on the Facility's turbines pursuant to a contract between the Company and Alstom Power Inc. dated August 20, 2004 and certain associated repair work being undertaken by Electric Motor & Contracting Co., Inc. pursuant to its contract with the Company dated September 13, 2004.
Generator Rotor Repairs
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
"" means the contracts between the Company and the Generator Rotor Contractors pursuant to which the ongoing Generator Rotor Repairs are being performed.
Generator Rotor Repair Contracts
 
"" means any federal, state, local, foreign or other government; any governmental, regulatory or administrative agency, commission, body or other authority exercising or entitled to exercise any administrative, executive, judicial, legislative, police, regulatory or taxing authority or power; any court or governmental tribunal; but does not include Purchaser, Seller, any Affiliate of Purchaser or Seller, or any of their respective successors in interest or any owner or operator of the Facility (if otherwise a Governmental Authority).
Governmental Authority
 
"" means any chemical, material or substance in any form, whether solid, liquid, gaseous, semisolid, or any combination thereof, whether waste material, raw material, chemical, finished product, byproduct, or any other material or article, that is listed or regulated under applicable Environmental Laws as a "hazardous" or "toxic" substance or waste, or as a "contaminant," or is otherwise listed or regulated under applicable Environmental Laws because it poses a hazard to human health or the environment; including without limitation, petroleum products, asbestos, and urea formaldehyde foam insulation.
Hazardous Substances
 
"" means the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended from time to time.
HSR Act
 
"" means any Tax imposed by any Governmental Authority (i) based upon, measured by or calculated with respect to gross or net income, profits or receipts (including municipal gross receipt Taxes, capital gains Taxes and minimum Taxes) or (ii) based upon, measured by or calculated with respect to multiple bases (including corporate franchise Taxes) if one or more of such bases is described in clause (i), in each case together with any interest, penalties or additions attributable to such Tax.
Income Tax
 
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Indemnifiable Claim
Section 7.7
 
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Indemnitee
Section 7.4
 
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Indemnitor
Section 7.4
 
"" means a nationally recognized accounting firm reasonably acceptable to the Parties.
Independent Accounting Firm
 
"" means any intercompany transaction between the Company, on the one hand, and Seller or any of their respective Affiliates, on the other hand, whether or not such transaction relates to any contribution to capital, loan, the provision of goods or services, tax sharing arrangements, payment arrangements, intercompany advances, charges or balances or the like.
Intercompany Arrangements
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
"" means the following items used or consumed or intended to be used or consumed at the Facility in the ordinary course of business: spare, replacement or other parts; tools, special tools, equipment, lubricants, chemicals, fluids, oils, supplies, filters, fittings, connectors, seals, gaskets, hardware, wire and other similar materials; maintenance, shop and office supplies; and other similar items of personal property, except the Fuel Oil.
Inventory
 
"" means all statutes, rules, regulations, ordinances, orders and codes of federal, state, foreign and local Governmental Authorities.
Laws
 
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Losses
Section 7.2(a)
 
"" means the written or oral contracts, agreements, arrangements, licenses and leases to which the Company is a party, or by or to which the Company or the Facility is bound or subject, except for those: (i) which will expire prior to the Closing Date without any further material obligations of either the Company or Seller on behalf of the Company; (ii) which may be terminated without material penalty or further obligation by the Company or Seller on behalf of the Company upon ninety (90) days notice or less; or (iii) which do not require expenditures or payments by the Company in excess of One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000) per year; provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing exceptions, the "Material Facility Contracts" does include those contracts: (A) which are between the Company and any of its or Seller's Affiliates; (B) which contain restrictions on competition or restrict future development of the Facility; (C) which create indebtedness of the Company or create a security interest in the Facility or other Company assets, in each case other than Permitted Encumbrances; or (D) under which the transactions contemplated by this Agreement would constitute a default or breach or be materially delayed.
Material Facility Contracts
 
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Notice of Claim
Section 7.4
 
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Notice of Disagreement
Section 3.4(c)
 
has the meaning set forth in .
"
October 31 Adjusted Net Working Capital Calculation
"
Section 3.3(a)
 
has the meaning set forth in .
"
October 31 Adjusted Purchase Price Calculation
"
Section 3.3
 
has the meaning set forth in .
"October 31 Inventory Schedule"
Section 3.1(b)(ii)
 
"" means the Third Amended and Restated Operating Agreement of Commonwealth Chesapeake Company, L.L.C. dated October 14, 2004.
Operating Agreement
 
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Owned Real Property
Section 4.11
 
"" means either a Seller or a Purchaser, as the context requires; "" means, collectively, Seller and Purchaser.
Par
ty
Parties
 
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Permits
Section 4.7
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
"" means (i) statutory liens for Property Taxes and other governmental charges and assessments (including without limitation Taxes) which are not yet due and payable; (ii) statutory mechanics', carriers', workers', repairers' and other similar liens arising or incurred in the ordinary course of business for amounts which are not due and payable and which would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect; (iii) easements, restrictions and other encumbrances clearly referenced as exceptions on title insurance policies for the Facility issued pursuant to the title commitments previously provided or made available by Seller to Purchaser; and (iv) the specific liens, exceptions, restrictions, easements, charges, rights-of-way, monetary and nonmonetary encumbrances, security interests, regulations, and similar matters, which are listed on .
Permitted Encumbrances
Schedule 1.1B
 
"" means an individual, partnership, joint venture, corporation, limited liability company, trust, association or unincorporated organization, any Governmental Authority, or any other entity.
Person
 
"" means PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company, and the PJM electric control area.
PJM
 
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Post-Closing Statement
Section 3.4(b)(ii)
 
"" means any Tax resulting from and relating to the assessment of real or personal property by any Governmental Authority.
Property Tax
 
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Purchase Price
Section 3.2
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the preamble of this Agreement.
Purchaser
 
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Purchaser Claims
Section 7.2(a)
 
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Purchaser Group
Section 7.2(a)
 
means Tenaska Energy, Inc., a Delaware corporation and Tenaska Energy Holdings, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company.
"Purchaser's Guarantors"
 
has the meaning set forth in .
"Purchaser's Guarantor's Financial Statements"
Section 5.10
 
"" means that certain Continuing Guaranty, substantially in the form of , which was executed by Purchaser's Guarantors and delivered by Purchaser to Seller on or before the Effective Date, pursuant to which Purchaser's Guarantors have guaranteed the equity portion of the Purchase Price.
Purchaser's Guaranty
Exhibit C-1
 
"" or "", when used in respect of a Purchaser, means the actual and current knowledge, as of the Effective Date (or, with respect to the certificate delivered pursuant to , the date of delivery of the certificate) of any of the chief executive officer, the chief financial officer, the chief operating officer, the chief accounting officer and the chief legal officer or general counsel of Purchaser and of any other duly elected
Purchaser's Knowledge
Knowledge
Section 9.6
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
officer of Purchaser or any Affiliate of Purchaser or any other employee of Purchaser or any Affiliate of Purchaser who has actually participated in the negotiation or review of this Agreement on Purchaser's behalf and the Persons listed in .
Schedule 1.1A
 
"" means any change to, or effect on, the Purchaser that is materially adverse to the operations or financial condition of the Purchaser, taken as a whole, or which materially impedes the ability of the Purchaser to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby or otherwise fulfill its obligations hereunder; but excluding any effect (or effects taken together) on Purchaser of any adverse change or shortfall with respect to the syndication or capitalization of Tenaska Power Fund, L.P. (but not excluding any effect to the extent caused by breaches by Seller of its representations, warranties or obligations hereunder).
Purchaser Material Adverse Effect
 
"" means the consent of any Person as specified in other than a Governmental Authority necessary for Purchaser to consummate the Transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements.
Purchaser's Required Consents
Schedule 1.1C
 
"" means (i) the approval of the Transactions contemplated hereby by any Governmental Authority of competent jurisdiction over any of the Parties, the Facility, Seller, Purchaser, or the Company that are required for Purchaser or any of its Affiliates to consummate the Transactions as specified in and (ii) the notice to, filing with, or consent, approval or authorization of, any Governmental Authority as specified in .
Purchaser's Required Regulatory Approvals
Part I of Schedule 1.1D
Part II of Schedule 1.1D
 
"" means any release, spill, leak, discharge, abandonment, disposal, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying, injecting, leaching, dumping, depositing, dispersing, allowing to escape or migrate into or through the environment (including ambient air, surface water, ground water, land surface and subsurface strata) of any Hazardous Substance, including the burial, storage, abandonment or discarding of Hazardous Substances in barrels, drums, or other containers.
Release
 
"" means any action of any kind to address an Environmental Condition or Release or threatened Release or the presence of Hazardous Substances on or in the air, soil or groundwater, including the following: (i) monitoring, investigation, cleanup, containment, remediation, removal, mitigation, response or restoration work; (ii) obtaining any permits, consents, approvals or authorizations of any Governmental Authority necessary to conduct any such work; (iii) preparing and implementing any plans or studies for such work; (iv) obtaining a written notice from a Governmental Authority with jurisdiction under applicable Environmental Laws that no material additional work is required by such Governmental Authority; (v) any response to, or preparation for, any inquiry, order, hearing or other proceeding by or before any Governmental Authority with respect to any such Environmental Condition, Release or threatened Release or presence of Hazardous Substances, and (vi) any other activities reasonably determined by Seller or the Company to be necessary or appropriate or required under Environmental Laws to address an Environmental Condition, the presence of or Release of Hazardous Substances in the air, soil or groundwater, at the Facility, or any other off-site location.
Remediation
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the preamble of this Agreement.
Seller
 
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Seller Claims
Section 7.3
 
"" means the guarantee by TECO Energy, Inc., a Florida corporation and indirect parent of Seller, in favor of PJM and Delmarva Power & Light Company ("DPL"), a Virginia corporation, of certain obligations of the Company pursuant to (i) the Interconnection Agreement dated July 1, 1999 between the Company and DPL, as amended and (ii) the Interconnection Service Agreement dated June 1, 2000 between the Company and PJM.
Seller's Existing Affiliate Guaranty
 
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Seller Group
Section 7.3
 
"" means TECO Energy, Inc., a Florida corporation.
Seller's Guarantor
 
"" means that certain Continuing Guaranty, substantially in the form of , which was executed by Seller's Guarantor and delivered by Seller to Purchaser on or before the Effective Date.
Seller's Guaranty
Exhibit D
 
"" or "", when used in respect of a Seller, means the actual and current knowledge, as of the Effective Date (or, with respect to the certificate delivered pursuant to , the date of delivery of the certificate) of the Persons listed in , which Schedule includes any officer of Seller and any other employee of Seller or any Affiliate of Seller who actually participated in the negotiation or review of this Agreement on Seller's behalf.
Seller's Knowledge
Knowledge
Section 8.6
Schedule 1.1A
 
"" means the consent of any Person as specified in other than a Governmental Authority necessary for Seller to consummate the Transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements.
Seller's Required Consents
Schedule 1.1E
 
"" means approval of the Transactions contemplated hereby by any Governmental Authority of competent jurisdiction over any of the Parties, the Facility, Seller, Purchaser or the Company, that are required for Seller or any of its Affiliates to consummate the Transactions, as specified in .
Seller's Required Regulatory Approvals
Schedule 1.1F
 
"" or "" means any federal, state, local or foreign income, gross receipts, license, payroll, employment, excise, severance, stamp, occupation, premium, windfall profits, environmental (including taxes under Code Section 59A), customs duties, capital stock, franchise, profits, withholding, social security (or similar), unemployment, disability, real property (including assessments, fees or other charges based on the use or ownership of real property), personal property, transactional, use, transfer, registration, value added, alternative or add-on minimum, estimated tax, or other tax of any kind whatsoever, including any interest, penalty or addition thereto, whether disputed or not, including, without limitation, any item for which liability arises as a transferee or successor-in-interest.
Tax
Taxes
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Tax Proceeding
Section 6.6(e)
 
"" means any return, report, information return, declaration, claim for refund, or other document, together with all amendments and supplements thereto (including all related or supporting information), required to be supplied to any Governmental Authority responsible for the administration of Laws governing Taxes.
Tax Return
 
means the oral arrangement pursuant to which TECO EnergySource, Inc., an affiliate of Seller and Seller's Guarantor, is currently providing services to the Company.
"TECO EnergySource Agreement"
 
"" means the names and marks "TECO", "TECO Power Services" and related marks, and all other trade names, trademarks and service marks owned by Seller or any of its Affiliates, excluding the name "Commonwealth Chesapeake Company" and any rights of the Company in such name or related marks.
TECO Marks
 
"" means the date that this Agreement is terminated under .
Termination Date
Section 10.1
 
"" means a claim by a Person that is not a member of Seller Group or Purchaser Group, including any claim for the costs of conducting Remediation, or seeking an order or demanding that a Person undertake Remediation.
Third Party Claim
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the Recital D to this Agreement.
Transactions
 
"" means any sales Tax, transfer Tax, transaction Tax, conveyance fee, use Tax, stamp Tax, stock transfer Tax or other similar Tax, including any related penalties, interest and additions thereto.
Transfer Tax
 
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Transferred Employee
Section 6.15
 
. In this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires:
Section 1.2 Certain Interpretive Matters
 
(a) the singular number includes the plural number and vice versa;
 
(b) reference to any Person includes such Person's successors and assigns but, if applicable, only if such successors and assigns are permitted by this Agreement, and reference to a Person in a particular capacity excludes such Person in any other capacity;
 
(c) reference to any gender includes each other gender;
 
(d) reference to any agreement (including this Agreement), document or instrument means such agreement, document or instrument as amended or modified and in effect from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof and, if applicable, the terms hereof;
 
(e) reference to any Article, Section, Schedule or Exhibit means such Article, Section, Schedule or Exhibit of or to this Agreement, and references in any Article, Section, Schedule, Exhibit or definition to any clause means such clause of such Article, Section, Schedule, Exhibit or definition;
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
(f) any accounting term used and not otherwise defined in this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement has the meaning assigned to such term in accordance with GAAP;
 
(g) "hereunder," "hereof," "hereto" and words of similar import are references to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular Section or other provision hereof or thereof;
 
(h) "including" (and with correlative meaning "include") means including without limiting the generality of any description preceding such term;
 
(i) relative to the determination of any period of time, "from" means "from and including," "to" means "to but excluding" and "through" means "through and including;"
 
(j) reference to any law (including statutes and ordinances) means such law as amended, modified codified or reenacted, in whole or in part, and in effect from time to time, including rules and regulations promulgated thereunder; and
 
(k) any agreement, instrument, insurance policy, statute, regulation, rule or order defined or referred to herein or in any agreement or instrument that is referred to herein means such agreement, instrument, insurance policy, statute, regulation, rule or order as from time to time amended, modified or supplemented, including (in the case of agreements or instruments) by waiver or consent and (in the case of statutes, regulations, rules or orders) by succession of comparable successor statutes, regulations, rules or orders and references to all attachments thereto and instruments incorporated therein.
 
 
 
Upon the terms and subject to the satisfaction of the conditions contained in this Agreement, at the Closing, Seller shall sell and convey the Membership Interests to Purchaser, and Purchaser shall purchase and receive the Membership Interests from Seller.
 
 
 
Section 3.1 Signing; Closing.
 
(a) . On or prior to the execution of this Agreement, (i) Purchaser shall cause Purchaser's Guarantors to execute and deliver Purchaser's Guaranty to Seller; and (ii) Seller shall cause Seller's Guarantor to execute and deliver Seller's Guaranty to Purchaser.
Deliverables at Signing
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
(b) . At least three (3) but no more than fifteen (15) business days prior to the anticipated Closing Date, Seller shall prepare and deliver to Purchaser the following:
Deliverables Prior to Closing
 
(i) Seller's written estimate of the Adjusted Net Working Capital as of Closing (defined below) (expressed as a positive or negative number), calculated consistently with the methodology set forth in and in accordance with GAAP and showing the calculation thereof in reasonable detail (the ""); and
Schedule 3.3(a)
Estimated ANWC Statement
 
(ii) Seller's written estimate of the Inventory and Fuel Oil that will be on hand at the Facility as of Closing (""), together with a calculation of the amount (expressed as a positive or negative number) equal to (A) the value of the Estimated Closing Inventory and Fuel Oil, with the value of Inventory calculated utilizing the prices set forth on attached to this Agreement (the "") for the items listed therein and their equivalents and the actual purchase price for any additional items included in Inventory and the value of Fuel Oil in inventory in excess of 100,000 gallons determined using the trailing 20 day average price (calculated as of the date of such measurement) of New York Harbor Fuel Oil as published in Plus $0.11 per gallon (the "") (B) the value of the Company's Inventory as of October 31, 2004, as reflected on the October 31 Inventory Schedule (such difference, the ").
Estimated Closing Inventory and Fuel Oil
Schedule 4.10(a)
October 31 Inventory Schedule
Platt's
Oilgram
Agreed Benchmark Price
minus
"Estimated Closing Inventory and Fuel Oil Adjustment
 
(c) . Subject to the terms and conditions hereof, proceedings for the consummation of the Transactions (the "") will take place at the offices of TECO Energy, Inc., 702 North Franklin Street, Tampa, FL 33602 at 10:00 a.m. local time, on a mutually acceptable date within three (3) Business Days following the date on which the conditions set forth in and , other than those conditions that by their nature are to be satisfied at the Closing, have been either satisfied or waived by the Party for whose benefit such conditions exist, or at such other time and place as the Parties may mutually agree, but in no event shall the Closing occur later than May 31, 2005. The date on which such proceedings actually occur is referred to herein as the "." The Closing shall be effective for all purposes at 11:59 p.m., Eastern time, on the Closing Date. At the Closing, and subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the following will occur:
Deliverables at Closing
Closing
Article 8
Article 9
Closing Date
 
(i) . At Closing, Seller shall execute and deliver, or cause to be executed and delivered, to Purchaser, as applicable, those documents required to be delivered to Purchaser by Seller pursuant to .
Deliveries by Seller
Article 8
 
(ii) . At Closing, Purchaser shall (A) deliver the Purchase Price (as defined in and adjusted pursuant to below) (less the Deposit Funds (as defined below) and all accrued interest thereon), and any amount(s) payable on the Closing Date to Seller pursuant to the Ancillary Agreements, by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account or accounts designated by Seller in writing at least 2 Business Days prior to the Closing Date; and (B) execute and deliver, or cause to be delivered, to Seller, as applicable, those documents required to be delivered to Seller by Purchaser pursuant to .
Deliveries by Purchaser
Section 3.2
Section 3.3
Article 9
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
. The purchase price for the Membership Interests being sold shall be Eighty Nine Million Dollars (U.S.$89,000,000) (the ""), as adjusted only pursuant to and below. The benchmark Purchase Price includes only the Inventory included on the October 31 Inventory Schedule and assumes zero Dollars ($0) Adjusted Net Working Capital at Closing and shall be adjusted to account for Fuel Oil, Adjusted Net Working Capital and any changes in Inventory from the October 31 Inventory Schedule at Closing.
Section 3.2 Purchase Price
Purchase Price
Section 3.3
Section 3.4
 
(a) Within five (5) Business Days after the Effective Date, Purchaser shall deposit to an interest bearing escrow account the equivalent of five percent (5%) of the Purchase Price (such sum, the ""). Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, the Deposit Funds shall be released as follows:
Deposit Funds
 
(i) If Seller terminates this Agreement pursuant to , the Deposit Funds and all accrued interest thereon shall be immediately released to Seller or its designee in full satisfaction of all of Purchaser's obligations under this Agreement.
Section 10.1(b)
 
(ii) If Closing does not occur for reasons other than those set forth in , on or prior to the Termination Date, the Deposit Funds and all accrued interest thereon shall be immediately released to Purchaser or its designee.
Section 3.2(a)(i)
 
(iii) If Closing is achieved pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, the Deposit Funds and all accrued interest thereon shall be released on the Closing Date to Seller or its designee, and in such case the Deposit Funds and all accrued interest thereon shall be applied towards Purchaser's payment of the Purchase Price.
 
(b) At the Closing, Purchaser shall pay to Seller in the manner described in above an amount equal to the Purchase Price as adjusted pursuant to below (less the Deposit Funds and accrued interest thereon).
Section 3.1(c)(ii)
Section 3.3
 
. The Purchase Price shall be subject only to those adjustments made at the Closing set forth below in and and those post-Closing adjustments (all of which shall be made within ninety (90) days after the Closing Date) made pursuant to the provisions of (such Sections being referred to collectively as the "," and the Purchase Price as so adjusted is herein referred to as the ""). For purposes of illustrating the methodology for calculating the adjustments to the Purchase Price only, demonstrates how such adjustments would have been calculated from the Balance Sheet if they had been calculated on October 31, 2004 (the calculation in shall be referred to as the "").
Section 3.3 Adjustments to Purchase Price at Closing
Sections 3.3(a)
3.3(b),
Section 3.4
Adjustment Sections
Adjusted Purchase Price
Schedule 3.3
Schedule 3.3
October 31 Adjusted Purchase Price Calculation
 
(a) . At Closing, the Purchase Price shall be increased or decreased, as the case may be to the extent that the amount of Adjusted Net Working Capital demonstrated on the Estimated ANWC Statement is greater than or less than zero Dollars ($0). For purposes of illustrating the methodology for calculating Adjusted Net Working Capital only, demonstrates how the Adjusted Net Working Capital
Adjusted Net Working Capital
Schedule 3.3(a)
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
would have been calculated from the Balance Sheet if it had been calculated on October 31, 2004 (the calculation in shall be referred to as the "").
Schedule 3.3(a)
October 31 Adjusted Net Working Capital Calculation
 
(b) . If the calculation of Estimated Closing Inventory and Fuel Oil Adjustment described in above results in a positive number, then the Purchase Price paid at Closing shall be increased by such amount. If such calculation results in a negative number, then the Purchase Price paid at Closing shall be decreased by the absolute amount of such negative number.
Inventory and Fuel Oil
Section 3.1(b)
 
Section 3.4 Post-Closing Adjustments to Purchase Price.
 
(a) Within three (3) Business Days following the Closing, Purchaser shall audit the actual Inventory and Fuel Oil at the Facility. Such audit shall include (i) a measurement of the amount of actual Fuel Oil held at the Facility, (ii) a physical audit of the Inventory at the Facility through reasonable audit testing procedures, and (iii) a reconciliation for any changes in Inventory and consumption or addition of Fuel Oil since the Closing Date. Within five (5) Business Days after completion of such audit, Purchaser shall deliver written notice to Seller of its calculation of the value of the Fuel Oil in inventory in excess of 100,000 gallons and Inventory actually on hand at the Facility as of the Closing, with such Fuel Oil in inventory in excess of 100,000 gallons to be valued using the Agreed Benchmark Price and both such Fuel Oil and all Inventory to be valued using the methodology set forth in above (the ""). If Seller does not accept the findings of Purchaser in the Final Inventory and Fuel Oil Determination it shall so notify Purchaser in writing within fifteen (15) Business Days after receipt of the Final Inventory and Fuel Oil Determination, in which case Seller and Purchaser shall then use good faith efforts to promptly agree upon the actual value of such Inventory and Fuel Oil as of Closing as quickly as practicable. Such value of the Inventory and Fuel Oil as finally determined by the Parties or pursuant to procedures in shall be referred to as the "". The final Purchase Price shall be increased or decreased, as the case may be, to the extent that the amount of the Closing Inventory and Fuel Oil Value is greater or lesser, respectively, than the value of the Company's Inventory and Fuel Oil used to calculate the Estimated Closing Inventory and Fuel Oil Adjustment.
Section 3.1(b)(ii)
Final Inventory and Fuel Oil Determination
Section 3.5
Closing Inventory and Fuel Oil Value
 
(b) Within ninety (90) days after the Closing Date, Purchaser shall deliver to Seller:
 
(i) a balance sheet of the Company as of the Closing Date (the ""), prepared in accordance with GAAP, and using the same GAAP accounting principles, policies, and methods as Seller has historically used in connection with the calculation of the items reflected on the Post-Closing Statement;
Closing Balance Sheet
 
(ii) a final closing statement setting forth the resulting proposed Adjusted Net Working Capital calculated with reference to the amounts shown on the Closing Balance Sheet, the Final Inventory and Fuel Oil Determination and the proposed final Adjusted Purchase Price (in its final and binding form, the ""). The Post-Closing
Post-Closing Statement
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
Statement shall be prepared in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, and shall be consistent with (A) the methodology set forth in the October 31 Adjusted Net Working Capital Calculation for the calculation of the Adjusted Net Working Capital; and (B) the methodology set forth in the October 31 Adjusted Purchase Price Calculation for the calculation of the Adjusted Purchase Price.
 
(c) Seller may object in good faith to the proposed Adjusted Purchase Price in writing, stating in reasonable detail its objections thereto, within thirty (30) days after the delivery of the Post-Closing Statement by Purchaser to Seller. Purchaser and Seller agree to cooperate to exchange information used to prepare the Post-Closing Statement and information relating thereto. The final Adjusted Purchase Price as set forth in the Post-Closing Statement shall become final and binding upon the Parties unless Seller gives written notice of its disagreement (a "") to Purchaser within such thirty (30) day period after Seller's receipt of the same from Purchaser. Any Notice of Disagreement shall specify in reasonable detail the nature and Dollar amount of any disagreement so asserted. Following delivery of a Notice of Disagreement, each Party and its respective agents and representatives shall be permitted to review the other Party's and its respective agents and representatives' working papers relating to the Notice of Disagreement. To the extent any items are not disputed in a valid Notice of Disagreement, such items shall be deemed to have been accepted by Seller. If Seller objects to the proposed Adjusted Purchase Price with a timely Notice of Disagreement, the Parties shall attempt to resolve such dispute by negotiation, and to the extent the Parties are unable to resolve any such dispute within twenty (20) days following delivery of a Notice of Disagreement or such later date as Seller and Purchaser may agree, then the disputed portion of the Adjusted Purchase Price and Post-Closing Statement shall be resolved in accordance with the provisions of . If a timely Notice of Disagreement is received by Purchaser, then the disputed portion of the Post-Closing Statement and the resulting Adjusted Purchase Price (as revised in accordance with clause (x) or (y) below) shall become final and binding upon the parties on the earliest of (x) the date the parties resolve in writing any differences they have with respect to the matters specified in the Notice of Disagreement, or (y) the date all matters in dispute are finally resolved in writing by the Independent Accounting Firm as set forth in below. (The Adjusted Purchase Price which becomes final and binding on the Parties pursuant to this or , as applicable, shall be referred to as the "").
Notice of Disagreement
Section 3.5
Section 3.5
Section 3.4(b)
3.5
Final Adjusted Purchase Price
 
(d) If the Purchase Price paid to Seller at Closing (less Deposit Funds) is greater than the Final Adjusted Purchase Price (less Deposit Funds), Seller shall, within three (3) Business Days after the Post-Closing Statement and the Final Adjusted Purchase Price becomes binding on the Parties, make payment by wire transfer to Purchaser in immediately available funds of the amount of such difference, together with interest thereon at a rate per annum equal to five percent (5%), calculated on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed over 360, from the Closing Date to the date of payment. If the Purchase Price paid to Seller at Closing is less than the Final Adjusted Purchase Price, Purchaser shall, within three (3) Business Days after the Post-Closing Statement and the Adjusted Purchase Price becomes binding on the Parties, make payment by wire transfer to Seller in immediately available funds of the amount of such difference, together with interest thereon at a rate per annum equal to five percent (5%), calculated on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed over 360, from the Closing Date to the date of payment.
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
. If the Parties are unable to resolve any differences they may have with respect to the matters specified in the Notice of Disagreement as set forth in above within the time periods set forth in such Section, such dispute may be referred by any Party to the Independent Accounting Firm. The Parties shall instruct the Independent Accounting Firm to make a final determination of the Closing Balance Sheet, the Post-Closing Statement and the resulting Adjusted Purchase Price calculated with reference to such amounts to the extent such amounts are in dispute, in accordance with the guidelines and procedures set forth in this Agreement. The Parties will cooperate with the Independent Accounting Firm during the term of its engagement. The Parties shall instruct the Independent Accounting Firm to not assign a value to any item in dispute greater than the greatest value for such item assigned by Purchaser, on the one hand, or Seller, on the other hand, or less than the smallest value for such item assigned by Purchaser, on the one hand, or Seller, on the other hand. The Parties shall also instruct the Independent Accounting Firm to make its determination based solely on presentations by Purchaser and Seller which are in accordance with the guidelines and procedures set forth in this Agreement (i.e. not on the basis of an independent review). The Closing Balance Sheet and Post-Closing Statement and the resulting Adjusted Purchase Price calculated with reference thereto shall become final and binding on the Parties on the date the Independent Accounting Firm delivers its final resolution in writing to the Parties (which final resolution shall be requested by the Parties to be delivered not more than forty-five (45) days following submission of such disputed matters). Except as set forth above, the Parties do not intend to impose any particular procedures upon the Independent Accounting Firm, it being the desire of the Parties that any such disagreement shall be resolved as expeditiously and inexpensively as reasonably practicable. The fees and expenses of the Independent Accounting Firm shall be shared equally by Purchaser and Seller. Each Party shall bear its own legal, accounting or consulting costs and expenses in connection with any dispute hereunder.
Section 3.5 Procedures for Dispute Resolution of Purchase Price Adjustment
Section 3.4(b)
 
. Seller and Purchaser have determined the allocation of the Purchase Price in accordance with Section 1060 of the Code and such allocation is set forth on hereto. Purchaser and Seller agree to timely file Internal Revenue Service Form 8594, if necessary, and all Tax Returns, in accordance with and to report the Transactions contemplated by this Agreement for federal Income Tax and all other Tax purposes in a manner consistent with such allocation. Each Party agrees to promptly provide the other with any additional information and reasonable assistance required to complete Form 8594, if necessary. In the event the Purchase Price is adjusted pursuant to the Adjustment Sections, the Parties agree to allocate any such adjustment in a matter consistent with , using the same accounting principles, policies, and methods. If Purchaser and Seller are unable to resolve any disputes in connection with the allocation of any adjustments to the Purchase Price, such disputes shall be referred to the Independent Accounting Firm for resolution, which resolution shall be final, conclusive and binding on the Parties. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the fees and expenses of the Independent Accounting Firm in resolving the dispute shall be borne equally by Seller and Purchaser.
Section 3.6 Allocation
Schedule 3.6
Schedule 3.6
Schedule 3.6
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
 
 
Seller represents and warrants to Purchaser, as of the date hereof and as of the Closing Date, as to each of the matters set forth in this .
Article 4
 
. Seller is a limited liability company, duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware. The Company is a limited liability company, duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Virginia and has all requisite power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to carry on its business as is now being conducted. Seller has provided (or made available to Purchaser in its electronic data room) correct and complete copies of the governing documents of the Company as amended to date.
Section 4.1 Organization and Existence
 
. Seller has all requisite power and authority to execute and deliver, and perform its obligations under, this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements which are executed by it, and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby. The execution, delivery and performance by Seller of this Agreement and of the Ancillary Agreements which are executed by it, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby, have been duly and validly authorized by all necessary action required on the part of Seller and no other proceedings on the part of Seller are necessary to authorize this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements to which it is a party or to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby. Assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery by Purchaser of this Agreement and the due authorization, execution and delivery by Purchaser of the Ancillary Agreements which are to be executed by them, this Agreement does and the Ancillary Agreements which are executed by Seller when executed and delivered by Seller will constitute the valid and legally binding obligations of Seller, enforceable against Seller in accordance with its and their respective terms, except as such enforceability may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws of general application relating to or affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights and by general equitable principles.
Section 4.2 Execution, Delivery and Enforceability
 
.
Section 4.3 Membership Interests
 
(a) Seller owns the Membership Interests shown as owned by Seller on free and clear of any Encumbrances, except such Encumbrances as may arise under this Agreement and except for any restrictions on sales or transfers of securities under applicable securities laws; and
Schedule A
 
(b) Seller has the full legal right, power and authority to transfer the Membership Interests shown as owned by Seller on as provided in this Agreement.
Schedule A
 
. The Membership Interests constitute one hundred percent (100%) of the issued and outstanding membership interests of the Company. All of the Membership Interests have been duly authorized and are validly issued (with no further payment
Section 4.4 Capitalization
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
required for valid issuance) and were not issued in violation of the preemptive rights of any Person. There are no outstanding contractual obligations of the Company or any other Person to issue, deliver, sell, repurchase, redeem, convert, exchange or otherwise acquire any membership interest in, or other equity security issuable by, the Company, except obligations under this Agreement. The Company has not issued, and there are no outstanding contractual obligations of the Company or any other Person to issue, any bonds or other debt securities of the Company.
 
. Subject to Seller obtaining Seller's Required Regulatory Approvals and Seller's Required Consents, neither the execution nor delivery by Seller of this Agreement or any of the Ancillary Agreements which are executed by it, nor Seller's compliance with any provision hereof or thereof, nor consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby will:
Section 4.5 No Violation
 
(a) violate or result in a breach of any provisions of the governing documents or operating agreements of Seller, governing documents of the Company or the Company's Operating Agreement;
 
(b) result in a default (or give rise to any right of termination, cancellation or acceleration) under, or violate any of the terms, conditions or provisions of, any note, bond, mortgage, indenture, license or material agreement to which Seller or the Company is a party or by which Seller, the Company, or the Facility may be bound, except for such defaults (or rights of termination or acceleration) as to which requisite waivers or consents have been, or prior to the Closing will have been, obtained or which, individually or in the aggregate, would not be reasonably likely to have a Company Material Adverse Effect;
 
(c) violate any law, rule, regulation, order, writ, injunction or decree, applicable to Seller, the Company or the Facility, except where such violations, individually or in the aggregate, would not be reasonably likely to have a Company Material Adverse Effect and will not affect the validity or enforceability of this Agreement or the Ancillary Agreements or the validity of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby; or
 
(d) require the consent or approval of, filing with, or notice to any Person which, if not obtained, would prevent Seller from performing its obligations hereunder.
 
. There is no uncured violation, and to Seller's Knowledge, there have been no violations by Seller with respect to the Company or the Facility or by the Company of any laws, orders, ordinances, rules, regulations or judgments of any Governmental Authority, except for violations or alleged violations that would not be reasonably likely to have a Company Material Adverse Effect and will not affect the validity or enforceability of this Agreement or the Ancillary Agreements or the validity of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby.
Section 4.6 Compliance with Laws
 
The Company holds all permits, registrations, franchises, certificates, licenses and other authorizations, consents and approvals of all Governmental Authorities that the Company and the Facility require in order to construct, own, operate, and maintain the Facility and generate and sell electric energy and capacity at wholesale
Section 4.7 Permits, Licenses, Etc.
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
in PJM as such business is currently conducted and at all levels at which it has been conducted during the twelve (12) month period preceding the Closing Date (collectively, ""), except for such failures to hold such Permits that would not, individually or in the aggregate, be reasonably likely to have a Company Material Adverse Effect. The Company is in compliance with all such Permits, except to the extent, individually or in the aggregate, as would not be reasonably likely to have a Company Material Adverse Effect, and has not received any written notice at any time of any violation of any Permit or that (i) any such existing Permit will be revoked; or (ii) any pending application for the renewal of any existing Permit will be denied. includes a list of all of the Permits, and Seller has made available to Purchaser a correct and complete copy of each Permit set forth on .
Permits
Schedule 4.7
Schedule 4.7
 
. Except as set forth in there is no claim, action, proceeding or investigation pending, or to Seller's Knowledge, threatened against or relating to the Company, or the Facility, before any court, arbitrator or Governmental Authority, or any judgment, decree or order of any court, arbitrator, or Governmental Authority, and to Seller's Knowledge, there are no facts or circumstances that are reasonably expected to give rise to any such claim, action, proceeding or investigation. Except as set forth in , there is no claim, action, proceeding or investigation pending, or to Seller's Knowledge, threatened against or relating to Seller, before any court, arbitrator or Governmental Authority, or any judgment, decree or order of any court, arbitrator, or Governmental Authority, which individually or in the aggregate, (a) would reasonably be expected to result, or has resulted, in (i) the institution or threat of legal proceedings to prohibit or restrain the performance by Seller of this Agreement or any of the Ancillary Agreements to which it is a party, or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, or (ii) a material impairment of the ability of Seller to perform its obligations under this Agreement or any of the Ancillary Agreements to which it is a party, or (iii) a material impairment of Company's ability to own, operate, and maintain the Facility; or (b) would be reasonably likely to have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
Section 4.8 Litigation
,
Schedule 4.8
Schedule 4.8
 
.
Section 4.9 Material Facility Contracts and Expired Material Facility Contracts
 
(a) The Company is not a party to, and neither the Company nor the Facility is otherwise bound by or subject to, any Material Facility Contracts other than those set forth in .
Schedule 4.9(a)
 
(b) Except as disclosed in , there is not, under any of the Material Facility Contracts, any default or any event which, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute a material default by the Company or, to Seller's Knowledge, a material default by another party to a Material Facility Contract. Seller has made available to Purchaser a correct and complete copy of each Material Facility Contract set forth on and all amendments thereto.
Schedule 4.9(b)
Schedule 4.9(a)
 
(c) No claim, action, proceeding or investigation is pending or, to Seller's Knowledge, threatened against the Company or Seller, challenging the enforceability of any of the Material Facility Contracts, except for challenges which, individually or in the aggregate, would not be reasonably likely to have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
(d) No claim, action, proceeding or investigation is pending or, to Seller's Knowledge, threatened against the Company or Seller with respect to any Expired Material Facility Contract nor, to Seller's Knowledge, are there any facts or circumstances that are reasonably expected to give rise to any such claim, action, proceeding or investigation. Except to the extent cured or waived by the non-defaulting party, there is not, under any of the Expired Material Facility Contracts, any default or any event which, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute a material default by the Company or, to Seller's Knowledge, a material default by another party to an Expired Material Facility Contract.
 
. The Company has good and valid title to each item of personal property listed on , free and clear of all Encumbrances, except Permitted Encumbrances. To Seller's Knowledge, neither Seller nor the Company has any liabilities or obligations with respect to any personal property previously owned by the Company that is not currently owned by the Company, nor, to Seller's Knowledge, are there any facts or circumstances that are reasonably expected to give rise to any such liabilities or obligations.
Section 4.10 Personal Property
Schedule 4.10
 
. The Company has good and valid title to the real property interests identified on (the ""), which consists of the plant site, owned in fee, and appurtenant easements (the ""), free and clear of all Encumbrances, except Permitted Encumbrances. The Company's rights in the personal property listed on , together with the Company's rights in the real property listed on and the Company Intellectual Property, constitute all of the rights, properties and other assets necessary to permit the Company to conduct its business in the same manner as such business is currently conducted and at all levels at which it has been conducted during the twelve (12) month period preceding the Closing Date (subject to seasonal variances in required Fuel Inventory), except where the absence of such rights, properties or assets, in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect. The Company has never owned or held any interest in any real property other than the Owned Real Property.
Section 4.11 Real Property
Schedule 4.11
Owned Real Property
Appurtenant Easements
Schedule 4.10
Schedule 4.11
 
. Except as set forth in , assuming that the Facility Operations Agreement and the TECO EnergySource Agreement have been terminated as required by , the Company does not have any liabilities or obligations of any nature, whether fixed, contingent, accrued or otherwise, liquidated or unliquidated, and whether due or to become due, other than:
Section 4.12 No Undisclosed Liabilities
Schedule 4.12
Section 8.11(g)
 
(i) the liabilities and obligations of the Company under Material Facility Contracts;
 
(ii) liabilities and obligations contemplated by this Agreement;
 
(iii) liabilities and obligations under or in respect of the Permits (excluding any violations thereof);
 
(iv) Permitted Encumbrances or the requirements of applicable Laws (excluding any violations thereof);
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
(v) Excluded Liabilities;
 
(vi) liabilities and obligations set forth or referred to in the Balance Sheet; and
 
(vii) liabilities and obligations incurred since the date of the Balance Sheet in the ordinary course of business, not in violation of any of the provisions of this Agreement, and that do not and are not reasonably expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect; and
 
(viii) liabilities and obligations that would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
 
. To Seller's Knowledge, the Company has received no notice of any material infringement, impairment, dilution, misappropriation, or other unauthorized use by the Company of patents, copyrights, trademarks, or similar intellectual property rights of any third parties. lists all software programs, trademarks, patents, and licensed intellectual property included within the Company Intellectual Property used or useful in the conduct of the Company's business consistent with past practice, other than standard office and similar software programs generally included on computers owned by the Company and readily available without material expense (which programs are not separately listed). Except as set forth in , the Company owns or has the valid right to use pursuant to license, sublicense, agreement or permission, in each case free and clear of all Encumbrances other than Permitted Encumbrances, all of the Company Intellectual Property other than such Company Intellectual Property the absence of which ownership or the right to use would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect (individually or in the aggregate).
Section 4.13 Intellectual Property
Schedule 4.13
Schedule 4.13
 
. All negotiations relating to this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby have been carried on by Seller in such a manner as not to give rise to any valid claim against Purchaser (by reason of Seller's actions) for a brokerage commission, finder's fee or other like payment to any Person. Upon closing of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, a commission shall be payable to Morgan Stanley with respect to certain investment banking services provided to Seller, for which Seller shall bear sole responsibility.
Section 4.14 Brokers
 
. Except as set forth on :
Section 4.15 Environmental Matters
Schedule 4.15
 
(a) During the period of the Company's ownership of the Owned Real Property and, to Seller's Knowledge, at all times prior thereto, there has not been a Release of Hazardous Substances from or on the Owned Real Property or otherwise affecting the Facility that: (A) constitutes violation of any Environmental Law; (B) imposes any release-reporting obligations on the Company under any Environmental Law; (C) imposes any clean-up or remediation obligations of the Company under any Environmental Law (or obligation of the Company to reimburse any other Person for similar obligations) or (D) is reasonably expected to impose any liability of the Company for injury to any Person or any Person's property. For each Release disclosed in , a description of the status of such release is provided, and that description is accurate and complete in all material respects.
Schedule 4.15
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
(b) Since January 1, 2001, none of the Company, the Seller or the Facility has violated in any material respect any Environmental Laws that govern the Company or the Facility, and each of the Seller, the Company and the Facility is currently in compliance with, in all material respects, all Environmental Laws that govern the Company or the Facility.
 
(c) Each of the Company and the Facility has all Permits required under the Environmental Laws for the operation of the Facility consistent with past practice, is in compliance with all such Permits, and neither of them has received any written notice that: (A) any such existing Permit will be revoked; (B) any pending application for any new such Permit or renewal of any existing Permit will be denied; or (C) alleges the violation of any Permit or any Environmental Law. To the extent required by applicable Environmental Laws, the Company has filed (or will have filed by the Closing Date) all applications necessary to renew or obtain any necessary Permits required under Environmental Laws in a timely fashion to allow the Company to continue to operate its business and the Facility in compliance with applicable Environmental Laws, and the Company does not have reason to know that such new or renewed Environmental Permits will include any terms or conditions that will be more stringent than the terms or conditions of such existing Permits, except for such applications, terms and conditions that would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Company Material Adverse Effect. There are no separate agreements with any Governmental Authority with respect to any obligation of the Company under any Permit or any Environmental Laws nor are there any orders of any Governmental Authority with respect thereto directed at the Company or the Facility specifically as opposed to electric generators generally.
 
(d) Seller has made available to Purchaser true and complete copies of all environmental studies, audits and assessment reports in its possession or control, or prepared on its behalf, relating to the Owned Real Property or the construction or operation of the Facility.
 
(e) shows the amount of emission allowances held by the Company as of November 30, 2004 in the EPA Clean Air Market Database. These amounts do not reflect reductions for 2004 Facility emissions. Upon Closing, Company will be entitled to all of these emissions allowances except those that are withdrawn by the EPA to satisfy 2004 Facility emissions. The Company has no obligation to sell any of the emission allowances identified in .
Schedule 4.15(e)
Schedule 4.15(e)
 
(f) To Seller's Knowledge, there are no existing facts or circumstances that are reasonably expected to give rise to a violation of any Permit or Environmental Law or that would reasonably be expected to prevent the Company or the Facility from operating consistent with past practice and complying with any Permit or Environmental Law. To Seller's Knowledge, the Company will not be required to add, upgrade, or modify any equipment or facilities to operate consistent with past practice in compliance with all Permits and Environmental Laws.
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
(g) Except to the extent in compliance in all material respects with Environmental Laws, neither Seller nor Company has ever transported or disposed of any Hazardous Material generated at the Facility to any location other than the Owned Real Property.
 
. Except as set forth in :
Section 4.16 Tax Matters
Schedule 4.16
 
(a) all Tax Returns required to be filed by or with respect to the Company have been or will be timely filed (taking into account extensions of time to file) with the appropriate taxing authorities in all jurisdictions in which such Tax Returns are required to be filed;
 
(b) such Tax Returns (to the extent such Returns relate to the Company) are or will be true and correct in all material respects, and all Taxes reported on such Tax Returns have been or will be timely paid;
 
(c) the Company has not extended or waived, and has not requested a waiver or extension of, the application of any statute of limitations regarding the assessment or collection of any Tax and the Company has not requested any extension of time within which to file any Tax Return;
 
(d) there are no audits, examinations, claims, assessments, levies, administrative proceedings, or lawsuits pending, or to the Knowledge of Seller, threatened against the Company by any taxing authority;
 
(e) None of the assets or properties of the Company is or will be required to be treated as being (I) owned by another Person pursuant to the provisions of section 168(f)(8) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended and in effect immediately before the enactment of the Tax Reform Act of 1986, or (II) tax-exempt use property within the meaning of Section 168(h)(l) of the Code;
 
(f) No Governmental Authority in a jurisdiction where the Company does not file Tax Returns has made a claim, assertion or, to Seller's Knowledge, a threat that the Company (or Seller by virtue of the Company's operations or ownership of the Facility) (A) is or may be subject to taxation by such jurisdiction, or (B) is or may be required to file Tax Returns in such jurisdiction;
 
(g) The Company has made available to Purchaser correct and complete copies of all federal, state, and local Tax Returns filed with respect to the Company (or the portions thereof that relate solely to the Company) for all Tax years ended on or after December 31, 2001;
 
(h) All Taxes for which the Company is liable, (whether or not requiring the filing of returns or reports) relating to the business, operations or property of Company have been timely and fully paid or have been adequately reserved;
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
(i) All Taxes that the Company is required by law to withhold or collect have been duly withheld or collected and have been paid over to the appropriate governmental agency or authority are properly recorded as a liability on the books of the Company;
 
(j) The Company (i) is not a party to any tax sharing or similar agreement; and (ii) is not a member of any affiliated group nor does it have any liability for Taxes payable by Seller or any of its Affiliates under Treas. Reg.  1.1502-6 (or any similar provision of state, local or foreign Law).
 
(k) The Company is a disregarded entity for federal tax purposes pursuant to Treas. Reg.  301.7701-3 and it has not elected to be classified as a corporation for federal Tax purposes.
 
. The Company does not have, and on the Closing Date will not have, any employees. Neither Seller or the Company is a party to or is bound by any collective bargaining agreement with respect to any employees assigned to the business of the Company and, to Seller's Knowledge, no present union organizing efforts are underway with respect to any such employees and no claim has been made by any union as to the representation of such employees.
Section 4.17 Employee Matters
 
. The Company does not own or hold, directly or indirectly, any equity or other ownership interest in any other Person.
Section 4.18 No Subsidiaries
 
. An unaudited balance sheet of the Company as of October 31, 2004 and the audited financial statements of the Company for the years ending on December 31, 2002 and December 31, 2003 are attached hereto as (together with the financial statements for 2004 once provided to Purchaser pursuant to , the ""). The information contained in such Company Financial Statements is, as of the date thereof, correct in all material respects, and such Company Financial Statements were prepared in accordance with GAAP (except for the absence of footnotes and pending year-end adjustments) and fairly present the financial position of the Company as of the date thereof; provided, however, notwithstanding any other provision in this Agreement to the contrary, the representations made in this with respect to the Company's 2004 financial statements will be made by Seller only at Closing and not at the time of execution of this Agreement.
Section 4.19 Financial Statements
Schedule 4.19
Section 6.2(d)
Company
Financial Statements
Section 4.19
 
. The Company or an Affiliate of the Company carries those Facility Insurance Policies listed or described in . Such coverages are in full force and effect as of the execution of this Agreement by Seller, and will be maintained in full force and effect until the consummation of the Transactions contemplated hereby. Neither Seller nor the Company has made any claims or instituted any proceedings under any Facility Insurance Policies which are not fully and finally resolved.
Section 4.20 Insurance
Schedule 4.20
 
. The Company was determined by FERC to be an exempt wholesale generator within the meaning of Section 32 of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, as amended, (an "") by orders dated December 21, 1998, and February 2,
Section 4.21 EWG Status
EWG
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
2000, in Docket Nos. EG99-15-000 and EG00-59-000, respectively. The Facility and the Company have met, and through the Closing Date will continue to meet, all applicable requirements, and has made all necessary filings, for the maintenance of EWG status.
 
. The Company was granted market-based rate authority by FERC by order dated December 21, 1998, in Docket No. ER99-415-000. The Company has met, and through the Closing Date will continue to meet, all applicable requirements and has made all necessary filings for the maintenance of market-based rate authority, and has, and will continue to hold, all necessary authorizations that permit the Company to sell electric power and related services at market-based rates. Except for any facts or circumstances that may arise as a result of or following the Transactions, to Seller's Knowledge, there is no reason to believe that Company's triennial filing in respect of its market-based rate authority filing that is pending with the FERC on the Effective Date will not be accepted by the FERC in the ordinary course.
Section 4.22 Market-Based Rate Authority
 
. The minute books and similar records of the Company have been made available to Purchaser prior to the execution of this Agreement and contain a true and complete record, in all material respects, of all action taken at all meetings and by all written consents in lieu of meetings of the members, boards of directors and similar governing bodies of the Company.
Section 4.23 Books and Records
 
 
 
Purchaser represents and warrants to Seller, as of the date hereof and as of the Closing Date, as to each of the matters set forth in this .
Article 5
 
. Purchaser is a limited liability company, duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware, and has all requisite limited liability company power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to carry on its business as is now being conducted. Purchaser's Guarantors are a corporation and a limited liability company, each duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware, and each has all requisite corporate or limited liability power and authority (as applicable) to transact business in such jurisdiction.
Section 5.1 Organization and Existence
 
. Purchaser has all requisite limited liability company power and authority to execute and deliver, and to perform its obligations under, this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements which are executed by Purchaser, and to consummate the transactions contemplated thereby. The execution, delivery and performance by Purchaser of this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements which are executed by it, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby, have been duly and validly authorized by all necessary limited liability company action required on the part of Purchaser, and no other limited liability company proceedings on the part of Purchaser are necessary to authorize this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements to which it is a party or to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby. Assuming the due
Section 5.2 Execution, Delivery and Enforceability
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
authorization, execution and delivery by Seller of this Agreement and the due authorization, execution and delivery by Seller and Seller's Guarantor of the Ancillary Agreements which are executed by it when executed by Seller (or Seller's Guarantor, in the case of Seller's Guaranty), this Agreement does, and the Ancillary Agreements when executed by Purchaser will, constitute the valid and legally binding obligations of Purchaser, enforceable against Purchaser, as applicable, in accordance with its and their terms, except as such enforceability may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws of general application relating to or affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights and by general equitable principles.
 
. Subject to Purchaser obtaining Purchaser's Required Regulatory Approvals and Purchaser's Required Consents, neither the execution and delivery by Purchaser of this Agreement, nor the execution and delivery by Purchaser of the Ancillary Agreements which are executed by Purchaser, compliance with any provision hereof or thereof, or Purchaser's consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby will:
Section 5.3 No Violation
 
(a) violate or result in a breach of any provisions of the governing documents of Purchaser;
 
(b) result in a default (or give rise to any right of termination, cancellation or acceleration) under or violate any of the terms, conditions or provisions of any note, bond, mortgage, indenture, license or agreement or other instrument or obligation to which Purchaser is a party or by which Purchaser may be bound, except for such defaults (or rights of termination or acceleration) as to which requisite waivers or consents have been, or prior to the Closing will have been, obtained or which, individually or in the aggregate, would not be reasonably likely to have a Purchaser Material Adverse Effect;
 
(c) violate any law, rule, regulation, order, writ, injunction or decree, applicable to Purchaser or any of its assets, except where such violations, individually or in the aggregate, would not be reasonably likely to have a Purchaser Material Adverse Effect, and will not affect the validity or enforceability of this Agreement or the Ancillary Agreements or the validity of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby; or
 
(d) require the consent or approval of, filing with, or notice to any Person which, if not obtained, would prevent Purchaser from performing its obligations hereunder.
 
. There is no uncured violation by Purchaser of any laws, orders, ordinances, rules, regulations or judgments of any Governmental Authority in existence as of the execution of this Agreement, except for violations or alleged violations that would not be reasonably likely to have a Purchaser Material Adverse Effect and will not affect the validity or enforceability of this Agreement or the Ancillary Agreements or the validity of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby.
Section 5.4 Compliance with Laws
 
. There is no claim, action, proceeding or investigation pending, or to Purchaser's Knowledge threatened, against or relating to Purchaser or its Affiliates before any court, arbitrator, or Governmental Authority, or any judgment, decree or
Section 5.5 Litigation
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
order of any court, arbitrator, or Governmental Authority, which, individually or in the aggregate, (a) could reasonably be expected to result, or has resulted, in (i) the institution of legal proceedings to prohibit or restrain the performance by Purchaser of this Agreement or any of the Ancillary Agreements to which it is a party, or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, or (ii) a material impairment of the ability of Purchaser to perform its obligations under this Agreement or any of the Ancillary Agreements to which it is a party; or (b) would be reasonably likely to have a Purchaser Material Adverse Effect.
 
. All negotiations relating to this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby have been carried on by Purchaser in such a manner as not to give rise to any valid claim against Seller (by reason of a Purchaser's actions) for a brokerage commission, finder's fee or other like payment to any Person.
Section 5.6 Brokers
 
. Purchaser is financially solvent, able to pay its debts as they mature, and subject to the funding of the financing commitment provided to Seller and identified in hereof and Purchaser's Guarantors' guaranty with respect to the equity portion of the Purchase Price, Purchaser has committed sources of capital sufficient to permit Purchaser to pay the Adjusted Purchase Price and otherwise timely perform its respective obligations hereunder and under the Ancillary Agreements. To Purchaser's Knowledge, there are no facts or circumstances in existence as of the Effective Date that could reasonably be expected to interfere with, delay or otherwise impede such financing.
Section 5.7 Financial Capacity
Section 8.12
 
. To Purchaser's Knowledge, Purchaser is qualified to obtain Purchaser's Required Consents.
Section 5.8 Purchaser's Qualifications
 
. Purchaser is an experienced and knowledgeable investor in the U.S. power generation and development business. Prior to entering into this Agreement, Purchaser was advised by its counsel, accountants, financial advisors and such other Persons it has deemed appropriate concerning this Agreement, and has relied solely on Seller's obligations, representations and warranties expressly contained in this Agreement and its independent investigation and evaluation of, and appraisal and judgment with respect to, the Company, the business, assets, including the Facility, liabilities, results of operations, condition (financial or otherwise) and prospects of the Company, and the revenue, price and expense assumptions applicable thereto. Purchaser hereby acknowledges that the Membership Interests are not registered under the Securities Act, or registered or qualified for sale under any state securities laws and cannot be resold without registration thereunder or exemption therefrom. Purchaser is an "accredited investor," as such term is defined in Regulation D of the Securities Act and will acquire the Membership Interests for its own account and not with a view to a sale or distribution thereof in violation of the Securities Act, and the rules and regulations thereunder, any applicable state "blue sky" laws or any other applicable securities laws. Purchaser has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial and business matters to enable it to evaluate the risks of investment in the Membership Interests and has the ability to bear the economic risk of this investment for an indefinite period of time.
Section 5.9 Purchaser's Due Diligence
 
. Purchaser has previously delivered (i) an unaudited balance sheet of Purchaser's Guarantors as of September 30, 2004 and (ii) the audited
Section 5.10 Financial Statements
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
financial statements of Purchaser's Guarantors for the year ended December 31, 2003 (""). The information contained in Purchaser's Guarantor's Financial Statements is, as of the date thereof, correct in all material respects, and such Purchaser's Guarantor's Financial Statements were prepared in accordance with GAAP (except for the absence of footnotes and pending year-end adjustments), and fairly presents the financial position of Purchaser's Guarantors as of the date thereof.
Purchaser's Guarantor's Financial Statements
 
. Purchaser acknowledges that, prior to its execution of this Agreement, (i) it or its agents or representatives (collectively, "") have been afforded access to and the opportunity to inspect, and have inspected, the Facility, and have had the opportunity to conduct all such due diligence investigation of the Facility, the Company, and the Material Facility Contracts, as it deemed necessary or advisable in connection with entering into this Agreement and the Transactions contemplated hereby; (ii) as of the Closing Date, it or its Agents will have inspected the Facility, reviewed the Material Facility Contracts, and conducted all such further due diligence investigations of the Facility and the Company to the extent it or its Agents deem necessary or advisable; and (iii) it is relying only upon Seller's representations and warranties expressly contained in this Agreement as to the matters covered herein and Purchaser is otherwise relying on its own and its Agents' inspections and investigation in order to satisfy itself as to the condition, suitability, and value of the business, assets (including the Facility), liabilities, results of operations, condition (financial or otherwise) and prospects of the Company.
Section 5.11 Inspection
Agents
 
. The Purchaser is not, and, by reason of the ownership, operation, or maintenance of the Company or the Facility (subject to the Company obtaining exempt wholesale generation status under Section 32 of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, as amended ("")), or any other transaction contemplated by this Agreement, will not be deemed to be subject to regulation as an "electric utility," a "gas utility," a "public utility company," a "holding company," an "affiliate" of a "holding company," a "subsidiary" of a "holding company," or an "affiliate" of a "subsidiary" of a "holding company" within the meaning of PUHCA, or a "public utility" or "electric utility" within the meaning of the Federal Power Act, other than regulation as described in the orders granting Purchaser's Required Regulatory Approvals.
Section 5.12 Regulatory Status
PUHCA
 
 
 
. EXCEPT FOR THE COVENANTS, REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF SELLER SET FORTH IN OF THIS AGREEMENT, PURCHASER UNDERSTANDS AND AGREES THAT THE MEMBERSHIP INTERESTS ARE BEING SOLD AND ACQUIRED, AND ALL OF THE ASSETS OF THE COMPANY, INCLUDING THE FACILITY, SOLD AND ACQUIRED THEREBY ARE LIKEWISE BEING SOLD AND ACQUIRED, "AS IS, WHERE IS" ON THE CLOSING DATE, AND IN THEIR CONDITION ON THE CLOSING DATE "WITH ALL FAULTS", AND THAT PURCHASER IS RELYING ON ITS OWN EXAMINATION OF THE COMPANY AND SUCH ASSETS. PURCHASER UNDERSTANDS AND AGREES THAT SELLER MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES WITH RESPECT TO THE
Section 6.1 "As Is" Sale
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
GENERATOR ROTOR REPAIRS AND THAT ANY AND ALL WARRANTY CLAIMS WITH RESPECT THERETO SHALL BE MADE BY PURCHASER DIRECTLY AGAINST THE GENERATOR ROTOR CONTRACTORS. WITHOUT LIMITING THE GENERALITY OF THE FOREGOING AND EXCEPT FOR THE REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, PURCHASER UNDERSTANDS AND AGREES THAT SELLER EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS ALL REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES AS TO LIABILITIES, OPERATION OF THE ASSETS OF THE COMPANY, INCLUDING THE FACILITY, TITLE, CONDITION, VALUE OR QUALITY OF SUCH ASSETS OR THE BUSINESS, CONDITION (FINANCIAL OR OTHERWISE), OR PROSPECTS OF THE COMPANY, RISKS AND OTHER INCIDENTS OF OWNERSHIP OF THE MEMBERSHIP INTERESTS OR SUCH ASSETS AND ANY REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, USAGE, SUITABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE WITH RESPECT TO SUCH ASSETS OR ANY PART THEREOF, OR AS TO THE WORKMANSHIP THEREOF OR THE ABSENCE OF ANY DEFECTS THEREIN, WHETHER LATENT OR PATENT. EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE PROVIDED FOR IN THIS AGREEMENT, PURCHASER FURTHER AGREES THAT NO INFORMATION OR MATERIAL WHATSOEVER PROVIDED BY OR COMMUNICATION MADE BY SELLER OR ANY REPRESENTATIVE OF SELLER WILL CONSTITUTE, CREATE OR OTHERWISE CAUSE TO EXIST ANY REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY.
 
.
Section 6.2 Efforts to Close; Updating
 
(a) Subject to the terms and conditions herein, each of the Parties hereto shall use commercially reasonable efforts to consummate and make effective the Transactions contemplated hereby, as soon as reasonably practicable, and in any event on or prior to May 31, 2005, including the satisfaction of all conditions thereto set forth herein; , , that this shall in no way affect or modify the Parties' respective termination rights under . Such actions shall include, without limitation, exerting their commercially reasonable efforts to obtain each of the consents, authorizations and approvals of any Governmental Authority or other Person which is reasonably necessary to effectuate the Transactions contemplated hereby, including, in the case of Seller, Seller's Required Regulatory Approvals and Seller's Required Consents, and in the case of Purchaser, Purchaser's Required Regulatory Approvals and Purchaser's Required Consents, and effecting all other necessary registrations and filings, including, without limitation, filings under applicable Laws, including the HSR Act and the Communications Act, and all other necessary filings with any Governmental Authority, including FERC. All appearances, presentations, briefs, and proposals made or submitted by or on behalf of either Party before any regulatory authority in connection with the approval of this Agreement, the Transactions and the Ancillary Agreements shall be subject to the joint approval or disapproval in advance and the joint control of Purchaser and Seller, acting with the advice of their respective counsel, and each Party will consult and fully cooperate with the other Party, and consider in good faith the views of the other Party, in connection with any such appearance, presentation, brief, or proposal; that nothing will prevent a Party from responding to a subpoena or other legal process as required by law or submitting factual information in response to a request therefor. Each Party will provide the
provided
however
Section 10.1
provided
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
other with copies of all written communications from Governmental Authorities relating to the approval or disapproval of this Agreement, the Ancillary Agreements and the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby.
 
(b) The Parties shall promptly notify each other of any changes or additions to any of their respective Schedules to this Agreement, if any, as of a reasonably current date prior to the Closing, but in any event at least once not later than three (3) Business Days prior thereto. No such updates made pursuant to this Section shall be deemed to cure any inaccuracy of any representation or warranty made in this Agreement as of the date hereof, unless the Party being so notified specifically agrees thereto in writing, nor shall any such notification be considered to constitute or give rise to a waiver by any Party of any condition set forth in this Agreement.
 
(c) Each Party shall, as promptly as practicable, notify the other in writing upon its receipt of Knowledge of any breach of any representation or warranty made by the other Party or of any other condition or circumstance that would excuse its timely performance hereunder, or excuse Purchaser's Guarantors or Seller's Guarantor, as the case may be, from their respective obligations under Purchaser's Guaranty or Seller's Guaranty, as the case may be. Notwithstanding the obligations in this paragraph, the failure of a Party to notify the other of any breach of any representation or condition will not be a waiver of that Party's rights with respect to that breach or any similar breach. In the event of such failure, however, the Party not receiving such notice is entitled to all remedies available at law or equity (to the extent of its damage) resulting from the failure to send notice.
 
(d) Seller (with each of Seller and Purchaser to bear one-half (1/2) of the expense) will provide audited financial statements for the year ending December 31, 2004 (as audited by Ellin & Tucker) not less than 15 days before Closing. Seller agrees to fully cooperate and use its reasonable efforts to facilitate (and shall cause any of its Affiliates and its independent accountants to cooperate and to undertake reasonable efforts to facilitate) Purchaser's financing, including allowing Purchaser's use of such financial statements in connection with Purchaser's financing pursuant to the commitment previously provided to Seller.
 
. Whether or not the Transactions contemplated hereby are consummated, except as otherwise provided in the Adjustment Sections or any other provision of this Agreement, all costs and expenses incurred in connection with this Agreement and the Transactions contemplated hereby shall be paid by the Party incurring such expenses. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Purchaser shall pay (i) all Transfer Taxes incurred in connection with this Agreement and the Transactions contemplated hereby as provided in ; and (ii) all governmental filing fees incurred in connection with compliance with the HSR Act and the Communications Act. All such charges and expenses shall be promptly settled between the Parties at the Closing or upon termination or expiration of further proceedings under this Agreement, or with respect to such charges and expenses not determined as of such time, as soon thereafter as is reasonably practicable.
Section 6.3 Expenses
Section 6.6(a)
 
. Prior to consummation of the Transactions contemplated hereby or the termination or expiration of this Agreement pursuant to its terms,
Section 6.4 Conduct Pending Closing
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
unless Purchaser shall otherwise consent in writing, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed, and except for actions (i) which are required by Law; (ii) are reasonably taken in connection with any emergency or other force majeure event; (iii) arise from or are related to any of the Excluded Assets or the Excluded Liabilities or are necessary for the anticipated transfer of the Membership Interests; or (iv) are otherwise contemplated by this Agreement or disclosed in ; Seller shall cause the Company to:
Schedule 6.4
 
(a) Operate and maintain the Facility in all material respects in accordance with the ordinary course of business consistent with past practices;
 
(b) Other than pursuant to the requirements of any existing Material Facility Contract, not sell, lease, transfer, or dispose of, or make any contract for the sale, lease, transfer or disposition of, any material assets or properties of the Company or any spare parts or other inventory, except sales, leases, transfers or dispositions in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practices;
 
(c) Not make any distributions in respect of, or issue any of, its membership interests or securities convertible into its membership interests, or repurchase, redeem, or otherwise acquire any such membership interests or make or propose to make any other change in its capitalization; , , that on or before the Closing Date, Seller shall have the right to cause the Company to distribute to Seller and its Affiliates any or all of the cash and Excluded Assets held by the Company;
provided
however
 
(d) Not take any action or enter into any commitment with respect to or in contemplation of any liquidation, dissolution, recapitalization, reorganization or other winding up of the Company's business or operations;
 
(e) Not change its accounting policies or practices (including, without limitation, any change in depreciation or amortization policies), except as required under GAAP and disclosed in writing to Purchaser;
 
(f) Not enter into any employment agreement not terminable by the Company at will and without cost to the Company;
 
(g) Not create any employee benefit plan (within the meaning of Section 3(3) of ERISA) or any other employee benefit plan or program not subject to ERISA, except as required by Law;
 
(h) Not incur any debt (other than account payables arising in the ordinary course of business) or grant any Encumbrance on any assets of the Company, except (i) for Permitted Encumbrances; or (ii) to the extent required or evidenced by any existing Material Facility Contract;
 
(i) Maintain in force and effect the property and liability insurance policies related to the Facility;
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
(j) Not take any action which would cause Seller's representations and warranties set forth in to be incorrect in any material respect as of the Closing;
Article 4
 
(k) Not enter into any contract or agreement, or modify any contract or agreement, with any Governmental Authority having responsibility for Taxes;
 
(l) Not commit or agree to enter into (or modify) any contract or agreement specified in clause (k) of this Section;
 
(m) Not enter into, amend, terminate, waive any rights or defaults, or modify in any respect, and except as incident to the operation of the business and assets of the Company in the ordinary course, allow to lapse or expire, or fail to timely apply for renewal of any Material Facility Contract or any Permit;
 
(n) Other than the Generator Rotor Repairs, not incur any obligation to make capital expenditures in excess of $100,000, in the aggregate, except those that are paid prior to the Closing;
 
(o) Not amend or otherwise change its charter, bylaws, member control agreement or equivalent organizational documents; and
 
(p) Not acquire (including without limitation by merger, consolidation or acquisition of stock or assets) any interest in any other Person; and not incur any indebtedness for borrowed money or issue any debt securities or assume, guarantee or endorse, or otherwise become responsible for the obligations of any other Person, or make any loans or advances; or, except in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, enter into any transaction relating to the purchase of assets.
 
(q) (i) Exercise commercially reasonably efforts not to incur any obligation to accept delivery or pay for any Fuel Oil after the Closing Date and (ii) not incur any obligation to deliver, provide or make available any energy, capacity or ancillary services after the Closing Date (in each case based upon Seller's good faith estimate as to the timing of the Closing Date).
 
(r) Exercise commercially reasonably efforts to have a total Fuel Inventory (measured to the extent in excess of 200,000 gallons below the load line) of not less than 1,500,000 and of not more than 4,500,000 gallons, as of the Closing Date (based upon Seller's good faith estimate as to the timing of the Closing Date); provided that this clause (r) shall not require the Company to forego or diminish any opportunities to deliver, provide or make available any energy, capacity or ancillary services on or before the Closing Date.
 
, that nothing in this Section shall (i) obligate Seller to make or cause the Company to make expenditures other than in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practices or to otherwise suffer any material economic detriment; or (ii) preclude Seller, or the Company from instituting, participating in or completing any program designed to promote compliance or comply with Laws or other good business practices with respect to the Facility.
provided
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
.
Section 6.5 Regulatory Approvals
 
(a) Subject to , as promptly as practicable but in no event later than fourteen (14) calendar days after the Effective Date, Seller and Purchaser shall each prepare and file an application with FERC for approval of the Transactions under Section 203 of the Federal Power Act. The Parties shall consult with each other as to the appropriate time of filing such application and shall agree in good faith upon the timing of such application, respond promptly to any requests for additional information made by FERC, and use their commercially reasonable efforts to cause any applicable waiting periods to terminate or expire at the earliest possible date after the date of the application.
Section 6.2
 
(b) Subject to , as promptly as practicable but in no event later than fourteen (14) calendar days after the Effective Date, Seller and Purchaser shall file or cause to be filed with the Federal Trade Commission, the Department of Justice, and the FCC all notifications required to be filed under the HSR Act and the Communications Act, respectively, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder with respect to the Transactions contemplated hereby. The Parties shall consult with each other as to the appropriate time of filing such notifications and shall agree in good faith upon the timing of such filings, respond promptly to any requests for additional information made by either of such agencies, and use their commercially reasonable efforts to cause the waiting periods under the HSR Act to terminate or expire at the earliest possible date after the date of filing.
Section 6.2
 
(c) [Intentionally Omitted.]
 
(d) Without limiting the generality of the Parties' undertakings pursuant to , the Parties shall:
Sections 6.5(a) and 6.5(b)
 
(i) take promptly all commercially reasonable actions to resolve any concerns on the part of any Governmental Authority having jurisdiction under any applicable Law related to the Transactions, including without limitation entering into negotiations, providing information, making proposals and entering into and performing agreements; , , that nothing in this Agreement shall require either of the Parties, their Affiliates, or the Company to dispose of or sell assets or properties, hold separate particular assets or categories of assets, or businesses, or agree to dispose of or hold separate one or more assets or properties or to take any other action (or refrain from taking any other action) that could reasonably be expected to have a Purchaser Material Adverse Effect or a Company Material Adverse Effect or a similar material adverse effect with respect to Seller or any Affiliate of Purchaser or Seller;
provided
however
 
(ii) use commercially reasonable efforts (including taking the steps contemplated by to prevent the entry in a judicial or administrative proceeding brought under any Law by any Governmental Authority or any other party for a permanent or preliminary injunction or other order that would make consummation of the Transactions contemplated by this Agreement unlawful or that would prevent or delay such consummation; and
Section 6.5(d)(i))
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
(iii) take promptly, in the event that an injunction or order of the type identified in has been issued in such a proceeding, any and all commercially reasonable steps, including the appeal thereof, the posting of a bond or the steps contemplated by , necessary to vacate, modify or suspend such injunction or order so as to permit such consummation on a schedule as close as possible to that contemplated by this Agreement.
Section 6.5(d)(ii)
Section 6.5(d)(i)
 
(e) Subject to , from and after the Closing Date, Purchaser shall have the primary responsibility for securing the transfer, reissuance or procurement of the Permits to the extent required by Law. Before Closing, Purchaser will prepare (subject to Seller's reasonable review and input) a notice of change of material facts for filing in the Company's FERC EWG docket, and Seller will, and will cause Company to, cooperate with Purchaser in preparing and making the filing before Closing as requested by Purchaser. Promptly following the Closing, Purchaser shall make all required notice filings, including without limitation: (i) notice of consummation of the Transactions pursuant to Section 203 of the Federal Power Act, (ii) notice of change of material facts in FERC's EWG docket and (iii) notice of change of upstream ownership in FERC's Section 205 docket, each of which items (i) through (iii) shall be subject to Seller's reasonable review and input.
Section 6.2
 
.
Section 6.6 Tax Matters
 
(a) All Transfer Taxes (if any) incurred in connection with this Agreement and the Transactions contemplated hereby (whether imposed on Seller, or Purchaser) shall be paid by Purchaser if and when due. Seller will file, to the extent required by applicable Law, all necessary Tax Returns and other documentation with respect to all such Transfer Taxes, and Purchaser will be entitled to review such returns in advance and such Tax Returns shall be subject to Purchaser's approval (which shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed). To the extent required by applicable Law, but subject to such review and approval (which shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed), Seller or any of their Affiliates will join in the execution of any such Tax Returns or other documentation.
 
(b) With respect to Property Taxes:
 
(i) Purchaser shall prepare and timely file all Tax Returns required to be filed after the Closing with respect to the assets of the Company, if any, and shall duly and timely pay all such Taxes arising from the filing of such Tax Returns. Purchaser's preparation of any such Tax Returns for the calendar year in which the Closing occurs shall be subject to Seller's approval, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed. Purchaser shall make such Tax Returns available for Seller's review and approval (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed) no later than fifteen (15) Business Days prior to the due date for filing such Tax Returns, it being understood that Seller's failure to approve any such Tax Returns shall not limit Purchaser's obligation to timely file such Tax Returns and duly and timely pay all Taxes due as a result of filing such Tax Returns.
 
(ii) Seller shall prepare and timely file all Tax Returns required to be filed prior to the Closing with respect to the assets of the Company, if any, and shall duly and timely pay (if prior to Closing) all such Taxes arising from the filing of the Tax Returns. Seller's
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
preparation of any such Tax Return shall be subject to Purchaser's approval, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed. Seller shall make such Tax Returns available for Purchaser's review and approval (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed) no later than fifteen (15) Business Days prior to the due date for filing such Tax Returns, it being understood that Purchaser's failure to approve any such Tax Returns shall not limit Seller's obligation to timely file such Tax Returns and duly and timely pay all Taxes due as a result of filing such returns.
 
(iii) The Property Taxes assessed on the assets of the Company for the applicable taxable year in which the Closing occurs shall be allocated to the portion of such applicable taxable year ending on the Closing Date based upon the ratio of the number of days in such applicable taxable year through the Closing Date over the total number of days in such applicable taxable year times the amount of Property Taxes paid by the Company for such applicable tax year.
 
(iv) Within 60 days following the date that Company or Purchaser pays the last of the Property Taxes assessed on the assets of the Company for the taxable year in which the Closing occurs, Purchaser will send a statement to Seller showing (A) the total amount of such Property Taxes paid for the taxable year, (B) the amount of such Property Taxes allocated to the portion of the taxable year ending on the Closing Date as provided in above (the "Actual Pre-Closing Period Taxes") and (C) the amount of Taxes payable included as current liabilities of the Company in the Closing Balance Sheet, as adjusted by the Post Closing Statement, taken into account in the adjustment of the Purchase Price (the "Estimated Pre-Closing Period Taxes"). Seller will pay to Purchaser the excess, if any, of the Actual Pre-Closing Period Taxes over the Estimated Pre-Closing Period Taxes. Purchaser will pay to Seller the excess, if any, of the Estimated Pre-Closing Period Taxes over the Actual Pre-Closing Period Taxes.
Section 6.6(b)(iii)
 
(c) Seller shall prepare and file or cause to be prepared and filed all Tax Returns (other than Tax Returns to which applies) for the Company for any taxable period ending on or prior to the Closing Date. Any income, deductions, losses, or credits with respect to the operations of the Company for the taxable period (or portion thereof) ending on the Closing Date shall be reported on the consolidated or combined income tax return that includes TECO Wholesale Generation, Inc., for such period.
Section 6.6(b)
 
(d) Purchaser and Seller shall provide the other Party with such assistance as may reasonably be requested by the other Party in connection with the preparation of any Tax Return, any audit or other examination by any taxing authority, or any judicial or administrative proceedings relating to liability for Taxes, and each will retain and provide the requesting Party with any records or information which may be relevant to such return, audit or examination, proceedings or determination. Each Party will retain all of its Tax Returns, schedules, work papers, and all other material records until the expiration of the statute of limitations of the subject Tax period. Any information obtained pursuant to this or pursuant to any other Section hereof providing for the sharing of information relating to or review of any Tax Return or other schedule relating to Taxes shall be kept confidential by the Parties hereto in accordance with .
Section 6.6
Section 6.9
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
(e) After the Closing Date, in the case of any audit, examination, or other proceeding with respect to Taxes ("") relating to a Tax period ending on or before the Closing Date, either Party receiving any notice related to Taxes related to the Company shall inform the other Party within ten (10) days of the receipt of such notice. If a proceeding ensues related to Taxes for which Seller would be obligated under this Agreement, Seller, at Seller's expense, will have the opportunity to control the conduct of such Tax Proceedings. Purchaser shall execute or cause to be executed powers of attorney or other documents necessary to enable Seller to take all actions reasonably desired by Seller with respect to such Tax Proceeding. Seller shall have the right to control, in its sole discretion, any such Tax Proceedings, including selection of counsel and selection of a forum for such contest, and to initiate any claim for refund, file any amended return, or take any other action which it deems appropriate with respect to such Taxes; , that Seller may not settle any Tax Proceeding without Purchaser's written consent (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed) if such settlement is reasonably expected to adversely affect the Company or Purchaser following the Closing Date. Purchaser shall not enter into any agreement with the relevant Governmental Authority pertaining to Taxes for which Seller would be obligated under this Agreement without the written consent of Seller; , , that Purchaser may, without the written consent of Seller, enter into such an agreement, that Purchaser shall have agreed in writing to accept responsibility and liability for the payment of such Taxes and to forego any indemnification under this Agreement with respect to such Taxes. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this and any other provision of this Agreement, the provisions of this shall control.
Tax Proceeding
provided
however
provided
however
provided
Section 6.6(e)
Section 6.6(e)
 
(f) Any refund of Taxes actually paid with respect to Taxes attributable to the Company shall be promptly paid as follows (or to the extent payable but not paid due to offset against other Taxes shall be promptly paid by the Party receiving the benefit of the offset as follows): (i) to Seller if attributable to Taxes with respect to any Tax year ending on or before the Closing Date (or for any Tax year beginning before and ending after the Closing Date to the extent allocable (determined in a manner consistent with , as applicable) to the portion of such period beginning before and ending on the Closing Date); , , that, if any such refund, or the right to receive such refund, of Taxes previously resulted in an increase to the Purchase Price paid to Seller under this Agreement, such refund shall not, when such refund is paid or utilized to offset other Taxes, result in a duplicate payment to Seller pursuant to this ; and (ii) to Purchaser if attributable to Taxes with respect to any Tax year beginning after the Closing Date (or for any Tax year beginning before and ending after the Closing Date to the extent allocable (determined in a manner consistent with or , as applicable), to the portion of such period beginning after the Closing Date.
Section 6.6(b) or (c)
provided
however
Section 6.6(f)(i)
Section 6.6(b)
(c)
 
(g) Any Tax Return which includes or is based on the operations, ownership, assets, or activities of the Company for the periods before Closing shall be prepared in accordance with past Tax accounting practices used by the Company or Seller with respect to the Tax Returns in question (unless such past practices are no longer permissible under applicable Tax law), and to the extent any items are not covered by past practices (or in the event such past practices are no longer permissible under applicable Tax law), in accordance with reasonable Tax accounting practices selected by the Party responsible for filing such Tax Return hereunder with the consent, not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed, of the other Party.
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
(h) In the event that a dispute arises between Seller and Purchaser as to the amount of any Taxes under this , the Parties shall attempt in good faith to resolve such dispute, and any amount so agreed upon shall be paid to the appropriate Party. If such dispute is not resolved within thirty (30) days after initially arising, the Parties shall submit the dispute to the Independent Accounting Firm for resolution which resolution shall be final, conclusive and binding on the Parties. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the fees and expenses of the Independent Accounting Firm in resolving the dispute shall be borne equally by Seller and Purchaser. Any payment required to be made as a result of the resolution of the dispute by the Independent Accounting Firm shall be made within ten (10) days after such resolution, together with any interest determined by the Independent Accounting Firm to be appropriate.
Section 6.6
 
.
Section 6.7 Risk of Loss
 
(a) Between the date hereof and the Closing Date, all risk of loss or damage to the assets and properties of the Company, including the Facility, shall be borne by Seller. As of the Closing Date, all risk of loss or damage to the assets and properties of the Company, including the Facility, shall be borne by Purchaser.
 
(b) If, before the Closing Date, all or any portion of the Facility becomes subject to any condemnation or eminent domain proceeding, Seller shall notify Purchaser promptly in writing of such fact. As soon as practicable following the filing of such condemnation or eminent domain proceeding, Seller will provide to Purchaser a detailed written estimate from an independent third party appraiser mutually acceptable to Seller and Purchaser (the "") setting forth the estimated amount of the reduction in the fair market value of the Facility resulting from such condemnation. If the Condemnation Estimate is equal to or less than fifteen percent (15%) of the Purchase Price, Purchaser may, at its option: (i) require Seller to agree to assign to Purchaser at the Closing the proceeds of any claim or settlement related to such proceeding to which Seller or any Affiliate of Seller (other than the Company) may be entitled (and Seller shall exercise commercially reasonable efforts in pursuit of such settlement or claim and Purchaser and the Company will provide reasonable cooperation with such efforts), or (ii) reduce the Purchase Price by an amount equal to the Condemnation Estimate and require Company to affirmatively disclaim any interest in any claim, settlement, or proceeds thereof related to the proceeding that Company may have (provided that Purchaser and the Company shall provide reasonable cooperation with Seller's efforts to pursue such claim or settlement), and in each such event the Parties shall proceed to Closing. Any failure of a condition to Closing related to any such proceeding of which Seller shall have so notified Purchaser shall be deemed not to exist, provided that Purchaser exercises its election pursuant to the preceding sentence within a reasonable period of time. If the Condemnation Estimate is greater than fifteen percent (15%) of the Purchase Price, then Purchaser may elect, within fifteen (15) days of written notice of such proceeding, either to (x) require Seller upon the Closing to assign to Purchaser any claim, settlement, or proceeds thereof related to such proceeding to which Seller or any Affiliate of Seller (other than the Company) may be entitled and proceed with the Transactions contemplated by this Agreement; or (y) terminate this Agreement.
Condemnation Estimate
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
(c) If, before the Closing Date, all or any portion of the Facility is damaged or destroyed (the "") (whether by fire, theft, vandalism or other casualty, each a "") in whole or in part, Seller shall notify Purchaser promptly in writing of such fact. As soon as practicable following the Casualty, Seller will provide to Purchaser a detailed written estimate from an independent third party appraiser mutually acceptable to Seller and Purchaser setting forth the estimate amount required to repair, replace or restore the Damaged Portion together with the estimated loss of profits and all costs and expenses associated with the Casualty (as mutually agreed by Purchaser and Seller, the ""). If the Casualty Estimate is equal to or less than fifteen percent (15%) of the Purchase Price, Purchaser may, at its option: (i) require Seller to agree to assign to Purchaser at the Closing the proceeds of any insurance claim or settlement related to such Casualty to which Seller or any Affiliate of Seller (other than the Company) may be entitled (and Seller shall exercise commercially reasonable efforts in pursuit of such settlement or claim and Purchaser and the Company will provide reasonable cooperation with such efforts), or (ii) reduce the Purchase Price by an amount equal to the Casualty Estimate and require Company to affirmatively disclaim any interest in any insurance claim or settlement, or proceeds thereof, related to the proceeding that Company may have (provided that Purchaser and the Company shall provide reasonable cooperation with Seller's efforts to pursue such claim or settlement), and in each such event, the Parties shall proceed to Closing. Any failure of a condition to Closing related to any such proceeding of which Seller shall have so notified Purchaser shall be deemed not to exist, provided that Purchaser exercises its election pursuant to the preceding sentence within a reasonable period of time. If the Casualty Estimate is greater than fifteen percent (15%) of the Purchase Price, then Purchaser may elect, within fifteen (15) days of written notice of such proceeding, either to (x) require Seller upon the Closing to assign to Purchaser any claim, settlement, or proceeds thereof related to such proceeding to which Seller or any Affiliate of Seller (other than the Company) may be entitled and proceed with the Transactions contemplated by this Agreement; or (y) terminate this Agreement.
Damaged Portion
Casualty
Casualty Estimate
 
. Purchaser acknowledges and agrees that, effective upon the Closing, the Facility Insurance Policies shall be terminated or modified to exclude coverage of the Company and the Facility by Seller, and, as a result, Purchaser shall be obligated at or before Closing to obtain at its sole cost and expense replacement insurance, including insurance required by any third party to be maintained by or for the benefit of the Company. Purchaser further acknowledges and agrees that it may need to provide to certain Governmental Authorities and third parties evidence of such replacement or substitute insurance coverage for the continued operations of the business of the Company following the Closing. Neither Seller nor Company will release (or take any action that would release) any insurer for any liability or loss that is or could reasonably likely be the subject of a claim under any such insurance on or before the Closing Date. Except as otherwise provided in hereof, Seller shall assign, or shall cause its Affiliates to assign, to the Company all proceeds from any unpaid claims made or entitled to be made under the Facility Insurance Policies for damages or liabilities that have occurred before the Closing Date, and will use its commercially reasonable efforts in the pursuit of any such claims and collection of any proceeds related thereto.
Section 6.8 Insurance
Section 6.7
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
.
Section 6.9 Announcements; Confidentiality
 
(a) Except as provided below, the Parties acknowledge that from and until the date that is two (2) years after the Effective Date, no press release or other public announcement, or public statement or comment in response to any inquiry, relating to the Transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall be issued or made by Purchaser or Seller, or their respective Affiliates, without the joint written approval of both Purchaser and Seller. At least two (2) Business Days before the Effective Date, each Party will submit to the other a draft of its press release. If the Party receiving a press release does not object in writing before the Closing, the press release will be deemed approved. Each Party will cooperate with the other in drafting acceptable press releases, and neither party will unreasonably withhold its consent to the other Party's press release. Notwithstanding the above, a press release or other public announcement, regulatory filing, statement or comment made without such joint approval shall not be in violation of this if it is made in order for the disclosing Party or any of its Affiliates to comply with applicable Laws or stock exchange policies and regulations, as determined in the reasonable judgment of the Party making such release or announcement and based upon advice of counsel; and , , that in all instances prompt written notice from one Party to the other shall be given with respect to any such release, announcement, statement or comment.
Section 6.9
provided
further
 
(b) Until Closing, and unless previously approved in writing by the other Party, each Party shall keep confidential all information (whether in oral or written form, electronically stored or otherwise) (i) obtained from or on behalf of the other Party either before or after the date of this Agreement; (ii) related to Purchaser's proposed purchase of the Membership Interests, Seller's proposed sale of the Membership Interests, the contents of this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements, or the negotiation of this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements; or (iii) related in any way whatsoever to this Agreement or the Ancillary Agreements.
 
(c) Until the date that is two (2) years after Closing, Seller will keep (and will cause its Affiliates to keep) confidential all information (whether in oral or written form, electronically stored or otherwise) related to Purchaser or related to the Company or the business or the assets of the Company that is not generally known to the public, specifically including any and all information designated or treated as confidential by Seller in connection with the sales process.
 
(d) The information described in paragraphs (b) and (c) is referred to as "". Notwithstanding the above, a Party may disclose the Confidential Information to its management group, professional advisors (including without limitation lenders and prospective financing sources), employees, agents, or representatives who need to know such Confidential Information to evaluate the Transactions contemplated hereby, are informed of its confidential nature, and agree to abide by this . If a Party is compelled to disclose Confidential Information by judicial or administrative process or by any other requirements of Law, or disclosure is reasonably necessary to obtain the approval of any Governmental Authority or third party necessary to consummate the Transactions contemplated hereby, the Party will provide the other Party with prompt written notice of any such request or requirement and assist the other Party, at the other Party's expense, in obtaining a appropriate protective order or other appropriate remedy or waive compliance with this ; , , whether or
Confidential Information
Section 6.9
Section 6.9
provided
however
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
not such order or other remedy is obtained, the Party requested or required to disclose Confidential Information shall disclose only that portion of the Confidential Information that it is advised by counsel that it is legally required to so disclose, and will exercise reasonable efforts to obtain reliable assurance that confidential treatment will be accorded the Confidential Information. Upon any termination of this Agreement pursuant to hereof and upon the written request of a Party, the other Party shall return or destroy promptly, at the request and option of the Party, all originals and copies of written or recorded information provided to such Party by or on behalf of the other Party and no such information shall be used by such Party, or its employees, agents or representatives, in the business or operations of any Person. Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) each Party's obligations under this shall not apply to any information or document insofar as it becomes available to the public other than as a result of a disclosure by the other Party in violation of this Agreement or other obligation of confidentiality under which such information may be held or becomes available to the Party on a non-confidential basis from a source other than the other Party or its officers, directors, employees, representatives or agents, and (ii) except as may be required by Law, the Parties shall seek appropriate protective orders or confidential treatment for the Schedules to this Agreement in connection with any filing with or disclosure to any Governmental Authority.
Article 10
Section 6.9
 
(e) The Confidentiality Agreement (to the extent that it relates to the Facility) shall be superseded by this Agreement effective as of the Effective Date and the Parties' obligations under this shall survive the Closing, or termination of this Agreement, if Closing does not occur, for a period of two (2) years. The Parties will cause their Affiliates that are party to the Confidentiality Agreement to amend it to effect the provisions of the first sentence of this paragraph (e). Effective as of Closing, Seller hereby assigns to Purchaser (or will cause its Affiliates to assign to Purchaser at Closing, if applicable) the benefit of all confidentiality agreements that it has obtained in connection with the proposed sale of the Company.
Section 6.9
 
. At any time or from time to time after the Closing, each Party shall, upon the reasonable request of the other Party, execute and deliver any further instruments or documents, and exercise commercially reasonable efforts to take such further actions as may reasonably be required, to fulfill and implement the terms of this Agreement or realize the benefits intended to be afforded hereby.
Section 6.10 Post Closing  Further Assurances
 
.
Section 6.11 Post Closing  Information and Records
 
(a) For a period of seven (7) years after the Closing (or, if requested in writing by a Party within seven (7) years after the Closing, until the closing of the examination of Seller's federal income Tax Returns for all periods prior to and including the Closing or until conclusion of any ongoing inquiry by any Governmental Authority) neither Party will dispose of any books, records, documents or information reasonably relating to the Company before the Closing Date without first giving notice to the other Party thereof and permitting that Party to retain or copy such books and records as it may select. During such period, each Party will (i) permit the other to examine and make copies, at the requesting Party's expense, during normal business hours and upon reasonable notice, of such books, records, documents and information for any reasonable purpose, including any litigation or other proceeding now
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
pending or hereafter commenced against that Party, or the preparation of income or other Tax Returns; , , that all such examinations shall occur and all such access shall be provided at times and places reasonably set by the responding Party, and in no event shall Seller interfere with Purchaser's operation of the Facility or the conduct of its business.
provided
however
 
(b) During such seven (7) year time period, Purchaser will provide to Seller, at Seller's expense, copies of such books, records, documents and information reasonably relating to the Company delivered to it by Seller or any of its Affiliates for any reasonable purpose, including any litigation or other proceeding now pending or hereafter commenced against Seller or any of its Affiliates by any person (including Purchaser). Seller will provide reasonable notice to Purchaser of its need to access such books, records, documents or other information.
 
(c) If privileged and/or attorney work product documents or information, including communications between Seller and its counsel, are disclosed to Purchaser in the books, records, documents or other information delivered by Seller, Purchaser agrees (i) such disclosure is inadvertent; (ii) such disclosure will not constitute a waiver, in whole or in part, of any privilege or work product; (iii) such information will constitute confidential information subject to the provisions of ; and (iv) it will promptly return to Seller all copies of such books, records, documents or other information in the possession of Purchaser or its Affiliates, agents, employees or representatives (including without limitation lenders and financial advisors).
Section 6.9
 
(d) At Closing, Seller shall (A) deliver to Purchaser or cause to be present at the Facility originals of all finance and accounting logs and records (other than any finance and accounting books, logs and records that are not closed prior to Closing), all material limited liability company record books, copies of all Permits and all finance, accounting and operational logs and records (including working policies and procedures, operating manuals, past reports, environmental compliance policies, procedures, reporting templates and historical data and health and safety policies and practices) of the Company and of the Seller and its Affiliates, including the Facility Operator, to the extent relating solely or primarily to the Facility or the Company and (B) transfer to the Company or Purchaser all information, data and records associated with the foregoing matters. Within a reasonable period (not to exceed fifteen (15) business days) after the Closing Date, (A) Seller shall deliver to Purchaser all originals of any other books, logs, records, documents and data (in written or electronic form) of the Company, the Sellers, and the Facility Operator to the extent relating solely or primarily to the Company or the Facility and not delivered pursuant to the preceding sentence, as well as copies of all books, logs, records, documents and data (in written or electronic form) of the Seller and its Affiliates, including the Facility Operator, that relate to the Company or the Facility and do not relate solely to the Seller or such Affiliate (such information not relating to the Company or the Facility may be redacted), as applicable, and (B) within a reasonable period of time after the Closing Date (but not to exceed 30 days), Seller shall cause the transfer to the Company or Purchaser of all information, data and records associated with the matters described in the preceding sentence.
 
. TECO Marks will appear on some of the assets of the Company, including on signage at the Facility, and on supplies, materials, stationery,
Section 6.12 Use of TECO Marks
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
brochures, advertising materials, manuals and similar consumable items of the Company. Purchaser acknowledges and agrees that it has and, upon consummation of the Transactions contemplated hereby shall have, no right, title, interest, license, or any other right whatsoever to use the TECO Marks; , , that Purchaser shall be authorized to continue to use for internal purposes only and not for public use, materials bearing such TECO Marks (including manuals) used by Seller prior to Closing for up to six (6) months following the Closing. Notwithstanding the foregoing, use of the TECO Marks shall remain under the control of Seller. Subject to the terms of the preceding sentence, Purchaser shall, (i) within thirty (30) days after the Closing Date, remove, cover or conceal the TECO Marks from the assets of the Company, including signage at the Facility, and provide written verification thereof to Seller promptly after completing such removal and (ii) within thirty (30) days after the Closing Date, return or destroy (with proof of destruction) all other assets of the Company that contain any TECO Marks that are not removed, covered or concealed. Purchaser agrees never to challenge Seller's (or its Affiliates') ownership of the TECO Marks or any application for registration thereof or any registration thereof or any rights of Seller its Affiliates therein as a result, directly or indirectly, of its ownership of the Company. Purchaser will not conduct any business nor offer any goods or services under any TECO Marks. Purchaser will not send, or cause to be sent, any correspondence or other materials to any Person on any stationery that contains any TECO Marks or otherwise operate the Company in any manner which would or might reasonably be expected to confuse any Person into believing that Purchaser has any right, title, interest or license to use any TECO Marks.
provided
however
 
. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement or any of the Ancillary Agreements, the Transactions contemplated by this Agreement exclude, and prior to the Closing Date, Seller shall cause the Company to transfer to Seller or any of their Affiliates (other than the Company), unless otherwise agreed to in writing by Purchaser, the following (the ""):
Section 6.13 Excluded Assets
Excluded Assets
 
(a) any and all of the Seller's, Company's, or their respective Affiliates' rights arising under the Facility Operations Agreement or the TECO EnergySource Agreement shall be Excluded Assets;
 
(b) except to the extent proceeds therefrom are assigned to Purchaser pursuant to hereof, and except for the Company's rights with respect to unpaid claims made or entitled to be made under the Facility Insurance Policies for damages or liabilities that have occurred before the Closing Date, all Facility Insurance Policies and all rights thereunder (and any current assets related to prepaid insurance will be removed from working capital in adjusting the Purchase Price under and ); and
Section 6.7
Sections 3.3
3.4
 
(c) the TECO Marks;
 
(d) any and all cash held by the Company (other than petty cash maintained at the Facility, which petty cash shall be factored into the calculation of Adjusted Net Working Capital);
 
(e) any Late Accounts; and
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
(f) any rights of Seller or any Affiliate of Seller with respect to any Intercompany Arrangements.
 
Seller's representations and warranties in shall not apply to any of the Excluded Assets described in clauses (a) through (f) of the preceding sentence except to the extent such representations regarding Excluded Assets relate to liabilities of the Company (regardless of any indemnity by Seller), or relate to assets that are not Excluded Assets. By way of illustration (and not limitation), since after Closing the Company will retain certain rights to receive payment for claims made or accrued prior to Closing under Facility Insurance Policies, all representations and warranties in (including without limitation ) shall apply to Facility Insurance Policies to the extent relevant to the Purchaser's or Company's retained rights therein. Notwithstanding the above and for the avoidance of doubt, the representations in through shall apply without exception. Seller shall cause the Facility Operations Agreement and the TECO EnergySource Agreement to be terminated prior to or concurrently with the Closing pursuant to below.
Article 4
Article 4
Section 4.20
Sections 4.1
4.4
Section 8.11(g)
 
. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement or any of the Ancillary Agreements, the Transactions contemplated by this Agreement exclude, and prior to the Closing Date Seller shall cause the Company to transfer to Seller or any of its Affiliates (other than the Company) the following (the ""):
Section 6.14 Excluded Liabilities
Excluded Liabilities
 
(a) any liabilities or obligations of the Company in respect of any Excluded Asset;
 
(b) any liabilities or obligations of the Company in respect of any Taxes payable by Seller pursuant to and any liability of the Company under Treas. Reg. 1.1-502 (or any similar provision of state or local law) or otherwise for Tax obligations of Seller or any of its Affiliates, except to the extent of any amounts included as current liabilities of the Company and taken into account in the adjustment of the Purchase Price;
Section 6.6
 
(c) other than liabilities and obligations under this Agreement or the Ancillary Agreements, any and all liabilities or obligations of the Company to Seller or any of Seller's Affiliates, or to any of Company's, Seller's or Seller's Affiliates' officers, directors, or managers arising in connection with any Intercompany Arrangements, including, without limitation, any and all liabilities or obligations arising from any indemnity obligations in the Company's governing documents or indemnity agreements, whether or not known to Seller or disclosed to Purchaser;
 
(d) any liabilities or obligations of the Company under ERISA arising as a result of the Company being an ERISA Affiliate of Seller; and
 
(e) costs and expenses incurred by the Company pursuant to the Generator Rotor Repair Contracts in connection with the Generator Rotor Repairs in accordance with below.
Section 6.17
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
Seller's representations and warranties in shall not apply to any of the Excluded Liabilities described in clauses (a) through (e) of the preceding sentence except to the extent such representations regarding Excluded Liabilities relate to liabilities of the Company (regardless of any indemnity by Seller) that are not Excluded Liabilities. Notwithstanding the above and for the avoidance of doubt, the representations in through shall apply without exception.
Article 4
Sections 4.1
4.4
 
. Purchaser (or an Affiliate of Purchaser) may interview and may offer employment that would commence not earlier than the date of termination of the Facility Operating Agreement to any employee of the Facility Operator, on such terms and conditions as Purchaser (or its Affiliate) may reasonably determine, but except as provided below, Purchaser shall not be obligated to do so pursuant to this Agreement (any employee of the Facility Operator who accepts Purchaser's or its Affiliate's offer of employment is referred to herein as a ""). Offers of employment to the Transferred Employees will include salary or wages at least equal to the salary and wages currently paid to those employees by the Facility Operator. All offers of employment will include benefits comparable to the benefits provided to similarly situated employees of Affiliates of Purchaser. Purchaser (or its Affiliate, if applicable) will waive or cause to be waived all pre-existing coverage exclusions or limitations otherwise applicable under such plans to such Transferred Employees (and their eligible dependents) effective as of such hire date, to the extent allowed by such plans. Seller hereby agrees that effective as of the Closing Date, Seller shall cause its applicable Affiliate(s) to terminate the employment of each of the employees to whom Purchaser offers employment under the terms of this Agreement, and that for a period of one year from the Effective Date, neither Seller nor any of Seller's Affiliates will directly or indirectly recruit, solicit or otherwise induce or attempt to induce any such employee to make themselves unavailable for employment by Purchaser or its Affiliate or otherwise employ or seek to employ any such employee. If Purchaser has not hired (or does not have agreements to hire as of Closing) those employees that currently operate the Facility and that it deems necessary to operate the Facility from and after the Closing, then Purchaser and Seller will enter into a mutually acceptable transition agreement under which Seller (or its Affiliates) will provide operating services at the actual cost to Seller or its Affiliates (compensation of operating personnel plus the cost of benefits, administrative costs and the like) for a period of not less than six months.
Section 6.15 Employee Matters
Transferred Employee
 
. Purchaser hereby agrees with and covenants to Seller that prior to consummation of the Transactions contemplated hereby or the termination or expiration of this Agreement pursuant to its terms, unless Seller otherwise consents in writing, Purchaser shall not take any action which would cause any of Purchaser's representations and warranties set forth in to be materially false as of the Closing.
Section 6.16 Additional Covenants of Purchaser
Article 5
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
. Seller agrees to use commercially reasonable efforts to complete the Generator Rotor Repairs prior to Closing. The Generator Rotor Repairs shall continue to be made pursuant to the terms of the Generator Rotor Repair Contracts with all approved payments to the Generator Rotor Contractors required pursuant to the Generator Rotor Repair Contracts to continue to be borne by Seller. To the extent that such Generator Rotor Repairs are not completed prior to Closing, following Closing Purchaser shall continue to work with the Generator Rotor Contractors to complete the Generator Rotor Repairs and shall be authorized, subject to the prior written consent of Seller (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed), to take all appropriate actions and make all decisions regarding the Generator Rotor Repairs using reasonable commercial standards. Seller shall bear the cost of all charges of the Generator Rotor Contractors under the Generator Rotor Repair Contracts and as approved by Seller hereunder and shall indemnify Purchaser for any and all of such amounts. Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, following the Closing Purchaser shall have the right to make any decision or take any action with respect to the Generator Rotor Repairs in its sole discretion; provided however, Seller shall have no liability hereunder with respect to any costs or charges incurred in connection with any actions or decisions by Purchaser or its Affiliates not expressly consented to in writing (which consent may only be withheld or delayed in good faith) by Seller hereunder.
Section 6.17 Generator Rotor Repairs
 
Purchaser hereby agrees to exercise its commercially reasonable efforts to obtain and have available for Closing acquisition financing on substantially the terms described in the financing commitment identified in hereof and in the fee letter provided to Purchaser in connection with such financing commitment or on other commercially reasonable terms not worse, taken as a whole, to Purchaser than those terms contained in the financing commitment provided to Seller and identified in hereof (collectively, the ""); provided, however, that to the extent any "market flex" provision applicable to such Financing Arrangement results in an increase in interest rates and/or fees that has the effect of increasing the net overall yield by greater than two percent (2%) per annum, such financing shall not be deemed to be on substantially such terms as the Financing Arrangement contemplated hereby; and provided further, that this shall in no way affect or modify the Parties' respective termination rights under .
Section 6.18 Financing Efforts.
Section 8.12
Section 8.12
Financing Arrangement
Section 6.18
Section 10.1
 
 
 
. Except as provided in , and , and except for intentional fraud, Seller and Purchaser acknowledge that the indemnification provisions set forth in this shall be the exclusive remedy of both Seller Group and Purchaser Group for any money damages arising out of or in connection with this Agreement and the Transactions contemplated hereby, and such indemnification provisions are exclusive and in lieu of any and all other rights and remedies for money damages which Seller and Seller Group on the one hand, and Purchaser and Purchaser Group on the other hand, may have under this Agreement or under applicable Law, whether at common law or in equity. Except as provided in , notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, nothing in this
Section 7.1 Exclusive Remedy
Sections 3.2(a)
6.6(g)
Article 7
Section 7.3(b)
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
Agreement shall restrict any Party from seeking an injunction or other equitable relief, including without limitation requiring payment of the Final Adjusted Purchase Price or the transfer of the Membership Interests. No Party shall be entitled to duplicative recovery to the extent that a purchase price adjustment has been made previously with respect thereto.
 
.
Section 7.2 Indemnification by Seller
 
(a) . Seller will indemnify, defend and hold harmless Purchaser and its respective parents and Affiliates, and each of their officers and directors, and successors and assigns (collectively, the ""), from and against any and all demands, suits, penalties, obligations, damages, claims, losses, liabilities, payments, costs and expenses (""), that are incurred by or awarded against any member of Purchaser Group, including reasonable legal, accounting, and other expenses in connection therewith, which arise out of, are in connection with, or relate to, the following (collectively, ""):
Purchaser Claims
Purchaser Group
Losses
Purchaser Claims
 
(i) any breach or violation of any covenant, obligation, or agreement of Seller set forth in this Agreement;
 
(ii) any breach or inaccuracy of the representations or warranties made by Seller in of this Agreement;
Article 4
 
(iii) if the Closing occurs, the ownership, operation, or use of the Excluded Assets (arising before or after the Closing Date), except to the extent retained by Purchaser or the Company after the Closing Date in contravention of this Agreement by Purchaser; or
 
(iv) if the Closing occurs, the failure of Seller or its Affiliates to pay, discharge, or perform any of the Excluded Liabilities as and when due (arising before or after the Closing Date).
 
(b) . Seller Group shall not be liable for any punitive, incidental, indirect, special, or consequential damages resulting from or arising out of any Purchaser Claims, including damages for lost revenues, income, profits, or any other damage or loss resulting from the disruption to or loss of operation of the Facility, except to the extent Purchaser Group suffers such damages to a third party not affiliated with Purchaser or Purchaser's Guarantors in connection with a Third Party Claim. The aggregate cumulative Losses for which Seller Group shall be liable under and for all claims thereunder shall be limited to twenty-five percent (25%) of the Adjusted Purchase Price, except only for: (i) Indemnifiable Claims arising under , , , and , in which case the aggregate cumulative Losses for which Seller Group shall be liable for such Indemnifiable Claims shall be limited to one hundred percent (100%) of the Adjusted Purchase Price, in each case taking into account cumulative amounts paid on all other claims (provided that except as limited by the last sentence of this Losses arising under the Sections listed above will not be taken into account in limiting liability resulting from breach of the Sections not listed); and (ii) the aggregate cumulative Losses for which Seller Group shall be liable for Indemnifiable Claims under and if Closing does not occur
Limitations on Liability of Seller
Section 7.2(a)(i)
Section 7.2(a)(ii)
Sections 4.1
4.2
4.3
4.4
Section 7.2(b)
Section 7.2(a)(i)
7.2(a)(ii)
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
shall be limited to fifteen percent (15%) of the Adjusted Purchase Price. Seller's obligation to indemnify Purchaser Group under shall terminate on (i) with respect to breaches of covenants, obligations or agreements that are to be performed on or before the Closing Date, the date that is one (i) year from the Closing Date, (ii) with respect to breaches of , the date that is three (3) years from the Closing Date, and (iii) with respect to breaches of any other covenants, obligations or agreements, the date that is one year following the date of such breach. Seller's obligation to indemnify Purchaser under with respect to any Seller representation or warranty shall terminate upon expiration of such representation warranty hereunder pursuant to below. To the extent that any Indemnifiable Claims arising under or are also Indemnifiable Claims under or , Purchaser Group shall be entitled to pursue either claim. In no event shall Seller Group's total aggregate liability arising under and exceed one hundred percent (100%) of the Adjusted Purchase Price.
Section 7.2(a)(i)
Section 6.10
Section 7.2(a)(ii)
Section 11.15
Sections 7.2(a)(iii)
7.2(a)(iv)
Sections 7.2(a)(i)
7.2(a)(ii)
Section 7.2(a)(i)
Section 7.2(a)(ii)
 
.
Section 7.3 Indemnification by Purchaser
 
(a) . Purchaser will indemnify, defend and hold harmless Seller, its respective parents and Affiliates, and each of its officers and directors, and successors and assigns (collectively, the ""), from and against any and all Losses, that are incurred by or awarded against any member of Seller Group, including reasonable legal, accounting, and other expenses in connection therewith, which arise out of, are in connection with, or relate to, the following (collectively, ""):
Seller Claims
Seller Group
Seller Claims
 
(i) any breach or violation of any covenant, obligation, or agreement of Purchaser set forth in this Agreement;
 
(ii) any breach or inaccuracy of any of the representations or warranties made by Purchaser in of this Agreement; or
Article 5
 
(iii) if the Closing occurs and excluding matters for which Seller is obligated to indemnify Purchaser under , the business of the Company, the design, construction, ownership, operation or use of any of the assets of the Company, including the Facility (but excluding the Excluded Assets, except to the extent retained by the Company or Purchaser in contravention of this Agreement by Purchaser), the failure to pay, perform or discharge any liabilities or obligations of the Company (but excluding the Excluded Liabilities) or any other matter relating to or arising out of the business of the Company, the design, construction, ownership, operation or use of any of the assets of the Company, including the Facility (but excluding the Excluded Assets), in each case whether relating to periods of time prior to or after the Closing Date.
Section 7.2
 
Purchaser acknowledges that the Losses described in shall be retained by the Company and transferred with the transfer of the Membership Interests, and shall continue to be the responsibility of the Company and Purchaser.
Section 7.3(a)(iii)
 
(b) . Purchaser Group shall not be liable for any punitive, incidental, indirect, special, or consequential damages resulting from or
Limitations on Liability of Purchaser
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
arising out of any Seller Claims, including damages for lost revenues, income, profits, or any other damage or loss resulting from the disruption to or loss of operation of the Facility, except to the extent Seller Group suffers such damages to a third party not affiliated with Seller or Seller's Guarantor in connection with a Third Party Claim. The aggregate cumulative Losses for which Purchaser Group shall be liable under and for all claims thereunder shall be limited to twenty-five percent (25%) of the Adjusted Purchase Price, except only for: (i) Indemnifiable Claims arising under and , in which case such liability shall be limited to one hundred percent (100%) of the Adjusted Purchase Price, in each case taking into account cumulative amounts paid on all other claims (provided that except as limited by the last sentence of this Losses arising under the Sections listed above will not be taken into account in limiting liability resulting from breach of the sections not listed); and (ii) except for any Seller Claims made in connection with Purchaser's breach of its obligation to close, in which case Seller's sole remedy will be to terminate this Agreement and retain the Deposit Funds pursuant to . In no event shall Purchaser Group's total aggregate liability arising under and exceed one hundred percent (100%) of the Adjusted Purchase Price.
Section 7.3(a)(i)
Section 7.3(a)(ii)
Sections 5.1
5.2
Section 7.3(b)
Section 3.2(a)(i)
Section 7.3(a)(i)
Section 7.3(a)(ii)
 
. Subject to the terms of this Agreement and upon a receipt of notice of the assertion of a claim or of the commencement of any suit, action or proceeding that is a Third Party Claim against any member of Purchaser Group or Seller Group entitled to indemnification under or , respectively, such Person entitled to indemnification hereunder (the "") will promptly notify the Party against whom indemnification is sought (the "") in writing of any damage, claim, loss, liability or expense which the Indemnitee has determined has given or could give rise to a claim under or . Such written notice is herein referred to as a "." A Notice of Claim will specify, in reasonable detail, the facts known to the Indemnitee regarding the claim. Subject to the terms of this Agreement, the failure to provide (or timely provide) a Notice of Claim will not affect the Indemnitee's rights to indemnification; , , the Indemnitor is not obligated to indemnify the Indemnitee for the increased amount of any claim which would otherwise have been payable to the extent that the increase resulted from the failure to deliver timely a Notice of Claim.
Section 7.4 Notice of Claim
Section 7.2
Section 7.3
Indemnitee
Indemnitor
Section 7.2
Section 7.3
Notice of Claim
provided
however
 
. The Indemnitor will defend, in good faith and at its expense, any claim or demand set forth in a Notice of Claim relating to a Third Party Claim and the Indemnitee, at its expense, may participate in the defense. The Indemnitor will defend the Indemnitee against the matter with counsel of its reasonable choice, and the Indemnitee may retain separate co-counsel at its sole cost and expense (except that the Indemnitor will be responsible for the reasonable fees and expenses of the separate co-counsel in the event that the counsel selected by the Indemnitor cannot independently represent both the Indemnitee and the Indemnitor due to a conflict of interest). The Indemnitee will not consent to the entry of any judgment or enter into any settlement with respect to the matter without the written consent of the Indemnitor, which shall not be unreasonably withheld, and the Indemnitor will not consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to the matter or enter into any settlement, without the written consent of the Indemnitee, which shall not be unreasonably withheld. If the Indemnitor does not assume the defense of Indemnitee in a reasonably timely
Section 7.5 Defense of Third Party Claims
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
manner, the Indemnitee may retain counsel, as an indemnification expense, to defend such claim, suit, judgment or matter, and Indemnitor may join the Indemnitee in the defense of such claim and shall be responsible for its own costs and expenses.
 
. The Party defending the Third Party Claim shall deliver, or cause to be delivered, to the other Party copies of all correspondence, pleadings, motions, briefs, appeals or other written statements relating to or submitted in connection with the defense of the Third Party Claim and timely notices of and the right to participate (as an observer) in any hearing or court proceeding or any other proceeding relating to the Third Party Claim. The Indemnitee will make available to the Indemnitor or its representatives all records and other materials reasonably required by them for use in contesting any Third Party Claim (subject to obtaining an agreement to maintain the confidentiality of confidential or proprietary materials in a form reasonably acceptable to Indemnitor and Indemnitee). If requested by the Indemnitor, the Indemnitee will cooperate with the Indemnitor and its counsel in contesting any Third Party Claim or, if appropriate, in making any counterclaim against the Person asserting the claim or demand, or any cross-complaint against any Person. The Indemnitor will reimburse the Indemnitee for any reasonable expenses directly incurred by Indemnitee in cooperating with or acting at the request of the Indemnitor.
Section 7.6 Cooperation
 
. As used in this Agreement, the term "" means any Purchaser Claims or Seller Claims. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein:
Section 7.7 Mitigation and Limitation of Claims
Indemnifiable Claim
 
(a) . The Indemnitee shall take all reasonable steps to mitigate all Losses relating to an Indemnifiable Claim, including availing itself of any defenses, limitations, rights of contribution, claims against third Persons and other rights at law or equity, and will provide such evidence and documentation of the nature and extent of the Indemnifiable Claim as may be reasonably requested by the Indemnitor. The Indemnitee's reasonable steps include the reasonable expenditure of money to mitigate or otherwise reduce or eliminate any Loss for which indemnification would otherwise be due under this , and the Indemnitor will reimburse the Indemnitee for the Indemnitee's reasonable expenditures in undertaking the mitigation, together with interest thereon from the date of payment to the date of repayment at a variable rate of interest equal to the "prime rate" as published in from time to time during the applicable period. However, the Indemnitee will not be precluded from recovering any Losses due to a failure to mitigate to the extent that it can demonstrate that it requested the Indemnitor to undertake or agree to pay the expenses associated with such mitigation and the Indemnitor failed to do so.
Reasonable Steps to Mitigate
Article 7
The Wall Street Journal
 
(b) . Any Indemnifiable Claim shall be limited to the amount of actual damages sustained by the Indemnitee by reason of such breach or nonperformance, net of insurance recoveries or any tax benefit or other similar recovery or offset realized, directly or indirectly, by the Indemnitee.
Net of Benefits
 
(c) . If the Closing occurs, except as provided below, no Party shall have any liability or obligation to indemnify under , as the case may be, unless the aggregate amount for which such Party would be liable thereunder,
Minimum Claim
Sections 7.2(a)(ii) or 7.3(a)(ii)
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
but for this provision, exceeds two percent (2%) of the Adjusted Purchase Price, and recovery shall be limited only to such amounts that exceed such percentage of the Adjusted Purchase Price. For purposes of the foregoing, individual Indemnifiable Claims of Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000) or less shall not be aggregated for purposes of calculating such deductible threshold amount or for calculating amounts payable in excess of such threshold amount, unless they arise from a single event that results in a series of related claims collectively exceeding Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000), in which case they will be aggregated. Once it is determined that a breach of a representation or warranty has occurred (as written, with any qualifiers), then any condition or qualifier on any representation or warranty relating to materiality or requiring a Material Adverse Effect will be disregarded for the purposes of calculating the amount of such damages resulting from such breach. Nothing in this is intended to modify or limit a Party's liability or obligation hereunder for other Indemnifiable Claims. Notwithstanding the above, damages arising from breaches of the following Sections shall not be subject to any of the limitations in this : , , , and (applicable to claims against Seller); and , and (applicable to claims against Purchaser).
Section 7.7(c)
Section 7.7(c)
Sections 4.1
4.2
4.3
4.4
Sections 5.1
5.2
 
. Except as otherwise provided herein, any indemnification of Purchaser Group or Seller Group pursuant to this shall be effected by wire transfer of immediately available funds from Seller, or Purchaser, as the case may be, to an account(s) designated by the applicable Purchaser or Seller, as the case may be, within ten (10) days after the determination thereof.
Section 7.8 Manner of Payment
Article 7
 
 
 
The obligations of Purchaser to consummate the Transactions shall be subject to fulfillment at or prior to the Closing of each of the following conditions, except to the extent Purchaser waives such fulfillment in writing:
 
. Seller shall have performed or complied in all material respects with all covenants and agreements contained in this Agreement on its part required to be performed or complied with at or prior to the Closing, and Seller's Guarantor shall have performed or complied in all material respects with all covenants and agreements contained in Seller's Guaranty on its part that are required to be performed or complied with at or prior to the Closing.
Section 8.1 Compliance with Provisions
 
. The waiting period under the HSR Act applicable to the consummation of the sale of the Membership Interests contemplated hereby shall have expired or been terminated.
Section 8.2 HSR Act
 
. FERC shall have issued an order under Section 203 of the Federal Power Act approving the Transactions.
Section 8.3 FERC Approvals and Filings
 
. Without limiting the generality of and , with respect to the purchase and sale of the Membership Interests,
Section 8.4 Required Regulatory Approvals
Sections 6.2
6.5
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
Purchaser shall have received all of Purchaser's Required Regulatory Approvals described in clause (i) of the definition thereof. In the event that any Purchaser Required Regulatory Approval requires any modification to this Agreement, any Ancillary Agreement executed by Purchaser or the Transactions, imposes any condition to the effectuation of the Transactions, or places any restrictions upon Purchaser's ownership of the Company, then Purchaser shall be deemed to have approved such modifications, conditions and restrictions to the extent that such modifications, conditions and restrictions, if any, are not contemplated by this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements and would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a material economic detriment to Purchaser or the Company after the Closing, it being also agreed that Purchaser shall be deemed to have approved of any modifications, conditions or restrictions that are not disapproved by Purchaser in a written notice to Seller given no later than ten (10) Business Days following the public announcement of the decision of the Governmental Authority.
 
. The representations and warranties of Seller set forth in of this Agreement that are qualified with respect to materiality (whether by reference to Material Adverse Effect or otherwise) shall be true and correct, and the representations and warranties of Seller set forth in of this Agreement that are not so qualified shall be true and correct in all material respects, on and as of the Closing Date, in each case as though made on and as of the Closing Date.
Section 8.5 Representations and Warranties
Article 4
Article 4
 
. There must not be pending or threatened any injunction, judgment, order, action, investigation or other proceeding by any Governmental Authority or before any court against the Company, the Facility or the Purchaser, and arising out of or related to the Transactions, if an unfavorable result of any of the foregoing would prevent the consummation of any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or would cause such transactions to be rescinded following consummation, or would reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect or a Purchaser Material Adverse Effect.
Section 8.6 Pending Actions
 
. Purchaser shall have received a certificate from Seller substantially in the form of , executed on its behalf by an authorized officer, dated the Closing Date, to the effect that the conditions set forth in have been satisfied by Seller.
Section 8.7 Officer's Certificate
Exhibit E
Section 8.5
 
. Subject to , since the Effective Date, no Company Material Adverse Effect shall have occurred and be continuing.
Section 8.8 Company Material Adverse Effect
Section 6.7
 
. Purchaser shall have received an opinion from Seller's counsel, substantially in the form of , dated as of the Closing Date, subject to the conditions and limitations therein and to other customary conditions and limitations.
Section 8.9 Legal Opinion
Exhibit F
 
. Neither Party shall have exercised any termination right such Party is entitled to exercise pursuant to .
Section 8.10 No Termination
Section 10.1
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
. Purchaser shall have received the following:
Section 8.11 Receipt of Other Documents
 
(a) Certificates of good standing with respect to Seller and the Company, each as of a recent date, issued by the pertinent government officials of their respective jurisdictions of formation, as well as certified copies of the certificates of formation of the Company and of Seller, each issued by the pertinent government officials of their respective jurisdictions of formation;
 
(b) A certified copy of the Operating Agreement, together with a certificate of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of Seller that such Operating Agreement has not been amended;
 
(c) Copies, certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of Seller and Seller's Guarantor, of resolutions of the respective governing boards of Seller and Seller's Guarantor authorizing the execution and delivery by Seller of this Agreement and the transactions contemplated herein, the execution and delivery by Seller or Seller's Guarantor of the Ancillary Agreements to which it is a party, and the authorization or ratification of all of the other agreements and instruments, in each case, to be executed and delivered by such Seller or Seller's Guarantor in connection herewith;
 
(d) A certificate of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of Seller and Seller's Guarantor, substantially in the form of , identifying the name and title and bearing the signatures of the officers of Seller and Seller's Guarantor authorized to execute and deliver this Agreement, and the officers of Seller or Seller's Guarantor authorized to execute and deliver each Ancillary Agreement to which Seller or Seller's Guarantor, as applicable, is a party and the other agreements and instruments contemplated hereby;
Exhibit G
 
(e) Documents, instruments and certificates reasonably requested by Purchaser that are necessary to consummate the transactions contemplated herein, executed and delivered or caused to be executed and delivered by Seller;
 
(f) All Ancillary Agreements executed and delivered by Seller, or Affiliates thereof, as the case may be; and
 
(g) An instrument terminating the Facility Operations Agreement and the TECO EnergySource Agreement, executed and delivered by the Company and the Facility Operator or other Affiliate as necessary, substantially in the form of .
Exhibit H
 
. The conditions to funding in Purchaser's financing commitment, which has been previously provided to Seller, shall be satisfied or waived, all in a manner reasonably satisfactory to Purchaser, at or prior to Closing, and funding pursuant to Purchaser's financing commitment must be available at Closing.
Section 8.12 Financing
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
 
 
The obligations of Seller to consummate the Transactions shall be subject to fulfillment at or prior to the Closing of each of the following conditions, except to the extent Seller waives such fulfillment in writing:
 
. Purchaser shall have performed or complied in all material respects with all covenants and agreements contained in this Agreement on its part required to be performed or complied with at or prior to the Closing, and Purchaser's Guarantors shall have performed or complied in all material respects with all covenants and agreements contained in Purchaser's Guaranty on its part that are required to be performed or complied with at or prior to the Closing.
Section 9.1 Compliance with Provisions
 
. FERC shall have issued an order under Section 203 of the Federal Power Act approving the Transactions.
Section 9.2 FERC Approvals and Filings
 
. The waiting period under the HSR Act applicable to the consummation of the sale of the Membership Interests contemplated hereby shall have expired or been terminated.
Section 9.3 HSR Act
 
. Without limiting the generality of and , with respect to the purchase and sale of the Membership Interests, Seller shall have received all of Seller's Required Regulatory Approvals. In the event that any Seller Required Regulatory Approval requires any modification to this Agreement, any Ancillary Agreement executed by any Seller, or the Transactions, or imposes any condition to the effectuation of the Transactions, then Seller shall be deemed to have approved such modifications, conditions and restrictions to the extent that such modifications, conditions and restrictions, if any, are not contemplated by this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements and would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a material economic detriment to Seller, it being also agreed that Seller shall be deemed to have approved of any such modifications, conditions or restrictions that are not disapproved by Seller in a written notice to Purchaser given no later than ten (10) Business Days following the public announcement of the decision of the Governmental Authority.
Section 9.4 Required Regulatory Approvals
Sections 6.2
6.5
 
. The representations and warranties of Purchaser set forth in of this Agreement that are qualified with respect to materiality (whether by reference to Material Adverse Effect or otherwise) shall be true and correct, and the representations and warranties of Purchaser set forth in that are not so qualified shall be true and correct in all material respects, on and as of the Closing Date, in each case as though made on and as of the Closing Date.
Section 9.5 Representations and Warranties
Article 5
Article 5
 
. There must not be pending or threatened any injunction, judgment, order, action, investigation or other proceeding by any Governmental Authority or before any court relating to the Company, the Facility or the Seller, and arising out
Section 9.6 Pending Actions
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
of or related to the Transactions, if an unfavorable result of any of the foregoing would prevent the consummation of any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or would cause such transactions to be rescinded following consummation, or would reasonably be expected to have a Seller Material Adverse Effect.
 
. Seller shall have received a certificate from Purchaser, substantially in the form of , executed on its behalf by an authorized officer, dated the Closing Date, to the effect that the conditions set forth in have been satisfied by Purchaser.
Section 9.7 Officer's Certificate
Exhibit I
Section 9.5
 
. Seller shall have received an opinion or opinions from Purchaser's counsel, substantially in the form of , dated as of the Closing Date, subject to the conditions and limitations therein and to other customary conditions and limitations.
Section 9.8 Legal Opinion
Exhibit J
 
. Neither Party shall have exercised any termination right such Party is entitled to exercise pursuant to .
Section 9.9 No Termination
Section 10.1
 
. Seller's Existing Affiliate Guaranty shall have been terminated and PJM and all other beneficiaries thereof shall have effectively and irrevocably released Seller and all of its Affiliates from any and all liability thereunder. However, if PJM and the other beneficiaries of Seller's Existing Affiliate Guaranty will not accept a letter of credit from Purchaser in lieu of Seller's Existing Affiliate Guaranty and release Seller and all of its Affiliates therefrom, then Seller's Existing Affiliate Guaranty may instead remain in place for the benefit of the Company, and Purchaser shall instead provide a letter of credit for the benefit of Seller and Seller's Guarantor (in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Seller) in an amount equal to Seller's continuing obligations under Seller's Existing Affiliate Guaranty.
Section 9.10 Termination of Existing Affiliate Guaranty
 
. Seller shall have received the following:
Section 9.11 Receipt of Other Documents
 
(a) Certificates of good standing with respect to Purchaser and Purchaser's Guarantors, each as of a recent date, issued by the pertinent government officials of their respective jurisdictions of formation;
 
(b) Certified copies of the certificate of incorporation and by-laws of Purchaser's Guarantors and of the articles of organization and operating agreement of Purchaser, together with a certificate of a duly authorized officer of Purchaser and Purchaser's Guarantors that none of such documents have been amended;
 
(c) Copies, certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of Purchaser and Purchaser's Guarantors, of resolutions of the respective governing boards of Purchaser and Purchaser's Guarantors authorizing the execution and delivery by Purchaser of this Agreement, the execution and delivery by Purchaser or Purchaser's Guarantors of the Ancillary Agreements to which it is a party, and the authorization or ratification of all of the other agreements and instruments, in each case, to be executed and delivered by Purchaser or Purchaser's Guarantors in connection herewith;
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
(d) A certificate of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of Purchaser and Purchaser's Guarantors, substantially in the form of , identifying the name and title and bearing the signatures of the officers of Purchaser and Purchaser's Guarantors authorized to execute and deliver this Agreement, and the officers of Purchaser or Purchaser's Guarantors authorized to execute and deliver each Ancillary Agreement to which Purchaser or Purchaser's Guarantors, as applicable, is a party and the other agreements and instruments contemplated hereby;
Exhibit K
 
(e) Documents, instruments and certificates reasonably requested by Seller that are necessary to consummate the transactions contemplated herein, executed and delivered or caused to be executed and delivered by Purchaser; and
 
(f) All Ancillary Agreements executed and delivered by Purchaser and Purchaser's Guarantors.
 
 
 
. To the extent set forth in of this Agreement, this Agreement may be terminated as follows:
Section 10.1 Rights to Terminate
Section 10.2
 
(a) By mutual written consent of Seller and Purchaser, this Agreement may be terminated at any time prior to Closing.
 
(b) Either Seller or Purchaser may terminate this Agreement if a material default or breach of any provision of this Agreement has been committed by the other Party and such material default or breach has not been cured or waived by the earlier of the Closing Date or the date thirty (30) days after receipt by the other Party of written notice from the terminating Party specifying with particularity such breach or default. Such cure period may extend the Closing Date to such date when the cure period expires or, if earlier, when the material default or breach is cured. In the event of a termination by Seller pursuant to this , the provisions of shall apply with respect to the release of Deposit Funds.
Section 10.1(b)
Section 3.2(a)(i)
 
(c) Purchaser may terminate this Agreement in accordance with and .
Sections 6.7(b)
6.7(c)
 
(d) This Agreement shall terminate automatically if the Closing has not occurred by 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time on May 31, 2005.
 
(e) Seller may terminate this Agreement if Purchaser has not paid the Deposit Funds in accordance with within five (5) Business Days of the Effective Date.
Section 3.2(a)
 
. If there has been a termination pursuant to , then this Agreement shall be deemed terminated, and all further obligations of the Parties hereunder shall terminate, except that the obligations set forth in , , ,
Section 10.2 Effect of Termination
Section 10.1
Sections 3.2(a)
6.3
6.9
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
and , and in and shall survive. In the event of such termination of this Agreement, there shall be no liability for damages on the part of a Party to another under and by reason of this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby except as set forth in , and except for intentionally fraudulent acts by a Party, the remedies for which shall not be limited by the provisions of this Agreement. The foregoing provisions shall not, however, limit or restrict the availability of injunctive or other equitable relief to the extent that the same would otherwise be available to a Party hereunder.
10.1(a)
Articles 7
11
Article 7
 
 
 
. This Agreement (including the Exhibits and Schedules to this Agreement), and the Ancillary Agreements (including without limitation Purchaser's Guaranty and Seller's Guaranty) contain the entire agreement between the Parties with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby, and supersede all negotiations, representations, warranties, commitments, offers, contracts and writings prior to the execution date of this Agreement, written or oral. No modification or amendment of any provision of this Agreement shall be effective unless made in writing and duly signed by the Parties referring specifically to this Agreement.
Section 11.1 Entire Document
 
. The Parties agree and acknowledge that the Schedules in this Agreement may be incomplete or subject to revision prior to the Closing. The Parties will cooperate and work in good faith to complete and update such Schedules in a manner consistent with the provisions of and the other requirements of this Agreement. For purposes of determining whether Purchaser's conditions set forth in or the Seller's conditions set forth in have been fulfilled or whether any breach of any representation or warranty has occurred, unless otherwise agreed in writing, the Schedules shall be deemed to include only the information contained therein on the date of this Agreement and shall be deemed to exclude all information contained in any update, supplement or amendment thereto.
Section 11.2 Schedules
Section 6.2(b)
Section 8.5
Section 9.5
 
. This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which is an original, but all of which together constitute one and the same instrument.
Section 11.3 Counterparts
 
. Whenever possible, each provision of this Agreement shall be interpreted in such manner as to be valid, binding, and enforceable under applicable Law, but if any provision of this Agreement is held to be invalid, void (or voidable) or unenforceable under applicable Law, such provision shall be ineffective only to the extent held to be invalid, void (or voidable) or unenforceable, without affecting the remainder of such provision or the remaining provisions of this Agreement.
Section 11.4 Severability
 
. The rights under this Agreement shall not be assignable or transferable nor the duties delegable by either Party without the prior written consent of the other Party, which consent may be granted or withheld in such other Party's sole discretion; and
Section 11.5 Assignability
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
nothing contained in this Agreement, express or implied, is intended to confer upon any Person, other than the Parties hereto, their permitted successors-in-interest and permitted assignees and any Person benefiting from the indemnities provided herein, any rights or remedies under or by reason of this Agreement unless so stated to the contrary. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Purchaser may assign this Agreement to any Affiliate of Purchaser and may grant to any of its or Company's lenders a security interest in their rights under this Agreement or assign (after Closing) any rights hereunder to any Person or Persons acquiring the Membership Interests or the assets of the Company; that neither the grant of any such interest, nor the foreclosure of any such interest, shall in any way release, reduce or diminish the obligations of Purchaser to Seller hereunder. In addition to and also notwithstanding the foregoing, Seller shall be entitled to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to any Affiliate and to any Person or Persons acquiring Seller's Guarantor or all or substantially all of the assets of Seller's Guarantor. Any such assignment shall be conditioned on the assignee's agreement in writing to assume the assigning Party's duties and obligations under this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements, subject to any and all restrictions, terms and conditions of the Material Facility Contracts. Any assignment effected in accordance with this will not relieve the assigning Party of its obligations and liabilities under this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements.
provided
Section 11.5
 
. The captions of the various Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules of this Agreement have been inserted only for convenience of reference and do not modify, explain, enlarge or restrict any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 11.6 Captions
 
. The validity, interpretation and effect of this Agreement are governed by and will be construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York without regard to conflicts of law doctrines except to the extent that certain matters are preempted by Federal law or are governed by the law of the jurisdiction of organization of the respective Parties.
Section 11.7 Governing Law
 
. Except for matters that are expressly to be resolved by the Independent Accounting Firm pursuant to of this Agreement, any claim, counterclaim, demand, cause of action, dispute, and controversy arising out of or relating to this Agreement, any Ancillary Agreement (or any agreement delivered in connection with this Agreement) or in any way relating to the subject matter of this Agreement involving the Parties or their representatives (each a ""), that is not resolved by mutual agreement of the Parties or their representatives, as applicable, may be resolved by litigation consistent with the following. EACH PARTY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN RESPECT OF ANY SUIT, ACTION, CLAIM, OR PROCEEDING RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT. With respect to any Dispute, each Party irrevocably (i) submits to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts located in the State of New York, including without limitation the Federal courts located therein; and (ii) waives any objection which it may have at any time to the laying of venue of any Dispute brought in any such court, waives any claim that such Dispute has been brought in an inconvenient forum and further waives the right to object, with respect to such Dispute, that such court does not have any jurisdiction over such Party.
Section 11.8 Dispute Resolution
Article 3
Dispute
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
. All notices, requests, demands, and other communications under this Agreement must be in writing and must be delivered in person or sent by certified mail, postage prepaid, facsimile, or by overnight delivery, and properly addressed as follows:
Section 11.9 Notices
 
If to Seller:
 
TM DELMARVA POWER, L.L.C.
702 N. Franklin Street
Tampa, Florida 33602
Attention: General Counsel
Tel: 813-228-1804
Fax: 813-228-1328
 
If to Purchaser:
 
TPF CHESAPEAKE, LLC
1044 N. 115 Street, Suite 400
Omaha, Nebraska 68154-4446
Attention: David Dickey, Legal Department
Tel: 402-691-9500
Fax: 402-691-9723
 
Any Party may from time to time change its address for the purpose of notices to that Party by a similar notice specifying a new address, but no such change is effective until it is actually received by the Party sought to be charged with its contents. All notices and other communications required or permitted under this Agreement which are addressed as provided in this shall be effective upon receipt at the location set forth in this , if delivered personally or by overnight delivery, on the third day after mailing if sent by United States mail, postage prepaid, and, upon completion of the facsimile transmission, if delivered by facsimile.
Section 11.9
Section 11.9
 
. Except as may be specifically set forth in this Agreement, nothing in this Agreement, whether express or implied, is intended to confer any rights or remedies under or by reason of this Agreement on any Persons other than the Parties and their respective permitted successors and assigns, nor is anything in this Agreement intended to relieve or discharge the obligation or liability of any third Persons to any Party, nor give any third Persons any right of subrogation or action against any Party.
Section 11.10 No Third Party Beneficiaries
 
. Nothing contained in this Agreement creates or is intended to create an association, trust, partnership, or joint venture or impose a trust or partnership duty, obligation, or liability on or with regard to any Party.
Section 11.11 No Joint Venture
 
. This Agreement and any documents or instruments delivered pursuant hereto shall be construed without regard to the identity of the Person who drafted the various provisions of the same. Each and every provision of this Agreement and such other documents and instruments shall be construed as though the Parties participated equally in the drafting of the same. Consequently, the Parties acknowledge and agree that any rule of construction that a document is to be construed against the drafting party shall not be applicable either to this Agreement or such other documents and instruments.
Section 11.12 Construction of Agreement
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
. To the extent permitted by applicable Law, any failure of any of the Parties to comply with any obligation, covenant, agreement or condition set forth herein may be waived by the Party entitled to the benefit thereof only by a written instrument signed by such Party, but any such waiver shall not operate as a waiver of, or estoppel with respect to, any prior or subsequent failure to comply therewith. The failure of a Party to this Agreement to assert any of its rights under this Agreement or otherwise shall not constitute a waiver of such rights.
Section 11.13 Waiver of Compliance
 
. Wherever the consent or approval of any Party is required under this Agreement, such consent or approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, unless such consent or approval is to be given by such Party at the sole or absolute discretion of such Party or is otherwise similarly qualified.
Section 11.14 Consents Not Unreasonably Withheld
 
. The representations and warranties given or made by any Party in or hereof or in any certificate or other writing furnished in connection herewith shall survive the Closing for a period of twelve (12) months after the Closing Date and shall thereafter terminate and be of no further force or effect, except that (i) the representations and warranties set forth in , , , , and shall survive the Closing for the period of thirty (30) days past the applicable statutes of limitation plus any extensions or waivers thereof, (ii) the representations and warranties in , the last sentence of , and shall survive the Closing for a period of two (2) years past the Closing Date, and (iii) any representation or warranty as to which a claim (including a contingent claim) shall have been asserted during the survival period shall continue in effect with respect to such claim until such claim shall have been finally resolved or settled. Each Party shall be entitled to rely upon the representations and warranties of the other Party set forth herein, notwithstanding any investigation or audit conducted before or after the Closing Date or the decision of any Party to complete the Closing.
Section 11.15 Survival
Articles 4
5
Sections 4.1
4.2
4.3
4.4
5.1
5.2
Sections 4.9(d)
4.11
4.15(g)
4.17
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Seller and Purchaser have executed this Agreement as of the date first above written.
 
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement
 
 
 
THIS AMENDMENT, ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION AGREEMENT (this ""), dated as of [ , 2005] is made and entered into by and among TM DELMARVA POWER, L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company (the ), on the one handand TPF Chesapeake, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the ), on the other hand.
Agreement
                
    
"Seller"
,
"Purchaser"
 
 
A. Seller owns 100% of the membership interests (the ) in Commonwealth Chesapeake Company, LLC, a Virginia limited liability company (the ""), and is the sole Member of the Company under that certain Third Amended and Restated Operating Agreement of the Company (the ) dated as of October 14, 2004.
"Membership Interests"
Company
"Operating Agreement"
 
B. Purchaser desires to purchase and acquire the Membership Interests and agrees to assume certain obligations and liabilities of the Seller as more fully provided herein.
 
C. Seller and Purchaser have made and entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement (the "") dated as of [January , 2005], which provides for Seller at the Closing to sell and convey to Purchaser, and for Purchaser to purchase and acquire from Seller, the Membership Interests, all as more fully provided therein. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the respective meanings set forth in the Purchase and Sale Agreement.
Purchase and Sale Agreement
    
 
D. Seller and Purchaser desire to amend the Operating Agreement as provided herein.
 
Now therefore, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, Seller and Purchaser agree as follows:
 
 
1.1. . The Operating Agreement is hereby amended pursuant to Section 7.2 thereof to admit Purchaser as the sole Member of the Company and to remove Seller as the sole Member of the Company. All references to "TM Delmarva Power, L.L.C." and "TMDP" in the Operating Agreement are hereby removed and replaced with the name of Purchaser. Except as otherwise expressly set forth in this Agreement, nothing herein
Amendment to Operating Agreement
 
Exhibit A
Form of Amendment, Assignment and Assumption Agreement
shall be deemed to constitute an amendment, modification or waiver of any of the terms and conditions of the Operating Agreement, all of which terms and conditions shall remain in full force and effect as originally constituted. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Purchaser hereby agrees to further amend the Operating Agreement as necessary to reflect the changes contemplated hereby (the amendments made pursuant to and by this are referred to collectively as the "").
Section 1.1
Amendments
 
1.2. . Pursuant to the Purchase and Sale Agreement (i) Seller hereby sells, assigns, transfers, and delivers ("") to Purchaser the Membership Interests and (ii) Purchaser hereby accepts such assignment and fully assumes and agrees to perform and discharge when due all of the obligations and liabilities of Seller under the Operating Agreement, with respect to the Membership Interests or otherwise as a Member of the Company, except the Excluded Liabilities (as defined in the Purchase and Sale Agreement) or as otherwise contemplated by the Purchase and Sale Agreement, whether relating to periods of time before or after the date hereof (the assignments and assumptions made pursuant to and by this are referred to collectively as the "").
Assignment of Interests
Assigns
Section 1.2
Assignments
 
1.3. . This Agreement is subject to, in all respects, the terms and conditions of the Purchase and Sale Agreement, and nothing contained herein is meant to enlarge, diminish or otherwise alter the terms and conditions of the Purchase and Sale Agreement or the Parties' duties and obligations contained therein. To the extent there is a conflict between this Agreement and the Purchase and Sale Agreement, the terms of the Purchase and Sale Agreement shall control.
Purchase and Sale Agreement
 
1.4. .
Operating Agreement Provisions
 
(a) On the date hereof, Purchaser will file, or cause to be filed, with the Secretary of State of the Commonwealth of Virginia an amendment to the Company's Certificate of Organization to reflect the substitution of Purchaser for Seller as the sole Member of the Company as a result of the Amendment of the Operating Agreement and the Assignment of the Membership Interests effected by this Agreement.
 
(b) Seller hereby (i) acknowledges that neither the execution and delivery of this Agreement or the Purchase and Sale Agreement, nor the consummation of any transaction contemplated herein or therein, nor the Amendment of the Operating Agreement, is intended to cause a dissolution of the Company under Virginia law or the Operating Agreement; and (ii) agrees that the Company will not be dissolved as a result of the execution and delivery of this Agreement or the Purchase and Sale Agreement, the consummation of any transaction contemplated herein or therein, or the Amendment of the Operating Agreement.
 
1.5. . This Agreement will be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the Laws of the State of New York without regard to the conflict of laws rules of such state.
Governing Law
 
Exhibit A
Form of Amendment, Assignment and Assumption Agreement
1.6. . This Agreement may be signed in any number of counterparts, each of which will be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
 
Exhibit A
Form of Amendment, Assignment and Assumption Agreement
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
 
 
Exhibit A
Form of Amendment, Assignment and Assumption Agreement
 
 
 
THIS ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION AGREEMENT (this ""), dated as of [ ], 2005, is made and entered into by and between COMMONWEALTH CHESAPEAKE COMPANY, LLC, a Virginia limited liability company (the ""), and TM DELMARVA POWER, L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company (the "").
Assignment and Assumption Agreement
                
    
Company
Seller
 
 
A. Seller owns 100% of the membership interests (the ) in the Company.
"Membership Interests"
 
B. Seller and TB Venture Holdings, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the ), have made and entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement (the "") dated as of [January , 2005], which provides for (i) Seller at the Closing to sell and convey to the Purchaser, and for Purchaser to purchase and acquire from Seller, the Membership Interests, all as more fully provided therein; and (ii) Seller, prior to the Closing Date, to cause the Company to assign to Seller or any of its Affiliates (other than the Company) the Excluded Assets and the Excluded Liabilities. The terms "Excluded Assets," "Excluded Liabilities" and any other capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in the Purchase and Sale Agreement.
"Purchaser"
Purchase and Sale Agreement
    
 
Now therefore, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Seller and the Company agree as follows:
 
 
1.1 Pursuant to the Purchase and Sale Agreement (i) the Company hereby sells, assigns, transfers, and delivers to Seller all right, title and interest in the Company in, to and under the Excluded Assets and (ii) Seller hereby accepts such assignment and fully and unconditionally assumes and agrees to perform and discharge as and when due all of the obligations and liabilities constituting Excluded Liabilities whether relating to periods of time before or after the date hereof.
Assignments.
 
1.2 This Assignment and Assumption Agreement is subject to, in all respects, the terms and conditions of the Purchase and Sale Agreement, and
Purchase and Sale Agreement.
 
Exhibit B
Form of Assignment and Assumption Agreement (Excluded Assets and Liabilities)
nothing contained herein is meant to enlarge, diminish or otherwise alter the terms and conditions of the Purchase and Sale Agreement or the Parties' duties and obligations contained therein. To the extent there is a conflict between this Assignment and Assumption Agreement and the Purchase and Sale Agreement, the terms of the Purchase and Sale Agreement shall control.
 
1.3 This Assignment and Assumption Agreement will be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the Laws of the State of New York, without regard to the conflict of laws rules of such state.
Governing Law.
 
1.4 This Assignment and Assumption Agreement may be signed in any number of counterparts, each of which will be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument.
Counterparts.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Assignment and Assumption Agreement as of the date first written above.
 
 
Exhibit B
Form of Assignment and Assumption Agreement (Excluded Assets and Liabilities)
 
 
 
THIS CONTINUING GUARANTY (the ""), dated as of [ ], 2005, is made by Tenaska Energy, Inc., a Delaware corporation and Tenaska Energy Holdings, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (""), in favor of TM Delmarva Power, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the ), and is executed and delivered in connection with the Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated as of the date hereof (hereinafter referred to as the ""), by and among the Seller on the one handand TPF Chesapeake, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the ) on the other hand. All capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Purchase and Sale Agreement.
Guaranty
                
    
Purchaser's Guarantors
"Seller"
Purchase and Sale Agreement
,
"Purchaser"
 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Purchase and Sale Agreement, Seller shall sell and convey to Purchaser, and Purchaser shall purchase and receive from Seller, all of the Membership Interests in Commonwealth Chesapeake Company, LLC (the "").
Company
 
WHEREAS, Purchaser is an affiliate of Purchaser's Guarantors, and Purchaser's Guarantors have agreed to provide this guaranty of certain of Purchaser's obligations under the Purchase and Sale Agreement as a material inducement to Seller to execute and deliver the Purchase and Sale Agreement, and to consummate the transactions contemplated thereby.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants set forth in the Purchase and Sale Agreement, Purchaser's Guarantors hereby agree as follows:
 
 
Exhibit C
Form of Purchaser's Guaranty
as limited herein, are the ). Purchaser's Guarantors hereby irrevocably and unconditionally covenant and agree that each is liable for payment of the Guaranteed Obligations as primary obligor, and that this Guaranty is a guaranty of payment when due and not of collectibility. Purchaser's Guarantors agree that a separate action or actions may be brought and prosecuted against Purchaser's Guarantors for any of the Guaranteed Obligations not otherwise satisfied by Purchaser, whether action is brought against Purchaser or whether Purchaser is joined in any such action or actions (Purchaser's Guarantors hereby waiving any right to require Seller or Company to first proceed against Purchaser). In no event shall Purchaser's Guarantors' obligations or liabilities hereunder exceed the Equity Portion of the Purchase Price. The "" shall mean the amount of the Adjusted Purchase Price minus $55,000,000.
"Guaranteed Obligations"
Equity Portion of the Purchase Price
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit C
Form of Purchaser's Guaranty
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit C
Form of Purchaser's Guaranty
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit C
Form of Purchaser's Guaranty
respectively, each is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware, and has all requisite corporate or limited liability company (as applicable) power and authority to own, lease, and operate its properties and to carry on its business as is being conducted.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit C
Form of Purchaser's Guaranty
 
 
 
 
Exhibit C
Form of Purchaser's Guaranty
Purchaser's Guarantors' Net Worth for such period; and (iii) have a comparable credit rating to Purchaser's Guarantors. For purposes of this Guaranty, a Person's Net Worth means, as of the date of determination thereof, the aggregate sum of the Person's common stock, preferred stock, capital surplus and retained earnings accounts, or similar accounts, as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied ("").
Equity Value
 
 
 
If to Seller:
 
TM Delmarva Power, L.L.C.
702 N. Franklin Street
Tampa, FL 33602
Attention: General Counsel
Tel: 813-228-1804
Fax: 813-228-1328
 
If to Purchaser's Guarantors:
 
Tenaska Energy, Inc.
1044 N. 115 Street, Suite 400
Omaha, Nebraska 68154-4446
Attention: David Dickey, Legal Department
Tel: 402-691-9500
Fax: 402-691-9723
 
and
 
Tenaska Energy Holding, LLC
1044 N. 115 Street, Suite 400
Omaha, Nebraska 68154-4446
Attention: David Dickey, Legal Department
Tel: 402-691-9500
Fax: 402-691-9723
 
Exhibit C
Form of Purchaser's Guaranty
Any Person may from time to time change its address for the purpose of notices by a similar notice specifying a new address, but no such change shall be effective until it is actually received by the Person sought to be charged with its contents. All notices and other communications required or permitted under this Guaranty which are addressed as provided in this shall be effective upon receipt at the location set forth in this , if delivered personally, by overnight delivery, or by United States mail, postage prepaid, and if delivered by facsimile, upon completion of the transaction if a confirmation copy is sent the same day by overnight courier or messenger.
Section 8
Section 8
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit C
Form of Purchaser's Guaranty
 
 
 
 
Exhibit C
Form of Purchaser's Guaranty
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Purchaser's Guarantors have executed this Continuing Guaranty as of the date first set forth above.
 
 
Exhibit C
Form of Purchaser's Guaranty
 
 
 
THIS CONTINUING GUARANTY (the ""), dated as of [ ], 2005, is made by TECO Energy, Inc., a Florida corporation (""), in favor of TPF CHESAPEAKE, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the ) and Commonwealth Chesapeake Company, LLC (the ""), and is executed and delivered in connection with the Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated as of the date hereof (hereinafter referred to as the ""), by and among TM DELMARVA POWER, L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company (the , on the one handand the Purchaser on the other hand. All capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Purchase and Sale Agreement.
Guaranty
                    
    
Seller's Guarantor
"Purchaser"
Company
Purchase and Sale Agreement
"Seller")
,
 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Purchase and Sale Agreement, Seller shall sell and convey to Purchaser, and Purchaser shall purchase and receive from Seller, all of the Membership Interests in the Company.
 
WHEREAS, Seller is an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Seller's Guarantor, and Seller's Guarantor has agreed to provide this guaranty of Seller's obligations under the Purchase and Sale Agreement as a material inducement to Purchaser to execute and deliver the Purchase and Sale Agreement, and to consummate the transactions contemplated thereby.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants set forth in the Purchase and Sale Agreement, Seller's Guarantor hereby agrees as follows:
 
 
Exhibit D
Form of Seller's Guaranty
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit D
Form of Seller's Guaranty
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit D
Form of Seller's Guaranty
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit D
Form of Seller's Guaranty
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit D
Form of Seller's Guaranty
and Sale Agreement and any Ancillary Agreement, or to be held as collateral for any unsatisfied Guaranteed Obligations or other amounts payable under this Guaranty thereafter arising. Upon such full and indefeasible payment of all the Guaranteed Obligations, Seller's Guarantor shall have all applicable rights of subrogation, reimbursement, exoneration, contribution and indemnification.
 
 
 
 
Exhibit D
Form of Seller's Guaranty
 
If to Purchaser:
 
TPF Chesapeake, LLC
1044 N. 115 Street, Suite 400
Omaha, Nebraska 68154-4446
Attention: David Dickey, Legal Department
Tel: 402-691-9500
Fax: 402-691-9723
 
If to Seller's Guarantor:
 
TECO Energy, Inc.
702 North Franklin Street
Tampa, Florida 33602
Attention: General Counsel
 
Any Person may from time to time change its address for the purpose of notices by a similar notice specifying a new address, but no such change shall be effective until it is actually received by the Person sought to be charged with its contents. All notices and other communications required or permitted under this Guaranty which are addressed as provided in this shall be effective upon receipt at the location set forth in this , if delivered personally, by overnight delivery, or by United States mail, postage prepaid, and if delivered by facsimile, upon completion of the transaction if a confirmation copy is sent the same day by overnight courier or messenger.
Section 8
Section 8
 
 
 
 
Exhibit D
Form of Seller's Guaranty
and remedies given to Purchaser by virtue of any statute or rule of law or in the Purchase and Sale Agreement or the Ancillary Agreements, or any agreement between Seller's Guarantor and Purchaser. A waiver by the Purchaser of any right or remedy hereunder on any one occasion shall not be construed as a bar to any right or remedy which the Purchaser would otherwise have had on any future occasion with regard to any subsequent breach. Any forbearance or failure to exercise, and any delay by Purchaser in exercising, any right, power, or remedy hereunder shall not impair any such right, power, or remedy or be construed to be a waiver thereof, nor shall it preclude the further exercise of any such right, power, or remedy.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit D
Form of Seller's Guaranty
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Seller's Guarantor has executed this Continuing Guaranty as of the date first set forth above.
 
 
Exhibit D
Form of Seller's Guaranty
 
I, , of TM DELMARVA POWER, L.L.C., a limited liability company organized under the laws of Delaware (the ""), hereby certify as of the date hereof that:
                    
            
Seller
 
The Seller's representations and warranties made in Article 4 of the Purchase Agreement (as defined below) that are qualified with respect to materiality (whether by reference to Material Adverse Effect or otherwise) are true and correct, and the Seller's representations and warranties made in Article 4 of the Purchase Agreement that are not so qualified are true and correct in all material respects, on and as of the date hereof, in each case as though made on and as of the date hereof.
 
This certificate is given pursuant to of the Purchase and Sale Agreement (the ""), dated as of January , 2005, by and among [], and the Seller. Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them as in the Purchase Agreement.
Section 8.6
Purchase Agreement
    
                                
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I hereunto sign my name.
 
Dated: , 2005
            
 
 
Exhibit E
Form of Seller Officer Certificate
 
 
Defined terms used herein but not otherwise defined shall have the respective meanings set forth in the Agreement. Subject to customary qualifications and limitations, the exceptions contained therein, and the accuracy of customary certificates of Seller, the Company and Seller's Guarantor as to matters of fact, the legal opinion shall be to the following effect:
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit F
Form of Legal Opinion of Seller's Counsel
or without notice or lapse of time or both) any other agreement or instrument known to us to which Seller or the Company is a party or by which Seller or the Company is bound, other than any such violation, breach or default as to which requisite waivers or consents have been obtained or which, either individually or in the aggregate, would not have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
 
 
Qualifications, Etc.
 
Such opinions may also contain customary limitations, qualifications, assumptions and exceptions.
 
Exhibit F
Form of Legal Opinion of Seller's Counsel
 
 
I, , Secretary of , a Delaware limited liability company (hereinafter called the ""), DO HEREBY CERTIFY that:
                                
                    
Company
 
The person whose name appears below is a duly elected and qualified officer of the Company, holding the respective office set forth opposite his/her name, and the signature set forth opposite his/her name is his/her genuine signature.
 
 
WITNESS my hand this day of , 2005
    
            
 
 
I, , , DO HEREBY CERTIFY that              is the duly elected and qualified Secretary of the Company and that the signature set forth above his name is his true signature.
                                
                                
 
 
Exhibit G
Form of Certificates of Incumbency of Seller and Seller's Guarantor
 
 
This WAIVER, TERMINATION AND RELEASE AGREEMENT (this ""), by and among Chesapeake Commonwealth Company, LLC, a Virginia limited liability company (""), TM DELMARVA POWER, L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company (""), TPS Virginia Operations Company, a Virginia corporation (""), and TECO EnergySource, Inc., a Florida corporation and an affiliate of TMDP (""), is dated as of , 2005, and is executed and delivered pursuant to Section 8.11(g) of that certain Purchase and Sale Agreement (the "") by and between TMDP and TPF Chesapeake, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (""). All capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined in this Agreement shall have the respective meanings given to such terms in the Purchase Agreement.
Agreement
CCC
TMDP
TPS
TECO EnergySource
                    
Purchase Agreement
TPF
 
 
WHEREAS, CCC and TPS are parties to that certain Operations and Maintenance Agreement (the "") dated as of May 15, 2000, as amended, pursuant to which TPS provides certain services to CCC with respect to the operation of the electric generating facility owned by CCC located in Accomack County, Virginia (the "");
Facility Operations Agreement
Facility
 
WHEREAS, TECO EnergySource and CCC are parties to that certain oral agreement (the "") pursuant to which TECO EnergySource provides certain services to CCC;
TECO EnergySource Agreement
 
WHEREAS, as a condition to the obligations of TPF to consummate the Transactions contemplated by the Purchase Agreement, TMDP is required to cause the Facility Operations Agreement and the TECO EnergySource Agreement to be terminated prior to or concurrently with the Closing;
 
WHEREAS, upon and as a result of the Closing, TMDP shall have reduced its aggregate direct and indirect ownership interest in the Facility below fifty percent (50%), thus entitling each of CCC and TPS to terminate the Facility Operations Agreement pursuant to Section 6.1(b) thereof by providing written notice to the other party thereto not later than six (6) months prior to the effective date of such termination (the "");
Early Termination Notice
 
WHEREAS, in accordance with Section 15.12 of the Facility Operations Agreement, each of CCC and TPS desires to waive its right to receive Early Termination Notice;
 
WHEREAS, each of CCC and TPS desires to terminate the Facility Operations Agreement in its entirety effective immediately upon the Closing and to provide a general release of claims as set forth herein; and
 
WHEREAS, each of CCC, TMDP and TECO EnergySource desires to terminate the TECO EnergySource Agreement effective immediately upon the Closing and to provide a general release of claims as set forth herein;
NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned hereby agree as follows:
 
1. . Each of CCC and TPS hereby waives its right to Early Termination Notice in connection with the termination of the Facility Operations Agreement as contemplated in Section 2 hereof.
Waiver of Early Termination Notice
 
2. . CCC and TPS hereby mutually terminate the Facility Operations Agreement pursuant to Section 6.1(b) thereof effective immediately upon the Closing. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Facility Operations Agreement, effective upon termination of the Facility Operations Agreement in accordance with this Agreement: (a) the Facility Operations Agreement shall be of no further force and effect, and (b) each of CCC and TPS shall hereby irrevocably and unconditionally release and forever discharge the other, its respective officers, directors, agents, servants, attorneys, accountants and representatives from, and with respect to, any and all liabilities or obligations whatsoever, whether current, future, accrued or contingent, under or pursuant to the Facility Operations Agreement. For the avoidance of doubt, upon termination as set forth herein, the Facility Operations Agreement shall be terminated in its entirety, and CCC and TPS shall not be bound under any provision thereunder, including without limitation Sections 6.5, 6.7 and 6.8 thereof.
Termination of Facility Operations Agreement; General Release
 
3. . CCC, TMDP and TECO EnergySource hereby terminate the TECO EnergySource Agreement effective immediately upon the Closing. Effective upon termination of the TECO EnergySource Agreement in accordance with this Agreement: (a) the TECO EnergySource Agreement shall be of no further force or effect, and (b) each of CCC, TMDP and TECO EnergySource shall hereby irrevocably and unconditionally release and forever discharge the other parties to the TECO EnergySource Agreement, their respective officers, directors, agents, servants, attorneys, accountants and representatives from, and with respect to, any and all liabilities or obligations whatsoever, whether current, future, accrued or contingent, under or pursuant to the TECO EnergySource Agreement.
Termination of TECO EnergySource Agreement; General Release
 
4. . The validity, interpretation and effect of this Agreement are governed by and will be construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York without regard to conflicts of law doctrines.
Governing Law
 
5. . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which, when so executed and delivered, shall be an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
6. . This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement among the parties about or relating to the subject matter hereof and supersedes any and all prior agreements or understandings among the parties with respect thereto.
Entire Agreement
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
I, , of TPF Chesapeake, LLC, a limited liability company organized under the laws of the State of Delaware (the ""), hereby certify as of the date hereof that:
                                
                    
Purchaser
 
The Purchaser's representations and warranties made in Article 5 of the Purchase Agreement (as defined below) that are qualified with respect to materiality (whether by reference to Material Adverse Effect or otherwise) are true and correct, and the Purchaser's representations and warranties made in Article 5 of the Purchase Agreement that are not so qualified are true and correct in all material respects, on and as of the date hereof, in each case as though made on and as of the date hereof.
 
This certificate is given pursuant to of the Purchase and Sale Agreement (the ""), dated as of January , 2005, by and among TM DELMARVA POWER, L.L.C., a limited liability company organized under the laws of Delaware, and the Purchaser. Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them as in the Purchase Agreement.
Section 9.6
Purchase Agreement
    
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I hereunto sign my name.
 
Dated: , 2005
            
 
 
Exhibit I
Form of Purchaser Officer Certificate
Confidential Draft November 24, 2004
 
 
 
Defined terms used herein but not otherwise defined shall have the respective meanings set forth in the Agreement. Subject to customary qualifications and limitations, the exceptions contained therein, and the accuracy of customary certificates of Purchaser and Purchaser's Guarantor as to matters of fact, the legal opinion shall be substantially to the following effect:
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit J
Form of Legal Opinion of Purchaser's Counsel
Confidential Draft November 24, 2004
 
license, or order of, or make any filing with, any Governmental Authority on or before the Closing Date (collectively ""), except for (a) the expiration or termination of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, (b) Purchaser's Required Regulatory Approvals (which Authorizations have been duly obtained) and (c) Authorizations of such a nature that the failure to obtain or to make the same will not have a Purchaser Material Adverse Effect.
Authorizations
 
Qualifications, Etc.
 
Such opinions may also contain customary limitations, qualifications, assumptions and exceptions.
 
Exhibit J
Form of Legal Opinion of Purchaser's Counsel
 
 
I, , Secretary of , a Delaware limited liability company (hereinafter called the ""), DO HEREBY CERTIFY that:
                                
                    
Company
 
The person whose name appears below is a duly elected and qualified officer of the Company, holding the respective office set forth opposite his/her name, and the signature set forth opposite his/her name is his/her genuine signature.
 
 
WITNESS my hand this day of , 2005
    
            
 
 
I, , , DO HEREBY CERTIFY that is the duly elected and qualified Secretary of the Company and that the signature set forth above his name is his true signature.
                                
                                
                    
 
 
Exhibit K
Form of Certificates of Incumbency of Purchaser and Purchaser's Guarantors

Exhibit 99.1
 
[TECO Energy, Inc. Logo]
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
TECO Energy, Inc. (NYSE: TE) announced that one of its subsidiaries has signed an agreement to sell Commonwealth Chesapeake Company, LLC, the owner of the Commonwealth Chesapeake Power Station in Virginia, to an affiliate of Tenaska Power Fund, L.P. for $89 million. The Commonwealth Chesapeake Power Station is a 315-megawatt oil fired, simple-cycle peaking power plant located on the Delmarva Peninsula in Virginia. The facility sells capacity, energy and ancillary services in the Pennsylvania- Jersey-Maryland (PJM) market. Final proceeds are expected to be approximately $86 million, after adjustments at closing for the value of the fuel, inventory, other working capital items, and the payment of transaction-related expenses. The sale is expected to close by the end of March 2005, subject to the purchaser obtaining financing and receipt of certain regulatory approvals. Morgan Stanley served as TECO Energy's advisor for the transaction.
Tampa, January 13, 2005 
 
Chairman and CEO Sherrill Hudson said, "This transaction is consistent with our strategy which is focused on our Florida utilities and our profitable unregulated businesses and will leave us with five profitable core businesses. The cash we expect from this sale and the sale of the Frontera Power Station, completed in December, will add to our ability to extinguish our 2007 TECO Energy debt maturities and, based on achieving our cash generation goals, invest in our regulated utilities."
 
TECO Energy's fourth quarter results will include the previously announced write-off of the difference between the book value and the estimated fair market value of the plant, which resulted in an after-tax charge of approximately $52 million.
 
TECO Energy, Inc. (NYSE: TE) is an integrated energy-related holding company with core businesses in the utility sector, complemented by a family of unregulated businesses. Its principal subsidiary, Tampa Electric Company, is a regulated utility with both electric and gas divisions (Tampa Electric and Peoples Gas System). Other subsidiaries are engaged in waterborne transportation, coal and synthetic fuel production and independent power.
 
Additional information related to the company and its operations is available at TECO Energy's web site at .
www.teconergy.com
Note: This press release contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to the inherent uncertainties in predicting future results and conditions, relating to the company's cash flow projections and ability to complete the sale as expected. Factors that could impact completion of the sale as expected include the purchaser's ability to obtain suitable financing and receipt of regulatory approvals in the anticipated time. Factors that could impact TECO Energy's cash generation include: unexpected capital needs or unanticipated reductions in cash flow; declines in the anticipated waterborne fuel volumes transported by TECO Transport for Tampa Electric; general economic conditions in Tampa Electric's and Peoples Gas' service areas affecting energy sales; economic conditions both national and international, that affect the demand for TECO Transport's waterborne transportation services; weather variations affecting energy sales and operating costs at Tampa Electric and Peoples Gas; commodity price changes affecting the margins at TECO Coal; and the ability of TECO Energy's subsidiaries to operate equipment without undue accidents, breakdowns or failures. Additional information is contained under "Investment Considerations" filed as an exhibit to the company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2004.
 
 


