FILE:TE/TE-8K-20050201060433.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1  Registrant's Business and Operations
 
Item 1.01: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On January 26, 2005, the Compensation Committee ("Committee") and the Board of Directors of TECO Energy, Inc. (the "Company") approved the payment of annual incentive awards to certain executive officers in the following amounts for the Company's 2004 fiscal year:
 
 
The cash portion of the awards was paid under the Company's Annual Incentive Compensation Plan ("Annual Incentive Plan"), and the stock portion was paid under the Company's 2004 Equity Incentive Plan. The Committee determined these awards by: (1) calculating the amount of the payment under the Annual Incentive Plan that would otherwise be payable to each eligible participant based upon satisfaction of pre-established performance goals generally consisting of non-GAAP earnings, cash generation, operating unit financial performance, and individual performance goals (with financial results adjusted for one-time losses from 2004 hurricane costs, a charge incurred in 2004 for the hedging of oil prices in 2005, and for acceleration of certain cash payments into 2004 that were budgeted for 2005); (2) exercising the Committee's discretion in some cases to reduce the award otherwise payable under the Annual Incentive Plan, given the Company's overall financial performance as a result of the large write-offs recorded by the Company in 2004; and (3) deciding in some cases to pay half or all of the value of the award in stock.
 
The above awards represent payment for that portion of each executive's 2004 annual incentive award that is based upon individual and Company performance measures. In April 2005, the Committee will determine whether or not the pre-established performance goals for 2004 relating to the Company's relative performance to peer group companies was achieved and will make any corresponding payments to the executives of the balance of the 2004 annual incentive award.
 
Also on January 26, 2005, the Compensation Committee and the Board approved target levels for the 2005 annual incentive awards under the Company's Annual Incentive Compensation Plan. If the incentive payout goals are met and the Compensation Committee approves payments, a portion of each incentive award would be paid in January 2006, with the portion of each award that is based on relative performance to peer group companies to be paid in April 2006. The specific performance goals for the awards are scheduled to be approved by the Compensation Committee at its April 2005 meeting. Based on the achievement of the goals and Compensation Committee approval of payments, executive officers can earn between 50 percent and 150 percent of the targeted payout. 2005 target incentive award levels for each of the executive officers represent a percentage of base pay. The percentage is multiplied by the greater of the officer's annual salary or the midpoint of the officer's salary grade. (Salary levels are typically just above or below the respective midpoints, with the greatest variation for any executive officer being 13 percent.) The 2005 target incentive award percentages for each of the named executive officers is set forth below, and the percentages for the other executives range from 40-50 percent.
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
 
Item 2.02: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
See the Press Release dated February 1, 2005, furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference, reporting on TECO Energy, Inc.'s financial results for the periods ended December 31, 2004.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
[TECO Energy, Inc. Logo]
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 TECO Energy, Inc. (NYSE:TE) today reported a fourth quarter loss of $487.6 million or $2.44 per share. The loss from continuing operations was $409.3 million or $2.05 per share. Results in the quarter were driven by the previously announced $480 million of write-offs associated with the company's efforts to reduce its exposure to merchant power through the sale of, and adjustments to, the values of the remaining operating and the unfinished merchant power plants to reflect current market values. The number of common shares outstanding was 6 percent higher in the 2004 quarter than for the same period in 2003, primarily due to the shares issued in conjunction with the early settlement offer for the equity security units completed in September.
TAMPA, February 1, 2005
 
The full-year 2004 loss was $552.0 million or $2.87 per share. The year-to-date loss from continuing operations was $404.4 million or $2.10 per share. Shares outstanding for 2004 were 7 percent higher than for the same period in 2003.
 
TECO Energy Chairman and CEO Sherrill Hudson said, "The core operating companies central to our strategy produced good results. The Florida utilities continued to experience solid customer and energy sales growth, and we are starting to see TECO Transport benefit from operational and market improvements. Coal prices are very strong, and the Guatemalan operations turned in another quarter of solid results. The fourth quarter write-offs associated with our merchant power assets and the announced sale of our Commonwealth Chesapeake Power Station are two more steps in our strategy to focus on our Florida utilities and other profitable unregulated businesses."
 
Non-GAAP Results
 
Fourth quarter non-GAAP results from continuing operations, which exclude the effects of gains and charges identified in Table 1, were $30.4 million, compared with $33.4 million in 2003. These results reflect the effects of the sale of 90 percent ownership interest in TECO Coal's synthetic fuel production facilities partially offset by improved results at Tampa Electric, the unregulated Guatemalan power operations and TECO Transport. Year-to-date non-GAAP results from continuing operations, which exclude the effects of gains and charges identified in Table 1, were $151.2 million, compared with $176.3 million in 2003. The year-to-date results reflect the effects of the sale of 90 percent ownership interest in TECO Coal's synthetic fuel production facilities, which reduced earnings but increased cash flow, and the elimination of Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFUDC) at Tampa Electric partially offset by improved results at the Guatemalan operations.
 
For a discussion regarding this presentation of non-GAAP results and management's use of this information, please see the section later in this release.
Non-GAAP Presentation
TABLE 1
Results Reconciliation:
($ millions)
 
 
The table below (Table 2) includes TECO Energy segment information on a GAAP basis, which includes all charges and gains for the periods.
 
GAAP Segment Information TABLE 2
(in millions)
 
 
The table below (Table 3) provides the TECO Energy segment information on a non-GAAP basis, which excludes the charges and gains included in Table 1.
 
Non-GAAP Segment Results
(1)
TABLE 3
(in millions)
 
 
Operating Company Results:
 
Tampa Electric
 
Tampa Electric's net income for the fourth quarter was $26.8 million, compared with $19.8 million, excluding the effects of a $4.7 million after-tax restructuring charge, for the same period in 2003. Results for the quarter reflect a $1.9 million after-tax impact of the Florida Public Service Commission's (FPSC) disallowance of the recovery of a portion of waterborne fuel transportation costs. No equity AFUDC income (which represents allowed equity cost capitalized to construction costs) was recorded in the quarter, compared to $4.1 million for the same period in 2003, reflecting the commercial operation of Bayside Unit 2 in January 2004. Operations and maintenance expense decreased in 2004 as a result of the decreased manpower and lower operating costs associated with the conversion of the coal-fired Gannon Station to the natural gas-fired H.L. Culbreath Bayside Station. Depreciation expense decreased in the 2004 period, reflecting the end of accelerated depreciation on the Gannon coal assets; results in the same period in 2003 included $4.1 million after-tax of accelerated depreciation expense. Retail energy sales increased 2.1 percent in the quarter, as average customer growth of 2.1 percent was partially offset by mild weather. Total degree days in the quarter were 2 percent below normal and 5 percent below 2003, when degree days were 3 percent above normal due to cold weather in December.
 
Tampa Electric's year-to-date net income was $146.0 million, compared to $153.9 million in 2003, excluding the $48.9 million after-tax charge related to turbine purchase cancellations and $6.1 million of after-tax restructuring charges in 2003. Equity AFUDC decreased to $0.7 million, from $19.8 million for the same period in 2003. The full-year, after-tax impact of the FPSC waterborne fuel transportation disallowance was $8.2 million. Year-to-date results also reflect average customer growth of 2.4 percent and retail energy sales that were 1.1 percent higher than last year. Energy sales reflect the impact of lost sales due to hurricanes and total degree days for the year that were more than 3 percent below normal and 7 percent below 2003, when total degree days were 4 percent above normal.
 
Tampa Electric had previously reported that the restoration costs for hurricanes Charley, Frances and Jeanne were expected to be about $60 million, which would exceed Tampa Electric's $44 million year-end unfunded storm damage reserve balance. The year-end estimates of the restoration cost for those hurricanes are $72 million. Rate base, operations and maintenance expense and capital expenditures were not affected by hurricane restoration costs, as costs to date were charged to the storm damage reserve. Tampa Electric has received Florida Public Service Commission approval for deferral of these costs until the company seeks alternative accounting treatment for the costs that exceed the reserve balance.
 
Peoples Gas
 
Peoples Gas System reported net income of $6.4 million for the quarter, excluding a $0.4 million after-tax restructuring charge, unchanged from $6.4 million, excluding a $1.5 million after-tax restructuring charge, in the same period in 2003. Quarterly results reflected customer growth of 5.2 percent, partially offset by increased operations and maintenance costs and lower volumes for the low-margin transportation service for electric power generators and industrial customers due to higher gas prices. Year-to-date net income was $28.1 million, compared with $27.1 million, excluding the $2.6 million after - tax restructuring charge, for the same period in 2003. Customer growth of 5.3 percent and favorable winter weather in the first quarter contributed to the year-to-date results.
 
TECO Coal
 
TECO Coal achieved fourth quarter net income of $8.7 million, excluding the $7.0 million benefit from a tax credit true-up, on total production of 2.2 million tons, compared to $19.2 million, excluding the $7.0 million of tax credits not recognized, on similar production in the same period in 2003. Results for the 2004 quarter reflect higher operating costs including increased contract miner costs. Results in the fourth quarter also reflect effective third-party ownership interests in TECO Coal's synthetic fuel production facilities of more than 90 percent, compared with 49 percent third-party ownership in 2003. The third-party ownership structure of the synthetic fuel production facilities retains TECO Coal as the operator and decreases overall earnings per ton but increases cash generation per ton. Fourth quarter synthetic fuel production was 1.5 million tons, in line with 2003 production.
 
In 2004's fourth quarter TECO Coal recorded a $7.0 million positive true-up to income taxes related to Section 29 tax credits that, due to projected limitations on taxable income, had not been recognized in 2003's fourth quarter, and that upon finalizing the 2003 tax return were found to be recognizable in 2004. In 2004, TECO Coal did not record Section 29 tax credits associated with its remaining approximately 10 percent synfuel production facilities ownership interest because of TECO Energy's anticipated non-tax paying position in that year, which was impacted by merchant power operating losses and the tax losses incurred upon the disposition of merchant power plants for which the sales had been closed. Results for the quarter in 2003 included $10.4 million of Section 29 tax credits.
 
Year-to-date net income was $54.3 million, compared to $84.1 million, excluding the tax credit true-ups in 2004 and 2003 and a $0.3-million after-tax charge due to the adoption of FAS 143 in 2003. Total coal sales were 9.1 million tons and 9.2 million tons in 2004 and 2003, respectively, including synfuel production of 6.3 million tons in 2004, compared to 5.8 million tons in 2003. In addition to the factors influencing the fourth quarter results, year-to-date results in 2004 reflect lower volumes of conventional metallurgical and steam coal production, higher mining costs, and costs associated with the use of marginal coals for the production of synfuel, partially offset by higher volumes of synthetic fuel and higher coal prices. Year-to-date results in 2003 included $67.7 million of Section 29 tax credits.
 
TECO Transport
 
TECO Transport recorded net income of $6.4 million in the fourth quarter, compared to net income of $3.9 million in 2003, which excluded a $1.0 million restructuring charge. Fourth-quarter results in 2004 reflect improved rates and northbound volumes for river barge services, higher tonnage moved through the dry-bulk terminal in Louisiana and lower repair costs, which more than offset higher fuel costs. Results in 2003 included a $1.5 million after-tax gain on the disposition of assets no longer used.
 
In 2004, year-to-date net income was $11.9 million, excluding a $0.6 million valuation adjustment and a $1.1 million after-tax management restructuring charge. Net income for the same period in 2003 was $16.1 million, excluding the fourth quarter items noted above and a $0.8 million charge due to the adoption of FAS 143. Year-to-date results
 
in 2004 were driven by improved rates for river barge service, which were more than offset by the lower Tampa Electric volumes, higher fuel costs, unusual operating conditions due to hurricanes in the third quarter and a five-day closing of the Mississippi River in the first quarter. The four hurricanes in August and September disrupted river and ocean movements and caused the terminal in Louisiana to halt operations. Lost revenues and direct costs due to the hurricanes reduced TECO Transport's 2004 pretax results by an estimated $3.8 million. Volumes transported for Tampa Electric declined more than one million tons in the first six months of 2004 as a result of the Bayside repowering, but volumes in the second half of 2004 were at levels comparable to the same period in 2003. Results in 2003 included a $3.5 million after-tax gain on the disposition of oceangoing equipment no longer used by TECO Ocean Shipping.
 
Other Unregulated Companies
 
TECO Energy's other unregulated companies now consist primarily of the non-merchant power plants operating in Guatemala and the ownership interest in Guatemala's largest distribution utility, EEGSA. As BCH Mechanical has been sold, its results are included in discontinued operations for all periods.
 
The other unregulated companies recorded fourth quarter net income of $5.3 million, excluding all charges and gains, compared to net income of $3.0 million in 2003. Results for the quarter reflect higher energy sales from the San Jos Power Station in Guatemala and higher sales and prices at EEGSA, the Guatemalan distribution utility. Excluded from 2004's fourth quarter results discussed above was an after-tax charge of $12.8 million associated with the previously announced write-off of unused steam turbines and a $1.9 million benefit from a true-up of taxes on the repatriation of offshore cash.
 
Year-to-date net income was $40.1 million excluding the gains and charges described below, compared to $24.3 million for the same period in 2003. These results were driven by continued good operating performance at the Guatemalan generating facilities, higher energy sales and prices at EEGSA and a $5.6 million benefit from reducing previously deferred income taxes due to a change in Guatemalan tax law.
 
Excluded from the year-to-date results discussed above were the fourth quarter after-tax charge of $12.8 million associated with the previously announced write-off of unused steam turbines; $6.7 million associated with extinguishment of debt in the non-recourse refinancing of the San Jos Power Station in Guatemala; a $17.4 million provision for income taxes due to the repatriation of cash from Guatemala following the financing; a $12.0 million after-tax gain on the sale of the interest in the propane business; and a $3.4 million valuation adjustment at TECO Solutions. Results in 2003 excluded after-tax charges of $28.5 million for turbine valuation adjustments and cancellations; a $9.0 million write-off of non-merchant project development costs; a $3.6 million corporate restructuring charge; and the $42.9 million benefit which included the gain on the sale of and the net income from operations from the Hardee Power Station, which was sold in October 2003.
 
TWG Merchant
 
With the sale of the Frontera Power Station in December, which is included in discontinued operations for all periods, the only operating power plant remaining in the TWG Merchant segment is the Commonwealth Chesapeake Power Station. Following completion of the previously announced sale of Commonwealth Chesapeake, now
 
expected by the end of the first quarter of 2005, its results will be accounted for as discontinued operations. Expenses related to the unfinished Dell and McAdams power stations are also reported in the TWG Merchant segment.
 
TWG Merchant's fourth quarter loss was $16.6 million, excluding the previously announced $51.3 million and $381.7 million after-tax valuation adjustments on the Commonwealth Chesapeake Power Station and Dell and McAdams power stations, respectively, compared to a loss of $19.7 million in 2003, excluding charges of $4.0 million. Commonwealth Chesapeake reported lower net income due to lower sales of spinning reserve services and higher operations and maintenance expenses partially offset by slightly higher energy sales and margins. Included in operating results, and in the previously announced $480 million of fourth quarter charges, is a $5.7 million unrecognizable deferred tax asset related to the Commonwealth Chesapeake Power Station.
 
TWG Merchant's year-to-date loss was $55.3 million, excluding all charges and gains, compared to a loss of $53.5 million, on the same basis, in 2003. These results reflect the operating losses at the TIE projects in the first six months of the year, weak power prices in Virginia, primarily due to weather and fuel prices, which were partially offset by an insurance settlement on previously incurred repair costs.
 
The TWG Merchant segment results in 2004 included allocated TECO Energy interest expense of $10.0 million pre-tax and $50.7 million pre-tax for the quarter and year-to-date periods, respectively.
 
In addition to the impairment charges recorded in the fourth quarter, charges and gains in 2004 included the $99.0 million after-tax write-off of the investment in the TIE project, and a $4.3 million after-tax benefit from the reversal of costs previously accrued for the TMDP arbitration that was settled in July at a lower cost. Charges and gains in 2003 included the $16.3 million after-tax goodwill write-off associated with the Commonwealth Chesapeake Power Station and the $26.7 million after-tax charge for the TMDP arbitration and accrued interest.
 
Parent / Other
 
Fourth quarter results included a $15.2 million tax benefit in continuing operations to reflect a reduction in the estimated effective overall state income tax rate in future years in the various states in which TECO Energy operates as a result of the sales and impairments taken. Fourth quarter results in 2003 reflected the recognition of $21.5 million of Section 29 tax credits previously deferred in 2003.
 
Fourth quarter GAAP results, contained in Table 2 included a $2.7 million management restructuring charge partially offset by a $0.3 million benefit associated with the equity security unit early settlement. The full-year effect of these two items is a $4.9 million charge and a $0.5 million benefit, respectively.
 
Interest expense for the fourth quarter was lower than in the 2003 period, primarily due to the early settlement of the trust preferred component of TECO Energy's equity security units. Year-to-date interest expense increased slightly, reflecting no capitalized interest in 2004 and the effect of debt issues in mid-2003, largely offset by the early settlement of the trust preferred securities, lower cost of short-term borrowings, the deconsolidation of the Guatemalan power facilities, and the sale of the Hardee Power Station. In 2003, capitalized interest on the debt of TECO Energy was $17.3 million and
 
Tampa Electric capitalized interest (AFUDC-borrowed funds) was $7.6 million. Capitalization of interest ended with commercial operation of the final phase of the Gila River Power Station in July 2003 and the Bayside Power Station in January 2004.
 
Discontinued Operations
 
The net loss from discontinued operations for the 2004 fourth quarter and year-to-date periods was $78.3 million and $147.6 million, respectively. Discontinued operations in 2004 reflect the operating losses for the Union and Gila River power stations; the write-off and losses from operations at the Frontera Power Station; and the write-offs and losses from operations associated with certain TECO Solutions companies. Discontinued operations in 2003 included the write-off of the investment and the operating results from the Union and Gila River power stations, operating results from Prior Energy, which was sold in January 2004, and the gain on the final installment of the sale of the coalbed methane gas production assets in January 2003.
 
Cash and Liquidity
 
TECO Energy's consolidated cash and cash equivalents, excluding all restricted cash, totaled $96.7 million at December 31, 2004. Restricted cash of $57.1 million includes $50.0 million held in escrow until the end of 2007 related to the sale of a 49 percent interest in the synthetic coal production facilities. Cash at December 31, 2004 excludes the San Jos and Alborada power stations' unrestricted cash balances of $39.8 million, and restricted cash of $8.1 million as these companies were deconsolidated due to the adoption of FIN 46R, effective Jan. 1, 2004.
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities,
 
In addition, at December 31, 2004 aggregate availability under bank credit facilities was $332.6 million, net of letters of credit of $27.4 million outstanding under these facilities and $115 million drawn on the Tampa Electric credit facility. At the end of the fourth quarter, total liquidity, cash plus credit facilities, was $469.1 million, including $161.3 million at Tampa Electric consisting of $160 million of undrawn credit facilities and $1.3 million of cash.
 
In 2004, TECO Energy consolidated cash flow from operations of $139.6 million was impacted by a number of factors including: underrecovery of fuel costs and hurricane restoration costs at Tampa Electric; the deconsolidation of the San Jos and Alborada power stations; the payment of the TMDP arbitration award; and, the cash operating results of the Union and Gila River power stations.
 
Other sources of cash included $161 million of proceeds from synfuel production net of escrowed cash and $230 million of proceeds from the sales of interests in various businesses including the Frontera Power Station, the Hamakua Power Station, the propane business and Prior Energy. Cash used in financing activities included common dividends of $145 million, the repayment of long-term debt of $225 million, including $75 million of first mortgage bonds at Tampa Electric and $122 million of TECO Capital Trust II trust preferred securities in 2004. Capital expenditures in 2004 were $273.2 million.
 
2005 Outlook
 
In 2005, TECO Energy anticipates earnings per share from continuing operations to be in an approximate range of $0.95 to $1.05, consolidated cash flow from operations to be in a range between $250 million and $300 million and net cash generation at TECO Energy parent is expected to be in a range between $320 million and $360 million.
 
These forecasted results are based on the company's current expectations. Tampa Electric's results are expected to be driven by continued 2.5% customer growth with energy sales growth slightly above that. Peoples Gas expects customer growth of more than 4% in 2005. Operations and maintenance expenses at the utilities are expected to increase at about the level of inflation. Results at TECO Coal are expected to improve due to prices for coal sales 40 percent higher than 2004 levels and continued strong earnings and cash flow from its synfuel facilities. Increased coal prices are expected to be partially offset by higher production costs. TECO Transport anticipates improved results from improved river market pricing due to better balance in the supply and demand for river barges and increased product movement through the bulk transfer terminal as imports and exports improve. The Guatemalan operations are expected to continue to provide strong earnings and cash flow at about 2004 levels.
 
Consolidated cash flow from operations will reflect the expected improvements in the operating companies and it will be affected by the cash operating losses from the Union and Gila River power stations until they are transferred, the remaining cash payments for Tampa Electric's 2004 hurricane restoration efforts and the reduction in cash due to the announced sales of the merchant power plants. In addition to capital expenditures, which are expected to be about $300 million, net cash generation will reflect the proceeds from the TECO Capital Trust II Trust Preferred debt remarketing received in January, the benefits from the sale of the 90 percent ownership of TECO Coal's synfuel production facilities, the proceeds from the previously announced sale of the Commonwealth Chesapeake Power Station and the payment of common stock dividends.
 
Common shares outstanding increased by 6.85 million shares on January 18, 2005 upon the final settlement of TECO Energy's equity security units, which will impact the earnings-per-share calculation in 2005. Consistent with its objective to improve its financial position, TECO Energy may from time to time use available cash to reduce outstanding debt; however, its 2005 forecast does not include any impact to earnings or cash flow that might result from early retirement of debt.
 
Non-GAAP Presentation
 
Table 1, which presents non-GAAP results earlier in this release, presents financial results after elimination of the effects of certain identified gains and charges. Management believes that the presentation of this non-GAAP financial performance provides investors a measure that reflects the company's operations under its business strategy which is focused on its utility operations and profitable unregulated businesses. Management also believes that it is helpful to present a non-GAAP measure of performance that clearly reflects the ongoing operations of TECO Energy's business and which allows investors to better understand and evaluate the business as it is expected to operate in future periods.
 
The non-GAAP measure of financial performance used by the company is not a measure of performance under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and should not be considered an alternative to net income or other GAAP figures as an indicator of the company's financial performance or liquidity. TECO Energy's non-GAAP presentation of net income may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
 
Management and the Board of Directors use this non-GAAP presentation as a yardstick for measuring the company's performance, making decisions that are dependent upon the profitability of the company's various operating units and in determining levels of incentive compensation.
 
While each of the particular excluded items is not expected to recur, there may be true-ups to charges related to merchant power facilities or additional debt extinguishment activities. Management recognizes that there may be items that could be excluded in the future. Even though charges may occur, management believes the non-GAAP measure is important in addition to GAAP net income for assessing the company's potential future performance because excluded items are limited to those that management believes are not indicative of future performance.
 
TECO Energy management will conduct a webcast concurrent with a conference call with the financial community at 9:00 AM on Tuesday, February 1, 2005. Investors, shareholders, media and the public can access the webcast through a link on TECO Energy's website at . Additional financial information regarding TECO Energy is available at the Investor Relations section of TECO Energy's web site.
www.tecoenergy.com
 
TECO Energy, Inc. (NYSE: TE) is an integrated energy-related holding company with core businesses in the utility sector, complemented by a family of unregulated businesses. Its principal subsidiary, Tampa Electric Company, is a regulated utility with both electric and gas divisions (Tampa Electric and Peoples Gas System). Other subsidiaries are engaged in waterborne transportation, coal and synthetic fuel production and independent power.
 
Note: This press release contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to the inherent uncertainties in predicting future results and conditions. Actual results may differ materially from those forecasted. The forecasted results are based on the company's expectations for 2005 described above. Additional factors that could impact actual results include: the ability to complete the planned transfer of the Union and Gila River power stations to the lending bank group in the time frame anticipated; the ability to complete the sale of the Commonwealth Chesapeake Power Station; any adverse outcome in the previously disclosed litigation; any debt extinguishment costs or premiums associated with the early retirement of TECO Energy debt; unexpected capital needs or unanticipated reductions in cash flow that affect liquidity; declines in the anticipated waterborne fuel volumes transported by TECO Transport for Tampa Electric; general economic conditions in Tampa Electric's service area affecting energy sales; economic conditions, both national and international, that affect the demand for TECO Transport's waterborne transportation services; weather variations affecting energy sales and operating costs at Tampa Electric and the effect of extreme weather conditions; commodity price changes affecting the margins at TECO Coal; the ability of TECO Energy's subsidiaries to operate equipment without undue accidents, breakdowns or failures; TECO Coal's ability to successfully operate its synthetic fuel production facilities in a manner qualifying for Section 29 federal income tax credits, which could be impacted by changes in law, regulation or
 
 
administration. Additional information is contained under "Risk Factors" filed as an Exhibit 99.1 with the company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 9, 2004.
 
 
 
 
 
Figures appearing in these statements are presented as general information and not in connection with any sale or offer to sell or solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, nor are they intended as a representation by the company of the value of its securities. All figures reported are subject to adjustments as the annual audit by independent accountants may determine to be necessary and to the explanatory notes affecting income and balance sheet accounts contained in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K. Reference should also be made to information contained in that and other reports filed by TECO Energy, Inc. and Tampa Electric Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
(millions)
 
 
 


