FILE:TE/TE-8K-20050607121627.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
 
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
 
On June 1, 2005, TECO Energy, Inc. (the "company") completed the previously announced sale and transfer of ownership (and the debt) of its indirect subsidiaries, Union Power Partners, L.P., Panda Gila River, L.P., Trans-Union Interstate Pipeline, L.P., and UPP Finance Co., LLC, owners of the Union and Gila River power stations in Arkansas and Arizona, respectively (collectively the "Projects") to an entity owned by the Projects' lenders in the manner set forth in the Projects' confirmed Joint Plan of Reorganization (the "Plan")(see excerpt of the Plan, as confirmed, attached in relevant part as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report). As previously announced, in connection with the transfer and the related release of liability, the company and its affiliates paid an aggregate of $31.8 million, consisting of $30 million to the Project's lenders as consideration for the Master Release (see Master Release Agreement and Amendment to Undertakings dated as of January 24, 2005 attached as Exhibit 10.2 to this Current Report) and $1.8 million as reimbursement of legal fees for two non-consenting lenders in the recently concluded Chapter 11 proceeding. The Projects reimbursed the company and its affiliates $0.4 million associated with transition services provided by the company and its affiliates. Additionally, as part of the transaction the company entered into a Representation and Indemnification Agreement (see Exhibit 10.3 to this Current Report) in which the company agreed to indemnify the new owners of the Projects for breaches of standard representations and warranties, certain potential taxes related to the transfer of the Gila River project and liabilities related to lawsuits specifically related to disclosures about the Projects. These representations and warranties are the same as those included in the applicable agreement negotiated by the parties when the transfer was to be consensual.
 
The Representation and Indemnification Agreement (the "Agreement") is included as an exhibit to provide information regarding its terms. It is not intended to provide factual information about the parties. The representations and warranties contained in the Agreement were made only for purposes of such agreement and as of specific dates, were solely for the benefit of the parties to such agreement, and may be subject to limitations agreed by the contracting parties, including being qualified by disclosures between the parties. These representations and warranties may have been made for the purposes of allocating contractual risk between the parties to the agreement instead of establishing these matters as facts, and may be subject to standards of materiality applicable to the contracting parties that differ from those applicable to investors. Accordingly, they should not be relied upon by investors as statements of factual information.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(b) Pro forma financial information
 
The following unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet reflects the sale and transfer of ownership of Union Power Partners, L.P., (including its subsidiary UPP Finance Co., LLC), Panda Gila River, L.P., and Trans-Union Interstate Pipeline, L.P. as if it had occurred on Mar. 31, 2005. On a pro forma basis, these transactions did not result in pro forma adjustments to previously reported results from continuing operations, as the Projects were reflected as discontinued operations. Therefore, pro forma condensed consolidated statements of income are not presented, as this transaction would not have had any impact on income from continuing operations. The unaudited condensed pro forma balance sheet does not purport to represent TECO Energy, Inc.'s consolidated results as if the disposition had in fact occurred on this date, nor does it purport to indicate the future consolidated financial position or future consolidated results of operations of the company.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
5.
ARTICLE FIVE
 
MEANS FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PLAN
 
5.1 Formation of New Partners
 
On or prior to the Effective Date, the Debtors shall form, or cause to be formed, Entegra, and shall form, or cause to be formed, New Union Power, New Gila River Power, and New Trans-Union Pipeline, in each case as subsidiaries of Entegra and pursuant to the following limited liability company agreements, or in substantially similar form (as amended, restated, supplemented and otherwise modified from time to time):
 
 
 
 
 
5.2 Continued Legal Existence and Vesting of Assets in the Reorganized Debtors
 
After the Effective Date, the Reorganized Debtors shall continue to exist as separate legal entities in accordance with the applicable law in the respective jurisdiction in which they are formed and pursuant to their respective certificates of limited partnership or formation in effect prior to the Effective Date. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Plan, the Unimpaired Claims of a particular Debtor or Reorganized Debtor shall remain the obligations solely of such Debtor or Reorganized Debtor and shall not become obligations of any other Debtor or Reorganized Debtor solely by virtue of this Plan or the Chapter 11 Cases. Except as otherwise provided in this Plan, on and after the Effective Date, all property of the Estate of the Debtors, including all claims, rights, and causes of action and any property acquired by the Debtors or the Reorganized Debtors under or in connection with this Plan, shall vest in the Reorganized Debtors free and clear of all Claims, security interests, liens, charges, other encumbrances, and Interests, but in all events encumbered by and subject to the Prepetition Banks Liens which, as of the Effective Date, secure the repayment of the Obligations under the New Credit Agreements. On and after the Effective Date, the Reorganized Debtors may operate their businesses and may use, acquire, and dispose of property and compromise or settle any Claims without supervision of or approval by the Bankruptcy Court and free and clear of any restrictions of the Bankruptcy Code or the Bankruptcy Rules, other than restrictions expressly imposed by the New Credit Agreements, this Plan or the Confirmation Order.
5.3 Cancellation of Old Partnership Interests and Issuance of New Partnership Interests to New Partners
 
(a) On the Effective Date but subject to the terms of of this Plan, (i) the Old Partnership Interests shall be cancelled and (ii) the obligations of the Debtors under any agreements, documents, contracts or certificates of designation governing the Old Partnership Interests shall be discharged. As of the Effective Date but subject to the terms of of this Plan, all Old Partnership Interests that have been authorized to be issued but that have not been issued shall be deemed cancelled and extinguished without any further action of any party or order of the Bankruptcy Court.
Section 5.11
Section 5.11
 
(b) On the Effective Date and in accordance with the terms of this Plan and the New Limited Partnership Agreements, the following New Partnership Interests shall be issued to the New Partners:
 
(i) Reorganized UPP shall issue the New Reorganized UPP General Partnership Interests to New Union Power and the New Reorganized UPP Limited Partnership Interests to Entegra.
 
(ii) Reorganized PGR shall issue the New Reorganized PGR General Partnership Interests to New Gila River Power and the New Reorganized PGR Limited Partnership Interests to Entegra.
 
(iii) Reorganized Trans-Union shall issue the New Reorganized Trans-Union General Partnership Interests to New Trans-Union Pipeline and the New Reorganized Trans-Union Limited Partnership Interests to Entegra.
 
(c) For purposes of implementation of this Plan, pursuant to the Confirmation Order, and on account of the Prepetition Banks Secured Claims, the New Partnership Interests shall be deemed to be transferred to the Prepetition Banks, and thereafter shall be deemed to be transferred by such Prepetition Banks to Entegra or the affiliates of Entegra, as applicable.
 
5.4 Governance, Directors, Officers, and Authority to Act
 
(a) The certificates of limited partnership and formation of each of the Debtors shall be amended as necessary to satisfy the provisions of this Plan and the Bankruptcy Code. After the Effective Date, such certificates may be amended and restated as permitted by applicable law.
Certificates of Limited Partnership and Formation.
 
(b) Subject to any requirement of Bankruptcy Court approval pursuant to section 1129(a)(5) of the Bankruptcy Code, as of the Effective Date, the initial officers of each Reorganized Debtor shall be the officers of the applicable Debtors immediately prior to the Effective Date. On the Effective Date, the board of directors of Entegra shall have five members, all of whom are listed on (which list shall be approved by, and may be amended by the Debtors prior to the Confirmation Hearing with the consent of, the Prepetition Agent given in writing or on the record in the Chapter Il Cases and filed with the Bankruptcy Court).
Directors and Officers of the Reorganized Debtors.
(5)
Plan Schedule 5.4(b)
(c) On the Effective Date, the adoption of the New Limited Partnership Agreements and, subject to the filing of certificates of formation with the appropriate jurisdictions, the New Limited Liability Company Agreements or in each case similar constituent documents, the selection of directors and officers for the Reorganized Debtors, Entegra and its subsidiaries, and all other actions contemplated by or described in this Plan with respect thereto shall be authorized and approved and be binding and in full force and effect in all respects without further action by any party. All matters provided for in this Plan involving the legal structure of the Debtors, Reorganized Debtors, Entegra or its subsidiaries, and any legal action required by the Debtors, Reorganized Debtors, Entegra or its subsidiaries in connection with this Plan, shall be deemed to have occurred and shall be in full force and effect in all respects, without any requirement of further action by the security holders, officers or directors of the Debtors, Reorganized Debtors, Entegra or its subsidiaries or further order of the Bankruptcy Court. On the Effective Date, the appropriate officers of the Debtors, Reorganized Debtors, Entegra or its subsidiaries and members of their respective boards of directors of the Debtors, Reorganized Debtors, Entegra or its subsidiaries are authorized and directed to issue, execute, and deliver the contracts, agreements, documents, guarantees, pledges, consents, securities, certificates, resolutions and instruments contemplated by this Plan, including, without limitation, the New Credit Agreements and agreements described in of this Plan.
Authority to Act.
Section 5.13
 
5.5 Issuance of New Securities and Related Documentation
 
On or as soon as reasonably practicable after the Effective Date, (i) the Reorganized Debtors shall issue the New Partnership Interests, New Term A Loan Notes, New Term A L/C Notes, New Term B Loan Notes, and New Term B L/C Notes, and (ii) the New Partners shall issue the New Membership Interests to be distributed pursuant to this Plan without further act or action under applicable law, regulation, order, or rule. The issuance of the New Partnership Interests, New Membership Interests, New Term A Loan Notes, New Term A L/C Notes, New Term B Loan Notes, and New Term B L/C Notes and the distribution thereof under this Plan shall be exempt from registration under applicable securities laws pursuant to section 1145(a) of the Bankruptcy Code. Without limiting the effect of section 1145 of the Bankruptcy Code, all documents, agreements, and instruments entered into on or as of the Effective Date contemplated by or in furtherance of this Plan shall become effective and binding in accordance with their respective terms and conditions upon the parties thereto. Holders of Allowed Class 4 Claims in UPP and PGR shall be deemed to have elected to accept Class A Units under the New Limited Liability Company Agreement for Entegra and shall be deemed to have elected to be a Full-Voting Bank under the New Credit Agreements unless on or prior to the Bankruptcy Court's first scheduled hearing for final approval of the Disclosure Statement, such Holder shall have executed and delivered written notice to the Debtors and Prepetition Agent that such Holder affirmatively elects to receive Class B Units under the New Limited Liability Company Agreement for Entegra or be a Limited-Voting Bank under the New Credit Agreements, provided that the election of each Consenting Prepetition Bank to receive Class A Units or Class B Units under the New Limited Liability Agreement for Entegra, as applicable, set forth in the Master Settlement Agreement shall be binding on and constitute the election of each such
Consenting Prepetition Bank with respect thereto. Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, distributions of Entegra Membership Interests to Holders of Allowed Class 4 Claims may be distributed directly to such Holders or to such Holders' designee as permitted by and subject to the New Limited Liability Company Agreement of Entegra.
 
5.6 Exit Financing
 
On the Effective Date, without any requirement of further act or action by security holders, officers, or directors of the Debtors or Reorganized Debtors or further order of the Bankruptcy Court, the Reorganized Debtors shall be authorized and directed to enter into the New Credit Agreements, which will contain the New Revolving Loan Facilities, the New L/C Facilities, and the terms of the New Term A Loan Notes, New Term A L/C Notes, New Term B Loan Notes, and New Term B L/C Notes, as well as execute, deliver, file, record and issue any notes, documents, or agreements in connection therewith.
 
5.7 Sources of Cash for Plan Distributions
 
Except as otherwise provided in this Plan or the Confirmation Order, all Cash necessary for Reorganized Debtors to make payments pursuant to this Plan shall be obtained from existing Cash balances, the operations of the Debtors and the Reorganized Debtors, or the New Credit Agreements. To the extent permitted by the New Credit Agreements, the Reorganized Debtors may also make such payments using Cash received from their subsidiaries through the Reorganized Debtors' consolidated cash management systems.
 
5.8 [intentionally omitted]
 
5.9 No Discharge, Release or Novation of Prepetition Credit Agreements Obligations; Conforming Amendments to Prepetition Credit Documents
 
Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, nothing in this Plan is, or shall be deemed to constitute, a discharge or release of the Debtors with respect to, or novation of, any of the Prepetition Credit Agreements Obligations, or cancellation of any of the Prepetition Credit Documents (other than the Prepetition Credit Agreements Notes). Except as expressly amended or modified by this Plan, all Prepetition Credit Documents, including, without limitation, mortgages, security agreements, pledges and guarantees and Prepetition Act 9 Bond Documents, including, without limitation, mortgages, leases and indentures, shall remain in full force and effect and shall, in their original form and as amended or modified pursuant to this Plan, secure the Obligations under the New Credit Agreements, and, at the written request of the Prepetition Agent, the Reorganized Debtors shall execute and deliver conforming amendments to such documents in order to implement the same, all without further order of the Bankruptcy Court.
 
5.10 No Discharge and No Release of Prepetition Banks Liens
 
Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, all property of the Estate of the Debtors, including all claims, rights, and causes of action and any property acquired by the
Debtors or the Reorganized Debtors under or in connection with this Plan, shall remain encumbered by and subject to the Prepetition Banks Liens which, as of the Effective Date, secure the repayment of the Obligations under the New Credit Agreements, and such Prepetition Banks Liens shall not be, and shall not be deemed to be, discharged or released on account of this Plan or the Chapter 11 Cases.
 
5.11 Interests in Finance Co.
 
Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, on the Effective Date, the Interests in Finance Co. shall remain effective and outstanding and be owned and held by Reorganized UPP. Distributions to Holders of Allowed Old Membership Interests shall be funded as a carve out and assignment pursuant to this Plan from the distributions to which Holders of Allowed Class 4 Claims would otherwise be entitled. Finance Co. shall continue to be governed by the terms and conditions of its limited liability company agreement as in effect prior to the Effective Date.
 
5.12 Intercompany Claims
 
On the Effective Date and to the extent permitted by the New Credit Agreements, the Intercompany Claims of Debtors against Debtors arising under the Prepetition Credit Documents or Prepetition Act 9 Bond Documents shall remain unimpaired under section 1124 of the Bankruptcy Code.
 
5.13 Guarantees, Security Agreements and Pledges by Entegra and its Subsidiaries
 
On the Effective Date, Entegra and its subsidiaries, including, without limitation, the New Partners, shall execute and deliver guarantees substantially in the form attached as to this Plan and security agreements and pledges substantially in the form attached as to this Plan, respectively, which guarantee, and grant security interests and liens in all their respective assets to secure, repayment of the Obligations under the New Credit Agreements. On the Effective Date, Entegra shall accept and enter into the Representation and Indemnity Agreement.
Exhibit R
Exhibits S and T
 
5.14 Union Bonds
 
To facilitate the implementation of the terms of this Plan, including the preservation of certain exemptions from ad valorem property taxes, on or as soon as reasonably practicable after the Effective Date, UPP and Finance Co. shall be authorized and directed to execute and deliver: (i) the Restated UPP Lease Agreement, (ii) the Restated Intercompany Loan Agreement, (iii) the Restated Union Bond Indenture, and (iv) all other Restated Union Bond Documentation, as applicable, in form and substance acceptable to the Prepetition Agent. UPP and Finance Co. shall be authorized and directed to execute and deliver any and all instructions and consents to the Union Bond Trustee and the Union Issuer as are necessary and appropriate to effectuate the execution of the Restated Union Bond Documentation.

Exhibit 10.2
 
Execution Version
 
 
This (the "") is entered into as of January 24, 2005, by and among (i) TECO-PANDA GENERATING COMPANY, L.P., ("") by its General Partner, TPS GP, Inc.; (ii) TECO ENERGY SOURCE, INC. (""); (iii) TECO ENERGY, INC., ("") for itself and its affiliates; (iv) UNION POWER I, LLC; (v) UNION POWER II, LLC; (vi) PANDA GILA RIVER I, LLC; (vii) PANDA GILA RIVER II, LLC; (viii) TRANS-UNION INTERSTATE I, LLC; (ix) TRANS-UNION INTERSTATE II, LLC; (x) UNION POWER PARTNERS, L.P., ("") by its General Partner, Union Power I, LLC; (xi) PANDA GILA RIVER, L.P., ("") by its General Partner, Panda Gila River I, LLC; (xii) TRANS-UNION INTERSTATE PIPELINE, L.P., ("") by its General Partner, Trans-Union Interstate I, LLC; (xiii) UPP FINANCE CO., LLC, ("") by its managing member, UPP; (xiv) CITIBANK, N.A., as administrative agent for the Banks (the ""); and (xv) the financial institutions party hereto.
MASTER RELEASE AGREEMENT AND AMENDMENT TO UNDERTAKINGS
Agreement
TPGC
TES
TECO
UPP
PGR
Trans-Union
Finance Co.
Administrative Agent
 
 
, UPP, as borrower, Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent (the ""), Societe Generale, as LC Bank, and each of the financial institutions party thereto (the "") are parties to that certain Union Power Project Credit Agreement dated May 31, 2001 (as amended, restated, supplemented and otherwise modified from time to time prior to the date hereof, the ""), pursuant to which the UPP Banks made loans to UPP from time to time, which loans and other Obligations are secured by first priority liens on, among other things, all or substantially all of the assets of UPP;
WHEREAS
UPP Administrative Agent
UPP Banks
Union Power Credit Agreement
 
, (i) PGR, as borrower, Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent (the "" and together with the UPP Administrative Agent, the ""), Societe Generale, as LC Bank, and each of the financial institutions party thereto (the "" and together with the UPP Banks, the "")
WHEREAS
PGR Administrative Agent
Administrative Agent
PGR Banks
Banks
1
are parties to that certain Gila River Project Credit Agreement dated May 31, 2001 (as amended, restated, supplemented and otherwise modified from time to time prior to the date hereof, the "", and together with the Union Power Credit Agreement, the ""); and (ii) PGR, as borrower, Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Societe Generale, as LC Bank, and each of the financial institutions party thereto are parties to that certain Gila River Project Senior Project Letter of Credit Agreement, dated as of May 27, 2004 (as amended, restated, supplemented and otherwise modified from time to time prior to the date hereof, the "", and together with the Original
Gila River Credit Agreement
Original Credit Agreements
Gila River Project Senior L/C Credit Agreement
 
Credit Agreements, the ""), pursuant to which the PGR Banks made loans to PGR from time to time, which loans and other Obligations are secured by first priority liens on, among other things, all or substantially all of the assets of PGR;
Credit Agreements
 
, TECO, UPP, and Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent under the Union Power Credit Agreement, are parties to that certain Amended and Restated Construction Contract Undertaking, dated as of May 14, 2002 (as amended, restated, supplemented and otherwise modified from time to time prior to the date hereof, the "");
WHEREAS
Union Power Undertaking
 
, TECO, PGR, and Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent under the Gila River Credit Agreement, are parties to that certain Amended and Restated Construction Contract Undertaking, dated as of May 14, 2002 (as amended, restated, supplemented and otherwise modified from time to time prior to the date hereof, the "", and together with the Union Power Undertaking, the "");
WHEREAS
Gila River Undertaking
Undertakings
 
, (i) UPP is the lessee of the Union Power Station; (ii) Trans-Union is the owner of a certain pipeline transporting natural gas to the Union Power Station (the "" and together with the Union Power Station, the ""); (iii) Finance Co. is the entity formed by UPP to facilitate the Act 9 Bond financing at the Union Project; and (iv) PGR is the owner of the Gila River Power Project (the "" and together with the Union Project and Pipeline, the "");
WHEREAS
Pipeline
Union Project
Gila River Project
Projects
 
, UPP, PGR, Trans-Union and Finance Co. (each a "," and collectively, the "") are all indirect subsidiaries of TPGC, which in turn is an indirect subsidiary of TECO;
WHEREAS
Project Company
Project Companies
 
, the partnership interests, or, as applicable, the membership interests, in the Project Companies (collectively, the "") are also pledged as Collateral for the Obligations;
WHEREAS
Partnership Interests
 
, certain Events of Default exist and are continuing under each of the Credit Agreements which, in turn, gives the Administrative Agent the right to foreclose on the Collateral as provided under the Credit Agreements;
WHEREAS
 
, TECO is willing to cause the transfer of any and all title to and ownership of the Partnership Interests in the Project Companies to the Banks (or one or more entities designated by the Administrative Agent acting at the direction of the Required Banks);
WHEREAS
 
, the Banks (or one or more entities designated by the Administrative Agent acting at the direction of the Required Banks) are willing to accept title to and ownership of the Partnership Interests in the Project Companies;
WHEREAS
 
, a transaction (the "") will be consummated pursuant to which title to and ownership of the Partnership Interests in the Project Companies will be transferred to the Banks (or to one or more entities designated by the Administrative Agent acting at the direction of the Required Banks);
WHEREAS
Transaction
 
, in preparation for and as conditions precedent to the consummation of the Transaction and the Banks' willingness to accept title to and ownership of the Partnership Interests in the Project Companies, TECO, the Project Companies, Administrative Agent and Banks, as applicable, have negotiated the Project Companies Release of Banks Agreement, TECO Release of Project Companies Agreement, Master Settlement Agreement, Equity Transfer Agreement, if applicable, Operating Asset Contribution Agreement, and Energy Management Contribution and Option Agreement, each as defined below; and
WHEREAS
 
, by their signature below, at least the Required Banks have entered into this Agreement and approved the execution and delivery hereof by the Administrative Agent acting on behalf of the Banks.
WHEREAS
 
 
, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
 
1. . Unless otherwise defined herein, capitalized terms used in this Agreement shall have the meanings set forth in, as may be applicable, (i) Exhibit A of the Union Power Credit Agreement; (ii) Exhibit A of the Gila River Credit Agreement; (iii) Article I of the Union Power Undertaking; and (iv) Article I of the Gila River Undertaking. As used in this Agreement, the following capitalized terms shall have the following meanings:
Definitions
 
1.1. "" shall mean any and all Claims that the Administrative Agent has against TECO in its representative capacity as beneficiary under the Undertakings.
Administrative Agent Undertakings Claims
 
1.2. "" shall have the meaning set forth in hereof.
Administrative Agent Releasors
Section 2.4
 
1.3. "" shall mean, with respect to any Person, any other Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with the Person specified, or who holds or beneficially owns 10% or more of the equity interest in the Person specified or 10% or more of any class of voting securities of the Person specified. When used with respect to any Project Company, "Affiliate" shall include each partner and any affiliate of any partner (other than such Project Company).
Affiliate
 
1.4. "" shall have the meaning set forth in hereof.
Bank Releasors
Section 2.3
 
1.5. "" shall mean, individually or collectively, as applicable, (i) the Administrative Agent, Collateral Agent, LC Bank, Depositary Agent and each of the Banks signatory hereto, (ii) the respective Affiliates of each of the Persons released pursuant to clause (i) above, (iii) all present and former officers, directors, stockholders, partners, employees, attorneys, agents, trustees, consultants and other representatives of each of the Persons released pursuant to any of clauses (i) and (ii) above, and (iv) the respective predecessors, successors, successors-in-interest, assigns, heirs and representatives of each of the Persons released pursuant to any of clauses (i) through (iii) above.
Bank Releasee(s)
 
1.6. "" shall mean, individually or collectively, as applicable, any and all actions, causes of action, counterclaims, suits, debts, dues, sums of money, accounts, reckonings, bonds, bills, specialties, covenants, contracts, controversies, agreements, promises, variances, trespasses, damages, judgments, extents, executions, rights, claims, demands, setoffs, recoupments, liabilities, losses and rights to any of the following: reimbursement, subrogation, contribution, indemnification or other payment, costs or expenses, or reasonable attorneys' fees; in each case, whether arising under contract, in law or in equity or by operation of law, of any nature whatsoever, known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, fixed or contingent, and whether representing a past, present or future obligation.
Claim(s)
 
1.7. "" shall mean the second business day after which all the conditions to the Release Effective Date have occurred and been satisfied except the payment of the Release Fee required by clause (iv) of .
Closing Date
Section 6.2
 
1.8. "" shall mean that certain Contingent Equity Contribution Guaranty dated as of May 31, 2001 by and among TECO and Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent under the Gila River Credit Agreement, with respect to the Gila River Project (as amended, restated, supplemented and otherwise modified from time to time prior to the date hereof).
Contingent Equity Contribution Guaranty
 
1.9. "" shall mean that certain Depositary Agreement dated as of May 31, 2001 by and among PGR, UPP, Finance Co. and Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent under the Credit Agreements (as amended, restated, supplemented and otherwise modified from time to time prior to the date hereof).
Depositary Agreement
 
1.10. "" shall have the meaning set forth in hereof.
Effective Date
Section 6.1
 
1.11. "" shall mean that certain Energy Management Contribution and Option Agreement dated as of October 13, 2004 by and among Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent under the Credit Agreements, TECO, TES, TWG Merchant, Inc., PGR, UPP, Trans-Union, and Gila River Energy Management Transition AssetCo., LLC.
Energy Management Contribution and Option Agreement
 
1.12. "" shall mean (i) that certain Equity Contribution Guaranty dated as of May 31, 2001 by and between TECO and Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent under the Union Power Credit Agreement, with respect to the Union Project (as amended, restated, supplemented and otherwise modified from time to time prior to the date hereof), and (ii) that certain Equity Contribution Guaranty dated as of May 31, 2001 by and between TECO and Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent under the Gila River Credit Agreement, with respect to the Gila River Project (as amended, restated, supplemented and otherwise modified from time to time prior to the date hereof).
Equity Contribution Guaranties
 
1.13. "" shall mean that certain Equity Transfer Agreement dated as of , 2005 by and among Entegra Power Group LLC, Union Power LLC, Gila River Power LLC, Trans-Union Pipeline LLC, UPP, PGR, Trans-Union, Union Power I, LLC, Union Power II, LLC, Panda Gila River I, LLC, Panda Gila River II, LLC, Trans-Union Interstate I, LLC, Trans Union Interstate II, LLC, and TECO.
Equity Transfer Agreement
[]
                    
 
1.14. "" shall mean the Excluded Operating Claims and Excluded Undertaking Claims.
Excluded Claims
 
1.15. "" shall mean those Claims against any TECO Entity arising or existing prior to the Closing Date and related to or arising in connection with (x) those certain notices of violation dated as of August 18, 2004 issued by Maricopa County, Arizona attached hereto as (or any amendment, supplement, replacement, alteration or other modification of such notices), or (y) any other violation of environmental laws at the Projects that breaches the O&M Agreements.
Excluded Operating Claims
Exhibit A
 
1.16. "" shall mean those Claims against TECO under the Undertakings that are not being released hereunder, which shall consist of and are expressly limited to Claims arising with respect to or in connection with (i) warranty items arising under either NEPCO Construction Contract, (ii) unpaid construction taxes owed to Gila Bend, Arizona, (iii) any privileges tax or so-called speculative builder tax owed in connection with the Transaction; (iv) any fines and/or penalties owed to government entities and related defense costs and expenses, including attorneys fees, related to or arising in connection with (x) those certain notices of violation dated as of August 18, 2004 issued by Maricopa County, Arizona attached hereto as (or any amendment, supplement, replacement, alteration or other modification of such notices), or (y) any other violations of environmental laws at Gila River that are covered by or included within the Undertakings and occur prior to the Closing Date; and (v) any indemnity or Damages (as defined in the NEPCO Construction Contracts) provided, included or described in section 16.01 of either NEPCO Construction Contract.
Excluded Undertakings Claims
Exhibit A
 
1.17. "" shall mean that certain Non-Binding Letter Of Intent and Binding Litigation Settlement dated as of February 5, 2004 by and among TECO, TPGC, UPP, PGR, Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent under the Credit Agreements, and the financial institutions party thereto, which includes the Non-Binding Letter of Intent in Part A and the Binding Litigation Settlement in Part B.
February LOI
 
1.18. "" shall mean any foreign, federal, state, municipal or other government, or other department, commission, board, bureau, agency, public authority or instrumentality thereof or any other court or arbitrator.
Governmental Body
 
1.19. "" shall have the meaning set forth in hereof.
Indemnitees
Section 2.8
 
1.20. [Intentionally omitted]
 
1.21. "" shall mean that certain Master Settlement Agreement and Restructuring Support Agreement dated as of January 24, 2005, by and among TPGC, TES, TECO, Union Power I, LLC, Union Power II, LLC, Panda Gila River I, LLC, Panda Gila River II, LLC, Trans-Union Interstate I, LLC, Trans-Union Interstate II, LLC, UPP, PGR, Trans-Union, Finance Co., Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent under the Credit Agreements, and the financial institutions party thereto.
Master Settlement Agreement
 
1.22. "" shall mean (i) that certain Amended and Restated Turnkey Engineering, Procurement and Construction Agreement for Combined-Cycle Generation Facility dated as of March 27, 2001 by and between UPP and National Energy Production Corporation (as amended, restated, supplemented and otherwise modified from time to time prior to the date hereof); and (ii) that certain Amended and Restated Turnkey Engineering, Procurement and Construction Agreement for Combined-Cycle Generation Facility dated as of April 30, 2001 by and between PGR and National Energy Production Corporation (as amended, restated, supplemented and otherwise modified from time to time prior to the date hereof).
NEPCO Construction Contracts
 
1.23. "" shall mean (i) that certain Amended and Restated Operation and Maintenance Agreement between PGR and TPS Arizona Operations Company dated as of May 25, 2001 (as amended, restated, supplemented and otherwise modified from time to time prior to the date hereof), and (ii) that certain Amended and Restated Operation and Maintenance Agreement between UPP and TPS Arkansas Operations Company dated as of February 8, 2001 (as amended, restated, supplemented and otherwise modified from time to time prior to the date hereof).
O&M Agreements
 
1.24. "" shall mean that certain Operating Asset Contribution Agreement dated as of October 13, 2004 by and among Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent under the Credit Agreements, UPP, Trans-Union, PGR, Gila River Transition AssetCo, LLC, TWG Merchant, Inc., and TECO.
Operating Asset Contribution Agreement
 
1.25. "" shall mean January 24, 2005, as such date may be extended from time to time by TECO.
Outer Date
 
1.26. "" shall mean the direct owners of the Partnership Interests and refers to, individually or collectively, as applicable, Union Power I, LLC, Union Power II, LLC, Panda Gila River I, LLC, Panda Gila River II, LLC, Trans-Union Interstate I, LLC, and Trans-Union Interstate II, LLC.
Owners
 
1.27. "" shall mean the partnership or other ownership interests in any or all of the Project Companies.
Partnership Interests
 
1.28. "" shall mean any individual, firm, corporation, business enterprise, trust, association, joint venture, partnership, limited partnership, limited liability partnership, limited liability company, any Governmental Body or any other entity, whether acting in an individual, fiduciary or other capacity.
Person
 
1.29. "" shall mean (i) that certain Partnership Interest Pledge and Security Agreement dated as of May 31, 2001 (as amended, restated, supplemented and otherwise modified from time to time prior to the date hereof) by and among Union Power I, LLC, UPP and Citibank, N.A., as Collateral Agent; (ii) that certain Partnership Interest Pledge and Security Agreement dated as of May 31, 2001 (as amended, restated, supplemented and otherwise modified from time to time prior to the date hereof) by and among Union Power II, LLC, UPP and Citibank, N.A., as Collateral Agent; (iii) that certain Partnership Interest Pledge and Security Agreement dated as of May 31, 2001 (as amended, restated, supplemented and otherwise modified from time to time prior to the date hereof) by and among Panda Gila River I, LLC, PGR and Citibank, N.A., as Collateral Agent; (iv) that certain Partnership Interest Pledge and Security Agreement dated as of May 31, 2001 (as amended, restated,
Pledge Agreements
 
supplemented and otherwise modified from time to time prior to the date hereof) by and among Panda Gila River II, LLC, PGR and Citibank, N.A., as Collateral Agent; (v) that certain Partnership Interest Pledge and Security Agreement dated as of May 31, 2001 (as amended, restated, supplemented and otherwise modified from time to time prior to the date hereof) by and among Trans-Union Interstate I, LLC, Trans-Union and Citibank, N.A., as Collateral Agent; (vi) that certain Partnership Interest Pledge and Security Agreement dated as of May 31, 2001 (as amended, restated, supplemented and otherwise modified from time to time prior to the date hereof) by and among Trans-Union Interstate II, LLC, Trans-Union and Citibank, N.A., as Collateral Agent; and (vii) that certain LLC Membership Interest Pledge and Security Agreement dated as of May 31, 2001 (as amended, restated, supplemented and otherwise modified from time to time prior to the date hereof) by and among UPP, Finance Co. and Citibank, N.A., as Collateral Agent.
 
1.30. "" shall mean, individually or collectively, as applicable, (i) each of the Project Companies, (ii) any Subsidiary of either a Project Company or an Owner.
Project Company Entities
 
1.31. "" shall mean that certain release of the Administrative Agent and Banks dated as of , 2005 by and among UPP, PGR, Trans-Union, and Finance Co.
Project Companies Release of Banks Agreement
[]
                    
 
1.32. "" shall have the meaning set forth in hereof.
Project Company Releasors
Section 2.2
 
1.33. "" shall have the meaning set forth in hereof.
Qualified Bank Releasor
Section 6.3
 
1.34. "" shall mean (i) that certain Reimbursement and Assignment Agreement dated as of January 16, 2002 by and between UPP and TECO (as amended, restated, supplemented and otherwise modified from time to time prior to the date hereof), and (ii) that certain Reimbursement and Assignment Agreement dated as of January 16, 2002 by and between PGR and TECO (as amended, restated, supplemented and otherwise modified from time to time prior to the date hereof).
Reimbursement and Assignment Agreements
 
1.35. "" shall have the meaning set forth in hereof.
Release Effective Date
Section 6.2
 
1.36. "" shall have the meaning set forth in hereof.
Release Fee
Section 6.2
 
1.37. "" shall mean, with respect to any Releasor, any Claim which is released by such Releasor pursuant to any of the provisions of hereof.
Released Claims
Section 2
 
1.38. "" shall mean, individually or collectively, as applicable, (i) the Credit Agreements, (ii) the Undertakings, (iii) the Reimbursement and
Released Documents
 
Assignment Agreements, (iv) the Pledge Agreements, (v) the Subordination Agreement, (vi) the Equity Contribution Guaranties, (vii) the Contingent Equity Contribution Guaranty, (viii) the Depositary Agreement, and (ix) any other Operative Documents.
 
1.39. "" shall mean the TECO Releasees and Bank Releasees.
Releasees
 
1.40. "" shall mean the Project Company Releasors, TECO Releasors, Administrative Agent Releasors and Bank Releasors.
Releasors
 
1.41. "" shall mean, with respect to any Person, any corporation, business enterprise, trust, association, joint venture, partnership, limited partnership, limited liability partnership, limited liability company or other business entity of which more than fifty percent (50%) of the total voting power of shares of stock (or equivalent ownership or controlling interest) entitled (without regard to the occurrence of any contingency) to vote in the election of directors, managers or trustees thereof is at the time owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by that Person or one or more of the other Subsidiaries of that Person or a combination thereof.
Subsidiary
 
1.42. "" shall mean (i) that certain Subordination Agreement dated as of January 16, 2002 by and between TECO and Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent under the Union Power Credit Agreement, with respect to the Union Power Project (as amended, restated, supplemented and otherwise modified from time to time prior to the date hereof), and (ii) that certain Subordination Agreement dated as of January 16, 2002 by and between TECO and Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent under the Gila River Credit Agreement, with respect to the Gila River Project (as amended, restated, supplemented and otherwise modified from time to time prior to the date hereof).
Subordination Agreement
 
1.43. "" shall mean any and all Claims that are connected with, arise out of, relate to or are otherwise based in whole or in part on any acts, omissions, facts, matters, transactions or occurrences arising or existing prior to the Effective Date and directly or indirectly relating to any or all of (i) the ownership, operation, management, financing, assets, properties, affairs or any other aspect of any of the Projects or Project Companies, (ii) the Released Documents, or any of the transactions contemplated therein; and (iii) any aspect of any of the dealings or relationships between or among any or all of the Project Company Entities, on the one hand, and the TECO Entities, on the other hand. Without limiting the foregoing and for the avoidance of doubt, the TECO Claims include, and there are released pursuant to of this Agreement, any and all such Claims arising by reason of subrogation, whether by law or in equity, to the right of any other Person, including, without limitation, subrogation to the rights of the Administrative Agent, Collateral Agent and/or Banks under the Operative Documents.
TECO Claims
Section 2
 
1.44. "" shall mean, individually or collectively, as applicable, TECO and its Affiliates; however that the term "" shall not include any Project Company Entity.
TECO Entities
provided
TECO Entities
 
1.45. "" shall mean that certain release and indemnity agreement dated as of , 2005 by and among TPGC, TES,
TECO Release of Project Companies Agreement
[]
                    
 
TECO, Union Power I, LLC, Union Power II, LLC, Panda Gila River I, LLC, Panda Gila River II, LLC, Trans-Union Interstate I, LLC, Trans-Union Interstate II, LLC, UPP, PGR, Trans-Union, and Finance Co.
 
1.46. "" shall have the meaning set forth in hereof.
TECO Releasors
Section 2.1
 
1.47. "" shall mean, individually or collectively, as applicable, (i) the TECO Entities, (ii) all present and former officers, directors, managers, stockholders, partners, employees, attorneys, agents, trustees, consultants and other representatives of the TECO Entities or Project Companies, and (iii) the respective predecessors, successors, successors-in-interest, assigns, heirs and representatives of each of the Persons released pursuant to any of clauses (i) and (ii) above; however that the term "" shall not include the Project Company Entities, or their respective predecessors, successors, successors-in-interest, assigns, heirs and representatives.
TECO Releasee(s)
provided
TECO Releasee(s)
 
1.48. "" shall mean any and all agreements, contracts and other documents entered into and executed with respect to or in connection with consummation of the Transaction, whether executed prior to, on or after the Effective Date, including without limitation the TECO Release of Project Companies Agreement, Master Settlement Agreement, Equity Transfer Agreement, if applicable, Operating Asset Contribution Agreement, and Energy Management Contribution and Option Agreement.
Transaction Documents
 
2. .
Releases
 
2.1. . Except as set forth in the immediately following sentence and hereof, as of the Release Effective Date, each TECO Entity, on behalf of itself and, its predecessors, successors, successors-in-interest and assigns (each, a "" and collectively, the ""), does hereby forever release, remise and discharge each of the Bank Releasees from any and all TECO Claims, and hereby agrees and covenants not to assert or prosecute against any or all of the Bank Releasees any TECO Claims that any of the TECO Releasors ever had, may have or hereafter can, may or shall have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this shall be construed to constitute a release of, or a covenant not to sue in respect of, any Claims for any breach of any provision, representation, warranty, covenant, or agreement of this Agreement and/or any of the Transaction Documents.
Releases By TECO Releasors
Section 2.5
TECO Releasor
TECO Releasors
Section 2.1
 
2.2. . Except as set forth in the immediately following sentence and hereof, as of the Release Effective Date, each Project Company Entity, on behalf of itself, and its predecessors, successors, successors-in-interest and assigns (each, a "" and collectively, the ""), does hereby forever release, remise and discharge each of the TECO Releasees from any and all TECO Claims, and hereby agrees and covenants not to assert or prosecute against any or all of the TECO Releasees any TECO Claims that any of the Project Company Releasors ever had, may have or hereafter can, may or shall have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this shall be construed to constitute a release of, or a covenant not to sue in respect of, (i) the Excluded Claims, and (ii) any Claims for any breach of any provision, representation, warranty, covenant, or agreement of this Agreement and/or any of the Transaction Documents.
Releases By Project Company Releasors
Section 2.5
Project Company Releasor
Project Company Releasors
Section 2.2
 
2.3. . Except as set forth in the immediately following sentence and and hereof, as of the Release Effective Date, the Administrative Agent (for itself but not in its representative capacity), Collateral Agent (for itself but not in its representative capacity), Depositary Agent (for itself but not in its representative capacity), LC Bank (solely on its own behalf and not on behalf of any Bank which has a Letter of Credit Commitment) and each of the Banks signatory hereto, on behalf of themselves and their respective Affiliates, and its and their respective predecessors, successors, successors-in-interest and assigns (each, a "" and collectively, the ""), does hereby forever release, remise and discharge each of the TECO Releasees from any and all TECO Claims, and hereby agrees and covenants not to assert or prosecute against any or all of the TECO Releasees, any TECO Claims that any of the Bank Releasors ever had, may have or hereafter can, may or shall have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this shall be construed to constitute a release of, or a covenant not to sue in respect of, (i) the Excluded Claims, and (ii) any Claims for any breach of any provision, representation, warranty, covenant, or agreement of this Agreement and/or any of the Transaction Documents.
Releases By Bank Releasors
Sections 2.5
2.8
Bank Releasor
Bank Releasors
Section 2.3
 
2.4. . Except as set forth in the immediately following sentence and and hereof, but in addition to the releases provided in of this Agreement, as of the Release Effective Date, the Administrative Agent, in its representative capacity as beneficiary under the Undertakings, and on behalf of its predecessors, successors, successors-in-interest and assigns in such capacity (each, an "" and collectively, the ""), does hereby forever release, remise and discharge each of the TECO Releasees from any and all Administrative Agent Undertakings Claims, and hereby agrees and covenants not to assert or prosecute against any or all of the TECO Releasees, any Administrative Agent Undertakings Claims that any of the Administrative Agent Releasors ever had, may have or hereafter can, may or shall have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this shall be construed to constitute a release of, or a covenant not to sue in respect of, (i) the Excluded Claims, and (ii) any Claims for any breach of any provision, representation, warranty, covenant, or agreement of this Agreement and/or any of the Transaction Documents.
Additional Releases By Administrative Agent
Sections 2.5
2.8
Section 2.3
Administrative Agent Releasor
Administrative Agent Releasors
Section 2.4
 
2.5. . Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to release (i) any of the Project Company Entities from any liabilities or obligations to the Administrative Agent and any or all Banks under any of the Released Documents, or otherwise in respect of the Obligations, or a covenant not to sue in respect of such matters, (ii) the Liens granted by the Project Companies in the Collateral, or (iii) the Liens granted by the Owners in the Partnership Interests. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to release the Administrative Agent and any or all Banks from any of their respective liabilities or obligations to each other under the Credit Agreements or any other Operative Documents. Subject to the releases provided in of this Agreement, all of the rights, powers, remedies, benefits, priorities, liens and security interests of the Administrative Agent and any or all Banks under the Released Documents, and/or applicable law shall remain in full force and effect, and nothing in this Agreement shall amend or otherwise modify any of the provisions of such documents (other than with respect to the Undertakings as provided in of this Agreement).
Limitation Of Releases
Section 2
Section 3.1
 
2.6. . Subject to the immediately following sentence, each of the parties hereto, on behalf of itself and its Affiliates, in any capacity, agrees and acknowledges that (a) except as expressly provided in this Agreement, no other party hereto or any other Releasee, in any capacity, has warranted or otherwise made any representations to it or any of its Affiliates concerning any Released Claim (including, without limitation, any representation concerning the existence, nonexistence, validity or invalidity of any Released Claim), (b) the validity and effectiveness of the foregoing releases and covenants not to sue in this do not depend in any way on any such representations or warranties or the accuracy, completeness or validity thereof, (c) no other party hereto or any other Releasee, in any capacity, has any duty to disclose or provide any facts or documents (whether material or immaterial, known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected) to it or any other Releasor, including, without limitation, any facts or documents which, if known by any Releasor, might have caused any party hereto to which such Releasor is affiliated not to execute and deliver this Agreement and/or any Transaction Documents, and (d) each such release and covenant not to sue shall remain in full force and effect even if any facts or documents (whether material or immaterial, known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected) were not disclosed or provided (whether intentionally, unintentionally or otherwise) by any Releasee to any Releasor, which facts or documents, if known by such Releasor, might have caused any party hereto to which such Releasor is affiliated not to execute and deliver this Agreement and/or any Transaction Documents. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing contained herein is intended to impair or otherwise derogate from any of the representations, warranties or covenants expressly set forth in this Agreement or any Transaction Document.
No Reliance And No Duty To Disclose
Section 2
 
2.7. . Subject to the last sentence of this , each of the parties hereto agrees and acknowledges, on behalf of itself and its Affiliates, that the Released Claims which it is releasing and covenanting not to sue on behalf of itself and its Affiliates pursuant to the provisions hereof include, without limitation, any Released Claim which such party does not know or suspect to exist in its or its Affiliates' favor at the time of the giving of the foregoing releases and covenants not to sue which, if known by it, might affect its decision regarding the releases and covenants not to sue set forth herein. Subject to the last sentence of this , each of the parties hereto, on behalf of itself and its Affiliates, agrees and acknowledges that it might hereafter discover facts or documents in addition to or different from those which it now knows or believes to be true or exist with respect to the subject matter of any of the Released Claims, but no Releasee in any capacity shall have any duty to disclose or provide any such facts or documents (whether material or immaterial, known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected) to any Releasor, and each of the Releasors shall be deemed to have fully, finally and forever settled and released any and all Released Claims, whether known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, contingent or non-contingent, which now exist or heretofore have existed upon any theory of law or equity now existing or coming into existence in the future. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing contained herein is intended to impair or otherwise derogate from any of the representations, warranties or covenants expressly set forth in this Agreement or any Transaction Document.
Release Of Unknown Claims
Section 2.7
Section 2.7
 
2.8. . TECO acknowledges and agrees that TECO is and remains liable pursuant to the Undertakings and/or this Agreement for any and all Excluded Claims and agrees to timely and fully pay and perform such Excluded Claims in accordance with the Undertakings and/or O&M Agreements, including, without limitation, to
TECO Acknowledgement
 
timely and fully pay (x) any and all air emission fines and penalties, and (y) any and all future costs and expenses of defense, each of (x) and (y) specifically relating to the lack of adequate air permits prior to May 27, 2004, and those air permit violations dated as of August 18, 2004 set forth in the Notices of Violation ("") issued by Maricopa County, Arizona and attached hereto as , as such NOVs may be replaced, amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time by other NOVs related to the same, similar or related permit condition violations, or to other violations of environmental laws at the Projects that are Excluded Claims occurring prior to the Closing Date that are covered by the Undertakings and/or O&M Agreements. TECO agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Project Company, each transferee of the assets of or Partnership Interests in a Project Company, the Administrative Agent, the Banks and their respective officers, directors, members, controlling persons, employees, agents and servants (collectively, the "") from and against, and reimburse the Indemnitees for, any and all penalties, claims, damages, losses, liabilities and obligations, of any kind or nature whatsoever that may be imposed upon, incurred by, or asserted or awarded against any Indemnitee that relate to, arise out of, or are in connection with (i) any privileges tax or so-called "speculative builder tax" imposed on or attempted to be imposed on the transfer pursuant to this Agreement or the Equity Transfer Agreement, if applicable, of the Gila River Partnership Interests or the Gila River Project, and any and all reasonable costs and expenses of counsel incurred by an Indemnitee with respect to any of the foregoing or (ii) any shareholder class action lawsuit filed against TECO that specifically relates to TECO's public disclosures with regard to its investments in the Projects, including, but not limited to, the lawsuits listed on Schedule 8.2(a) to the Equity Transfer Agreement (regardless of whether the Equity Transfer Agreement becomes effective).
NOVs
Exhibit A
Indemnitees
 
2.9. . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, each of the parties hereto agrees that (i) if the release of the Bank Releasees contained in of this Agreement shall be unenforceable against any TECO Releasor, and such TECO Releasor institutes or files any TECO Claim against any Bank Releasee, then the releases contained in either of or of this Agreement shall not be effective in preventing any such Bank Releasee from raising any defenses, objections or counter-claims to such TECO Claim against such TECO Releasor, in each case solely to the extent to offset any such TECO Claim, and (ii) if the release of the TECO Releasees contained in either of or of this Agreement shall be unenforceable against any Bank Releasor or Administrative Agent Releasor, as applicable, and such Bank Releasor or Administrative Agent Releasor, as applicable, institutes or files any TECO Claim against any TECO Releasee, then the release contained in of this Agreement shall not be effective in preventing any such TECO Releasee from raising any defenses, objections or counter-claims to such TECO Claim against such Bank Releasor or Administrative Agent Releasor, as applicable, in each case solely to the extent to offset any such TECO Claim.
Reciprocity
Section 2.1
Section 2.3
Section 2.4
Section 2.3
Section 2.4
Section 2.1
 
3. .
Amendment to Undertakings
 
3.1. As of the Release Effective Date, Section 6.12 of each Undertaking is hereby amended and restated to read in its entirety as follows:
 
. Without regard to any limitation set forth in this Undertaking but subject to the next sentence of this Section 6.12, if any
Collection Expenses
 
Beneficiary is required to pursue any remedy against TECO hereunder, TECO shall pay to such Beneficiary within 30 days after demand and delivery of reasonable backup documentation, all reasonable attorneys' fees and all other costs and expenses incurred by such Beneficiary in enforcing this Undertaking. Notwithstanding anything in this Undertaking to the contrary, the above referenced collection expenses shall not, and shall not be deemed to, include any attorneys' fees or any other costs and expenses incurred by such Beneficiary in enforcing any claims under this Undertaking that are the subject of the releases provided in Section 2 of that certain Master Release Agreement and Amendment To Undertakings, dated as of January 24, 2005.
 
4. .
Instructions to Administrative Agent
 
4.1. Upon the occurrence of the Release Effective Date, this Agreement shall also constitute an instruction from each and every Bank signatory hereto, being the Required Banks, directing the Administrative Agent (i) to provide the releases described in of this Agreement to the TECO Releasees, and (ii) not to enforce against any TECO Releasee any TECO Claims that are released under this Agreement.
Section 2.4
 
5. . To induce the other parties hereto to enter into this Agreement, each party hereto represents and warrants (with respect to itself) to the other parties hereto as follows:
Representations And Warranties
 
5.1. . Each party (i) is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation or formation and (ii) has the corporate or partnership power and authority to own and operate its property, to lease the property it operates as lessee and to conduct the business in which it is currently engaged.
Corporate/Partnership Existence
 
5.2. . Each party has the corporate or partnership power and authority to execute, deliver and perform this Agreement and all other agreements or documents executed or to be executed by it in connection herewith and has taken all necessary corporate, partnership, or other action to authorize the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and all other agreements or documents executed or to be executed by it in connection herewith. Each of this Agreement and any other agreement or document executed or to be executed by it in connection herewith constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligations of it, enforceable against it in accordance with the respective terms of such agreements and documents.
Corporate/Partnership Powers; Authorization; Enforceable Obligations
 
5.3. . The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and any other agreement or document executed or to be executed by it in connection herewith will not result in (i) a violation of or a conflict with any provision of the certificate or articles of incorporation, by-laws, partnership agreement, as applicable, or any other organizational or governing document of it, (ii) a breach of, or a default under, any term or provision of any contract, agreement, indebtedness, lease, encumbrance, commitment, license, franchise, permit, authorization or concession to which it is a party or by which it or any of its
No Conflict
 
property is bound, or (iii) a violation by it of any law, rule or regulation or order, judgment, decree or other determination by any court or any other Governmental Body, in each case applicable to it or any of its property or to which it or any of its property is subject.
 
5.4. . No consent, approval or authorization of or declaration, filing or registration with, any Governmental Body or any other Person is required to be made or obtained by it in connection with the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement.
Consents
 
5.5. . Neither it nor any of its Affiliates has assigned, hypothecated or otherwise transferred (collaterally or otherwise) to any other Person any interest in any Released Claims to which its covenant not to sue set forth herein applies.
No Assignment
 
5.6. . Each Owner has delivered to the Administrative Agent any and all income, or distribution of money or property of any kind, received by the respective Owner in its capacity as a partner of the Project Companies to the extent required by the Pledge Agreements, including without limitation section 6.8 thereof.
Pledge Agreements
 
6.
Conditions To Effective Date and Release Effective Date; Disposition of Release Fee; Termination.
 
6.1. . This Agreement and the parties' respective obligations hereunder shall not become effective until such time (the "") as (i) each of the TECO Entities and Project Company Entities party hereto shall have executed and delivered to the Administrative Agent a counterpart of this Agreement; and (ii) at least the Required Banks have become Qualified Bank Releasors prior to the Outer Date.
Conditions to Effective Date
Effective Date
 
6.2. . The "Release Effective Date" shall mean the first Business Day on which each of the following conditions has been satisfied: (i) the Operating Asset Contribution Agreement and Energy Management Contribution and Option Agreement shall each be in full force and effect and no default or event of default exists and is continuing under either of such agreements by any TECO Entities, unless such condition has been waived by the Administrative Agent acting at the direction of the Required Banks signatory hereto; (ii) consummation of the Transaction has occurred, unless such condition has been waived by the Administrative Agent acting at the direction of the Required Banks signatory hereto; (iii) the TECO Entities shall have been divested of any ownership interest in the Project Companies, unless such condition has been waived by TECO, (iv) TPGC shall have paid to the Administrative Agent on the Closing Date (for the pro rata account of each Qualified Bank Releasor) a fully earned and non-refundable release fee (the "") in immediately available funds equal to Thirty Million Dollars ($30,000,000) multiplied by the ratio, the of which is the sum of the principal amounts owed to all Qualified Bank Releasors under the Original Credit Agreements on account of Construction Loans, unpaid Project LC Loans (if any), and Hedge Breaking Fees, and the of which is the total principal amounts owed all Banks under the Original Credit Agreements on account of Construction Loans, unpaid Project LC Loans (if any), and Hedge Breaking Fees (the ""), all determined as of the Closing Date, , , that notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, this Agreement shall not become effective but shall be null and void, and no payment of the Release Fee will be made by TPGC, if
Conditions to Release Effective Date
Release Fee
numerator
denominator
Aggregate Principal Amount
provided
however
 
less than the Required Banks become Qualified Bank Releasors on or prior to the Outer Date; (v) the TECO Entities shall have executed and delivered the TECO Release of Project Companies Agreement; and (vi) if any of the Project Companies shall have commenced bankruptcy cases (the "") under Title 11 of the United States Code, then the bankruptcy court with jurisdiction over such Bankruptcy Cases (the "") shall have entered the Release Orders (as defined in Section 7.2 below.)
Bankruptcy Cases
Bankruptcy Court
 
6.3. . The Release Fee, if paid in accordance with the provisions in above, shall be held by the Administrative Agent in a non-interest bearing account until its disposition as set forth herein. Commencing five (5) business days after the Release Effective Date, the Administrative Agent shall distribute to each Bank that has entered into this Agreement on or prior to the Outer Date (each such Bank, a ""), that Qualified Bank Releasor's pro rata share of the Release Fee, calculated as set forth in this . The pro rata share of the Release Fee payable to each Qualified Bank Releasor under this shall be an amount equal to Thirty Million Dollars ($30,000,000) multiplied by the ratio, the of which is the sum of the principal amounts owed to such Qualified Bank Releasor under the Original Credit Agreements on account of Construction Loans, unpaid Project LC Loans (if any), and Hedge Breaking Fees, and the of which is the Aggregate Principal Amount, all determined as of the Closing Date.
Disposition of Release Fee
Section 6.2
Qualified Bank Releasor
Section 6.3
Section 6.3
numerator
denominator
 
6.4. . The execution and delivery of this Agreement shall not in any way obligate the Administrative Agent or any Bank signatory hereto to enter into the Master Settlement Agreement.
No Obligation
 
6.5. This Agreement may be terminated by the TECO Entities, the Project Companies, or the Administrative Agent acting at the direction of the Required Banks signatory hereto if the Release Effective Date has not occurred by the later of (i) the tenth (10
Termination.
th
) business day after the effective date under, and substantial consummation of, a plan of reorganization confirmed in the Bankruptcy Cases, and (ii) termination of the provisions of Section 1.1.3 of the Master Settlement Agreement with respect to TECO pursuant to Section 5.2 of the Master Settlement Agreement (provided that no such termination shall relieve any part from liability for its breach or non-performance of it obligations hereunder prior to the date of such termination.)
 
7. . If any of the Project Companies shall have commenced the Bankruptcy Cases, then
Covenants
 
7.1. provided that this Agreement shall have been executed and delivered by TECO and its applicable affiliates, the Project Companies, the Administrative Agent and Required Banks by the Outer Date, the Project Companies shall file one or more motions (the "") with the Bankruptcy Court as expeditiously as possible which seeks approval of the TECO Release of Project Companies Agreement and this Agreement;
Release Motions
 
7.2. the Administrative Agent (on behalf of itself and the Banks signatory hereto), the Project Companies and TECO and its applicable affiliates shall affirmatively support the Release Motions and shall seek to have one or more orders expeditiously entered and docketed by the Bankruptcy Court which approves such Release Motions (the "");
Release Orders
 
8. :
Miscellaneous
 
8.1. . The parties hereto agree that all disputes between any of them arising out of, connected with or related to or incidental to the relationship established between any of them in connection with this Agreement, and whether arising in contract, tort, equity or otherwise, may be brought in or removed to the state or federal courts located in the State of New York, in and for the County of New York, or of the United States of America for the Southern District of New York, in each case sitting in Manhattan, but the parties hereto acknowledge that any appeals from those courts may have to be heard by a court located outside such locations. The parties hereto waive in all disputes any objection that they may have to the location of jurisdiction of the court designated to consider such dispute in accordance with the first sentence of this . Notwithstanding the foregoing consent to jurisdiction, upon the commencement of the Bankruptcy Cases, each of the parties hereto hereby agrees that the Bankruptcy Court shall have exclusive jurisdiction over all matters arising out of or relating to this Agreement until the Effective Date under and substantial consummation of the Plan.
Jurisdiction
Section 8.1
 
8.2. . This Agreement shall be construed and interpreted, and the rights of the parties shall be determined, in accordance with the laws of the State of New York (without reference to the choice of law provisions of New York law).
Choice Of Law
 
8.3. . This Agreement may not be amended or modified except in a writing executed by the party to be bound thereby; with respect to the Banks signatory hereto, this Agreement may be amended by the Administrative Agent acting at the direction of the Required Banks signatory hereto; any Bank signatory hereto which does not join in such amendment will no longer be considered a party to this Agreement and will not be bound by the terms of this Agreement as amended. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, the TECO Entities agree to be bound by any amendment to clause (iii) of Section 6.2 or to Section 6.3 of this Agreement agreed to between the Project Companies and the Required Banks signatory hereto; , such amendment is limited to the subject matter of such Sections and does not affect: (i) for the avoidance of doubt, the scope of the release of claims, or indemnity, given or received by the TECO Entities; (ii) the aggregate amount of the Release Fee payable under this Agreement; (iii) the definition of Qualified Bank Releasor, or (iv) the requirement that at least the Required Banks become Qualified Bank Releasors on or prior to the Outer Date.No waiver of any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed or shall constitute a waiver of any other provision hereof or thereof (whether or not similar), nor shall such waiver constitute a continuing waiver unless otherwise expressly provided in writing.
Amendments; Waivers
provided
however
that
provided
further
that
provided
that
 
8.4. . Neither this Agreement nor any of the rights or obligations hereunder may be assigned by any party hereto, without the prior written consent of the other parties hereto, and then only to a person who has agreed to be bound by the provisions of this Agreement; any Bank may, without the prior written consent of TECO or any Affiliate of TECO,) (i) assign its right to payment of all or any portion of the Release Fee, and (ii) assign its rights and/or obligations
Successors And Assigns; Third Party Beneficiaries
provided
however
that
 
hereunder to another entity that is, or becomes at the time of such assignment, a Bank and who agrees to be bound hereby. This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and thereto and their respective successors and permitted assigns. Any TECO Releasee or Bank Releasee (including without limitation the Administrative Agent) who is not named as a party to this Agreement shall have the rights of an intended third-party beneficiary with respect to the provisions of this Agreement. Except as set forth in the immediately preceding sentence, no other Person not a party hereto shall be deemed a third-party beneficiary of any provision of this Agreement or shall otherwise be entitled to enforce any provision hereof.
 
8.5. . This Agreement may be executed by any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto and separate counterparts, each of which when so executed and delivered shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute but one and the same instrument. Executed signature pages may be detached from multiple separate counterparts and attached to a single counterpart so that all signature pages are physically attached to the same document. Any party hereto may execute and deliver a counterpart of this Agreement by delivery by facsimile transmission of a signature page of this Agreement signed by such party, and any such facsimile signature shall be treated in all respects as having the same effect as having an original signature. Any party delivering by facsimile transmission a counterpart executed by it shall promptly thereafter also deliver a manually signed counterpart.
Counterparts
 
8.6. . The titles, captions or headings in this Agreement are included herein for convenience of reference only and shall not constitute a part of this Agreement for any purpose.
Headings
 
8.7. . Any defined term used in the plural shall refer to all members of the relevant class, and any defined term used in the singular shall refer to any one or more of the members of the relevant class. The terms "hereunder," "herewith," "hereby," "herein" and "hereof" refer to this Agreement in its entirety, including all attached schedules, exhibits and any other documents, and not to any individual provision or Section of this Agreement. Neuter or masculine pronouns used herein shall be deemed to refer to the masculine and the feminine as the context so indicates.
Defined Term; Pronouns
 
8.8. . Unless otherwise provided herein, any notice, request, instruction or other document to be given hereunder by any party to any other parties shall be in writing and shall be deemed effective upon actual receipt if delivered personally; on the date receipt is acknowledged or refused if mailed by certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested; on the next business day if by overnight delivery by a nationally recognized, reputable, overnight courier; and in any such case shall be addressed as follows:
Notices
 
If to , to:
Administrative Agent
 
Citigroup Global Markets
Global Corporate & Investment Bank
388 Greenwich Street, 21st Floor
New York, New York 10013
 
Attention: Charles E. Tauber
Tel: (212) 816-7495
Fax: (212) 816-7738
 
with a copy (which shall not constitute notice hereunder), to:
 
Latham & Watkins LLP
Sears Tower, Suite 5800
233 South Wacker Drive
Chicago, Illinois 60606
Attention: Ronald W. Hanson
Tel: (312) 876-7700
Fax: (312) 993-9767
 
If to , addressed to:
TECO
 
TECO Energy, Inc.
702 North Franklin Street
Tampa, FL 33602
Attention: Sheila M. McDevitt,
General Counsel
Tel: 813-228-4111
Fax: 813-228-4811
 
with a copy (which shall not constitute notice hereunder), to:
 
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP
Four Times Square
New York, New York 10036
Attention: Peter J. Neckles
Tel: 212-735-3000
Fax: 212-735-2000
 
If to any , addressed to:
Project Company
 
Union Power Partners, L.P.
Panda Gila River, L.P.
Trans-Union Interstate Pipeline, L.P.
UPP Finance Co., LLC
702 North Franklin Street, Plaza 8
Tampa, Florida 33602
Attention: Jerry Coffey, Esq.
Tel: (813) 228-4433
Fax: (813) 228-4300
 
with a copy (which shall not constitute notice hereunder), to:
 
Squire, Sanders & Dempsey L.L.P.
Two Renaissance Square
40 North Central Avenue, Suite 2700
Phoenix, Arizona 85004
Attention: Craig D. Hansen
Tel: (602) 528-4000
Fax: (602) 253-8129
 
with an additional copy to the Administrative Agent and its counsel at the location described above.
 
or to such other place and with such other copies as any party may designate for itself by written notice to the other parties.
 
8.9. . This Agreement contains the entire understanding of the parties with respect to the releases and indemnities set forth herein and supersedes all prior agreements, covenants, arrangements, communications, representations or warranties made, whether oral or written, by the parties hereto or by any officer, employee or representative of any party. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and the Master Settlement Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall control.
Entire Agreement
 
8.10. . Each party will use its commercially reasonable best efforts to cause all of the conditions to its and the other parties' obligations hereunder to be timely satisfied and to perform and fulfill all obligations on its part to be performed and fulfilled under this Agreement to the end that the transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall be effected substantially in accordance with their respective terms. At all times before, on or after the Effective Date, each party will, and will cause its respective Affiliates to, cooperate in good faith with the other parties and will, and will cause its respective Affiliates to, promptly take all appropriate action and execute any and all documents, instruments or conveyances of any kind which any other party may reasonably request to consummate or implement any of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby or to evidence such events or matters.
Further Assurances
 
8.11. . Each of the parties hereby acknowledges that it has been advised by its own legal counsel in connection with the negotiation, drafting, execution, and delivery and consummation of this Agreement (including, without limitation, the release and covenant not to sue provisions hereof). The parties agree and acknowledge that the normal rule of construction to the effect that any ambiguities are to be resolved against the drafting party shall not be employed in the interpretation of this Agreement or any amendments, exhibits or schedules hereto. Each party hereto has entered into this Agreement freely and voluntarily, without coercion, duress, distress or under influence by any other Persons or its respective shareholders, directors, officers, partners, agents or employees.
Parties' Use Of Legal Counsel And Construction Of Agreement
 
8.12. . Whenever possible, each provision of this Agreement shall be interpreted in such a manner to be effective and valid under applicable law, but if any provision of this Agreement shall be prohibited by or invalid under applicable law, such provision shall be ineffective to the extent of such prohibition or invalidity, without invalidating the remainder of such provision or the remaining provisions of this Agreement.
Severability
 
8.13. . Each of the parties hereto acknowledges and agrees that the other party hereto would be irreparably damaged in the event any of the provisions of this Agreement are not performed in accordance with their specific terms or otherwise are breached, and that there is no adequate remedy at law with respect to any such breach. Accordingly, each of the parties and their respective permitted successors and assigns agrees that the other parties or their respective permitted successors and assigns shall, in addition to any other remedy to which they may be entitled, at law or in equity, be entitled to injunctive or other relief to prevent breaches or alleged or threatened breaches of the provisions of this Agreement and to specifically enforce this Agreement and the terms and provisions hereof in any action instituted in any court of competent jurisdiction.
Specific Performance
 
8.14.
. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO WAIVES ANY RIGHT TO HAVE A JURY PARTICIPATE IN RESOLVING ANY DISPUTE, WHETHER SOUNDING IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, BETWEEN ANY OF THEM ARISING OUT OF, CONNECTED WITH, RELATING TO OR INCIDENTAL TO THE RELATIONSHIP ESTABLISHED BETWEEN ANY OF THEM IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT. INSTEAD, ANY DISPUTES RESOLVED IN COURT SHALL BE RESOLVED IN A BENCH TRIAL WITHOUT A JURY.
WAIVER OF RIGHT TO JURY
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement is entered into as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
[Signature Page  Master Release Agreement and Undertaking Amendment]
 
[Signature Page  Master Release Agreement and Undertaking Amendment]
 
[Signatures of Banks follow on the next page]
 
 
[INSERT SIGNATURE BLOCKS OF BANKS]
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBITS
 
 
DISCLOSURE SCHEDULE ITEMS
 
 
This REPRESENTATION AND INDEMNIFICATION AGREEMENT (this ""), dated as of June 1, 2005, is made by and among ENTEGRA POWER GROUP LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (""), UNION POWER LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (""), GILA RIVER POWER LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (""), TRANS-UNION PIPELINE LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("Trans-Union Pipeline LLC" and together with Entegra Power Group, Union Power LLC, and Gila River Power, the ""), and TECO ENERGY, INC., a Florida corporation ("").
Agreement
Entegra Power Group
Union Power LLC
Gila River Power
Transferees
TECO
 
 
I. Ownership
 
W, Union Power Partners, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (""), owns and operates an approximately 2,205 megawatt combined cycle natural gas fired generating facility located in Union County, Arkansas (the "");
HEREAS
Union Power
Union Power Facility
 
W, Panda Gila River L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (""), owns and operates an approximately 2,145 megawatt combined cycle natural gas fired generating facility located in Gila Bend, Arizona (the "");
HEREAS
Gila River
Gila River Facility
 
W, Trans-Union Interstate Pipeline, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership ("", and, together with Union Power and Gila River, the ""), owns and operates an approximately 42 mile interstate natural gas pipeline interconnecting the Union Power Facility to the Sharon, Louisiana Compressor Station which is connected to the natural gas supply pipelines owned and operated by Texas Gas Transmission Corporation (the "", and together with the Union Power Facility and the Gila River Facility, the "");
HEREAS
Trans-Union
Companies
Trans-Union Pipeline
Facilities
 
W, each of the Companies is a wholly-owned direct or indirect subsidiary of TECO;
HEREAS
 
II. Loan Documents
 
W, Union Power is a party to that certain Union Power Project Credit Agreement, dated as of May 31, 2001, among Union Power, the other Persons named as lenders therein (the ""), Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent (in such capacity, the ""), and Societe Generale, as LC Bank, as amended from time to time (the ""), under which principal in the amount of $685,371,540 is currently outstanding (together with interest, fees and other outstanding obligations, the "");
HEREAS
Union Power Banks
Union Power Administrative Agent
UPP Credit Agreement
Existing Union Debt
 
W, Gila River is a party to that certain Gila River Project Credit Agreement, dated as of May 31, 2001, among Gila River, the other Persons named as lenders therein (the "" and together with the Union Power Banks, the ""),
HEREAS
Gila River Banks
Banks
 
Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent (in such capacity, the ""), and Societe Generale, as LC Bank, as amended from time to time (the ""), under which principal in the amount of $777,783,494 is currently outstanding (together with interest, fees and other outstanding obligations, the "");
Gila River Administrative Agent
Gila River Credit Agreement
Existing Gila River Debt
 
W, pursuant to the terms of that certain Master Settlement Agreement and Restructuring Support Agreement dated as of January 24, 2005 (as amended, supplemented, amended and restated or otherwise modified from time to time, the ""), TECO has agreed to enter into this Agreement with the Transferees ;
HEREAS
Settlement Agreement
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and promises contained herein, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
 
1.1 . Unless otherwise defined herein, capitalized terms used herein shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Credit Documents (as defined below). As used herein, the terms below shall have the following meanings:
Defined Terms
 
"" shall mean, with respect to any Person, any other Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with the Person specified, or who holds or beneficially owns 10% or more of the equity interest in the Person specified or 10% or more of any class of voting securities of the Person specified. When used with respect to any Company, "Affiliate" shall include each partner and any affiliate of any partner (other than such Company).
Affiliate
 
"" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations thereunder.
Code
 
"" is defined in the introductory paragraph of this Agreement.
Companies
 
"" shall mean all members of a controlled group of corporations and all trades or businesses (whether or not incorporated) under common control which, together with any Company, are treated as a single employer under Section 414(b), (c), (m) or (o) of the Code.
Controlled Group
 
"" shall mean the UPP Credit Documents and Gila River Credit Documents.
Credit Documents
 
"" shall mean the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and the regulations issued thereunder.
ERISA
 
"" shall mean (a) any employee benefit plan (as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA) maintained by the Companies or any member of their respective Controlled Groups, or to which any of them contributes or is obligated to contribute, for its employees, and (b) each other bonus, deferred compensation, severance or termination pay, supplemental unemployment, profit sharing or other fringe benefit plan, program or arrangement applicable to TECO Project Employees.
ERISA Plan
 
"" shall mean generally accepted accounting principles in the United States consistently applied.
GAAP
 
"" means the Credit Documents as defined in the Gila River Credit Agreement.
Gila River Credit Documents
 
"" shall mean any federal, state, local or foreign government, court of competent jurisdiction, or other regulatory, administrative or governmental agency, authority or instrumentality.
Governmental Authority
 
"" shall mean all patents, trademarks, tradenames, service marks, copyrights, software, domain names, or registrations or pending applications thereto, and any other such rights or adequate licenses therein that are owned or licensed for use by the Companies, or in which the Companies have any rights or obligations, or are bound in any way.
Intellectual Property
 
"" shall mean, (i) with respect to a named individual, the actual knowledge of such individual after reasonable inquiry of those individuals likely to have knowledge of the relevant facts and those individuals likely to have knowledge of the Disclosed Information (as defined in Section 2.8) or (ii) with respect to an entity, the actual knowledge of an officer or director of such entity after reasonable inquiry of those individuals likely to have knowledge of the relevant facts and those individuals likely to have knowledge of the Disclosed Information.
Knowledge
 
"" shall mean any mortgage, deed of trust, lien, pledge, charge, security interest, option, right of first refusal, or easement or encumbrance of any kind, whether or not filed, recorded, or otherwise perfected or effective under applicable law, as well as the interest of a vendor or lessor under any conditional sale agreement, capital lease or other title retention agreement relating to such asset.
Lien
 
"" shall mean a material adverse effect on the condition (financial or otherwise), operations (financial or otherwise), earnings, business or assets of any Company, whether or not occurring in the ordinary course of business; , , that Material Adverse Effect shall exclude any change or effect due to (a) the negotiation, execution, announcement of this Agreement and the transfer of the Interests to the Transferees contemplated hereby, including the impact thereof on relationships, contractual or otherwise, with customers, suppliers or distributors, (b) any action taken by TECO or any of its representatives or Affiliates that is expressly required by the terms of this Agreement or expressly permitted by the terms of this Agreement, (c) the general state of the electric power generating industry, except for such effects that disproportionately affect any Company, (d) general economic conditions, except for such changes or effects which disproportionately affect any Company, and (e) any matters as and to the extent described in of the Disclosure Schedule hereto.
Material Adverse Effect
provided
however
Schedule 1.1
 
"" shall mean, with respect to any Company or the Union Finance Subsidiary, the certificate of formation or limited partnership, and partnership agreement or limited liability company agreement of such Company or the Union Finance Subsidiary, as applicable, and all amendments thereto.
Organizational Documents
 
"" shall mean all licenses, permits, franchises, approvals, authorizations, or consents or orders of, any Governmental Authority, whether foreign, federal, state or local, required for conduct of the business of the Companies, or the operation of the Facilities or the ownership of the assets of the Companies.
Permits
 
"" shall mean any Liens granted pursuant to the Credit Documents.
Permitted Liens
 
"" shall mean any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, joint stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, limited liability company or government or other entity.
Person
 
"" shall mean the Senior Vice President and General Counsel, the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and the Vice President and Treasurer of TECO, as of the date of this Agreement.
Senior Executives
 
"" shall mean any and all taxes, charges, levies, impositions, tariffs, duties, fees or other assessments of any kind (together with any and all interest, penalties, additions to tax or additional amounts imposed with respect thereto) imposed by any Tax authority or other Governmental Authority, including, without limitation, income, service, license, net worth, payroll, employment, unemployment, workers' compensation, withholding, retirement, social security, sales, use, value-added, excise, franchise, gross receipts, profits, capital stock, compensation, occupation, real and personal property, ad valorem, environmental, stamp, transfer and recording taxes, and shall include any liability for Taxes of any other Person pursuant to Treasury Regulation Section 1.1502-6 (or any similar provision of state, local or foreign law) or as a transferee, successor, by contract or otherwise.
Tax(es)
 
"" shall mean each employee of TECO or any affiliate thereof who works for or whose primary duties involve performance of services for the Companies or a Facility.
TECO Project Employees
 
"" shall mean UPP Finance Co., LLC, a Delaware limited liability company.
Union Finance Subsidiary
 
"" means the Credit Documents as defined in the UPP Credit Agreement.
UPP Credit Documents
 
1.2 .
Construction
 
(a) Unless the context of this Agreement otherwise requires, (i) words of any gender include each other gender; (ii) words using the singular or plural number also include the plural or singular number, respectively; (iii) the terms "hereof," "herein," "hereby" and derivative or similar words refer to this entire Agreement; (iv) the terms "Article" or "Section" refer to the specified Article or Section of this Agreement; (v) the word "including" shall mean "including, without limitation;" and (vi) the word "or" shall be disjunctive but not exclusive.
 
(b) References to agreements and other documents shall be deemed to include all subsequent amendments and other modifications thereto.
 
(c) References to statutes shall include all regulations promulgated thereunder and references to statutes or regulations shall be construed as including all statutory and regulatory provisions consolidating, amending or replacing the statute or regulation.
 
(d) The annexes, schedules and exhibits to this Agreement are a material part hereof and shall be treated as if fully incorporated into the body of the Agreement.
 
(e) Whenever this Agreement refers to a number of days, such number shall refer to calendar days unless business days are specified, and shall be counted from the day immediately following the date from which such number of days are to be counted.
 
(f) All accounting terms used herein and not expressly defined herein shall have the meanings given to them under GAAP.
 
 
In connection with the transactions contemplated by the Settlement Agreement TECO hereby makes the following representations and warranties to the Transferees, except as otherwise set forth in the disclosure schedule (the "") attached hereto as , which contains schedules numbered to correspond to various sections of this Article II (each a "") that set forth certain exceptions to the representations and warranties contained in this Article II and certain other information called for by this Agreement. The inclusion of any matter on any Schedule shall not be deemed to be an admission (a) as to the materiality of such matter or (b) that such disclosure is required.
Disclosure Schedule
Exhibit A
Schedule
 
2.1 . TECO is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing as a corporation under the laws of the jurisdiction of its formation. TECO has full corporate power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and perform its obligations hereunder.
Organization
 
2.2 . TECO has the requisite power, capacity and authority to, and has taken all action necessary to execute and deliver this Agreement, to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and to perform its obligations contained herein. This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by TECO and is a valid and binding obligation of TECO, enforceable against TECO in accordance with its terms, except as the enforceability thereof may be limited by (a) applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, moratorium, reorganization or similar laws in effect that affect the enforcement of creditors rights generally or (b) general principles of equity, whether considered in a proceeding at law or in equity.
Authorization
 
2.3 . None of the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement, compliance with any of the provisions hereof or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby by TECO will result in (a) a violation of or a conflict with the articles of incorporation or by-laws of TECO (b) a violation by TECO of any applicable Laws.
No Conflict or Violation
 
2.4 . Except as otherwise would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, none of the Companies or the Union Finance Subsidiary has violated, and each Company and the Union Finance Subsidiary is in compliance with, (a) all applicable laws, statutes, ordinances, regulations, decrees, rules and orders of every Governmental Authority and (b) any judgment, decision, decree or order of, or Permit issued by, any Governmental Authority ((a) and (b), collectively, "Laws"). Except as otherwise would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, none of the Companies or the Union Finance Subsidiary has received any written notice that remains unresolved to the effect that, and TECO does not have any knowledge that, (i) such Company or the Union Finance Subsidiary is not currently in compliance with, or is in violation of, any applicable Laws or (ii) any Governmental Authority has any intention to conduct any investigation or proceeding or any investigation or proceeding by any Governmental Authority is pending or threatened.
Compliance with Law
 
2.5 . Each of the Companies and the Union Finance Subsidiary is, and has been since its formation, disregarded as an entity separate from its owner for federal and state income tax purposes. None of the Companies or the Union Finance Subsidiary is (i) liable for any Taxes of any other Person pursuant to Treasury Regulation Section 1.1502-6 (or any similar provision of state, local or foreign law) or as a transferee, successor, by contract or otherwise or (ii) a party to any Tax sharing, indemnity, allocation or similar agreement. The transactions contemplated herein are not subject to the Tax withholding provisions of Section 3406 of the Code or of any other provision of Law.
Taxes
 
2.6 .
Employees and Employee Benefits
 
(a) .
Remuneration
 
(i) sets forth a list of all TECO Project Employees, their salaries, wage rates, commissions and bonuses, applicable ERISA Plans, positions, status as full-time or part-time, location of employment, accrued vacation or paid time off and length of service, as well as whether such TECO Project Employee is currently on leave and the reason for such leave (disability, workers' compensation, parental leave or other approved leave) and their expected date of return to work, if known.
Schedule 2.6(a)(i)
 
(ii) Except as described on , the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement will not (i) entitle any TECO Project Employee to severance benefits or any other payment or (ii) accelerate the time of payment or vesting, or increase the amount of compensation due any TECO Project Employee.
Schedule 2.6(a)(ii)
 
(b) . Each ERISA Plan applicable to TECO Project Employees complies in all material respects with the requirements of ERISA, the Code and all applicable laws. The Companies have no liability with respect to any ERISA Plan, contingent or otherwise, under ERISA, the Code, any other applicable law or pursuant to any contractual agreement other than liability for normal intercompany payments to reimburse TECO for advances made to ERISA Plans to cover expenses associated with TECO Project Employees.
ERISA
 
(c) .
Labor Matters
 
(i) The terms of the TECO Project Employees employment are not subject to any collective bargaining agreement or other labor contract, nor are there any activities or proceedings of any labor union to organize any of the TECO Project Employees. The TECO Project Employees have not instituted a strike or other organized work stoppage.
 
(ii) With respect to the TECO Project Employees the employers of the TECO Project Employees have complied in all material respects with all terms and conditions of employment and all applicable laws relating to employment including, employee health and safety, fair employment practices, human rights, pay equity and wages and hours, and the Companies have no potential liability as a successor employer for any violations of applicable laws governing employment of the TECO Project Employees, including with respect to any claims or investigations alleging employment discrimination or unfair labor practices.
 
(d) . None of the Companies or the Union Finance Subsidiary has any employees.
Project Employees
 
2.7 . No Company has received any notice of any material infringement, impairment, dilution, misappropriation, or other unauthorized use by any Company or the Union Finance Subsidiary of any other person's Intellectual Property.
Intellectual Property
 
2.8 . To the Knowledge of TECO, no statement, representation or warranty made by TECO in this Agreement or in any certificate, schedule or other document furnished or to be furnished to the Administrative Agent, the Banks or any Transferee hereunder or otherwise in connection with the transfer of the Interests to the Transferees (collectively, the "") contains, or when so furnished will contain, any untrue statement of a material fact (a ""), or fails to state, or when so furnished will fail to state, a material fact necessary to make the statements contained herein or therein, in light of the circumstances in which they are made, not misleading (a ""). To the Knowledge of TECO, there is no fact which TECO has failed to disclose to the Administrative Agents, the Banks and the Transferees in writing which has had or would reasonably be anticipated to have a Material Adverse Effect (a "").
Full Disclosure
Disclosed Information
Section 2.8 Untrue Statement
Section 2.8 Necessary Fact
Section 2.8 Fact
 
2.9 . The Companies own good and marketable title, free and clear of all Liens (other than Permitted Liens and Liens otherwise permitted by the Credit Documents), or a valid leasehold interest to, all material property and assets (tangible and intangible) used by the Companies in the operation of their businesses. The Companies own or have the valid right to use all of those assets (personal, tangible and intangible) used in connection with the ownership and operation of their respective businesses during the twelve months prior to the date hereof and will enable Transferees to own and operate the Companies' respective businesses in a manner consistent, in all material respects, with the manner in which they were operated by and conducted by the Companies prior to and as of the date hereof.
Sufficiency of Assets
 
2.10 . TECO hereby confirms that none of the Senior Executives listed on have any Knowledge of any fact or circumstance that would give rise to a breach of any such representation or warranty of TECO set forth in this Article II.
Senior Executives' Knowledge of Breach
Schedule 2.10
 
 
Each Transferee hereby makes the following representations and warranties as of the date hereof:
 
3.1 . Such Transferee is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware.
Organization
 
3.2 . Such Transferee has the requisite limited liability company power, capacity and authority to, and has taken all limited liability company action necessary on its part to, execute and deliver this Agreement, to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and to perform all of its obligations hereunder, and no other proceedings on the part of such Transferee are necessary to authorize the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby. This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by such Transferee and is a valid and binding obligation of such Transferee, enforceable against such Transferee in accordance with its terms, except as the enforceability thereof may be limited by (a) applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, moratorium, reorganization or similar laws in effect which affect the enforcement of creditors rights generally or (b) general principles of equity, whether considered in a proceeding at law or in equity.
Authorization
 
3.3 . None of the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement, the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, or compliance with any of the provisions hereof or thereof by such Transferee will result in (a) a violation of or a conflict with any provision of the Transferee Organizational Documents or (b) a violation by such Transferee of any applicable Law.
No Conflict or Violation
 
 
4.1 . All representations and warranties of the parties contained in this Agreement shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement until the date that is eighteen (18) months after the date of this Agreement (the "Survival Period"). The parties agree that no claims or causes of action may be brought against TECO, on the one hand, or the Transferees, on the other hand, based upon, directly or indirectly, any of the representations or warranties of the parties contained in this Agreement after the Survival Period or any termination of this Agreement. The parties expressly acknowledge and agree that the provisions of this Section 4.1 are intended to shorten the statute of limitations with respect to the breach by either party of any of its representations and warranties set forth in this Agreement.
Survival Period
 
4.2 .Subject to the terms, conditions and limitations set forth in this Article IV, from and after the date of this Agreement:
Indemnification
 
(a) TECO shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless the Transferees from and against any actual out-of-pocket costs or expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees), judgments, fines, claims and damages (collectively, "Losses") that are imposed on the Transferees arising out of (i) a breach of any representation or warranty set forth in Article II hereof, (ii) any privileges tax or so-called "speculative builder tax" imposed on or attempted to be imposed on the transfer of the Gila River partnership interests or the Gila River Facility to the Transferees, and (iii) any shareholder class action lawsuit filed against TECO that specifically relates to TECO's public disclosures with regard to its investments in the Projects, including, but not limited to, the lawsuits listed on .
Schedule 4.2(a)
 
(b) The Transferees shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless TECO from and against any actual Losses that are imposed on TECO arising out of a breach of any representation or warranty set forth in Article III hereof.
 
4.3 . All claims for indemnification by any party entitled to indemnification under Article IV (an "Indemnified Party") based on or arising from a third party claim shall be asserted and resolved as set forth in this Section 4.3. In the event that any claim or demand by a third party for which a party (the "Indemnifying Party") may be required to indemnify the Indemnified Party hereunder (a "Claim") is asserted against or sought to be collected from any Indemnified Party by a third party, such Indemnified Party shall as promptly as practicable notify the Indemnifying Party in writing of such Claim and the amount or the estimated amount thereof to the extent then feasible as well as the basis, in reasonable detail, of why the Indemnified Party believes that it is entitled to indemnification hereunder (the "Claim Notice"). The failure on the part of the Indemnified Party to give any such Claim Notice in a reasonably prompt manner shall not relieve the Indemnifying Party of any indemnification obligation hereunder except to the extent that the Indemnifying Party is prejudiced thereby. The Indemnifying Party shall have 30 days from delivery of the Claim Notice (the "Notice Period") to notify the Indemnified Party whether or not the Indemnifying Party acknowledges its obligations under this Article IV and elects to defend the Indemnified Party against such Claim; and prior to such time as it has been notified by the Indemnifying Party as to its intention, the Indemnified Party shall take all reasonable actions to preserve its defenses. All costs and expenses incurred by the Indemnifying Party in defending such Claim shall be a liability of, and shall be paid by, the Indemnifying Party; , , that the amount of such costs and expenses shall be a liability of the Indemnifying Party hereunder but shall not be subject to the limitations set forth in Section 4.4 hereof. In the event that the Indemnifying Party notifies the Indemnified Party within the Notice Period that it desires to defend the Indemnified Party against such Claim, the Indemnifying Party shall have the right to defend the Indemnified Party by appropriate proceedings and shall have the sole power to direct and control such defense. If any Indemnified Party desires to participate in any such defense it may do so at its sole cost and expense. The Indemnified Party shall not settle, admit or in any other way materially prejudice a Claim for which it is indemnified by the Indemnifying Party without the written consent of the Indemnifying Party. The Indemnifying Party may, with the consent of the Indemnified Party (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld), settle or compromise any action or consent to the entry of any judgment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Indemnified Party shall have
Indemnification Procedures
provided
however
 
the sole right to defend, settle or compromise any Claim with respect to which it has agreed in writing to waive its right to indemnification pursuant to this Agreement. If the Indemnifying Party elects not to defend the Indemnified Party against such Claim, then the Indemnified Party shall defend such Claim by appropriate proceedings and shall control the defense of such Claim, and in such case may, without the consent of the Indemnifying Party (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld) settle or compromise such action or consent to the entry of any judgment. The amount required to be paid in respect of any such Claim, or, if the same be contested by the Indemnified Party, then that portion thereof as to which such defense is unsuccessful (and the reasonable costs and expenses pertaining to such defense) shall be the liability of the Indemnifying Party hereunder, subject to the limitations set forth in Section 4.4. The Indemnified Party will give the Indemnifying Party and its counsel reasonable access to the personnel, business records and other documents within the possession of the Indemnified Party or its Affiliates, and shall permit them to consult with the counsel and other advisors of the Indemnified Party. The Indemnified Party, if requested by the Indemnifying Party, shall cooperate and assist in the defense of all such Claims at the expense of the Indemnifying Party. Notwithstanding anything in this Section 4.3 to the contrary, any indemnification claims made pursuant to Section 4.2(a)(ii) hereof shall be paid within five (5) business days of the receipt by TECO of written documentation to the reasonable satisfaction of TECO evidencing the payment by the Transferees or the Banks of any privileges tax or so-called "speculative builder tax" relating to the transfer of the Gila River Partnership Interests or the Gila River Facility for a period prior to the date of this Agreement. Any such indemnification payment made pursuant to Section 4.2(a)(ii) or the immediately preceding sentence of this Section 4.3 shall not be subject to the limitations of liability pursuant to Section 4.4(b) hereof.
 
4.4 .
Limitation of Liability
 
(a) Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding (other than the last two sentences of Section 4.3), the liability of the Indemnifying Party to indemnify the Indemnified Party against any Losses shall be limited to claims for indemnification with respect to which the Indemnified Party has given to the Indemnifying Party written notice thereof at or prior to the applicable survival date as set forth in Section 4.1, except for indemnification claims made pursuant to Section 4.2(a)(ii) and (iii) hereof which shall not be subject to such limitation. The written notice referred to in the previous sentence must state the basis of the claim for indemnification with reasonable specificity, including the Section or Sections of this Agreement alleged to have been breached.
 
(b) In no event shall TECO, on the one hand, or the Transferees, on the other hand, be liable for indemnification pursuant to Section 4.2(a)(i) unless and until the aggregate of all Losses which are incurred or suffered by the party seeking indemnification exceeds ONE MILLION DOLLARS ($1,000,000) (the "Threshold Amount"), in which case such party shall only be entitled to indemnification for such Losses in excess of the Threshold Amount; provided, however, that:
 
(i) Except as provided in Section 4.4(d), TECO shall not be required to make payments for indemnification pursuant to Section 4.2(a)(i) in an aggregate amount in excess of TEN MILLION DOLLARS ($10,000,000); and
 
(ii) Transferees shall not be required to make payments for indemnification pursuant to Section 4.2(b) in an aggregate amount in excess of TEN MILLION DOLLARS ($10,000,000).
 
(c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, neither party shall be liable for any Losses to the extent that the Losses suffered by an Indemnified Party result from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnified Party or any of its officers, employees, agents or representatives, or the failure to mitigate Losses as required by applicable law.
 
(d) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, any payments made by TECO for Losses actually incurred by the Transferees, resulting from (i) a breach of the representations and warranties contained in Section 2.8 (Full Disclosure), which claim of breach is based upon a Section 2.8 Untrue Statement, a Section 2.8 Necessary Fact, or a Section 2.8 Fact of which (x) as to a Section 2.8 Necessary Fact, or a Section 2.8 Fact any of the Senior Executives had Knowledge as of the date hereof or (y) as to a Section 2.8 Untrue Statement any of the Senior Executives had Knowledge that such statement was untrue as of the date hereof or (ii) breaches of representations and warranties contained in Section 2.6 (Employees and Employee Benefits), shall not be subject to the limitations of liability set forth in Section 4.4(b).
 
(e) In calculating amounts payable to an Indemnified Party, the amount of the indemnified Losses shall be computed net of (i) payments that the Indemnified Party is entitled to receive under any insurance policy with respect to such Losses, or (ii) any prior or subsequent recovery by the Indemnified Party from any Person with respect to such Losses; that an Indemnified Party shall be entitled to apply all such amounts under clauses (i) and (ii) first to the payment of Losses that are not paid to, or that are payable by, the Indemnified Party under this Agreement.
provided
 
4.5 .
Other Matters
 
(a) Other than as expressly set forth herein, if the Closing shall occur, the indemnification provisions of this Article IV shall be the sole and exclusive remedy of TECO, on the one hand, and the Transferees, on the other hand, for any breach of any representations or warranties made by the other party in this Agreement and each party hereby waives all statutory, common law and other claims with respect thereto, other than claims for indemnification pursuant to this Article IV.
 
(b) There shall be no indemnification by TECO or Transferees for any special, incidental, punitive or consequential damages (except to the extent incurred by an Indemnified Party with respect to a third party Claim).
 
(c) Upon making any payment to an Indemnified Party for any indemnification claim pursuant to this Article IV, and after the Indemnified Party has first recovered any Losses not paid or payable by the Indemnifying Party under this Agreement, the Indemnifying Party shall be subrogated, to the extent of such payment, to any rights which the Indemnified Party or its Affiliates may have against any other Persons with respect to the subject
 
matter underlying such indemnification claim and the Indemnified Party shall take such actions as the Indemnifying Party may reasonably require to perfect such subrogation or to pursue such rights against such other Persons as the Indemnified Party or its Affiliates may have.
 
 
5.1 . None of this Agreement or any of the rights or obligations hereunder may be assigned by TECO without the prior written consent of the Transferees. TECO agrees to the assignment by the Transferees of their respective rights pursuant to this Agreement at any time to any Person, or to any lender as collateral security, and TECO and TECO agrees to execute any and all appropriate agreements or instruments that the Transferees or the Agent may reasonably request in order to effect or evidence such assignment or consent, provided that no such assignment or agreement imposes any additional material obligations on TECO or its or their Affiliates (other than the Companies), or results in any material changes to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Assignment
 
5.2 . All notices, consents, waivers, requests, demands and other communications which are required or may be given under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when received if personally delivered; if transmitted by facsimile, upon receipt of telephonic or electronic confirmation; the day after it is sent, if sent for next day delivery to a domestic address by recognized overnight delivery service (, Federal Express); and upon receipt, if sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested. In each case notice shall be sent to:
Notices
e.g.
 
If to TECO,
 
TECO Energy, Inc.
702 North Tampa Street
Tampa, Florida 33602
Attention: General Counsel
Tel: (813) 228-4111
Fax:(813)228-4811
 
With a copy to:
 
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP
Four Times Square
New York, New York 10036
Attention: Sheldon S. Adler, Esq.
Tel: (212) 735-3000
Fax: (212) 735-2000
 
If to a Transferee after the Closing, addressed to such Transferee c/o:
 
Entegra Power Group LLC
702 North Franklin Street
Tampa, Florida 33602
Attention: Jerry Coffey
Tel: (813) 228-4433
Fax: (813) 228-4300
 
With a copy to:
 
Citigroup Global Markets
Global Corporate & Investment Bank
388 Greenwich Street, 21st Floor
New York, New York 10013
Attention: Charles E. Tauber
Tel: (212) 816-7495
Fax: (212) 816-7738
 
and with copies to:
 
Dewey Ballantine LLP
1301 Avenue Americas
New York, New York 10019
Attention: Richard Shutran
Tel: (212) 259-8000
Fax: (212) 259-6333
 
Latham & Watkins LLP
Sears Tower, Suite 5800
233 South Wacker Drive
Chicago, Illinois 60606
Attention: Ronald W. Hanson
Tel: (312) 876-7700
Fax: (312) 993-9767
 
or to such other place and with such other copies as either party may designate as to itself by written notice to the others.
 
5.3 . This Agreement shall be construed and interpreted and the rights of the parties determined in accordance with the internal laws of the State of New York without giving effect to any choice or conflict of law provision or rule (whether of the State of New York or any other jurisdiction) that would cause the application of the laws of any jurisdiction other than the State of New York, other than Sections 5-1401 and 5-1402 of the General Obligations law of the State of New York. TECO and each Transferee irrevocably consents to the service of any and all process in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement by the registered or certified mailing of copies of such process to such party at the addresses specified in Section 4.2. Each of the parties hereto consents and
Choice of Law; Service of Process; Venue
 
voluntarily submits to personal jurisdiction in the State of New York and in the courts in such state located in New York County and the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York in any proceedings arising out of or relating to this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby and agrees that all claims in respect of any such proceeding may be heard and determined in any such court. Each party agrees that any action instituted against another party with respect to this Agreement will be instituted exclusively in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York or, if such Court does not have jurisdiction to adjudicate such action, in the courts of New York located in New York County. Each party hereto irrevocably and unconditionally waives and agrees not to plead, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any objection that they may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue or the convenience of the forum of any action with respect to this Agreement in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York and the courts of the State of New York located in New York County. Each party agrees that a final judgment, subject to appeal rights, in any proceeding so brought shall be conclusive and may be enforced by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law or in equity. Each of the parties hereto irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any and all right to trial by jury in any legal proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby.
 
5.4 . This Agreement shall become effective on the parties hereto when all parties hereto have executed and delivered this Agreement. Except as set forth in the prior sentence, no amendment, supplement, modification or waiver of this Agreement shall be binding unless executed in writing by all of the parties hereto indicating their intention to amend this Agreement. Neither the failure nor any delay by any party in exercising any right, power or privilege under this Agreement will operate as a waiver of any right, power or privilege under this Agreement, and no waiver of any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed or shall constitute a waiver of any other provision hereof (whether or not similar), nor shall such waiver constitute a continuing waiver unless otherwise expressly provided in such waiver in writing. In addition, no notice to or demand on one party will be deemed a waiver of any obligation of such party or of the right of the party giving such notice or demand to take further action without notice or demand as provided in this Agreement.
Effectiveness; Entire Agreement; Amendments and Waivers
 
5.5 . This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Multiple Counterparts
 
5.6 . In the event that any one or more of the provisions contained in this Agreement or in any other instrument referred to herein, shall, for any reason, be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, then to the maximum extent permitted by law, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect any other provision of this Agreement or any other such instrument.
Invalidity
 
5.7 . The titles, captions or headings of the Articles and Sections herein are inserted for convenience of reference only and are not intended to be a part of or to affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement. Unless otherwise specified, all references contained in this Agreement to dollars or "$" will mean United States Dollars.
Titles; Currency; Schedules
 
5.8 . Each party has been represented by counsel of its choice in negotiating this Agreement. This Agreement shall therefore be deemed to have been negotiated and prepared at the joint request, direction and construction of the parties, at arm's length, with the advice and participation of counsel, and will be interpreted in accordance with its terms without favor to any party.
Representation of Counsel; Mutual Negotiation
 
5.9 . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure solely to the benefit of each party hereto and any of their respective assigns pursuant to Section 5.1 hereto. Except for Administrative Agents, which are expressly intended to be third party beneficiaries of this Agreement, nothing in this Agreement, express or implied, is intended to or shall confer upon any other person any legal or equitable right, benefit or remedy of any nature whatsoever under or by reason of this Agreement, including by way of subrogation.
No Third Party Beneficiaries
 
5.10 . With regard to all dates and time periods set forth or referred to in this Agreement, time is of the essence.
Time of Essence
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed on their respective behalf, by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, all as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 


