FILE:TE/TE-8K-20050818162610.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
 
Item 2.01: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
 
On Aug. 16, 2005, TECO Energy, Inc.'s indirect subsidiary, TPS Dell, LLC, completed the previously announced sale of the Dell Power Station, to Associated Electric Cooperative, Inc., a Missouri electric cooperative, for $75 million. TECO Energy estimates the third quarter impact to net income to be a gain of approximately $5 to $8 million, including a $15 million after-tax gain on the sale ($23 million pretax), offset by certain contract termination costs as a result of the disposition. The final proceeds, net of retained liabilities, are expected to be approximately $65 million. The Dell Power Station is a partially constructed 599 megawatt, natural gas-fired, combined-cycle electric generating facility located in Dell, Arkansas.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
The following unaudited pro forma consolidated balance sheet reflects the disposition of the Dell power station as if it had occurred on Jun. 30, 2005. The accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statement of income for the six months ended Jun. 30, 2005 and the year ended Dec. 31, 2004 reflects the disposition of the Dell power station as if the sale had occurred on Jan. 1, 2004. The pro forma financial information does not purport to represent what TECO Energy, Inc.'s consolidated results would have been if the disposition had in fact occurred on these dates, nor does it purport to indicate the future consolidated financial position or future consolidated results of operations of TECO Energy. The pro forma adjustments are based on the operating results and related charges for the Dell power station recorded for the periods.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
[TECO Energy, Inc. Logo]
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
TECO Energy subsidiary completes sale of Dell Power Station
 
TECO Energy, Inc. (NYSE: TE) announced today its indirect subsidiary, TPS Dell, LLC, has completed the previously announced sale of the Dell Power Station, to Associated Electric Cooperative, Inc., a Missouri electric cooperative, for $75 million. The final proceeds, net of retained liabilities, are expected to be in a range of approximately $65 to $70 million. The Dell Power Station is a partially constructed 599-megawatt, natural gas-fired, combined-cycle electric generating facility located in Dell, Arkansas.
Tampa, Florida  August 16, 2005 
 
TECO Energy Chairman and CEO Sherrill Hudson said, "TECO Energy's involvement in the merchant power market is virtually ended. The cash from this sale will help us meet our objectives of retiring the 2007 debt maturities and having additional cash for investing in our five core businesses."
 
TECO Energy, Inc. (NYSE: TE) is an integrated energy-related holding company with regulated utility businesses, complemented by a family of unregulated businesses. Its principal subsidiary, , is a regulated utility with both electric and gas divisions ( and ). Other subsidiaries are engaged in waterborne transportation, coal and synthetic fuel production and electric generation and distribution in Guatemala.
Tampa Electric Company
Tampa Electric
Peoples Gas System
 
 


