FILE:TE/TE-8K-20060130210844.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 and Exhibit 99.1 are being jointly furnished by TECO Energy, Inc. and, as to information pertaining to its quarter and year-end results, its wholly-owned subsidiary, Tampa Electric Company. All other items are being filed by TECO Energy, Inc. only.
 
Section 1  Registrant's Business and Operations
 
Item 1.01: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On January 25, 2006, the Board of Directors TECO Energy, Inc. (the "Company"), at the recommendation of the Compensation Committee (the "Committee"), modified the compensation program for non-management directors. Under the modified program, non-management directors will receive an annual cash retainer of $30,000 and committee meeting fees of $1,500. The chair of the Audit Committee will be paid an additional annual retainer of $7,500. The meeting attendance fee of $750 for each Company and Tampa Electric Company Board meeting and the other committee chair annual retainers of $5,000 remain the same as under the previous compensation arrangements. Directors will no longer receive an initial or annual stock option grant, but will receive an annual grant of 2,500 shares of restricted stock which vests in three equal annual installments. A share ownership guideline has been instituted requiring non-management directors to own, within five years of their election or the adoption of the guideline, an amount of TECO Energy, Inc. common stock with a value of five times their annual retainer.
 
On January 25, 2006, the Committee and the Board of Directors of the Company approved the payment of annual incentive awards to executive officers in accordance with the Company's Annual Incentive Compensation Plan ("Annual Incentive Plan"). The awards were based on the target incentive award percentages and performance factors described in the Company's Current Reports on Form 8-K dated January 26, 2005 and April 29, 2005, with adjustments, both positive and negative, made by the Committee to non- GAAP financial results in the performance factors for purposes of calculating incentive awards in order to better relate awards to management performance. The adjustments relate to the accounting treatment of a portion of Tampa Electric's storm damage reserve, under-recovery for fuel costs in 2005 that have been approved for recovery in 2006, and the measurement of cash repatriated from TECO Guatemala. In addition to the adjustments, the Committee also determined to pay half of the value of the Company's Chief Executive Officer's award in the form of stock under the Company's 2004 Equity Incentive Plan.
 
On January 25, 2006, the Board of Directors, at the recommendation of the Committee, approved amendments to the executive officer change-in-control severance agreements, standardizing the material terms and conditions of such agreements. The amendments remove a provision contained in certain agreements that would have provided severance to be payable if the officer terminated his or her employment for any reason during the 13th month following a change in control. Under the amended agreements, severance is payable to an executive officer only in the event that officer's employment is terminated by the Company without cause or by that officer for good reason in contemplation of or following a change in control. The amendments approved by the Board also make the agreement with the Company's Chief Executive Officer consistent with the agreements with the Company's other executive officers, such that severance payable upon the circumstances described above would consist of (a) a lump sum severance payment equal to three times (instead of one times) annual salary and bonus, (b) a cash payment equal to the additional retirement benefit which would have been earned under the Company's retirement plans if employment had continued for three years (instead of one year) following the date of termination, and (c) participation in the Company's life, disability, accident and health insurance plans for a three-year period (instead of a one-year period) except to the extent these benefits are provided by a subsequent employer.
 
Section 2  Financial Information
 
Item 2.02: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
See the Press Release dated January 31, 2006, furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference, reporting on TECO Energy, Inc.'s financial results for the periods ended December 31, 2005.
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
On January 25, 2006, James O. Welch, Jr. delivered a letter of resignation to the Board of Directors of the Company, such resignation to be effective as of the Company's Annual Meeting of Shareholders, April 26, 2006. Mr. Welch's resignation following one year after his election at the 2005 Annual Meeting of Shareholders was contemplated at the time of his election, as indicated in the Proxy Statement delivered to shareholders in connection with that meeting. Mr. Welch's letter of resignation confirmed that his departure from the Board is not due to any disagreement with management or any other Board member.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c)    Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
 TECO Energy, Inc. (NYSE:TE) today reported fourth quarter net income of $52.0 million or $0.25 per share, compared to a loss of $487.6 million or $2.44 per share in the fourth quarter of 2004. The number of common shares outstanding was 4% higher in the fourth quarter of 2005 than for the same period in 2004, primarily due to the shares issued in conjunction with the final settlement of the 9.5% adjustable conversion-rate equity security units completed in January 2005.
TAMPA, January 31, 2006
 
Fourth quarter net income and earnings per share from continuing operations were $52.6 and $0.25, respectively, compared to a loss of $351.1 million and a per share loss of $1.76 in the same period in 2004. Fourth quarter results from continuing operations, excluding charges and gains (non-GAAP), were $50.3 million, compared to $37.3 million in the same period in 2004 (see the results reconciliation table, Table 1).
 
The full-year 2005 net income and earnings per share were $274.5 million and $1.33, respectively, compared to a loss of $552.0 million and a per share loss of $2.87 in 2004. Shares outstanding for 2005 were 7% higher than in 2004.
 
Full-year 2005 net income and earnings per share from continuing operations were $211.0 million and $1.02, respectively, compared to a loss of $355.5 million and a per share loss of $1.85 for 2004. Full-year 2005 results from continuing operations, excluding charges and gains (non-GAAP), were $254.7 million, compared to $153.1 million in 2004 (see the results reconciliation table, Table 1).
 
TECO Energy Chairman and CEO Sherrill Hudson said, "I am very pleased with the strong results that TECO Energy is reporting today. These results reflect the soundness of our business strategy and the success of our five core businesses in implementing it. Our team has achieved our goal of making 2005 a baseline year against which to measure future TECO Energy performance. We are looking forward to delivering improved results in 2006."
 
Charges and Gains
 
In fourth quarter 2005, TECO Transport's results included $9.7 million of after-tax direct costs for Hurricane Katrina related restoration and reclamation efforts at TECO Bulk Terminal and TECO Barge Line, which were more than offset by after-tax insurance recoveries of $13.7 million related to TECO Bulk Terminal. TECO Energy's fourth quarter results also included a $1.7 million after-tax charge for unamortized debt issuance costs related to the redemption of $100 million of the 8.5% retail trust preferred securities (TRuPs) in December (see the results reconciliation table, Table 1).
 
In addition to the fourth quarter charges, net income in 2005 included $2.9 million after-tax hurricane costs in the third quarter at TECO Transport, a $45.0 million after-tax debt-extinguishment charge associated with the June redemption of $380 million of 10.5% notes and a $1.9 million benefit related to closing the sale of the Dell Power Station in August 2005, which included an increase in reserves for remaining contractual liabilities associated with the Dell and McAdams power stations.
 
Discontinued operations included the $76.5 million after-tax gain upon the final transfer of the Union and Gila River merchant power projects to the lenders effective May 31, 2005. This gain represented the reversal of the accumulated unfunded operating losses recorded against equity for the period from December 2003, the date the company decided to exit the projects, through the effective date of the transfer to the lending group (see the results reconciliation table, Table 1).
 
Non-GAAP Results
 
Fourth quarter non-GAAP results from continuing operations, which exclude the effects of gains and charges identified in Table 1, were $50.3 million, compared to $37.3 million in 2004. Full-year non-GAAP results from continuing operations, which exclude the effects of gains and charges identified in Table 1, were $254.7 million, compared to $153.1 million in 2004.
 
For a discussion regarding this presentation of non-GAAP results and management's use of this information, please see the section later in this release.
Non-GAAP Presentation
 
Segment Reporting
 
Effective with first quarter 2005 results, TECO Energy revised its segment reporting to separately report the results of TECO Guatemala, which includes the results for the San Jos and Alborada power stations and the 24% ownership interest in EEGSA, Guatemala's largest distribution utility. The results for these operations were previously reported in the "Other unregulated" segment. Following the sales of the larger energy services businesses of TECO Solutions, which were previously reported in the "Other unregulated" segment, the remaining small operations of TECO Solutions are now reported in the Parent/other results. As a result of the merchant power dispositions, the TWG Merchant segment includes only the results for the uncompleted McAdams Power Station, the Dell Power Station through the closing of its sale in August 2005 and the costs associated with the TWG Merchant parent. Prior periods also included the results for the ownership interest in the Texas Independent Energy (TIE) projects in the TWG Merchant segment.
 
Results for the unregulated business segments include internally allocated interest expense. Interest expense is not allocated to discontinued operations and instead remains at the TECO Energy parent level.
 
Results Reconciliation  Table 1
 
 
The table below (Table 2) includes TECO Energy segment information on a GAAP basis, which includes all charges and gains for the periods.
 
Segment Information  Table 2
 
 
Operating Company Results:
 
Tampa Electric
 
Tampa Electric's retail energy sales increased 1.1% and 2.6% for the fourth quarter and full-year periods, respectively, as strong customer growth offset mild weather. Total heating and cooling degree-days for the Tampa area in the quarter were 1% below normal but 1% above 2004 levels. Full-year heating and cooling degree-days for the Tampa area were 5% below normal for 2005 but only 1% below 2004 levels.
 
Net income for the fourth quarter was $23.6 million, compared with $26.8 million for the same period in 2004. Results for the quarter reflect 3.2% average customer growth and total degree days below normal but slightly above 2004. Higher depreciation and interest expense offset higher base revenues in the fourth quarter.
 
Full-year net income was $147.1 million, compared to $146.0 million in 2004. Results in 2005 reflect 2.6% average customer growth and total degree days below normal and below 2004. Higher revenues in 2005 were offset by higher interest, depreciation and operations and maintenance expenses for the year, resulting in slightly higher net income for the year.
 
Peoples Gas
 
Peoples Gas System reported net income of $6.7 million for the quarter, compared to $6.0 million in the same period in 2004, which included a $0.4 million after-tax restructuring charge. Quarterly results reflected customer growth of 2.5% and strong off-system sales, partially offset by increased operations and maintenance costs and lower volumes for the low-margin transportation service for electric power generators and industrial customers due to higher gas prices. Statewide heating degree-days were significantly below normal for the quarter. Full-year net income was $29.6 million, compared with $27.7 million for the same period in 2004, including the restructuring
 
charge. Customer growth of 3.6%, increased sales to residential and commercial customers and increased off-system sales were partially offset by higher operations and maintenance expenses for the full year. In both the quarter and full-year periods, strong sales to commercial customers reflected growth in the Florida economy and high levels of tourism, which enhance commercial sales to hotels and restaurants, while sales of low-margin transportation service for interruptible customers declined.
 
TECO Coal
 
TECO Coal achieved fourth quarter net income of $24.9 million on total sales of 2.5 million tons, which includes synfuel, compared to $15.7 million on sales of 2.1 million tons in the same period in 2004, which included a $7.0 million benefit from a tax credit true-up. Fourth quarter tonnage includes 1.5 million tons of synthetic fuel sales, in line with 2004 synfuel production. Compared to the fourth quarter in 2004, results reflect a 51% higher average net selling price per ton, which excludes transportation allowances, and a 14% increase in the average cash cost of sales, excluding synfuel costs. Higher production costs reflect increased contract miner costs and continued higher fuel prices, which affect the cost of diesel fuel and explosives. The fourth quarter results in 2005 also included a $2.8 million after-tax mark-to-market loss on hedges placed to protect the company's synfuel benefits against rising oil prices. Sales volumes increased in the fourth quarter due to a new high-wall miner project entering service in late September, more favorable geological conditions at two mines and increased productivity at a third.
 
Full-year net income in 2005 was $115.4 million, driven by higher selling prices and margins, on total sales of 9.7 million tons, compared to $61.3 million for the same period in 2004, which included the $7.0 million benefit from a tax credit true-up, on sales of 9.1 million tons. Full-year tonnage includes 6.4 million tons of synthetic fuel sales in 2005, compared to 6.3 million tons in the 2004 period. Results for the full-year period reflect an average net selling price per ton, which excludes transportation allowances, almost 48% higher than in 2004; average cash cost of sales, excluding synfuel costs, almost 20% higher than in 2004; and increased third-party ownership in the synfuel production facilities. The cash cost of sales was driven by higher prices for diesel fuel, labor and steel products. Full-year results also included a $1.6 million after-tax benefit from the 2004 synfuel tax credit rate, which was $1.13 per million Btu on an actual basis versus the $1.12 per million Btu estimated in 2004, and a $2.4 million first quarter negative adjustment to deferred tax assets due to a reduction in the Kentucky state income tax rate. The year-end mark-to-market position on the 2005 and 2006 oil price hedges resulted in no gain or loss for the year.
 
TECO Synfuel Holdings, LLC had previously sold 90% of its membership interest to two third parties, along with associated percentage rights to benefits in the business that adjust from time to time. Allocation of the benefits was temporarily increased 8% in the first and second quarters such that 98% of the benefits went to the third parties. In July 2005, a permanent increase in the third party ownership of the synfuel facilities of 8% was achieved through the sale of this interest to a new participant. Under these third-party ownership transactions, TECO Coal is paid to provide feedstock, operate the synthetic fuel production facilities and sell the output; the purchasers have the risks and rewards of ownership and are allocated 98% of the tax credits and operating costs.
 
TECO Transport
 
TECO Transport recorded fourth quarter net income of $9.9 million, compared to $6.6 million in the same period in 2004. TECO Transport's non-GAAP fourth quarter results were $5.9 million, compared to $6.4 million in 2004. Non-GAAP results in 2005 excluded the $9.7 million after-tax direct costs associated with the restoration and recovery efforts for Hurricane Katrina and the $13.7 million after-tax benefit for insurance recovery related to the hurricane restoration costs at TECO Bulk Terminal (see Table 1). Non-GAAP results in 2004 excluded a $0.2 million after-tax benefit related to a valuation adjustment on oceangoing equipment. Fourth quarter results in 2005 reflect improved operating efficiencies at TECO Barge Line, higher river barge rates and increased northbound river shipments offset by higher non-hurricane-related repair expenses, and lower third-party and Tampa Electric volumes at the terminal in Louisiana due to disruptions from Hurricane Katrina. Higher fuel costs were partially offset by a $0.6 million after-tax benefit from fuel hedges. TECO Transport estimates that ongoing business interruptions of the river barge and oceangoing operations due to operational disruptions at TECO Bulk Terminal as a result of Hurricane Katrina reduced fourth quarter net income by about $1.7 million.
 
TECO Transport recorded full-year net income of $20.2 million, compared to $10.2 million in the same period in 2004. Non-GAAP results in 2005 were $19.1 million, which excluded direct hurricane costs and insurance recovery, compared to $11.9 million in 2004, which excluded management restructuring costs and valuation adjustments on oceangoing equipment (see Table 1). Full-year results were positively affected by the qualification of two oceangoing vessels for the benefits of tax law changes under the Jobs Creation Act, which reduces taxes on income earned by U.S. flag vessels engaged in full-time international trade. Full-year results were also affected by the same factors as in the fourth quarter as well as increased movements of export coal, petroleum coke and other products through TECO Bulk Terminal early in 2005. Higher fuel costs were partially offset by a $3.0 million after-tax benefit from fuel hedges. In 2005, TECO Transport's net income was reduced by an estimated $4.9 million due to the ongoing business interruptions associated with operations at TECO Bulk Terminal as a result of Hurricane Katrina.
 
TECO Transport expects to incur additional repair and restoration costs and insurance recovery through early 2006, related to the effects of Hurricane Katrina (see the Outlook section).
 
TECO Guatemala
 
TECO Guatemala reported fourth quarter net income of $7.0 million in 2005, compared to a loss of $3.6 million in the 2004 period, which included a $12.8 million after-tax charge associated with unused steam turbines and a $1.9 million benefit associated with taxes on cash repatriated in 2004. The fourth quarter 2004 steam turbine write-off was not directly related to the Guatemalan operation; it related to turbines purchased in anticipation of a non-merchant project for TWG that was terminated. The 2005 results reflect higher energy sales from the generating facilities, customer growth and higher energy sales at EEGSA and favorable foreign currency exchange rates, offset by higher tax rates. Full-year net income was $40.4 million in 2005, compared to $5.7 million in 2004, which included a $6.7 million after-tax charge related to debt
 
extinguishment; $17.4 million of taxes on repatriated cash; and a $12.8 million after-tax write-off of unused steam turbines (see Table 1). The 2005 results reflect higher operations and maintenance expenses early in the year and higher tax rates partially offset by energy sales and customer growth at EEGSA and higher capacity revenues for the power plants.
 
TWG Merchant
 
In 2005, TWG Merchant's fourth-quarter results were break-even, compared to a loss of $391.4 million for the same period in 2004, which included a $381.7 million valuation adjustment for the uncompleted Dell and McAdams power stations. Excluding charges and gains, the improvement in 2005 is primarily the result of the discontinuation of interest allocation to the McAdams Power Station and the sale of the Dell Power Station in August. The full-year net loss was $14.6 million in 2005, compared to a loss of $534.1 million for the same period in 2004. The full-year non-GAAP loss in 2005, which excluded the $1.9 million net benefit from the sale of the Dell Power Station and the recognition of additional liabilities relating to both the Dell and McAdams power stations, was $16.5 million (see Table 1). Results in 2004 included the asset write-off and the operating losses from the ownership interest in the TIE projects, which was sold in July 2004, as well as the Dell and McAdams valuation adjustments (see Table 1).
 
Parent / Other
 
The cost for Parent/other in the fourth quarter was $19.5 million, compared to a cost of $11.2 million in the same period in 2004. Non-GAAP fourth quarter results in 2005 were a cost of $17.8 million, excluding the $1.7 million debt extinguishment charge associated with the retirement of $100 million of the TRuPs securities in December, compared to a cost of $8.2 million in 2004, which excluded the $2.7 million corporate restructuring charge at the parent and the $0.3 million benefit from the early exchange of the equity security units (see Table 1). Although total parent interest expense declined $11.0 million in the 2005 quarter due to the retirement of the trust preferred debt associated with the conversion of the equity security units and the retirement of the 10.5% notes in June 2005, interest expense at the parent reflects the impact of no longer allocating interest to TWG Merchant as of the third quarter.
 
In 2005, the full-year cost was $127.1 million compared to a cost of $72.3 million in 2004. In 2005, the full-year non-GAAP results were a cost of $80.4 million, excluding the second and fourth quarter TECO Energy debt extinguishment charges, compared to a non-GAAP cost of $76.8 million in the same period in 2004, which excluded the charges and gains shown in Table 1. The drivers for the higher costs were higher unallocated interest costs offset by lower interest expense due to the debt retirements accomplished in 2005. Interest allocated to the non-regulated businesses was $36.2 million in 2005, compared to $76.8 million in 2004. Total parent interest expense declined $37.4 million in 2005 due to the retirement of the trust preferred debt associated with the conversion of the equity security units and the retirement of the 10.5% notes in June 2005.
 
Discontinued Operations
 
The net loss from discontinued operations for the 2005 fourth quarter was $0.6 million, compared to a net loss of $136.5 million in the same period of 2004. Discontinued
 
operations in the quarter consisted primarily of true-up amounts from previously divested assets. In 2005, full-year net income from discontinued operations was $63.5 million, compared to a loss of $196.5 million in 2004. These results include the operating results from the Union and Gila River power stations through the end of May 2005 and the $76.5 million after-tax gain recorded upon the final disposition of the plants in the second quarter. Discontinued operations also include results for the Commonwealth Chesapeake Power Station until its sale in April 2005.
 
Cash and Liquidity
 
TECO Energy's consolidated cash and cash equivalents, excluding all restricted cash, totaled $345.7 million at Dec. 31, 2005. Restricted cash of $37.6 million includes $30.0 million held in escrow until the end of 2007 related to the sale of a 49 % interest in the synthetic coal production facilities. Cash at Dec. 31, 2005 excludes the San Jos and Alborada power stations' unrestricted cash balances of $15.7 million and restricted cash of $8.3 million, as these companies were deconsolidated due to the adoption of FIN 46R, effective Jan. 1, 2004.
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities,
 
In addition, at Dec. 31, 2005, aggregate availability under bank credit facilities was $445.7 million, net of letters of credit of $14.3 million outstanding under these facilities and $215 million drawn on Tampa Electric Company's credit facilities. At the end of the quarter, total liquidity, including cash plus credit facilities, was $791.4 million, which included $277.4 million at Tampa Electric Company, consisting of $260.0 million of undrawn credit facilities and $17.4 million of cash.
 
TECO Energy parent had total liquidity of $500.0 million at Dec. 31, 2005, consisting of $314.3 million of cash and availability of $185.7 million under its credit facility.
 
Consolidated cash flow from operations includes costs associated with synfuel production but excludes proceeds from the third-party synfuel investors, which are reported as cash from investing and financing activities. These proceeds totaled $51.4 million and $206.4 million for the fourth quarter and full-year periods, respectively. In addition, in the fourth quarter proceeds of $20 million were received reflecting the release of previously restricted cash associated with the amendment to the sale of the 49.5% ownership interest in TECO Coal's synthetic fuel production facilities.
 
2006 Outlook
 
TECO Energy estimates its 2006 per share results from continuing operations to be in a range of $1.25 to $1.35. This estimate excludes charges and gains that might occur and be treated as non-GAAP items, and assumes no reduction in proceeds from the sale of synfuel ownership interests due to oil prices above the estimated $60 per barrel threshold level that would reduce the value of the synfuel tax credits. This guidance range excludes the direct costs associated with Hurricane Katrina restoration and any insurance recoveries that might occur to offset these direct costs expected in 2006 for TECO Transport. These forecasted results are based on the company's current expectations and assumptions for the year, including those described below, which are subject to risks and uncertainties. If NYMEX oil prices average $62 per barrel for the calendar year the expected reduction in earnings would be $0.07 per share and at $67 per barrel the reduction in earnings would be $0.28 per share, assuming synfuel production continues for the full
Earnings:
 
year. Recently, the average NYMEX futures price for oil for calendar year 2006 has been approximately $67 per barrel. If oil prices were to remain at these levels for the full year, the benefits from the sale of the synfuel ownership interests would be reduced by approximately $0.28 per share and in cash proceeds of $110 million.
 
Tampa Electric expects continued strong customer growth of almost 2.5% and slightly higher energy sales growth, assuming normal weather. Operations and maintenance expense at Tampa Electric is expected to increase significantly above 2005's level due to spending on customer service enhancements, to meet growth, improvements in reliability and capacity factors of its coal fired units to mitigate the impact of high natural gas prices, and increased spending on the distribution system due to increased resources dedicated to it and lessons learned in recent hurricane seasons. The after-tax impact of the disallowance of Tampa Electric's recovery of a portion of its waterborne fuel transportation costs is expected to continue to be in the range of $9 million to $11 million for the full year. Peoples Gas expects customer growth of about 3.5% in 2006 and higher operations and maintenance costs primarily for employee related expenses.
 
TECO Coal expects improved results reflecting production in a range of 9.5 to 10 million tons and per ton net selling prices in the mid $50 area compared to about $49 in 2005. The cash cost of production is expected to increase 3% to 5% over the approximately $40 per ton level in 2005. The forecast assumes that TECO Coal will benefit from continued strong earnings and cash flow from the sale of 98% of the ownership of its synfuel facilities to third parties. These estimates of earnings and cash flow assume no reduction in synfuel tax credits due to limitations that could result from oil prices exceeding the average reference price for the full year. The company estimates that oil prices, as quoted on NYMEX, would have to average more than $60 per barrel for the 2006 calendar year to begin to phase out the benefits from synfuel.
 
If TECO Coal were to exercise its right to cease production of synfuel, it would produce and sell conventional coal in lieu of synfuel and not reduce the overall expected production and sale tonnage for the year, and the approximately $11 per ton incremental cost to produce synfuel would no longer be incurred. If coal is sold as conventional coal, it is expected to earn a pretax margin of about $8 per ton in 2006. The company has hedged $20 million of the risk related to 2006 synfuel cash benefits from oil prices above $65 per barrel.
 
TECO Transport anticipates continued robust river market pricing as a result of favorable balance in supply and demand for river barges throughout the industry. The company also expects its oceangoing operations to benefit from fewer shipyard days for the fleet than in 2005, and for three vessels to benefit from the tax law changes that reduce taxes on income earned by U.S. flag vessels in international trade, compared to two vessels benefiting in 2005. It forecasts continued good operating efficiencies for both the ocean-going and river barge operations, but expects TECO Bulk Terminal to continue to operate at reduced volumes through the first quarter until the major repairs for damage from Hurricane Katrina are completed.
 
TECO Guatemala expects to continue to provide strong earnings and cash flow and expects net income to be lower driven by a reversion to more normal tax rates. In 2005, TECO Guatemala benefited from the effects of an effective 5% tax rate as a result of a one-time, one-year opportunity made available as part of the Jobs Creation Act. The net income effect of this change in tax rates and other tax related items is expected to be in a range of $7 to $8 million. Results in 2006 are expected to be reduced by an additional $2 million due to a change in the calculation method for energy prices.
 
TECO Energy currently forecasts 2006 consolidated cash flow from operations in a range from $500 to $550 million and consolidated net cash generation in a range of $135 to $175 million after dividends. This forecast includes recovery in 2006 of approximately $70 million of 2005 net fuel and other clause under-recovery at Tampa Electric. Cash flow from operations includes the projected $65 million cost of producing synfuel for the full year but excludes the projected $205 million of synfuel investor proceeds reported as cash from investing and financing activities. This forecast assumes no reduction in proceeds that would occur if oil prices exceed the threshold level at which the synfuel tax credits would begin to be reduced. The forecast of consolidated net cash generation assumes estimated capital expenditures of approximately $450 million, net Tampa Electric borrowing of approximately $110 million, and the retirement of the remaining $100 million of TECO Energy TRuPs securities.
Cash Flow:
 
Based on the assumptions discussed above, 2006 net cash generation at TECO Energy parent is expected to be in a range from $130 to $170 million. This forecast is based on the assumptions described above and also assumes a $50 million equity contribution to Tampa Electric and the payment of common stock dividends at current levels.
 
Taxability of TECO Energy Dividends
 
The company previously reported that, following the transfer of the Union and Gila River power stations to the lenders, some of its future common stock distributions might be characterized as return of capital distributions rather than ordinary dividend income for tax purposes. A return of capital distribution is generally a nontaxable reduction of the original purchase cost tax basis. This reduction in basis could affect future gains or losses, if any, on the sale of the shares, which would generally be taxed as capital gains or losses depending upon current law and the holding period for the shares.
 
The tax characterization of dividends depends upon the availability of the company's earnings and profits, as defined by the Internal Revenue Code, first for the current year and then on an accumulated basis. If the distribution is determined to be out of earnings and profits, it is characterized as ordinary taxable dividend income. If current and accumulated earnings and profits are negative, the distribution is characterized as a return of capital distribution. The preliminary results of a detailed earnings and profits study indicate that the company had negative current and accumulated earnings and profits when the November 2005 distribution was made, which should be characterized as a return of capital when reported on IRS Form 1099. The company has provided this information regarding the taxability of its dividends to various tax reporting services for use in preparing the IRS Form 1099 to shareholders to report the quarterly dividends received from the company in 2005. Shareholders should consult their tax advisors for details as to what impact the tax treatment of this distribution will have in their individual tax situations.
 
TECO Energy expects that in 2006 the company's earnings and profits, as defined by the Internal Revenue Code, for the current year will be positive and that distributions will be characterized as ordinary taxable dividend income.
 
Non-GAAP Presentation
 
Table 1, "Results Reconciliation," presents non-GAAP financial results after elimination of the effects of certain identified gains and charges in the 2005 and 2004 quarterly and full-year periods. Management believes that the presentation of this non-GAAP financial performance provides investors a measure that reflects the company's operations under its business strategy, which is focused on its five core businesses. Management also believes that it is helpful to present a non-GAAP measure of performance that clearly reflects the ongoing operations of TECO Energy's business and which allows investors to better understand and evaluate the business as it is expected to operate in future periods.
 
Management and the Board of Directors use this non-GAAP presentation as a yardstick for measuring the company's performance, making decisions that are dependent upon the profitability of the company's various operating units and in determining levels of incentive compensation.
 
The non-GAAP measure of financial performance used by the company is not a measure of performance under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and should not be considered an alternative to net income or other GAAP figures as an indicator of the company's financial performance or liquidity. TECO Energy's non-GAAP presentation of net income may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
 
While each of the particular excluded items is not expected to recur, there may be true-ups to charges related to merchant power facilities or additional debt extinguishment activities. Management recognizes that there may be items that could be excluded in the future. Even though charges may occur, management believes the non-GAAP measure is an important addition to GAAP net income for assessing the company's potential future performance because excluded items are limited to those that management believes are not indicative of future performance.
 
Webcast
 
As previously announced, TECO Energy will host a Webcast with the investment community on its fourth quarter and 2005 results and 2006 outlook at 9:00 AM Eastern time, Tuesday, January 31, 2006. The Webcast can be accessed by following the link on TECO Energy's Website: . The Webcast and accompanying slides will be available for replay for 30 days through the Web site after the conclusion of the live event.
www.tecoenergy.com
 
TECO Energy, Inc. (NYSE: TE) is an integrated energy-related holding company with regulated utility businesses, complemented by a family of unregulated businesses. Its principal subsidiary, , is a regulated utility with both electric and gas divisions ( and ). Other subsidiaries are engaged in waterborne transportation, coal and synthetic fuel production and electric generation and distribution in Guatemala.
Tampa Electric Company
Tampa Electric
Peoples Gas System
 
Note: This press release contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to the inherent uncertainties in predicting future results and conditions. Actual results may differ
 
materially from those forecasted. The forecasted results are based on the company's current expectations and assumptions described above, and the company does not undertake to update that information or any other information contained in this press release. Additional factors that could impact actual results include: unforeseen regulatory actions by federal, state or local authorities that could impact operations; any adverse outcome in the previously disclosed litigation; any additional debt extinguishment costs or premiums associated with the early retirement of TECO Energy debt; unexpected capital needs or unanticipated reductions in cash flow that affect liquidity; oil prices in excess of the annual reference price, which would reduce or eliminate synfuel tax credits and reduce or eliminate the earnings and cash flow from the sale of membership interests in the synfuel production facilities at TECO Coal; the availability of adequate rail transportation capacity for the shipment of TECO Coal's production; general economic conditions in Tampa Electric's service area affecting energy sales; economic conditions, both national and international, affecting the demand for TECO Transport's waterborne transportation services; weather variations affecting sales and operating costs at Tampa Electric and Peoples Gas and the effect of extreme weather conditions; commodity price changes affecting the margins at TECO Coal or natural gas demand at Peoples Gas; the ability of TECO Energy's subsidiaries to operate equipment without undue accidents, breakdowns or failures; changes in electric tariffs or contract terms affecting TECO Guatemala's operations; and TECO Coal's ability to successfully operate its synthetic fuel production facilities in a manner qualifying for the federal income tax credits, which could be impacted by changes in law, regulation or administration. Additional information is contained under "Investment Considerations" in Exhibit 99.1 to TECO Energy Inc.'s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended Jun. 30, 2005.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figures appearing in these statements are presented as general information and not in connection with any sale or offer to sell or solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, nor are they intended as a representation by the company of the value of its securities. All figures reported are subject to adjustments as the annual audit by independent accountants may determine to be necessary and to the explanatory notes affecting income and balance sheet accounts contained in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K. Reference should also be made to information contained in that and other reports filed by TECO Energy, Inc. and Tampa Electric Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


