FILE:TE/TE-8K-20060717171644.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01: Other Events
See the TECO Energy, Inc. press release dated July 17, 2006, attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference, reporting on the status of synthetic fuel production by a subsidiary of TECO Coal Corporation, Pike Letcher Synfuel, LLC.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 TECO Energy, Inc. (NYSE:TE) today reported that an affiliate of TECO Coal, Pike Letcher Synfuel LLC, is idling its synthetic fuel production facilities as of July 31. This action is being taken because of high year-to-date 2006 oil prices and the prospect for continued high oil prices for the remainder of 2006, as indicated by oil futures prices. The decision to idle the facilities is in accordance with agreements in place with the third-party investors in Pike Letcher Synfuel LLC.
TAMPA, July 17, 2006
Synthetic fuel production may be resumed if oil prices moderate to a level that makes production of synthetic fuel economic or if possible federal legislation is enacted that would modify the method of calculating the oil price phase-out range for 2006.
The effects of the decision to idle production on TECO Energy's outlook will be discussed more fully in the company's upcoming earnings release scheduled for July 28, 2006 and during its previously announced Webcast at 11:00 AM on that date. The company is reviewing the requirement to impair its remaining investment in the synthetic fuel production facilities and the need to expense certain related assets, such as inventory of production supplies. The potential after-tax charges for such impairments or expenses would be approximately $5 million.
TECO Energy, Inc. (NYSE: TE) is an integrated energy-related holding company with regulated utility businesses, complemented by a family of unregulated businesses. Its principal subsidiary, , is a regulated utility with both electric and gas divisions ( and ). Other subsidiaries are engaged in waterborne transportation, coal and synthetic fuel production and electric generation and distribution in Guatemala.
Tampa Electric Company
Tampa Electric
Peoples Gas System
 


