FILE:TE/TE-8K-20071205120247.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01: Other Events
See the Press release dated December 5, 2007 furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference, announcing the completion of the sale of TECO Transport Corporation.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
TECO ENERGY CLOSES SALE OF TECO TRANSPORT CORPORATION TO GREENSTREET EQUITY PARTNERS, L.P.
TECO Energy today announced that it has closed the sale of TECO Transport Corporation to an investment group led by an affiliate of Greenstreet Equity Partners, L.P., a Miami-based private equity firm founded by Steven Green, the former U.S. ambassador to Singapore, and Jeffrey Safchik, for $405 million, which is subject to the final adjustment of net working capital.
Tampa, Florida  December 5, 2007 
Net proceeds from the sale, taking into consideration estimated transaction-related costs and state and federal taxes, are expected to be approximately $375 million. TECO Energy expects to record a pretax book gain in the fourth quarter of between $235 million and $245 million, excluding previously recognized transaction costs.
Chairman and CEO Sherrill Hudson said, "This outcome is a very positive event for TECO Energy. It allows us to continue our previously announced debt retirement plans, including the cash tender offer announced recently. These actions will strengthen our balance sheet and solidify our focus on TECO Energy's utility businesses. In addition, we hope the completion of this sale will continue to accelerate improvement of TECO Energy's credit ratings."
President and COO John Ramil said, "Our thanks to the entire TECO Transport team for their many years of dedicated service as part of the TECO Energy family of companies. Their commitment and professionalism have never wavered, especially during the past few months of transition. We wish them much success as they enter this new era in their long history as a world-class waterborne transportation business."
TECO Energy was the guarantor of three TECO Transport vessel leases. The first lease will terminate on December 30, 2007, and the agreement with the purchaser requires it to cause TECO Transport to make the $44.6 million termination payment on that date. Releases with respect to the two other guaranties were obtained at closing, and payments for those releases were included in the net proceeds amount described above.
TECO Energy, Inc. (NYSE: TE) is an integrated energy-related holding company. Its principal subsidiary, , is a regulated utility with both electric and gas divisions ( and ). Other subsidiaries are engaged in coal mining, and electric generation and distribution in Guatemala.
Tampa Electric Company
Tampa Electric
Peoples Gas System
NOTE: This press release contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to the inherent uncertainties in predicting future results and conditions. Certain factors could impact actual results. The anticipated effects of the transaction and TECO Energy's ability to continue its debt retirement plans are dependent upon TECO Energy achieving its anticipated financial performance. Additional information is contained under "Risk Factors" in TECO Energy, Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2006, as updated by the information contained in Item 1A of its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended June 30, 2007 and September 30, 2007.
 


