FILE:TE/TE-8K-20071102163721.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1  Registrant's Business and Operations
Item 1.01: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On October 29, 2007, a subsidiary of TECO Energy, Inc. ("TECO Energy"), TECO Diversified, Inc. ("Diversified"), entered into a Membership Interest Purchase Agreement ("MIPA") to sell all of its ownership interest in TECO Transport Corporation ("Transport") to GS Maritime Holding LLC ("GS") for $405 million, subject to a working capital adjustment. Transport is the parent company of TECO Ocean Shipping, Inc., a U.S.-flag oceangoing fleet; TECO Barge Line, Inc., a river barge fleet on the U.S. inland waterways; and TECO Bulk Terminal, L.L.C, a dry-bulk commodity deep-water transfer and storage terminal.
The MIPA provides for Transport to reorganize as a limited liability company prior to closing and for GS to acquire all of the membership interests in Transport indirectly owned by TECO Energy through Diversified at closing.
Currently, TECO Energy is a guarantor with respect to three Transport vessel leases. The first lease will terminate on December 30, 2007 and the MIPA requires GS to cause Transport to make the $44.6 million termination payment on that date. The parties are in discussion to obtain the release of the guaranty relating to the second lease, for which lease payments of approximately $43 million remain plus a potential payment upon the exercise of the right to purchase. An agreement has been entered into with the lessor for the release of the third guaranty at closing.
The MIPA contains customary representations, warranties and covenants, as well as various closing conditions, including compliance with the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, and the disposition of certain of the lease guaranty obligations described above. The MIPA also contains indemnification provisions subject to specified limitations as to time and amount. The MIPA is subject to termination by either party in certain circumstances if the transaction is not completed on or before December 20, 2007.
See the press release dated October 29, 2007, attached as Exhibit 99.1, for additional information.
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
See the Press Release dated November 2, 2007 furnished as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference, reporting on TECO Energy, Inc.'s financial results for the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2007.
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
Item 5.02: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On November 1, 2007, the Board of Directors of TECO Energy approved the amendment of TECO Energy's change-in-control severance agreements (the "Agreements"). The Agreements identify various events or transactions which would constitute a change-in-control of TECO Energy, including certain mergers or consolidations. The amendment changes the definition of change-in-control with respect to mergers or consolidations to provide that a change-in-control would occur only when such a transaction is with an entity with a greater market capitalization, that is, when TECO Energy's shareholders have less than 50% of the voting power in the surviving entity, rather than the previous standard of 65%. The Board of Directors approved other minor amendments to the Agreements to (i) change the reference in the definition of "Good Reason" from a distance from TECO Energy's offices of 25 miles to a distance of 50 miles; (ii) change the formula for determining compensation payable under the Agreements from an amount based on actual bonus paid to an amount based on target award level; (iii) delete the section which provides for the payment of relocation expenses; and (iv) make changes related to compliance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code. The form of Agreement is filed as exhibit 10.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. The Board of Directors also approved the amendment of TECO Energy's Group Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan and the Group Supplemental Retirement Benefits Trust Agreement in order to make corresponding changes to the definition of change-in-control contained in such documents.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01: Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
PRIVILEGED AND CONFIDENTIAL
[date]
[name]
[address]
[city, state, zip]
Dear [name]:
TECO Energy, Inc. (the "Company") considers it essential to the best interests of its stockholders to foster the continuous employment of key management personnel. In this connection, the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") recognizes that, as is the case with many publicly held corporations, the possibility of a change in control may exist and that such possibility, and the uncertainty and questions which it may raise among management, may result in the departure or distraction of key management personnel to the detriment of the Company and its stockholders.
The Board has determined that appropriate steps should be taken to reinforce and encourage the continued attention and dedication of members of the Company's management, including yourself, to their assigned duties without distraction in the face of potentially disturbing circumstances arising from the possibility of a change in control of the Company.
In order to induce you to remain in the employ of the Company and in consideration of your agreement set forth in Subsection 2(iii) hereof, the Company agrees that you shall receive the severance benefits set forth in this letter agreement (the "Agreement") in the event your employment with the Company is terminated subsequent to a "change in control of the Company" (as defined in Section 2(i) hereof) (or is deemed to be terminated subsequent to a change in control of the Company in accordance with the second sentence of Section 3 hereof) under the circumstances described below. [This agreement amends and restates the letter agreement dated between you and the Company (the "Prior Agreement").]
                    
1. . This Agreement shall commence on the date hereof and shall continue in effect through June 30, 2008; provided, however, that commencing on July 1, 2007 and each July 1 thereafter, the term of this Agreement shall automatically be extended for one additional year unless, not later than March 31 of such year, the Company shall have given notice that it does not wish to extend this Agreement (provided that no such notice may be given during the pendency of or within two years following a potential change in control of the Company, as defined in Section 2(ii) hereof); provided, further, if a change in control of the Company shall have occurred during the original or extended term of this Agreement, this Agreement shall continue in effect for a period of thirty-six (36) months beyond the month in which such change in control occurred.
Term of Agreement
2. . (i) Except as provided in the second sentence of Section 3 hereof, no benefits shall be payable hereunder unless there shall have been a change in control of the Company, as set forth below. For purposes of this Agreement, a "change in control of the Company" shall mean a change in control of a nature that would be required to be reported in response to Item 6(e) of Schedule 14A of Regulation 14A promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), whether or not the Company is in fact required to comply therewith; provided, that, without limitation, such a change in control shall be deemed to have occurred if:
Change in Control; Potential Change in Control
(A) any "person" (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act), other than the Company, any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Company, is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 30% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities;
(B) the following individuals cease to constitute a majority of the number of directors then serving: individuals who on the date hereof constitute the Board and any new director (other than a director whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest, including but not limited to a consent solicitation, relating to the election of directors of the Company) whose election by the Board or nomination for election by the stockholders of the Company was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors on the date hereof or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved, cease for any reason to constitute a majority thereof; or
(C) there is consummated a merger or consolidation of the Company or any direct or indirect subsidiary of the Company with any other corporation, other than (i) a merger or consolidation resulting in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) at least 50% of the combined voting securities of the Company or such surviving entity or any parent thereof outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation or (ii) a merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of the Company (or similar transaction) in which no "person" (as hereinabove defined) acquires 30% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities; or
(D) the stockholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation of the Company or there is consummated the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company's assets.
 
(ii) For purposes of this Agreement, a "potential change in control of the Company" shall be deemed to have occurred if:
(A) the Company enters into an agreement, the consummation of which would result in the occurrence of a change in control of the Company;
(B) any person (as hereinabove defined), including the Company, publicly announces an intention to take or consider taking actions which if consummated would constitute a change in control of the Company;
(C) any person (as hereinabove defined), other than the Company, any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Company (a) is or becomes the beneficial owner, (b) discloses directly or indirectly to the Company or publicly a plan or intention to become the beneficial owner, or (c) makes a filing under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, with respect to securities to become the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of securities representing 9.9% or more of the combined voting power of the outstanding voting securities of the Company; or
(D) the Board adopts a resolution to the effect that, for purposes of this Agreement, a potential change in control of the Company has occurred.
(iii) You agree that, subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, in the event of a potential change in control of the Company during the term of this Agreement (as determined under Section 1 hereof), you will remain in the employ of the Company until the earliest of (a) a date which is one (1) year from the occurrence of such potential change in control of the Company, (b) the termination by you of your employment after you attain "normal retirement age" under the provisions of the TECO Energy Group Retirement Plan or any successor thereto (the "Retirement Plan") or by reason of death or Disability as defined in Section 3(i), or (c) the date of the occurrence of a change in control of the Company.
3. . If your employment is terminated following a change in control of the Company and during the term of this Agreement, other than (A) by the Company for Cause, (B) by reason of death or Disability, or (C) by you without Good Reason, then the Company shall pay you the amounts, and provide you the benefits, described in Section 4(iii) hereof. For purposes of this Agreement, your employment shall be deemed to have been terminated following a change in control of the Company by the Company without Cause or by you with Good Reason, if (i) your employment is terminated by the Company without Cause prior to a change in control of the Company (whether or not such a change in control ever occurs) and such termination was at the request or direction of a "person" (as hereinabove defined) who has entered
Termination Following Change in Control
 
into an agreement with the Company the consummation of which would constitute a change in control of the Company, (ii) you terminate your employment for Good Reason prior to a change in control of the Company (whether or not such a change in control ever occurs) and the circumstance or event which constitutes Good Reason occurs at the request or direction of such person, or (iii) your employment is terminated by the Company without Cause or by you for Good Reason and such termination or the circumstance or event which constitutes Good Reason is otherwise in connection with or in anticipation of a change in control of the Company (whether or not such a change in control ever occurs). Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, you shall not be entitled to the benefits provided in Section 4 hereof unless you have incurred a "separation from service" under Section 409A of the Code.
(i) . If, as a result of your incapacity due to physical or mental illness, you shall have been absent from the full-time performance of your duties with the Company for six (6) consecutive months, and within thirty (30) days after written notice of termination is given you shall not have returned to the full-time performance of your duties, your employment may be terminated for "Disability".
Disability
(ii) . Termination by the Company of your employment for "Cause" shall mean termination upon (A) the willful and continued failure by you to substantially perform your duties with the Company (other than any such failure resulting from your incapacity due to physical or mental illness or any such actual or anticipated failure after the issuance of a Notice of Termination by you for Good Reason, as defined in Subsections 3(iv) and 3(iii), respectively) after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to you by the Board, which demand specifically identifies the manner in which the Board believes that you have not substantially performed your duties, or (B) the willful engaging by you in conduct which is demonstrably and materially injurious to the Company, monetarily or otherwise. For purposes of this Subsection, no act, or failure to act, on your part shall be deemed "willful" unless done, or omitted to be done, by you not in good faith and without reasonable belief that your action or omission was in the best interest of the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, you shall not be deemed to have been terminated for Cause unless and until there shall have been delivered to you a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the affirmative vote of not less than three-quarters (3/4) of the entire membership of the Board at a meeting of the Board called and held for such purpose (after reasonable notice to you and an opportunity for you, together with your counsel, to be heard before the Board), finding that in the good faith opinion of the Board you were guilty of conduct set forth above in this Subsection and specifying the particulars thereof in detail.
Cause
(iii) . "Good Reason" for termination by you of your employment shall mean the occurrence (without your express written consent) after any change in control of the Company, or prior to a change in control of the Company under the circumstances described in the second sentence of Section 3 hereof (treating all references in paragraphs (A) through (H) below to a "change in control of the Company" as references to a "potential change in control of the Company"), of any one of the following acts by the Company, or failures by the Company to act:
Good Reason
(A) the assignment to you of any duties inconsistent (except in the nature of a promotion) with the position in the Company that you held immediately prior to the change in control of the Company or a substantial adverse alteration in the nature or status of your position or responsibilities or the conditions of your employment from those in effect immediately prior to the change in control of the Company;
 
(B) a reduction by the Company in your annual base salary as in effect on the date hereof or as the same may be increased from time to time;
(C) the Company's requiring you to be based more than fifty (50) miles from the Company's offices at which you were principally employed immediately prior to the date of the change in control of the Company except for required travel on the Company's business to an extent substantially consistent with your present business travel obligations;
(D) the failure by the Company to pay to you any portion of your current compensation or compensation under any deferred compensation program of the Company, within seven (7) days of the date such compensation is due;
(E) the failure by the Company to continue in effect any material compensation or benefit plan in which you participate immediately prior to the change in control of the Company unless an equitable arrangement (embodied in an ongoing substitute or alternative plan) has been made with respect to such plan, or the failure by the Company to continue your participation therein (or in such substitute or alternative plan) on a basis not materially less favorable, both in terms of the amount of benefits provided and the level of your participation relative to other participants, than existed at the time of the change in control;
(F) the failure by the Company to continue to provide you with benefits substantially similar to those enjoyed by you under any of the Company's pension, life insurance, medical, health and accident, or disability plans in which you were participating at the time of the change in control of the Company, the taking of any action by the Company which would directly or indirectly materially reduce any of such benefits or deprive you of any material fringe benefit enjoyed by you at the time of the change in control of the Company, or the failure by the Company to provide you with the number of paid vacation days to which you are entitled on the basis of your years of service with the Company in accordance with the Company's normal vacation policy in effect at the time of the change in control of the Company;
(G) the failure of the Company to obtain a satisfactory agreement from any successor to assume and agree to perform this Agreement, as contemplated in Section 6 hereof; or
 
(H) any purported termination of your employment which is not effected pursuant to a Notice of Termination satisfying the requirements of Subsection (iv) below (and, if applicable, the requirements of Subsection (ii) above), which purported termination shall not be effective for purposes of this Agreement.
Your right to terminate your employment pursuant to this Subsection shall not be affected by your incapacity due to physical or mental illness. Your continued employment shall not constitute consent to, or a waiver of rights with respect to, any circumstance constituting Good Reason hereunder.
(iv) . Any purported termination of your employment by the Company or by you shall be communicated by written Notice of Termination to the other party hereto in accordance with Section 7 hereof. For purposes of this Agreement, a "Notice of Termination" shall mean a notice which shall indicate the specific termination provision in this Agreement relied upon and shall set forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of your employment under the provision so indicated.
Notice of Termination
(v) . "Date of Termination" shall mean (A) if your employment is terminated for Disability, thirty (30) days after Notice of Termination is given (provided that you shall not have returned to the full-time performance of your duties during such thirty (30) day period), and (B) if your employment is terminated pursuant to Subsection (ii) or (iii) above or for any other reason (other than Disability), the date specified in the Notice of Termination (which, in the case of a termination pursuant to Subsection (ii) above shall not be less than thirty (30) days, and in the case of a termination pursuant to Subsection (iii) above shall not be less than fifteen (15) nor more than sixty (60) days, respectively, from the date such Notice of Termination is given); provided that if within fifteen (15) days after any Notice of Termination is given, or, if later, prior to the Date of Termination (as determined without regard to this proviso), the party receiving such Notice of Termination notifies the other party that a dispute exists concerning the termination, the Date of Termination shall be the date on which the dispute is finally determined, either by mutual written agreement of the parties or by a binding arbitration award; and provided further that the Date of Termination shall be extended by a notice of dispute given by you only if such notice is given in good faith and you pursue the resolution of such dispute with reasonable diligence. Notwithstanding the pendency of any such dispute, the Company will continue to pay you your full compensation in effect when the notice giving rise to the dispute was given (including, but not limited to, base salary) and continue you as a participant in all compensation, benefit and insurance plans in which you were participating when the notice giving rise to the dispute was given, until the dispute is finally resolved in accordance with this Subsection. Amounts paid under this Subsection are in addition to all other amounts due under this Agreement and shall not be offset against or reduce any other amounts due under this Agreement. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, you shall not be entitled to the benefits provided in Section 4 hereof unless you have incurred a "separation from service" under Code Section 409A.
Date of Termination, Etc
 
4. . Following a change in control of the Company, as defined by Subsection 2(i), or prior to a change in control of the Company under the circumstances described in the second sentence of Section 3 hereof, upon termination of your employment or during a period of disability you shall be entitled to the following benefits:
Compensation Upon Termination or During Disability
(i) During any period that you fail to perform your full-time duties with the Company as a result of incapacity due to physical or mental illness, you shall continue to receive your base salary at the rate in effect at the commencement of any such period, together with all compensation payable to you under the Company's disability plan or program or other similar plan during such period, until this Agreement is terminated pursuant to Section 3(i) hereof. Thereafter, or in the event your employment shall be terminated by reason of your death, your benefits shall be determined under the Company's retirement, insurance and other compensation programs then in effect in accordance with the terms of such programs.
(ii) If your employment shall be terminated by the Company for Cause or by you other than for Good Reason, the Company shall pay you your full base salary through the Date of Termination at the rate in effect at the time Notice of Termination is given, plus all other amounts to which you are entitled under any compensation plan of the Company at the time such payments are due, and the Company shall have no further obligations to you under this Agreement.
(iii) If your employment by the Company terminates in a manner entitling you to benefits under this Section pursuant to Section 3 hereof, then you shall be entitled to the benefits provided below:
(A) the Company shall pay you your full base salary through the Date of Termination at the rate in effect at the time Notice of Termination is given, plus all other amounts to which you are entitled under any compensation plan of the Company, at the time such payments are due, except as otherwise provided below;
(B) in lieu of any further salary payments to you for periods subsequent to the Date of Termination, the Company shall pay as severance pay to you a lump sum severance payment (together with the payments provided in paragraphs (C) and (D) below, the "Severance Payments") equal to three (3) times the sum of (1) the greater of (a) your annual rate of base salary in effect on the Date of Termination or (b) your annual rate of base salary in effect immediately prior to the change in control of the Company and (2) your highest annual incentive target award in effect at any time during the 36 months prior to the Date of Termination;
(C) for a thirty-six (36) month period after such termination, the Company shall arrange to provide you with life, disability, accident and health insurance benefits substantially similar to those which you are receiving immediately prior to the Notice of Termination. Benefits otherwise receivable by you pursuant to this Subsection 4(iii)(D) shall
 
be reduced to the extent comparable benefits are actually received by you from a subsequent employer during the thirty-six (36) month period following your termination, and any such benefits actually received by you shall be reported to the Company. The period during which benefits are provided under this Section shall satisfy the Company's obligations to provide continuation coverage under Section 4980B of the Code; and
(D) in addition to the retirement benefits to which you are entitled under the Retirement Plan, any supplemental retirement or excess benefit plan maintained by TECO or any of its subsidiaries or any successor plans thereto (hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Pension Plans"), the Company shall pay you in cash a lump sum equal to the excess of (a) the actuarial equivalent (computed at your date of termination) of the retirement pension (taking into account any early retirement subsidies and post-retirement surviving spouse benefits associated therewith and determined as an annuity payable in the normal form under the Pension Plans commencing at your normal retirement age under the Retirement Plan or any earlier date, but in no event earlier than the third anniversary of the Date of Termination, whichever annuity the actuarial equivalent of which is greatest) which you would have accrued under the terms of the Pension Plans (without regard to the limitations imposed by Section 401(a)(17) of the Code, or any amendment to the Pension Plans made subsequent to a change in control of the Company and on or prior to the Date of Termination, which amendment adversely affects in any manner the computation of retirement benefits thereunder), determined as if you were fully vested thereunder and had continued to be a participant in each of the Pension Plans for thirty-six (36) additional months and as if you had accumulated thirty-six (36) additional months of compensation (for purposes of determining your pension benefits thereunder), each in an amount equal to the sum of the amounts determined under clauses (1) and (2) of Section 4(iii)(B) hereof over (b) the actuarial equivalent (computed at your date of termination) of the vested retirement pension (taking into account any early retirement subsidies and post-retirement surviving spouse benefits associated therewith and determined as an annuity payable in the normal form under the Pension Plans commencing at your normal retirement age under the Retirement Plan or any earlier date, but in no event earlier than the Date of Termination, whichever annuity the actuarial equivalent of which is greatest) which you had then accrued pursuant to the provisions of the Pension Plans. For purposes of this Subsection, "actuarial equivalent" shall be determined using the same actuarial assumptions utilized in determining the amount of alternate forms of benefits under the Retirement Plan immediately prior to the change in control of the Company.
(iv) Except as otherwise specifically provided in paragraph (C) hereof, the payments provided for in Subsection (iii) shall be made not later than the fifth day following the Date of Termination; provided, however, that if the amounts of such payments cannot be finally determined on or before such day, the Company shall pay to you on such day an estimate, as determined in good faith by the Company, of the minimum amount of such payments and shall pay the remainder of such payments (together with interest at the rate provided in section 1274(b)(2)(B)
 
of the Code) as soon as the amount thereof can be determined but in no event later than the thirtieth day after the Date of Termination. In the event that the amount of the estimated payments exceeds the amount subsequently determined to have been due, such excess shall constitute a loan by the Company to you payable on the fifth day after demand therefor by the Company (together with interest at the rate provided in section 1274(b)(2)(B) of the Code). Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, to the extent required by Section 409A of the Code, payment of the amounts payable under this Agreement shall commence no earlier than the earlier of (i) the first day of the first month commencing at least six (6) months following your separation from service with the Company (within the meaning of Section 409A) or (ii) your date of death. Any amount the payment of which is delayed by application of the preceding sentence shall be paid as soon as possible following the expiration of such six month period and shall be paid with interest (at an interest rate equal to the rate used to calculate actuarial equivalence in the Pension Plans) from the date on which such amount would otherwise have been paid but for the application of the preceding sentence to the date such amount is actually paid;
(v) You shall not be required to mitigate the amount of any payment provided for in this Section 4 or Section 5 hereof by seeking other employment or otherwise, nor, except as specifically provided in Sections 4(iii)(C) above, shall the amount of any payment or benefit provided for in this Section 4 or Section 5 hereof be reduced by any compensation earned by you as the result of employment by another employer, by retirement benefits, by offset against any amount claimed to be owed by you to the Company, or otherwise; and
(vi) the Company shall also pay to you all legal fees and expenses incurred by you as a result of or in connection with such termination, including all such fees and expenses, if any, incurred in contesting or disputing any such termination or in seeking to obtain or enforce any right or benefit provided by this Agreement (other than any such fees or expenses incurred in connection with any such claim which is determined by arbitration, in accordance with Section 11 of this Agreement, to be frivolous) or in connection with any tax audit or proceeding to the extent attributable to the application of Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), to any payment or benefit provided hereunder. Such payments shall be made within five (5) business days after delivery of your written requests for payment accompanied with such evidence of fees and expenses incurred as the Company reasonably may require; provided, however, that in no event shall any such payments be made later than the last day of your taxable year following the taxable year in which the fee or expense was incurred.
5. .
Certain Additional Payments by the Company
(i) Whether or not you become entitled to payments under this Agreement, if any of the payments or benefits received or to be received by you in connection with a change in control of the Company or the termination of your employment (whether pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or any other plan, arrangement or agreement with the Company, any person whose actions result in a change in control of the Company or any person affiliated with the Company or such person) (such
 
payments or benefits, including the Severance Payments but excluding the Gross-Up Payment, being hereinafter referred to as the "Total Payments") will be subject to the excise tax imposed by section 4999 of the Code or any interest or penalties are incurred by you with respect to such excise tax (such excise tax, together with any such interest and penalties, being hereinafter referred to as the "Excise Tax"), the Company shall pay to you an additional amount (the "Gross-Up Payment") such that the net amount retained by you, after paying any Excise Tax on the Total Payments and any federal, state and local income and employment taxes and Excise Tax on the Gross-Up Payment, shall be equal to the Total Payments.
(ii) For purposes of determining whether any of the Total Payments will be subject to the Excise Tax and the amount of such Excise Tax, (A) all of the Total Payments shall be treated as "parachute payments" (within the meaning of section 280G(b)(2) of the Code) unless, in the opinion of tax counsel ("Tax Counsel") acceptable to you and selected by the accounting firm which was, immediately prior to the change in control of the Company, the Company's independent auditor (the "Auditor"), such payments or benefits (in whole or in part) do not constitute parachute payments, including by reason of section 280G(b)(4)(A) of the Code, (B) all "excess parachute payments" (within the meaning of section 280G(b)(1) of the Code) shall be treated as subject to the Excise Tax unless, in the opinion of Tax Counsel, such excess parachute payments (in whole or in part) represent reasonable compensation for services actually rendered (within the meaning of section 280G(b)(4)(B) of the Code) in excess of the "base amount" (within the meaning of section 280G(b)(3) of the Code) allocable to such reasonable compensation, or are otherwise not subject to the Excise Tax, and (C) the value of any noncash benefits or any deferred payment or benefit shall be determined by the Auditor in accordance with the principles of sections 280G(d)(3) and (4) of the Code. For purposes of determining the amount of the Gross-Up Payment, you shall be deemed to pay federal income tax at the highest marginal rate of federal income taxation in the calendar year in which the Gross-Up Payment is to be made and state and local income taxes at the highest marginal rate of taxation in the state and locality of your residence on the Date of Termination, net of the maximum reduction in federal income taxes which could be obtained from deduction of such state and local taxes.
(iii) In the event that the Excise Tax is subsequently determined to be less than the amount taken into account hereunder at the time of the termination of your employment, you shall repay to the Company, at the time that the amount of such reduction in Excise Tax is finally determined, the portion of the Gross-Up Payment attributable to such reduction (plus that portion of the Gross-Up Payment attributable to the Excise Tax and federal, state and local income and employment taxes imposed on the Gross-Up Payment being repaid by you to the extent that such repayment results in a reduction in Excise Tax and/or a federal, state or local income or employment tax deduction) plus interest on the amount of such repayment at 120% of the rate provided in section 1274(b)(2)(B) of the Code. In the event that the Excise Tax is determined to exceed the amount taken into account hereunder at the time of the termination of your employment (including by reason of any payment the existence or amount of which cannot be determined at the time of the Gross-Up Payment), the Company shall make an additional Gross-Up Payment in respect of such excess (plus any interest,
 
penalties or additions payable by you with respect to such excess) at the time that the amount of such excess is finally determined. You and the Company shall each reasonably cooperate with the other in connection with any administrative or judicial proceedings concerning the existence or amount of liability for Excise Tax with respect to the Total Payments. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, in no event shall payments under this Section be made later than the end of your taxable year following the taxable year in which you remit the related Excise Tax.
6. .
Successors; Binding Agreement
(i) The Company will require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company to expressly assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place. Failure of the Company to obtain such assumption and agreement prior to the effectiveness of any such succession shall be a breach of this Agreement and shall entitle you to compensation from the Company in the same amount and on the same terms as you would be entitled to hereunder if you terminate your employment for Good Reason following a change in control of the Company, except that for purposes of implementing the foregoing, the date on which any such succession becomes effective shall be deemed the Date of Termination. As used in this Agreement, "Company" shall mean the Company as hereinbefore defined and any successor to its business and/or assets as aforesaid which assumes and agrees to perform this Agreement by operation of law, or otherwise.
(ii) This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by your personal or legal representatives, executors, administrators, successors, heirs, distributees, devisees and legatees. If you should die while any amount would still be payable to you hereunder if you had continued to live, all such amounts, unless otherwise provided herein, shall be paid in accordance with the terms of this Agreement to your devisee, legatee or other designee or, if there is no such designee, to your estate.
7. . For the purpose of this Agreement, notices and all other communications provided for in the Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when delivered or mailed by United States registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed to the respective addresses set forth on the first page of this Agreement, provided that all notices to the Company shall be directed to the attention of the Board with a copy to the Secretary of the Company, or to such other address as either party may have furnished to the other in writing in accordance herewith, except that notices of change of address shall be effective only upon receipt.
Notice
8. . No provision of this Agreement may be modified, waived or discharged unless such waiver, modification or discharge is agreed to in writing and signed by you and such officer as may be specifically designated by the Board. No waiver by either party hereto at any time of any breach by the other party hereto of, or compliance with, any condition or provision of this Agreement to be performed by such other party shall be deemed a waiver of similar or dissimilar
Miscellaneous
 
provisions or conditions at the same or at any prior or subsequent time. No agreements or representations, oral or otherwise, express or implied, with respect to the subject matter hereof have been made by either party which are not expressly set forth in this Agreement. The validity, interpretation, construction and performance of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Florida, without giving effect to the conflicts of law principles thereof. All references to sections of the Exchange Act or the Code shall be deemed also to refer to any successor provisions to such sections. Any payments provided for hereunder shall be paid net of any applicable withholding required under federal, state or local law. The obligations of the Company under Sections 4 and 5 shall survive the expiration of the term of this Agreement.
9. . The invalidity or unenforceability or any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement, which shall remain in full force and effect.
Validity
10. . This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original but all of which together will constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
11. . Any dispute or controversy arising under or in connection with this Agreement shall be settled exclusively by arbitration conducted before a panel of three arbitrators in the State of Florida in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association then in effect. Judgment may be entered on the arbitrator's award in any court having jurisdiction; provided, however, that you shall be entitled to seek specific performance of your right to be paid until the Date of Termination during the pendency of any dispute or controversy arising under or in connection with this Agreement.
Arbitration
12. . This Agreement sets forth the entire agreement of the parties hereto in respect of the subject matter contained herein and during the term of the Agreement supersedes the provisions of all prior agreements, promises, covenants, arrangements, communications, representations or warranties, whether oral or written, by any officer, employee or representative of any party hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof[ including the Prior Agreement].
Entire Agreement
 
13. . This Agreement shall become effective as of the date set forth above. If this letter sets forth our agreement on the subject matter hereof, kindly sign and return to the Company the enclosed copy of this letter which will then constitute our agreement on this subject.
Effective Date
 
Agreed to this day
    
of , 2007.
                    
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
TECO ENERGY ANNOUNCES AGREEMENT TO SELL TECO TRANSPORT CORPORATION
TECO Energy today announced the execution of a definitive agreement to sell TECO Transport Corporation to an investment group led by Greenstreet Equity Partners, L.P., a Miami-based private equity firm founded by Steven Green, the former U.S. Ambassador to Singapore, and Jeffrey Safchik, for a purchase price of $405 million, subject to working capital adjustment. Net proceeds, taking into consideration estimated transaction-related costs, including state and federal taxes, are expected to be approximately $370-380 million.
Tampa, Florida  October 29, 2007 
Chairman and CEO Sherrill Hudson said, "Today's announcement concludes the evaluation of strategic alternatives for TECO Transport that we announced earlier this year. We are pleased with the outcome and believe that it is in the best interest of all concerned. It is the best alternative for TECO Energy's shareholders  allowing us to accelerate our debt retirement plan, strengthen our balance sheet and focus on our utility businesses. In addition, we hope the completion of this sale will accelerate improvement of TECO Energy's credit ratings. It also puts TECO Transport Corporation in the hands of an investor able to focus on and deploy the future capital needed to grow this business."
The definitive agreement has various conditions that must be satisfied prior to closing, and the parties anticipate closing the transaction before the end of the year. TECO Energy is the guarantor of three TECO Transport leases, and the parties have made various arrangements for dealing with these guarantees. The transaction is not conditioned upon obtaining debt financing.
Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated acted as TECO Energy's financial advisor in connection with the transaction, and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP provided legal counsel. AMA Capital Partners LLC acted as the financial advisor to Greenstreet Equity Partners, and Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP provided legal counsel.
TECO Energy, Inc. (NYSE: TE) is an integrated energy-related holding company with regulated utility businesses, complemented by a family of unregulated businesses. Its principal subsidiary, , is a regulated utility with both electric and gas divisions ( and ). Other subsidiaries are engaged in waterborne transportation, coal and synthetic fuel production and electric generation and distribution in Guatemala.
Tampa Electric Company
Tampa Electric
Peoples Gas System
NOTE:
This press release contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to the inherent uncertainties in predicting future results and conditions. Certain factors could impact actual results. TECO Energy's ability to successfully close the sale of TECO Transport in the anticipated time frame is dependent upon various closing conditions. TECO Energy's ability to accelerate its debt retirement plan and take other financial actions described in this release is dependent upon completing the transaction and achieving TECO Energy's anticipated financial performance. Additional information is contained under "Risk Factors" in TECO Energy, Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2006.
 

Exhibit 99.2
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
TECO Energy, Inc. (NYSE:TE) today reported both third quarter net income and net income from continuing operations of $92.8 million or $0.44 per share, compared to $79.7 million or $0.38 per share in the third quarter of 2006.
TAMPA, November 2, 2007
Year-to-date net income and earnings per share were $239.3 million or $1.15 per share in 2007, compared to $197.4 million or $0.95 per share in the same period in 2006. Year-to-date net income and earnings per share from continuing operations were $225.0 million or $1.08 per share in 2007, compared to $196.0 million or $0.94 per share in the same period in 2006. In 2007, results reflect a $14.3 million tax benefit recorded in discontinued operations in the second quarter as a result of reaching a favorable conclusion with taxing authorities related to the 2005 disposition of the Union and Gila River merchant power plants.
TECO Energy Chairman and CEO Sherrill Hudson said, "Our results this quarter clearly reflect the efforts of TECO Energy team members across the company to maximize our results. Our utilities continued to enjoy customer growth, but changes in customer usage patterns limited energy sales growth, even while setting new summer peak records. We are seeing the first signs of improvement in coal markets, especially the metallurgical coal sector, and TECO Guatemala continues to perform above expectations."
"We're pleased with the announced agreement for the sale of TECO Transport and the progress that is being made toward closing the transaction before year-end. Completing the sale will allow us to accelerate our debt reduction plans, an important step toward improving our credit ratings," Hudson went on to say.
Third-quarter 2007 non-GAAP results from continuing operations including synthetic fuel (Non-GAAP Results With Synthetic Fuel), which exclude charges and gains, were $92.2 million, compared to $77.3 million in the 2006 period. Third-quarter 2007 non-GAAP results from continuing operations excluding synthetic fuel (Non-GAAP Results Excluding Synthetic Fuel), which exclude charges and gains and also exclude the benefits associated with the production of synthetic fuel, were $79.1 million, compared to $63.5 million in the 2006 period (see the table later in this release).
Results Reconciliation
Year-to-date 2007 Non-GAAP Results With Synthetic Fuel were $230.8 million, compared to $187.6 million in the 2006 period. Year-to-date 2007 Non-GAAP Results Excluding Synthetic Fuel were $176.0 million, compared to $164.5 million in the 2006 period (see the table later in this release).
Results Reconciliation
In 2007, third quarter net income included a $13.1 million, or $0.06 per share, net benefit to earnings from the production of synthetic fuel, compared to $13.8 million, or $0.06 per share, in the 2006 period. (See the section later in this release.) Results for Parent/other included a $3.0 million after-tax charge for transaction-related costs associated with the pending sale of TECO Transport. Results at TECO Transport included a
TECO Coal
 
$3.6 million after-tax benefit in the third quarter from not recording depreciation expense due to its classification as Assets Held for Sale. Third-quarter 2006 results included a $2.6 million after-tax gain from the sale of an unused steam turbine and a $0.2 million after-tax charge for hurricane-related repairs at TECO Transport. All of these charges and gains were excluded in the calculation of Non-GAAP Results Excluding Synfuel. (See the table later in this release.)
Results Reconciliation
Year-to-date 2007 net income included a $54.8 million, or $0.26 per share, net benefit to earnings from the production of synthetic fuel, compared to a net benefit of $23.1 million, or $0.11 per share, in the 2006 period. (See the section later in this release.) In addition to the third quarter factors, year-to-date results reflect the $10.0 million of after-tax charges for transaction-related costs associated with the pending sale of TECO Transport recorded in prior quarters, a $3.6 million after-tax benefit at TECO Transport in the second quarter from not recording depreciation expense due to its classification as Assets Held for Sale, as well as the $14.3 million after-tax gain in discontinued operations related to the disposition of the Union and Gila River power stations. Year-to-date 2006 results included a net $2.3 million of after-tax costs for hurricane-related repairs at TECO Transport and associated insurance recovery, an $8.1 million after-tax gain on the sale of the remaining McAdams Power Station assets and a $2.6 million after-tax gain on the sale of an unused steam turbine, all of which were excluded from the calculation of Non-GAAP results. (See the table later in this release.)
TECO Coal
Results Reconciliation
Non-GAAP Results
The table below compares the TECO Energy GAAP net income to the non-GAAP measures used in this release. Non-GAAP results exclude the charges and gains described above. Non-GAAP Results Excluding Synthetic Fuel exclude those charges and gains and also exclude the earnings benefits associated with the production of synthetic fuel. For a reconciliation to GAAP results and a discussion regarding this presentation of non-GAAP results and management's use of this information, please see the section and table later in this release.
Non-GAAP Presentation
Results Reconciliation
 
 
Segment Reporting
The table below includes TECO Energy segment information on a GAAP basis, which includes all charges and gains and synthetic fuel-related benefits or costs for the periods shown.
Segment Information
 
Operating Company Results:
Tampa Electric
Net income for the third quarter was $64.8 million, compared with $57.0 million for the same period in 2006. Results for the quarter reflect significantly higher retail energy sales due to more favorable weather, 1.8% average customer growth, increased sales to other utilities and the benefits of lower depreciation and property tax expenses discussed below. Net income included $0.7 million of Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFUDC) - equity, which represents allowed equity cost capitalized to construction costs, related to the installation of nitrogen oxide (NO
x
) pollution control equipment, which was in line with the 2006 period. Operations and maintenance expense, excluding all Florida Public Service Commission (FPSC)-approved cost recovery clauses, increased $2.8 million after tax in the third quarter of 2007 reflecting higher employee-related costs. Interest expense increased $0.9 million after tax due to higher levels of long-term debt outstanding.
Depreciation expense decreased $4.4 million after tax, reflecting nine months of lower depreciation rates as a result of a depreciation study approved by the FPSC in the third quarter. Property tax expense decreased $1.7 million after tax, reflecting primarily nine months of lower property tax rates effective in the third quarter as a result of legislation passed in Florida to reduce property taxes. Lower property tax expense also reflects adjustments to property valuations agreed to with various taxing authorities in the third quarter.
Tampa Electric's retail energy sales increased 4.8% in the third quarter, due to favorable weather partially offset by changes in residential customers' consumption patterns due to a higher percentage of smaller, more efficient, multi-family new residences being built, voluntary conservation due to higher prices for all forms of energy, and the slow down in the Florida housing market. Total cooling degree days for the Tampa area in the third quarter were 5% above normal and 7% above actual 2006 levels.
Year-to-date net income was $121.3 million, compared to $116.5 million in the 2006
 
period. These results were driven primarily by lower depreciation and property tax expense and higher retail energy sales, partially offset by higher operations and maintenance and interest expense. These results reflect 2.7% higher retail energy sales and off-system energy sales that were 0.9% lower than in the same period last year. The positive effects of 2.1% average retail customer growth and total heating and cooling degree days that were 1% above normal and 5% above actual 2006 total degree days were partially offset by changes in residential customer consumption patterns. Lower off-system energy sales were driven by the mild winter weather and lower contract sales in the first quarter of the year.
Excluding all FPSC-approved cost recovery clause-related expenses, operations and maintenance expense increased by $6.1 million after tax, primarily due to higher employee-related costs, additional spending on the distribution system to comply with the FPSC-mandated storm hardening requirements and planned outage requirements on generating units. Net income also included $3.5 million of AFUDC - equity related to the construction of the peaking generation units that entered service in April 2007, and the installation of NO
x
pollution control equipment, compared to $1.4 million included in the 2006 period.
Results for 2007 also reflect a $1.3 million after-tax benefit for the wholesale component of the sale of sulfur dioxide (SO
2
) emissions credits, compared to a $1.4 million after-tax benefit in 2006. Through Sept. 30, 2007, Tampa Electric had sold approximately $57 million of excess SO
2
emissions credits. While these sales primarily benefited retail customers through a reduced Environmental Cost Recovery Clause charge, Tampa Electric recognized the benefit from the wholesale component of the sale of these credits in net income.
Peoples Gas
Peoples Gas reported net income of $3.8 million for the third quarter, compared to $4.2 million in the same period in 2006. Quarterly results reflect average customer growth of 1.4% and higher low-margin off-system sales and volumes transported for power generation customers, which were offset by lower sales to retail customers. Results also reflect the nine months benefit of lower property tax rates effective in the third quarter and higher depreciation expense due to a routine depreciation study approved by the FPSC in January. Lower 2007 volumes for retail customers reflect changes in customer usage patterns and lower sales to industrial customers, such as asphalt and concrete producers, that are impacted by the slowdown in the Florida housing market.
Year-to-date net income was $20.2 million, compared to $22.7 million in the 2006 period. Year-to-date results reflect 1.9% average customer growth, the same factors described for the third quarter, and slightly higher non-fuel operations and maintenance expenses. Also, sales to weather-sensitive residential customers were lower in the first quarter due to one of the warmest months of January on record, which limited the number of heating degree-days.
TECO Coal
TECO Coal achieved third quarter net income of $20.5 million, compared to $21.4 million in the same period in 2006. TECO Coal's Non-GAAP Results Excluding Synthetic Fuel, which exclude the $13.1 million benefit related to synthetic fuel production in 2007 and the $13.8 million net benefit from synthetic fuel in 2006, were $7.4 million in 2007, compared to $7.6 million in the 2006 period. (See the table.)
Results Reconciliation
In 2007, third quarter total sales were 2.4 million tons, including 1.7 million tons of
 
synthetic fuel, compared to 2.3 million tons, including 0.5 million tons of synthetic fuel, in the third quarter of 2006. Compared to the third quarter in 2006, results reflect a 2.3% lower average net selling price per ton across all products, which excludes transportation allowances, reflecting a sales mix in the quarter more heavily weighted to lower-priced steam coal. In 2007, the cash cost of production per ton decreased slightly from the third quarter of 2006 despite approximately $1 per ton of costs associated with closing a high-cost underground mine and difficult mining conditions at two other mines. Cost of production in 2006 included the costs related to the relocation of mining equipment and additional exploration costs.
The $13.1 million of benefits from the production of synthetic fuel in the third quarter reflect a $37.3 million after-tax reduction in benefits due to an estimated 48% phase-out of synthetic fuel tax credits, compared to a 39% phase-out in the 2006 period. The results for synthetic fuel production this quarter also reflect a $23.6 million after-tax benefit from adjusting to market the valuation of the oil-price hedges placed to protect the 2007 synthetic fuel benefits against high oil prices. In 2006, third quarter results included a $4.3 million after-tax mark-to-market charge.
TECO Coal has in place oil price hedge instruments that protect against the risk of high oil prices reducing the value of the tax credits related to the production of synthetic fuel in 2007. The hedges protect the full gross cash benefits expected from the third-party investors for the production of synthetic fuel over the full expected average annual oil price phase-out range. Because the oil price hedges in place should provide approximately a dollar-for-dollar recovery of lost synthetic fuel revenues in the event of a phase-out, TECO Coal expects full-year benefits from the production of synthetic fuel to be approximately $100 million of net cash and $65 million of net income, regardless of oil price levels. Actual and forecasted net income from synthetic fuel production reflects the expected 35% tax rate applied to synthetic fuel-related earnings, rather than TECO Coal's lower overall effective tax rate, which includes depletion.
The phase-out range for the synthetic fuel tax credits will be based on oil prices represented by the annual average of Producer First Purchase Prices reported by the U.S. Department of Energy. Based on the historical relationship of these prices to NYMEX prices, TECO Coal estimates the initial phase-out level for 2007 to begin at $63/Bbl on a NYMEX basis, and that the tax credits would be fully phased out at $79/Bbl on a NYMEX basis. Final calculations of any reductions in benefits will not be made until after the end of the year when final oil prices are known. Changes in oil prices may cause adjustments to fourth quarter results, either positive or negative, depending on oil prices through the end of the year. Inflation rates or changes in the oil price relationship between Producer First Purchase Price and NYMEX prices other than those assumed in the forecast could cause actual results to vary from those forecasted.
TECO Coal recorded year-to-date net income of $83.7 million in 2007, compared to $59.5 million in the 2006 period. TECO Coal's 2007 year-to-date Non-GAAP Results Excluding Synthetic Fuel, which exclude the $54.8 million benefit associated with the production of synthetic fuel, were $28.9 million, compared to $36.4 million, which excluded $23.1 million of synthetic fuel benefits for the 2006 period. (See the table.)
Results Reconciliation
In 2007, year-to-date total sales were 6.8 million tons, including 4.5 million tons of synthetic fuel, compared to 7.2 million tons, including 3.6 million tons of synthetic fuel, in
 
the 2006 period when synfuel production was curtailed for approximately six weeks. Results in 2007 reflect cash cost of production and an average net per-ton selling price across all products, which excludes transportation allowances that were essentially unchanged from 2006. Results also reflect a $1.6 million after-tax benefit in the first quarter of 2007 from the true-up of the 2006 synthetic fuel tax credit rate, compared to a $2.7 million benefit in 2006 for the true-up of the 2005 synthetic fuel tax credit rate.
The year-to-date $54.8 million of benefits from the production of synthetic fuel reflect a $49.7 million after-tax reduction in earnings benefits due to the estimated 48% phase-out, compared to the 39% phase-out and $28.1 million after-tax reduction in the 2006 year-to-date period. The year-to-date results for synthetic fuel production also reflect a $31.6 million after-tax benefit from adjusting to market the valuation of the oil price hedges placed to protect the 2007 synthetic fuel benefits against high oil prices. In 2006, year-to-date results included a $0.4 million after-tax benefit from mark-to-market adjustments.
TECO Transport
TECO Transport recorded third quarter 2007 net income of $11.0 million, compared to $3.4 million in the same period in 2006. TECO Transport's third quarter 2007 non-GAAP results were $7.4 million, compared to 2006 non-GAAP results of $3.6 million. Because of the Assets Held for Sale classification of TECO Transport, the recording of depreciation was discontinued as of Apr. 1, 2007. TECO Transport's third quarter non-GAAP results include $3.6 million of after-tax depreciation that was excluded from reported net income. Third quarter non-GAAP results in 2006 excluded $0.2 million of after-tax direct costs associated with Hurricane Katrina damage. (See the table.)
Results Reconciliation
Third quarter results in 2007 reflect higher third-party business for the oceangoing fleet and increased third-party volumes at TECO Bulk Terminal, partially offset by lower volumes moved for Tampa Electric, the impact of low water conditions on the rivers, which limited tow sizes, and lower river rates when compared to the near record levels in 2006. In 2006, results reflected the negative impact of the timing and duration of a planned shipyard period for a tonnage tax qualified vessel. The tonnage tax provision reduces taxes on income earned by U.S.-flag vessels engaged in full-time international trade, thus achieving the same tax treatment that international flag vessels receive, which keeps U.S.-flag vessels competitive with non-U.S. flag vessels.
Year-to-date net income was $27.0 million in 2007, compared to $15.0 million in the 2006 period. Year-to-date non-GAAP results were $19.8 million in 2007, including $7.2 million after tax of year-to-date depreciation expense not recorded in GAAP net income, compared to $17.3 million in 2006, excluding $2.3 million of after-tax direct costs associated with damage from Hurricane Katrina, net of insurance recovery. (See the table.) These results reflect primarily the same factors as the third quarter, as well as higher labor related costs. Results in 2007 also include a $0.8 million after-tax benefit related to the sale of scrap river barges and equipment no longer used at TECO Barge Line.
Results Reconciliation
TECO Guatemala
TECO Guatemala reported third quarter net income of $10.2 million in 2007, compared to $9.3 million in the 2006 period. Year-to-date 2007 net income was $33.3
 
million, compared to $26.6 million in the 2006 period. The 2007 third quarter and year-to-date results reflect customer growth and higher energy sales at EEGSA and increased earnings from the unregulated EEGSA-affiliated companies (DECA II), which provide, among other things, electricity transmission services, telecommunication carrier service, wholesale power sales to unregulated electric customers and engineering services. The San Jos Power Station had slightly higher contract energy sales at higher prices in the quarter and 3% higher year-to-date contract energy sales. Spot energy sales decreased slightly in the quarter due to more hydroelectric power available, but increased 7% in the year-to-date period. The Alborada Power Station benefited from higher capacity payments as scheduled under its contract. Interest expense decreased in both periods due to lower interest rates and lower project debt balances and interest income increased on higher cash balances. Year-to-date results for EEGSA and affiliated companies also include a $1.9 million after-tax benefit related to a second quarter adjustment to previously estimated year-end equity balances.
Parent / Other
The cost for Parent/other in the third quarter was $17.5 million after tax, compared to a cost of $15.6 million after tax in the same period in 2006. The non-GAAP cost for Parent/other in the third quarter was $14.5 million after tax, compared to a cost of $18.2 million after tax in the 2006 period. Non-GAAP costs in 2007 exclude the $3.0 million of after-tax charges related to the pending sale of TECO Transport. Non-GAAP costs in 2006 exclude a $2.6 million after-tax gain on the sale of unused steam turbines. (See the table.) Total parent interest expense declined by $5.1 million after tax in the third quarter of 2007, reflecting parent debt retirement.
Results Reconciliation
The year-to-date Parent/other cost was $60.5 million after tax in 2007, compared to $44.3 million after tax in the 2006 period. The non-GAAP year-to-date cost was $47.5 million after tax in 2007, compared to $55.0 million after tax in the 2006 period. The year-to-date non-GAAP cost excluded $13.0 million of after-tax charges related to the pending sale of TECO Transport. Results in 2006 reflected the $2.6 million after-tax gain on the unused steam turbines and an $8.1 million gain on the sale of the remaining assets of the unfinished McAdams Power Station, which had been previously impaired. Year-to-date 2007 total parent interest expense declined by $11.0 million after tax, reflecting parent debt retirement.
Discontinued Operations
Year-to-date net income from discontinued operations was $14.3 million in 2007, compared to $1.4 million in the same period of 2006. Results from discontinued operations in 2007 reflect a favorable conclusion reached with taxing authorities recorded in the second quarter for the 2005 disposition of the Union and Gila River merchant power plants. Results from discontinued operations in 2006 reflected recoveries of amounts previously written-off from the smaller unregulated energy-related businesses that were sold in prior years.
Cash and Liquidity
The table below sets forth the Sept. 30, 2007 consolidated liquidity and cash balances, the cash balances at the operating companies and TECO Energy parent, and amounts available under the TECO Energy and Tampa Electric credit facilities.
 
Consolidated restricted cash of $37.4 million includes $30.0 million held in escrow until the end of 2007 related to the sale of an interest in TECO Coal's synthetic coal production facilities. Consolidated cash and cash equivalents includes $14.8 million of cash at the unregulated operating companies for normal operations and $50.1 million of cash and cash equivalents at TECO Guatemala held offshore due to the tax deferral structure associated with EEGSA and its affiliated companies. In addition to consolidated cash, as of Sept. 30, 2007, unconsolidated affiliates owned by TECO Guatemala, CGESJ (San Jos) and TCAE (Alborada), had unrestricted cash balances of $11.2 million and restricted cash of $8.2 million, which are not included in the table above.
2007 Earnings Outlook
TECO Energy indicated in February an outlook for 2007 results from continuing operations within a range of $0.97 and $1.07 per share, excluding charges, gains and benefits from the production of synthetic fuel, but including results from TECO Transport for the full year. In 2007, reported GAAP net income includes the benefits of synthetic fuel production. For comparability to 2006 and potential 2008 results, TECO Energy will continue to provide Non-GAAP Results Excluding Synthetic Fuel, and provided its 2007 results guidance on this basis.
In August, TECO Energy indicated that, without any offsetting factors, the impact of the very mild weather earlier in the year and customer usage patterns on the utilities' results through the second quarter and the impact of weak coal markets on TECO Coal's opportunity to produce above contracted tonnage levels were expected to limit the probability of earning at the upper end of the guidance range provided in February.
For the remainder of 2007 Tampa Electric assumes normal fourth quarter weather, continued customer growth, weather-normalized energy sales growth, higher AFUDC, and ECRC-related earnings on its first NO
x
control project that entered service in June. Peoples Gas expects customer growth and therm sales growth to be more than offset by the effects of higher operation and maintenance expense and higher depreciation expense. TECO Coal expects total sales volumes below 2006 due to soft market conditions and average per-ton margins similar to 2006 levels, with total sales to be at the lower end of the previously provided range of 9.0 to 9.5 million tons in 2007. TECO Guatemala previously indicated earnings for 2007 would be consistent with 2006 levels; however, 2007 earnings are now expected to be above 2006 levels given the strong year-to-date performance. Costs at the TECO Energy parent level are expected to decline due to debt retirement actions completed
 
earlier in the year partially offset by lower investment income due to lower cash balances. TECO Transport's expected full-year results are included in the 2007 guidance pending the completion of the sale of that subsidiary.
Effective Mar. 31, 2007 the assets and liabilities associated with TECO Transport were reclassified for balance sheet purposes as assets and liabilities held for sale. In accordance with the provisions of SFAS 144, (FAS 144), effective April 1, depreciation was no longer recorded for the TECO Transport assets. Also in accordance with the provisions of FAS 144, as a result of its significant continuing involvement with Tampa Electric related to the waterborne transportation of solid fuel, the results of TECO Transport will not be reflected in discontinued operations. Upon the completion of the sale of TECO Transport its future results will no longer be included in TECO Energy's results.
Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets
On Oct. 29, 2007 TECO Energy announced the execution of a definitive agreement to Sell TECO Transport Corporation to an investment group lead by an affiliate of Greenstreet Equity Partners, L.P., a Miami based private equity firm, for a purchase price of $405 million in cash subject to working capital adjustments. Net proceeds, taking into consideration estimated transaction-related costs, including state and federal taxes, are expected to be in a range between $370 and $380 million. The company expects to record a pretax net book gain in a range between $225 and $275 million.
Non-GAAP Presentation
The table below presents non-GAAP financial results after elimination of the effects of certain identified gains, charges and earnings from the production of synthetic fuel in the 2007 and 2006 quarterly, year-to-date and 12-months ended periods. The company provides both measures to allow comparison of results both with and without synthetic fuel. This provides investors additional information to assess the company's results and future earnings potential without the production of synthetic fuel.
Results Reconciliation
Management believes it is helpful to present a non-GAAP measure of performance that clearly reflects the ongoing operations of TECO Energy's businesses and which allows investors to better understand and evaluate the business as it is expected to operate in future periods.
Management and the Board of Directors use non-GAAP measures as a yardstick for measuring the company's performance, in making decisions that are dependent upon the profitability of the company's various operating units, and in determining levels of incentive compensation.
The non-GAAP measures of financial performance used by the company are not measures of performance under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and should not be considered an alternative to net income or other GAAP figures as an indicator of the company's financial performance or liquidity. TECO Energy's non- GAAP presentation of net income may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
 
Results Reconciliation
Presentation at Edison Electric Institute Nov. 6, 2007
As previously announced, TECO Energy will make a presentation covering its third quarter results and general outlook to the financial community at the Edison Electric Institute Financial Conference that will be concurrently Webcast at 11:15 AM Eastern time, Tuesday, Nov. 6, 2007. The Webcast will be accessible through the link on TECO Energy's Website: . The Webcast and accompanying slides will be available for replay for 30 days through the Web site, beginning approximately two hours after the conclusion of the live event.
www.tecoenergy.com
TECO Energy, Inc. (NYSE: TE) is an integrated energy-related holding company with regulated utility businesses, complemented by a family of unregulated businesses. Its principal subsidiary, , is a regulated utility with both electric and gas divisions (. Other subsidiaries are engaged in waterborne transportation, coal and synthetic fuel production, and electric generation and distribution in Guatemala.
Tampa Electric Company
Tampa Electric and Peoples Gas System)
Note: This press release contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to the
 
inherent uncertainties in predicting future results and conditions. Actual results may differ materially from those forecasted. The forecasted results are based on the company's current expectations and assumptions, and the company does not undertake to update that information or any other information contained in this press release, except as may be required by law. Factors that could impact actual results include: regulatory actions by federal, state or local authorities; uncertainty related to the sale of TECO Transport; additional debt extinguishment costs or premiums associated with the early retirement of TECO Energy debt; the ability to close the sale of TECO Transport in the anticipated time frame or at all is dependent upon various closing conditions; unexpected capital needs or unanticipated reductions in cash flow that affect liquidity; the availability of adequate rail transportation capacity for the shipment of TECO Coal's production; general economic conditions in Tampa Electric's service area affecting energy sales; economic conditions, both national and international, affecting the demand for TECO Transport's waterborne transportation services; weather variations and changes in customer energy usage patterns affecting sales and operating costs at Tampa Electric and Peoples Gas and the effect of extreme weather conditions or hurricanes; commodity price and operating cost changes affecting the production levels and margins at TECO Coal and margins at TECO Transport; fuel cost recoveries and cash at Tampa Electric or natural gas demand at Peoples Gas; the ability of TECO Energy's subsidiaries to operate equipment without undue accidents, breakdowns or failures; changes in electric tariffs or contract terms affecting TECO Guatemala's operations; changes in the oil price relationship between the Department of Energy's Producer First Purchase Price and oil futures prices as reported on NYMEX, which affects the synthetic fuel tax credit phase-out range; the actual change in inflation in 2007, which affects the final value of the synthetic fuel related tax credits; TECO Coal's ability to successfully operate its synthetic fuel production facilities in a manner qualifying for the federal income tax credits; and TECO Coal's exposure to any changes in law, regulation or administration that would retroactively impact the federal income tax credits from the production of synthetic fuel or the related benefits that have been recognized to date. Additional information is contained under "Risk Factors" in TECO Energy, Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended Dec. 31, 2006.
 
 
 
 


