FILE:TE/TE-8K-20080205074602.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
See the Press Release dated February 5, 2008, furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference, reporting on TECO Energy, Inc.'s financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2007.
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
Item 5.02  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
(b) On January 30, 2008, it was confirmed that William P. Sovey, a Director, will be retiring from the Board effective at the end of his term, April 30, 2008. Mr. Sovey's retirement from the Board is not due to any disagreement with management or any other Board member.
(d) On January 30, 2008, John B. Ramil was elected a member of the Board and was appointed to the Finance Committee.
Item 5.03  Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
(a) On January 30, 2008, the Board of Directors of TECO Energy, Inc., approved amendments to Article VII of the Bylaws, effective immediately, to clarify that shares of capital stock may be issued in certificated or uncertificated form, as provided under Florida law, and to make changes regarding the issuance, transfer and registration of shares by TECO Energy, Inc. or its Transfer Agent and/or Registrar.
The foregoing description of the amendments to the bylaws is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the bylaws, as amended, which are attached as Exhibit 3.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
April 16, 1991
The name of the Corporation is TECO Energy, Inc., and its principal office is in Tampa, Florida.
. All meetings of the shareholders shall be held at the principal office of the Corporation in Tampa, Florida, except in cases in which the notice thereof designates some other place which may be either within or without the State of Florida.
SECTION 2.1.
Shareholders' Meetings
April 11, 1989
January 21, 1998
. The annual meeting of the shareholders of the Corporation shall be held on such date and at such time as shall be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors for the purpose of electing directors and for the transaction of such other business as may properly come before the meeting.
SECTION 2.2.
Annual Meetings
April 18, 1985
April 11, 1989
April 16, 1991
January 21, 1998
. Special meetings of the shareholders of the Corporation shall be held whenever called by the Chief Executive Officer, the President, any Vice President, the Board of Directors, or if demanded in writing delivered to the Secretary by the holder or holders of not less than 50 percent of all the shares entitled to vote at the meeting. A meeting so demanded by shareholders shall be called by the Secretary and held on the date fixed by the Board of Directors, which date shall not be less than 90 days after the demand is made. No business shall be brought before any special meeting except as specified in the written notice of meeting; provided, however, that nothing in this Section 2.3 shall be deemed to preclude discussion by any shareholder of any business properly brought before any special meeting.
SECTION 2.3.
Special Meetings
January 19, 1993
. Written notice of each meeting of shareholders stating the date, time and place of the meeting and in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called shall be given in person, by electronic communication or by mail not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days before the date of the meeting by or at the direction of the President, the Secretary or the officer or other persons calling the meeting to each shareholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting. If the notice is mailed at least thirty (30) days before the date of the meeting, it may be done by a class of United States mail other than first class.
SECTION 2.4.
Notice of Meeting
April 16, 1991
. Whenever any notice is required to be given to any shareholder of the Corporation under the provisions of these Bylaws, the Articles of Incorporation or the Florida Business Corporation Act, as the same may be from time to time in effect, a waiver thereof in writing signed by the person or persons entitled to such notice either before, at or after the meeting shall be deemed equivalent to the giving of such notice.
SECTION 2.5.
Waivers of Notice
A shareholder's attendance at a meeting: (a) waives objection to lack of notice or defective notice of the meeting, unless the shareholder at the beginning of the meeting objects to holding the meeting or transacting business at the meeting; or (b) waives objection to the consideration of a particular matter at the meeting that is not within the purpose or purposes described in the meeting notice, unless the shareholder objects to considering the matter when it is presented.
. Except as otherwise provided in the Articles of Incorporation at any meeting of the shareholders, a majority of the outstanding shares of the stock of the Corporation issued and outstanding and entitled to vote represented by shareholders of record in person or by proxy shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the shareholders, but in no event shall a quorum consist of less than one-third of the shares entitled to vote at the meeting. Except as otherwise provided by law or in the Articles of Incorporation when a quorum is present at any meeting, a majority of the stock represented thereat shall decide any question properly brought before such meeting.
SECTION 2.6.
Quorum
April 16, 1991
October 19, 1993
. Each share of stock entitled to voting privileges shall entitle the holder of record thereof to one vote upon each proposal presented at any meeting of the shareholders except as otherwise provided in the Articles of Incorporation. Votes may be cast either in person or by proxy.
SECTION 2.7.
Voting and Proxies
April 16, 1991
. For the purpose of determining the shareholders for any purpose, the Board of Directors may either require the stock transfer books to be closed for up to 70 days or fix a record date not more than 70 days before the date on which the action requiring the determination is to be taken. However, a record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted.
SECTION 2.8.
Fixing Record Date or Closing Transfer Books
When a determination of the shareholders entitled to vote at any meeting has been made, that determination shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting, unless the Board of Directors fixes a new record date. The Board of Directors shall fix a new record date if the meeting is adjourned to a date more than 120 days after the date fixed for the original meeting.
If no record date is so fixed and the stock transfer books are not so closed by the Board of Directors, the record date for the determination of shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of the shareholders, or entitled to receive payment of a dividend, or for any other purpose shall be: (a) for the purpose of a meeting of the shareholders, the later of (i) the day 20 days before the day on which the notice of such meeting is mailed and (ii) the day on which the
 
resolution of the Board of Directors authorizing the notice of such meeting is adopted; or (b) for the purposes of entitlement to receive payment of a dividend or for any other purpose, the day on which the resolution of the Board of Directors declaring such dividend or authorizing other action is adopted.
April 18, 1985
. Any action required or permitted to be taken by the shareholders of the Corporation must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of such holders and may not be effected by any consent in writing by such holders.
SECTION 2.9.
Shareholder Action
April 12, 1988
April 16, 1991
. Section 607.0902 of the Florida Business Corporation Act shall not apply to control-share acquisitions (as defined in such section) of shares of the Corporation unless and until these Bylaws shall be amended to delete this Section 2.10.
SECTION 2.10.
Control-Share Acquisition Act
April 11, 1989
October 15, 1990
May 1, 1998
January 18, 2001
. No business may be transacted at an annual meeting of shareholders, other than business that is either (a) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof), (b) otherwise properly brought before the annual meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof) or (c) otherwise properly brought before the annual meeting by any shareholder of the Corporation (i) who is a shareholder of record on the date of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section 2.11 and on the record date for the determination of shareholders entitled to vote at such annual meeting and (ii) who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 2.11.
Section 2.11 Notification of Shareholder Proposed Business
In addition to any other applicable requirements, for business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a shareholder, such shareholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the Secretary of the Corporation.
To be timely, a shareholder's notice to the Secretary must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than ninety (90) days nor more than one hundred-twenty (120) days prior to the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting of shareholders; provided, however, that in the event that the annual meeting is called for a date that is not within thirty (30) days before or after such anniversary date, notice by the shareholder in order to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the tenth (10th) day following the day on which such notice of the date of the annual meeting was mailed or such public disclosure of the date of the annual meeting was made, whichever first occurs.
To be in proper written form, a shareholder's notice to the Secretary must set forth as to each matter such shareholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting (i) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting, (ii) the name and record address of such shareholder, (iii) the class and series and number of shares of each class and series of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record by such shareholder, (iv) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such shareholder and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with the proposal of such business by such shareholder and any material interest of such shareholder in such business and (v) a representation that such shareholder is a holder of record of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and that such shareholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the annual meeting to bring such business before the meeting.
 
In addition, notwithstanding anything in this Section 2.11 to the contrary, a shareholder intending to nominate one or more persons for election as a Director at an annual or special meeting must comply with Section 3.7 of these bylaws for such nominations to be properly brought before such meeting.
No business shall be conducted at the annual meeting of shareholders except business brought before the annual meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.11, provided, however, that, once business has been properly brought before the annual meeting in accordance with such procedures, nothing in this Section 2.11 shall be deemed to preclude discussion by any shareholder of any such business. If the Chairman of an annual meeting determines that business was not properly brought before the annual meeting in accordance with the foregoing procedures, the Chairman shall declare to the meeting that the business was not properly brought before the meeting and such business shall not be transacted.
. All business of the Corporation shall be managed by its Board of Directors who shall have full control of the affairs of the Corporation and may exercise all its powers except as otherwise provided by law and in the Articles of Incorporation. The Board of Directors shall have the authority to fix the compensation of the Directors unless otherwise provided in the Articles of Incorporation.
SECTION 3.1.
General Powers
April 18, 1985
. The number of Directors of the Corporation, which number shall be not less than three nor more than fifteen, shall be fixed from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors. The Directors, other than those who may be elected by the holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation to elect Directors under specified circumstances, shall be classified, with respect to the time for which they severally hold office, into three classes, as nearly equal in number as possible. Such classes shall originally consist of one class of four Directors who shall be elected at the annual meeting of shareholders held in 1985 for a term expiring at the annual meeting of shareholders to be held in 1986; a second class of four Directors who shall be elected at the annual meeting of shareholders held in 1985 for a term expiring at the annual meeting of shareholders to be held in 1987; and a third class of five Directors who shall be elected at the annual meeting of shareholders held in 1985 for a term expiring at the annual meeting of shareholders to be held in 1988; with each class to hold office until its successor is elected and qualified. The Board of Directors shall increase or decrease the number of Directors in one or more classes as may be appropriate whenever it increases or decreases the number of Directors pursuant to this Section 3.2, in order to ensure that the three classes shall be as nearly equal in number as possible. At each annual meeting of the shareholders of the Corporation, the successors of the class of Directors whose term expires at the meeting shall be elected to hold office for a term expiring at the annual meeting of shareholders held in the third year following the year of their election. All Directors shall be of full age. Directors need not be shareholders of the Corporation nor residents of the State of Florida.
SECTION 3.2.
Number, Election and Terms
. The Board of Directors in its discretion may elect a Chairman of the Board of Directors who when present shall preside at all meetings of the Board and who shall have such other powers as may at any time be prescribed by these Bylaws and by the Board of Directors.
SECTION 3.3.
Chairman
July 18, 1995
. Regular meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held in such places and at such times either within or without the State of Florida as the Board may by vote from time to time determine; and if so determined, no notice thereof need be given. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at any time or place either within or without the State of Florida whenever called by the Chief Executive Officer, the President, a Vice President or two or more Directors. Notice of a special meeting stating the date, time and place of the meeting shall be given by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary or officer calling the meeting to each Director either by mail not less than
SECTION 3.4.
Meetings
 
48 hours before the time of the meeting or by telephone or facsimile or other form of electronic communication on 24 hours' notice or on such shorter notice as the person or persons calling such meeting may deem necessary or appropriate in the circumstances. Notwithstanding the foregoing, special meetings may be held without notice to any Director provided such Director is present at such meeting (except when such Director states, at the beginning of the meeting or promptly upon arrival at the meeting, any objection to the transaction of business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened) or waives notice thereof in writing either before or after the meeting.
. A majority of the Board of Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but a lesser number may fill vacancies on the Board of Directors as provided in Section 3.6 of these Bylaws; and a majority of Directors present though less than a quorum may adjourn any meeting of the Board of Directors from time to time to another time and place; and the meeting may be held as adjourned without further notice. When a quorum is present at any meeting, a majority of the members in attendance thereat may decide any question brought before such meeting.
SECTION 3.5.
Quorum
April 18, 1985
. Except as may be otherwise provided for or fixed by or pursuant to any provisions of the Articles of Incorporation, as amended from time to time, relating to the rights of the holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation to elect Directors under specified circumstances, newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the number of Directors and any vacancies on the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, disqualification, removal or other cause shall be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining Directors then in office, even though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors. Any Director elected in accordance with the preceding sentence shall hold office until the next election of Directors by the shareholders and until such Director's successor shall have been elected and qualified. No decrease in the number of Directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent Director.
SECTION 3.6.
Newly Created Directorships and Vacancies
April 18, 1985
October 15, 1990
May 1, 1998
January 18, 2001
. Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the following procedures shall be eligible for election as directors of the Corporation, subject to the rights of holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation to elect Directors under specified circumstances. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at any annual meeting of shareholders, or at any special meeting of shareholders called for the purpose of electing directors, (a) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof) or (b) by any shareholder of the Corporation (i) who is a shareholder of record on the date of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section 3.7 and on the record date for the determination of shareholders entitled to vote at such meeting and (ii) who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 3.7.
Section 3.7 Notification of Nominations
In addition to any other applicable requirements, for a nomination to be made by a shareholder, such shareholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the Secretary of the Corporation.
To be timely, a shareholder's notice to the Secretary must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation (a) in the case of an annual meeting, not less than ninety (90) days nor more than one hundred-twenty (120) days prior to the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting of shareholders; provided, however, that in the event that the annual meeting is called for a date that is not within thirty (30) days before or after such anniversary date, notice by the shareholder in order to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the tenth (10th) day following the day on which such notice of the date of the annual meeting was mailed or such public disclosure of the date of the annual meeting was made, whichever first occurs; and (b) in the case of a special meeting of shareholders called for the purpose of electing directors, not later than the close of business on the tenth (10th) day following the day on which notice of the date of the special meeting was mailed or public disclosure of the date of the special meeting was made, whichever first occurs.
 
To be in proper written form, a shareholder's notice to the Secretary must set forth (a) as to each person whom the shareholder proposes to nominate for election as a director (i) the name, age, business address and residence address of the person, (ii) the principal occupation and employment of the person, (iii) the class and series and number of shares of each class and series of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record by the person and (iv) any other information relating to the person that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors pursuant to Section 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") (or in any law or statute replacing such section) and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder; and (b) as to the shareholder giving the notice (i) the name and record address of such shareholder, (ii) the class and series and number of shares of each class and series of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record by such shareholder, (iii) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such shareholder and each proposed nominee and any other person or persons (including their names) pursuant to which the nomination(s) are to be made by such shareholder, (iv) a representation that such shareholder is a holder of record of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and that such shareholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the person or persons named in its notice and (v) any other information relating to such shareholder that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act (or in any law or statute replacing such section) and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. Such notice must be accompanied by a written consent of each proposed nominee to being named as a nominee and to serve as a director if elected.
No person shall be eligible for election as a director of the Corporation unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 3.7. If the Chairman of the meeting determines that a nomination was not made in accordance with the foregoing procedures, the Chairman shall declare to the meeting that the nomination was defective and such defective nomination shall be disregarded.
April 18, 1985
. The Board of Directors may by resolution adopted by a majority of the full Board of Directors designate from their number an Executive Committee and one or more other committees, each of which to the extent provided by such resolution or these Bylaws and permitted by the laws of Florida shall have and may exercise the powers of the Board of Directors when the Board is not in session in the management of the business of the Corporation. All such committees shall report to the Board at or prior to each meeting of the Board all action taken by said committees since the preceding meeting of the Board. Each such committee may make rules for the holding and conduct of its meetings and the keeping of the records thereof.
SECTION 3.8.
Executive and Other Committees
The Board of Directors may by resolution adopted by a majority of the full Board of Directors designate one or more Directors as alternate members of any such committee who may act in the place and stead of any member absent or disqualified from voting at any meeting of such committee.
April 18, 1985
April 16, 1991
. Any action of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof which is required or permitted to be taken at a meeting may be taken without a meeting if written consent setting forth the action so to be taken is signed by all of the members of the Board or the committee, as the case may be.
SECTION 3.9.
Consent in Lieu of Meeting
 
April 16, 1991
April 16, 1997
. The officers of the Company shall be a President, a Treasurer, a Secretary, such other officers as the Board of Directors may in its discretion elect or appoint including, but not limited to, a Chairman of the Board, Vice Presidents, and assistant officers, and such assistant officers as the President may in his discretion appoint. The officers elected or appointed by the Board of Directors shall be elected or appointed by the Board of Directors from time-to-time, and a regular meeting of the Board of Directors may be held without notice for this purpose immediately after the annual meeting of the shareholders and at the same place. Assistant officers may be appointed by the President from time-to-time. All officers shall hold office until their successors shall be elected or appointed and shall qualify or until their earlier resignation, removal from office or death. Any vacancy however occurring in the offices of President, Treasurer or Secretary shall be, and any vacancy however occurring in any other office may be, filled by the Board of Directors. Any vacancy however occurring in the offices of assistant officers may also be filled by the President.
SECTION 4.1. 
Election. (Appointment)
The Board of Directors or the President may in their discretion from time-to-time also appoint divisional officers.
January 21, 1998
July 6, 2004
. The Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman of the Board of Directors shall be Directors of the Corporation. The Vice Presidents, Secretary and the Treasurer and such other officers as may be elected or appointed may be, but need not be, Directors of the Corporation. Any person may hold two or more offices. For so long as the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries are impacted by 46 U.S.C. 802 . ., the President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, if any, shall be United States citizens.
SECTION 4.2.
Eligibility
et
seq
. If a Chairman of the Board of Directors should be elected pursuant to these Bylaws, the Board of Directors shall designate either the Chairman of the Board of Directors or the President to be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation. If no such Chairman should be elected, the President shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation. The Chief Executive Officer shall, subject to the control of the Board of Directors, have general charge of the business and affairs of the Corporation, the power to sign deeds and contracts for the Corporation, and such other powers and duties as may at any time be prescribed by these Bylaws and by the Board of Directors. During the absence or incapacity of the Chairman of the Board of Directors if he shall have been designated Chief Executive Officer, the President shall be the Chief Executive Officer.
SECTION 4.3.
Chief Executive Officer
. The President, subject to the direction of the Board of Directors and of the Chairman of the Board of Directors (if such Chairman is the Chief Executive Officer), shall supervise the administration of the business and affairs of the Corporation. The President shall have the power to sign certificates of stock, bonds, deeds and contracts for the Corporation and such other powers and duties as may at any time be prescribed by these Bylaws and by the Board of Directors. He shall preside at all meetings of the shareholders unless a Chairman of the Board of Directors shall have been elected, shall have been designated to be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation, and is present and presides at such shareholders' meeting. The President shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors when present, unless a Chairman of the Board of Directors has been elected and is present and presides at such Directors' meeting.
SECTION 4.4.
President and Vice Presidents
Except as expressly limited by vote of the Board of Directors, any Vice President shall perform the duties and have the powers of the President during the absence or disability of the President, shall have the power to sign certificates of stock, bonds, deeds and contracts of the Corporation, and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors shall from time to time designate.
 
. The Secretary of the Corporation shall be present at all meetings of the shareholders, the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee, respectively, shall keep an accurate record of the proceedings at such meetings in books provided for that purpose, which books shall be opened at all times during business hours for such inspection as is required by law, shall with the President or a Vice President sign certificates of stock, shall perform all the duties commonly incident to his office and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors shall from time to time designate. An Assistant Secretary or a Secretary pro tempore may perform any of the Secretary's duties.
SECTION 4.5.
Secretary
. The Treasurer shall have the care and custody of the funds of the Corporation and shall have and exercise under the supervision of the Board of Directors all the powers and duties commonly incident to his office and shall give bond in such sum and with such sureties as may be required by the Board of Directors. He shall have the custody of all the money, funds and valuable papers and documents of the Corporation except his own bond, if any, which shall be in the custody of the Chief Executive Officer. He shall deposit all the funds of the Corporation in such bank or banks, trust company or trust companies or with such firm or firms doing a banking business as the Directors shall designate. He may endorse for deposit or collection all notes, checks, drafts and other obligations payable to the Corporation or its order. He may issue notes and accept drafts on behalf of the Corporation, and he shall keep accurate books of account of the Corporation's transactions which shall be the property of the Corporation and together with all its property in his possession shall be subject at all times to the inspection and control of the Directors.
SECTION 4.6.
Treasurer
April 12, 1988
April 16, 1991
April 16, 1997
Any person who is or was an officer, director or employee of the Company and who is or was a party to any threatened, pending or completed proceeding, by reason of the fact that he is or was a director, officer or employee of the Company or is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, shall be indemnified by the Company to the full extent permitted by law against all expenses and liabilities incurred in connection with such proceeding, including any appeal thereof. Such persons shall also be entitled to advancement of expenses incurred in defending a proceeding in advance of its final disposition to the full extent permitted by law, subject to the conditions imposed by law.
Any indemnification or advance of expenses under this article shall be paid promptly, and in any event within 30 days, after the receipt by the Company of a written request therefor from the person to be indemnified, unless with respect to a claim for indemnification the person is not entitled to indemnification under this article. Unless otherwise provided by law, the burden of proving that the person is not entitled to indemnification shall be on the Company.
The right of indemnification under this article shall be a contract right inuring to the benefit of the persons entitled to be indemnified hereunder and no amendment or repeal of this article shall adversely affect any right of such persons existing at the time of such amendment or repeal.
The indemnification provided hereunder shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of a person entitled to indemnification hereunder.
As used in this article, the terms "Company", "other enterprises", "expenses", "liability", "proceeding", "agent" and "serving at the request of the Company" shall have the meanings ascribed to them in Section 607.0850 of the Florida Business Corporation Act or any successor statute.
The right of indemnification under this article shall be in addition to and not exclusive of all other rights to which persons entitled to indemnification hereunder may be entitled. Nothing contained in this article shall affect any rights to indemnification to which persons entitled to indemnification hereunder may be entitled by contract or otherwise under law.
 
. Any Director, officer or agent of the Corporation may resign at any time by giving written notice to the Board of Directors or to the Chairman of the Board or to the President or to the Secretary of the Corporation, and any member of any committee may resign by giving written notice either as aforesaid or to the committee of which he is a member or the chairman thereof. Any such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein or if the time be not specified, upon receipt thereof; and unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
SECTION 6.1.
Resignations
April 18, 1985
April 16, 1991
. Subject to the rights of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation to elect Directors under specified circumstances, any Director may be removed from office, with or without cause, only by a majority vote of the entire Board of Directors or by the affirmative vote of the holders of 80 percent of the combined voting power of the then outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote generally in the election of Directors, voting together as a single class. The Board of Directors by vote of not less than a majority of the entire Board may remove from office any officer, assistant officer, agent or member of any committee whether elected or appointed by it or the Chief Executive Officer at any time with or without cause, and any assistant officer appointed by the Chief Executive Officer may likewise be removed by the Chief Executive Officer. Any such removal from office shall not affect the contract rights, if any, of the person so removed.
SECTION 6.2.
Removal
April 16, 1997
January 30, 2008
. The shares of the capital stock of the Corporation may be certificated or uncertificated as provided under Florida law.
SECTION 7.1. 
Stock Certificates/Uncertificated Shares
Subject to applicable statutory requirements, any stock certificates of the Corporation shall be in a form prescribed by the Board of Directors, duly numbered and sealed with the corporate seal of the Corporation or bearing a facsimile thereof and setting forth the number and kind of shares represented thereby. Such certificates shall be signed (either manually or in facsimile) by the President or a Vice President and by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation. If any officer who shall have signed or whose facsimile signature shall have been placed on a stock certificate shall have ceased to be such officer for any reason before such certificate shall have been issued, such certificate shall nevertheless be valid.
Within a reasonable time after the issue or transfer of shares without certificates, the Corporation or its Transfer Agent and/or Registrar shall send the shareholder a written statement setting forth the information required on stock certificates under Florida law.
. The Board of Directors may appoint one or more Transfer Agents and/or Registrars for its stock of any class or classes and may make or authorize such Transfer Agent and/or Registrar to make all such requirements deemed appropriate concerning the issue, transfer and registration of such shares.
SECTION 7.2.
Transfer Agent and Registrar
. No transfer of the capital stock of the Corporation shall be valid against the Corporation, its shareholders (other than the transferor) and its creditors for any purposes (except to render the transferee liable for debts of the Corporation to the extent provided by law) until the transfer of such stock shall have been registered upon the Corporation's stock transfer books.
SECTION 7.3.
Transfer of Stock
 
Shares of capital stock shall be transferable on the books of the Corporation by assignment in writing signed by the holder of record thereof, his attorney legally constituted or his legal representatives upon surrender of the certificate or certificates therefor, if such shares are certificated, or, if such shares are uncertificated, by notification, accompanied by written authorization as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or its Transfer Agent and/or Registrar, and subject to any valid restriction on the transfer thereof pursuant to law, the Articles of Incorporation, these Bylaws or any agreement to which the Corporation is a party. Except as otherwise required by law, neither the Corporation nor any transfer or other agent of the Corporation shall be bound to take notice of or recognize any trust, express, implied or constructive, or any charge or equity affecting any of the shares of the capital stock, or to ascertain or inquire whether any sale or transfer of any such share by any holder of record thereof, his attorney legally constituted, or his legal representative, is authorized by such trust, charge or equity or to recognize any person as having any interest therein except the holder of record thereof at the time of any such determination.
. In case of the loss, mutilation or destruction of a certificate of stock, a duplicate certificate or uncertificated shares in place thereof may be issued upon such terms as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or its Transfer Agent and/or Registrar.
SECTION 7.4
Loss of Certificates
Every bond or debenture issued by the Corporation shall be signed by the President or a Vice President and by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer or by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, and sealed with the seal of the Corporation. The seal may be facsimile, engraved or printed. Where such bond or debenture is authenticated with the manual signature of an authorized officer of the corporate or other trustee designated by the indenture of trust or other agreement under which said security is issued, the signature of any of the Corporation's officers named herein may be facsimile. In case any officer who signed or whose facsimile signature has been used on any such bond or debenture shall cease to be an officer of the Corporation for any reason before the same has been delivered by the Corporation, such bond or debenture may be issued and delivered as though the person who signed it or whose facsimile signature has been used thereon had not ceased to be such officer.
All notes and other evidences of indebtedness of the Corporation other than debentures or bonds shall be signed by such officers, agents or other persons as the Board of Directors shall by vote or resolution direct. All checks, drafts or other orders for the payment of money shall be signed by such officers, agents or other persons as the President or Treasurer may designate. The signature of any such officer, agent or other person so designated to sign checks, drafts or other orders for the payment of money may be facsimile if authorized by the President or the Treasurer.
The seal of the Corporation shall have the words "TECO Energy, Inc., Florida, 1981, Corporate Seal" inscribed thereon and may be a facsimile, engraved, printed or an impression seal.
 
April 18, 1985
The Board of Directors may by majority vote of those present at any meeting at which a quorum is present alter, amend or repeal these Bylaws, or adopt such other Bylaws as in their judgment may be advisable for the regulation of the conduct of the affairs of the Corporation, provided that any such alteration, amendment, repeal or adoption shall not be inconsistent with the Articles of Incorporation. These Bylaws may be altered, amended or repealed, and new Bylaws may be adopted by shareholders at any regular or special meeting of shareholders only if such alteration, amendment, repeal or adoption is approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of the voting power of all shares of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of Directors voting together as a single class; provided that notice of such proposed alteration, amendment, repeal or adoption shall be included in the notice of such meeting.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 TECO Energy, Inc. (NYSE:TE) today reported fourth quarter 2007 net income of $173.9 million or $0.83 per share, compared to $48.9 million or $0.23 per share in the fourth quarter of 2006. Net income from continuing operations in the fourth quarter of 2007 was also $173.9 million or $0.83 per share, compared to $48.4 million, or $0.23 per share in the 2006 period. Results in 2007 include the $146.1 million after-tax gain, net of related fourth quarter costs, from the sale of TECO Transport and $20.2 million of after-tax charges related to the debt extinguishment/exchange transaction, both completed in December (see the table later in this release).
TAMPA, February 5, 2008
Results Reconciliation
Full-year net income and earnings per share were $413.2 million or $1.98 per share in 2007, compared to $246.3 million or $1.19 per share in 2006. In addition to the fourth quarter factors, full-year results reflect $13.0 million of previously recorded after-tax costs related to the sale of TECO Transport. Full-year net income and earnings per share from continuing operations were $398.9 million or $1.91 per share in 2007, compared to $244.4 million or $1.18 per share in 2006. In 2007, net income reflects a $14.3 million tax benefit recorded in discontinued operations in the second quarter as a result of reaching a favorable conclusion with taxing authorities related to the 2005 disposition of the Union and Gila River merchant power plants. TECO Transport was not classified as a discontinued operation due to the ongoing contractual relationship for solid fuel waterborne transportation services. As a result of the closing of the sale, TECO Transport's and TECO Energy's fourth quarter and full-year results reflect activity through Dec. 3, 2007.
TECO Energy Chairman and CEO Sherrill Hudson said, "Results this quarter reflect the execution on our commitments to investors. We completed the sale of TECO Transport, which allowed us to accelerate our debt retirement plans and positions us to invest in the growth of our regulated operations. We further strengthened our balance sheet through the retirement of an additional $300 million of parent debt, and TECO Energy's credit rating was returned to investment grade by two credit rating agencies."
Hudson went on to say, "We're also pleased with our operating results this year. Even with the slowed Florida housing market, Tampa Electric continued to experience customer growth, TECO Guatemala had an outstanding year, and TECO Coal has seen improved pricing."
 
Non-GAAP Results
The table below compares the TECO Energy GAAP net income to the non-GAAP measures used in this release. Non-GAAP results exclude the charges and gains described below. Non-GAAP Results Excluding Synthetic Fuel exclude those charges and gains and also exclude the earnings benefits or costs associated with the production of synthetic fuel. The description of the charges, gains and benefits or costs related to the production of synthetic fuel follow the table. For a reconciliation to GAAP results and a discussion regarding this presentation of non-GAAP results and management's use of this information, please see the section and table later in this release.
Non-GAAP Presentation
Results Reconciliation
 
Fourth-quarter 2007 non-GAAP results from continuing operations including synthetic fuel (Non-GAAP Results With Synthetic Fuel), which include results from the production of synthetic fuel, but exclude charges and gains, were $45.5 million, compared to $46.0 million in the 2006 period. Fourth-quarter 2007 non-GAAP results from continuing operations excluding synthetic fuel (Non-GAAP Results Excluding Synthetic Fuel), which exclude charges and gains and also exclude the results from the production of synthetic fuel, were $47.7 million, compared to $37.0 million in the 2006 period (see the table later in this release).
Results Reconciliation
For the year, Non-GAAP Results With Synthetic Fuel were $276.3 million in 2007, compared to $233.6 million in 2006. Non-GAAP Results Excluding Synthetic Fuel were $223.7 million in 2007, compared to $201.5 million in 2006 (see the table later in this release).
Results Reconciliation
Fourth quarter 2007 net income included the following after-tax charges and gains: a $149.4 million gain on the sale of TECO Transport; $3.3 million of after-tax TECO Transport transaction-related costs; a $20.2 million charge for the debt extinguishment/exchange completed in December; and a $2.5 million after-tax benefit from not recording depreciation expense at TECO Transport due to its classification as Assets Held for Sale through the closing of the sale. Fourth-quarter 2006 results included a $3.1 million after-tax gain from the sale of an unused steam turbine and a $0.7 million after-tax charge for the final Hurricane Katrina-related repairs at TECO Transport. In 2007, fourth quarter net income included a $2.2 million after-tax loss from the production of synthetic fuel, compared to $9.0 million benefit in the 2006 period. (See the section later in this release.) All of these charges and gains were excluded in the calculation of Non-GAAP Results Excluding Synfuel. (See the table later in this release.)
TECO Coal
Results Reconciliation
 
Full-year 2007 net income included the following after-tax charges and gains: the fourth quarter gain on the sale of TECO Transport and charge for debt extinguishment/exchange; $16.3 million of transaction costs related to the sale of TECO Transport; and a $9.7 million benefit from not recording depreciation expense at TECO Transport due to its classification as Assets Held for Sale through the closing of the sale. Full year 2007 net income included a $52.6 million net benefit from the production of synthetic fuel, compared to a net benefit of $32.1 million in 2006. (See the section later in this release.) Net income in 2007 also reflected the $14.3 million after-tax gain in discontinued operations related to previous asset dispositions. In 2006, full-year results included a net $3.0 million of after-tax costs for hurricane-related repairs at TECO Transport and associated insurance recovery; an $8.1 million after-tax gain on the sale of the remaining McAdams Power Station assets; and a $5.7 million after-tax gain on the sale of an unused steam turbine, all of which were excluded from the calculation of Non-GAAP results. (See the table later in this release.)
TECO Coal
Results Reconciliation
Segment Reporting
The table below includes TECO Energy segment information on a GAAP basis, which includes all charges and gains and synthetic fuel-related benefits or costs for the periods shown.
 
 
Operating Company Results
Tampa Electric
Net income for the fourth quarter was $29.0 million, compared with $19.4 million for the same period in 2006. Results for the quarter reflected higher retail energy sales, 1.3% average customer growth, increased sales to other utilities and the benefits of lower operations and maintenance, depreciation and property tax expenses discussed below. Net income included $1.0 million of Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFUDC)equity, which represents allowed equity cost capitalized to construction costs, related to the installation of nitrogen oxide (NO) pollution control equipment, compared with $1.3 million
x
 
in the 2006 period. Operations and maintenance expense, excluding all Florida Public Service Commission (FPSC)-approved cost recovery clauses, decreased $2.6 million, after tax, in the fourth quarter of 2007, compared to the same period in 2006, reflecting lower planned generating unit outage expenses, lower property insurance expense, and a decrease in actuarially determined self-insurance reserves. Interest expense increased $0.7 million, after tax, due to higher levels of long-term debt outstanding, and interest income decreased $1.4 million, after tax, due primarily to lower deferred fuel clause balances.
Compared to the fourth quarter of 2006, depreciation expense decreased $0.7 million after tax, reflecting primarily lower depreciation rates as a result of a depreciation study approved by the FPSC in 2007. Property tax expense decreased $0.7 million after tax, compared to the fourth quarter of 2006, reflecting lower property tax rates from legislation passed in Florida to reduce property taxes, as well as adjustments to property valuations previously agreed to with various taxing authorities.
Despite a slower rate of customer growth in the quarter as a result of the slowdown in the Florida housing market, Tampa Electric's retail energy sales increased 2.7% in the fourth quarter, driven primarily by increased sales to lower margin industrial phosphate customers and higher sales to residential and commercial customers due to warmer than normal weather early in the quarter. Total heating and cooling degree days for the Tampa area in the fourth quarter were 8% above normal and 6% above actual 2006 levels.
Net income in 2007 was $150.3 million, compared to $135.9 million in 2006. These results were driven primarily by lower depreciation and property tax expense and higher retail energy sales, partially offset by higher operations and maintenance and interest expense. These results reflect 2.7% higher retail energy sales and off-system energy sales that were 5.0% higher than last year. The positive effects of 1.9% average retail customer growth and total heating and cooling degree days that were more than 2% above normal and 5% above 2006 total degree days were partially offset by changes in residential customers' consumption patterns due to a higher percentage of smaller, more energy-efficient, multi-family residences, and voluntary conservation due to higher prices for all forms of energy.
In 2007, excluding all FPSC-approved cost recovery clause-related expenses, operations and maintenance expense increased by $3.6 million after tax, compared to 2006, primarily due to higher employee-related costs, additional spending on the distribution system to comply with the FPSC-mandated storm hardening requirements and planned outage requirements on generating units partially offset by $5.1 million of lower after-tax depreciation expenses and $2.4 million of lower after-tax property tax expenses. Net income also included $4.5 million of AFUDC-equity related to the construction of the peaking generation units that entered service in April 2007, and the installation of NO pollution control equipment, compared to $2.7 million in 2006.
x
Results for 2007 also reflect a $2.1 million after-tax benefit for the wholesale component of the sale of sulfur dioxide (SO) emissions credits, compared to a $1.4 million after-tax benefit in 2006. In 2007, Tampa Electric sold approximately $91 million of excess SO emissions credits. While these sales primarily benefited retail customers through a reduced Environmental Cost Recovery Clause charge, Tampa Electric recognized the benefit from the wholesale component of the sale of these credits in net income.
2
2
Peoples Gas
Peoples Gas reported net income of $6.3 million for the fourth quarter, compared to
 
$7.0 million in the same period in 2006. Quarterly results reflect average customer growth of 0.8% and higher low-margin off-system sales and volumes transported for power generation customers, which were offset by lower sales to retail customers. Lower 2007 volumes for retail customers reflect very mild early winter weather, changes in customer usage patterns and lower sales to industrial customers, such as wallboard, asphalt and concrete producers, that are impacted by the slowdown in the Florida housing market. Results also reflect lower property tax rates reflecting lower property tax rates from legislation passed in Florida to reduce property taxes and higher depreciation expense, due to a routine depreciation study approved by the FPSC in 2007.
Net income was $26.5 million in 2007, compared to $29.7 million in 2006. These results reflect 1.6% average customer growth and the same factors described for the fourth quarter. Also, sales to weather-sensitive residential customers were lower in the first quarter due to one of the warmest months of January on record, which limited the number of heating degree days.
TECO Coal
TECO Coal reported fourth quarter net income of $7.2 million, compared to $19.3 million in the same period in 2006. The year-over-year changes were driven primarily by the quarterly adjustments to the phase out of earnings from synthetic fuel due to high oil prices. TECO Coal's Non-GAAP Results Excluding Synthetic Fuel, which exclude the $2.2 million after-tax net cost related to synthetic fuel production in 2007 and the $9.0 million net benefit from synthetic fuel in 2006, were $9.4 million in 2007, compared to $10.3 million in the 2006 period. (See the table.)
Results Reconciliation
In 2007, fourth quarter total sales were 2.5 million tons, including 1.5 million tons of synthetic fuel, compared to 2.6 million tons, including 1.7 million tons of synthetic fuel, in the fourth quarter of 2006. Compared to the fourth quarter in 2006, results reflect a slightly higher average net selling price per ton across all products, which excludes transportation allowances, reflecting improved spot market prices for limited spot market sales in the quarter. In 2007, the fourth-quarter cash cost of production per ton increased 1.5% from the fourth quarter of 2006, reflecting higher prices for petroleum based products.
The $2.2 million after-tax loss from the production of synthetic fuel in the fourth quarter of 2007 reflects a $41.7 million after-tax reduction in benefits due to an estimated 67% phase-out of synthetic fuel tax credits, including adjustments to prior estimates, compared to an $8.6 million reduction and 35% phase-out in the same period in 2006. The results for synthetic fuel production in the fourth quarter of 2007 also reflect a $22.1 million after-tax benefit from adjusting to market the valuation of the oil-price hedges placed to protect the 2007 synthetic fuel benefits against high oil prices. In 2006, fourth quarter results included a $2.2 million after-tax mark-to-market charge.
TECO Coal recorded net income of $90.9 million in 2007, compared to $78.8 million in 2006. TECO Coal's 2007 Non-GAAP Results Excluding Synthetic Fuel, which exclude the $52.6 million benefit associated with the production of synthetic fuel, were $38.3 million, compared to $46.7 million in 2006, which excluded $32.1 million of synthetic fuel benefits. (See the table.)
Results Reconciliation
Total sales were 9.2 million tons in 2007, including 6.0 million tons of synthetic fuel, compared to 9.8 million tons, including 5.3 million tons of synthetic fuel in 2006, when synfuel production was curtailed for approximately six weeks due to high oil prices. Results
 
in 2007 reflect an average net selling price per ton across all products, which excluded transportation allowances, that was less than 1% lower than 2006. The cash cost of production increased less than 0.5% in 2007 compared to 2006. Results also reflect a $1.6 million after-tax benefit in the first quarter of 2007 from the true-up of the 2006 synthetic fuel tax credit rate, compared to a $2.7 million benefit in 2006 for the true-up of the 2005 synthetic fuel tax credit rate.
The $52.6 million of benefits from the production of synthetic fuel in 2007 reflect a $91.1 million after-tax reduction in earnings benefits due to the estimated 67% phase-out, compared to the 35% phase-out and $36.7 million after-tax reduction in 2006. The results for synthetic fuel production also reflect a $53.8 million after-tax benefit from adjusting to market the valuation of the oil price hedges placed to protect the 2007 synthetic fuel benefits against high oil prices. In 2006, results included a $1.7 million after-tax mark-to-market charge.
In 2007, TECO Coal had in place oil price hedge instruments to protect against the risk of high oil prices reducing the value of the tax credits related to the production of synthetic fuel. Because these oil price hedges were intended to provide approximately a dollar-for-dollar recovery of lost synthetic fuel revenues in the event of a phase-out, TECO Coal previously forecast full-year benefits from the production of synthetic fuel to be approximately $100 million of net cash and $65 million of net income, regardless of oil price levels. Although the oil price hedges were calibrated to fully compensate for any potential phase-out, the final phase-out estimate exceeded the final hedge settlement by approximately $18.0 million of cash and $12.0 million of after tax income. This difference occurred because the 2007 relationship between the U.S. Department of Energy's Producer First Purchase Prices and the NYMEX oil prices, which was the basis for the hedges, diverged from the historical norm in the second half of 2007, as oil prices continued to increase. The phase out reduced cash received from the investors in 2007, and the cash from the hedges was received in January 2008.
TECO Guatemala
TECO Guatemala reported fourth quarter net income of $11.4 million in 2007, compared to $11.0 million in the 2006 period. The 2007 fourth quarter results reflect customer growth and higher energy sales at EEGSA and increased earnings from the EEGSA-affiliated companies, which provide, among other things, electricity transmission services, wholesale power sales to unregulated electric customers, engineering services and telecommunication carrier services. The San Jos Power Station had almost 1% higher contract energy sales at higher prices in the quarter. Spot market sales of excess power above the long-term contracted capacity were also strong in the quarter. The Alborada Power Station benefited from higher capacity payments as scheduled under its contract. Interest expense decreased due to lower interest rates and lower project debt balances and interest income increased on higher cash balances on cash held offshore.
Full-year 2007 net income was $44.7 million, compared to $37.6 million in 2006. Earnings for EEGSA and the unregulated affiliate companies increased due to the same factors as for the quarter, and a $1.9 million after-tax benefit related to a second-quarter adjustment to previously estimated year-end results. The San Jose Power Station realized increased revenues from both contract and spot sales with volumes up 2% and 5%, respectively, and prices up 3% for contract and spot sales. Interest expense and interest income also improved in 2007.
 
Parent / Other
Parent/other results in the fourth quarter were $113.0 million after tax, compared to a cost of $16.1 million after tax, in the 2006 period. The non-GAAP cost for Parent/other in the fourth quarter was $12.9 million after tax, compared to a cost of $19.2 million after tax, in the 2006 period. Non-GAAP costs in 2007 exclude the $146.1 million net gain on the sale of TECO Transport and the $20.2 million after-tax charge related to the debt extinguishment/exchange completed in December. Non-GAAP costs in 2006 exclude a $3.1 million after-tax gain on the sale of unused steam turbines. (See the table.) Total parent interest expense declined $7.0 million after tax, in the fourth quarter of 2007, reflecting parent debt retirement.
Results Reconciliation
Parent/other net income was $52.5 million in 2007, compared to a cost of $60.4 million in 2006. In 2007, the non-GAAP cost was $60.4 million, compared to a cost of $74.2 million in 2006. In addition to the fourth quarter items, 2007 non-GAAP results excluded $13.0 million of after-tax charges related to the sale of TECO Transport recorded in prior quarters. Results in 2006 reflected the $5.7 million after-tax gain on the unused steam turbines and the $8.1 million gain on the sale of the remaining assets of the unfinished McAdams Power Station, which had been previously impaired. In 2007, after-tax parent interest expense declined $18.1 million reflecting parent debt retirement.
TECO Transport
As a result of the sale closing, TECO Transport's fourth quarter net income of $7.0 million reflects activities through Dec. 3, 2007. Net income for the full fourth quarter of 2006 was $7.8 million. TECO Transport's fourth quarter 2007 non-GAAP results were $4.5 million, compared to 2006 non-GAAP results of $8.5 million. Because of the Assets Held for Sale classification of TECO Transport, the recording of depreciation was discontinued as of Apr. 1, 2007. TECO Transport's fourth quarter non-GAAP results include $2.5 million of after-tax depreciation that was excluded from reported net income. Fourth quarter non-GAAP results in 2006 excluded $0.7 million of after-tax direct costs associated with the final repairs of Hurricane Katrina damage. (See the table.) Fourth quarter results in 2007 reflect increased third-party volumes at TECO Bulk Terminal, offset by the impact of low water conditions on the rivers, which limited tow sizes, and lower river rates when compared to the near record levels in 2006.
Results Reconciliation
Net income through Dec. 3, 2007, was $34.0 million in 2007, compared to $22.8 million in 2006. Non-GAAP results were $24.3 million in 2007, including the $9.7 million, after tax, of depreciation expense that was not recorded in GAAP net income, compared to $25.8 million for the full-year period in 2006, which excluded $3.0 million of after-tax direct costs associated with damage from Hurricane Katrina, net of insurance recovery. (See the table.) These results reflect primarily the same factors as the fourth quarter, as well as higher earnings from third-party business at the ocean-going operations.
Results Reconciliation
Discontinued Operations
Full-year net income from discontinued operations was $14.3 million in 2007, compared to $1.9 million in 2006. Results from discontinued operations in 2007 reflect a tax
 
benefit recorded in the second quarter as a result of reaching favorable conclusions with taxing authorities related to the 2005 disposition of the Union and Gila River merchant power plants. Results from discontinued operations in 2006 reflected recoveries of amounts previously written-off from the smaller unregulated energy-related businesses that were sold in prior years.
Cash and Liquidity
The table below sets forth the Dec. 31, 2007 consolidated liquidity and cash balances, the cash balances at the operating companies and TECO Energy parent, and amounts available under the TECO Energy and Tampa Electric credit facilities.
 
Cash at the other operating companies includes $35.8 million at TECO Guatemala held offshore due to the tax deferral structure associated with EEGSA and its affiliated companies. Other investments reflect an additional $15 million held offshore at TECO Guatemala with longer term maturity dates. In addition to consolidated cash, as of Dec. 31, 2007, unconsolidated affiliates owned by TECO Guatemala, CGESJ (San Jos) and TCAE (Alborada), had unrestricted cash balances of $19.9 million and restricted cash of $4.9 million, which are not included in the table above.
2008 Earnings Outlook
TECO Energy expects 2008 earnings per-share within a range of $0.95 and $1.10, excluding any charges or gains that might occur. This forecast is based on TECO Energy's current expectations, which are described below.
Tampa Electric expects the benefits of average customer growth will drive weather-normalized energy sales growth of about 2% and more than offset higher non-fuel operation and maintenance expenses. Depreciation expense is expected to increase from routine plant additions; interest expense is expected to increase due to higher long-term debt balances; and interest income is expected to decrease due to lower under-recovered FPSC-approved clause balances. In addition, the company expects higher AFUDC on the investment in combustion turbines to meet peak load requirements, the NOcontrol projects that are under construction at the Big Bend Power Station. Environmental Cost Recovery Clause-related earnings are expected to increase due to the second NOcontrol project to be completed, which is expected
x
x
 
to enter service in May on Big Bend Unit 3. Tampa Electric's 2008 customer growth and energy sales growth forecasts reflect a weakened Florida housing market, but do not reflect an extended depressed housing market or local, state or national economic recession.
Due to the significant investments made by Tampa Electric since its last base rate increase awarded in 1992 to expand the system to reliably serve its growing customer base, the ongoing continued level of capital investment, and the higher levels of non-fuel operations and maintenance expenditures, current base rates are not expected to support it earning within its allowed ROE range in 2008 and 2009. Tampa Electric expects that it will require base rate relief in 2009.
Peoples Gas assumes normal weather, customer growth and therm sales growth in 2008 to be offset by the effects of higher operation and maintenance expense and higher depreciation expense. Due to the higher operating costs, continued investment in the distribution system and higher costs associated with recently required safety requirements, such as pipeline integrity safety, Peoples Gas' return on equity levels are below the bottom of its allowed range and therefore it expects to file for a base rate increase in 2008.
TECO Coal expects 2008 net income to exceed its 2007 Non-GAAP Results Excluding Synthetic Fuel. Total sales are expected to be in a range between 9.5 million and 10 million tons in 2008, compared to 9.2 million tons, including 6.0 million tons of synthetic fuel in 2007. The higher expected sales volume reflects the somewhat improved coal market, which has been driven by supply and demand in the international coal market and the expectation of more normal inventory levels at U.S. utilities. Although the average selling price for all products is expected to increase in 2008 the cost of production is expected to increase at a higher rate. The benefits from closing higher cost facilities in 2006 and 2007 are expected to be more than offset by higher prices for diesel fuel and petroleum based products than in 2007, and higher safety costs. Fully-loaded cash margins per ton in 2008 are expected to be about $10 per ton and after-tax earnings margins are expected to be about $4 per ton.
TECO Guatemala expects 2008 net income to decrease from 2007 levels. Results in 2007 reflect outstanding performance of the San Jose Power Station with extremely high availability and capacity factors. In 2008, increased scheduled maintenance is expected to reduce the availability and capacity factors, which will result in lower spot energy sales and increased costs. Results at EEGSA and the affiliated companies are expected to be driven by higher energy sales to retail customers being more than offset by the absence of the $1.9 million after-tax benefit related to an adjustment to previously estimated results recorded in 2007.
Costs at TECO Energy parent are expected to decline due to the repayment of $57 million of 5.93% junior subordinated notes in January 2007, repayment of the $300 million of 6.125% notes in May 2007, retirement of almost $300 million of 7.5% notes in December 2007, and the planned retirement of $100 million of floating rate debt in the second half of 2008.
Results will also reflect the loss of earnings from TECO Transport, which will be partially offset by the lower parent interest expense.
Non-GAAP Presentation
Management believes it is helpful to present a non-GAAP measure of performance that reflects the ongoing operations of TECO Energy's businesses and which allows investors to better understand and evaluate the business as it is expected to operate in future periods.
 
Management and the Board of Directors use non-GAAP measures as a yardstick for measuring the company's performance, in making decisions that are dependent upon the profitability of the company's various operating units, and in determining levels of incentive compensation.
The non-GAAP measures of financial performance used by the company are not measures of performance under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and should not be considered an alternative to net income or other GAAP figures as an indicator of the company's financial performance or liquidity. TECO Energy's non-GAAP presentation of net income may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
The table below presents non-GAAP financial results after elimination of the effects of certain identified gains, charges and earnings from the production of synthetic fuel in the 2007 and 2006 quarterly and full-year periods. The company provides both measures to allow comparison of results both with and without synthetic fuel. This provides investors additional information to assess the company's results and future earnings potential without the production of synthetic fuel.
Results Reconciliation
 
 
 
Conference call information
As previously announced, TECO Energy will conduct a Webcast and conference call with the financial community at 9:00 am Eastern time on February 5, 2008 covering its fourth quarter and full-year results and its 2008 outlook. The Webcast will be accessible through the link on TECO Energy's Website: . The Webcast and accompanying slides will be available for replay for 30 days through the Web site, beginning approximately two hours after the conclusion of the live event.
www.tecoenergy.com
TECO Energy, Inc. (NYSE: TE) is an energy-related holding company. Its principal subsidiary, , is a regulated utility in Florida with both electric and gas divisions ( and ). Other subsidiaries include TECO Coal, which owns and operates coal production facilities in Kentucky and Virginia, and TECO Guatemala, which is engaged in electric power generation and distribution, and energy-related businesses in Guatemala.
Tampa Electric Company
Tampa Electric
Peoples Gas System
Note: This press release contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to the inherent uncertainties in predicting future results and conditions. Actual results may differ materially from those forecasted. The forecasted results are based on the company's current expectations and assumptions, and the company does not undertake to update that information or any other information contained in this press release, except as may be required by law. Factors that could impact actual results include: regulatory actions by federal, state or local authorities; unexpected capital needs or unanticipated reductions in cash flow that affect liquidity; the availability of adequate rail transportation capacity for the shipment of TECO Coal's production; general economic conditions in Tampa Electric's service area affecting energy sales; economic conditions, both national and international, affecting the demand for TECO Coal's production; weather variations and changes in customer energy usage patterns affecting sales and operating costs at Tampa Electric and Peoples Gas and the effect of extreme weather conditions or hurricanes; commodity price and operating cost changes affecting the production levels and margins at TECO Coal; fuel cost recoveries and cash at Tampa Electric or natural gas demand at Peoples Gas; the ability of TECO Energy's subsidiaries to operate equipment without undue accidents, breakdowns or failures; changes in electric tariffs or contract terms affecting TECO Guatemala's operations; the actual change in inflation in 2007, which affects the final value of the synthetic fuel related tax credits; and TECO Coal's exposure to any changes in law, regulation or administration that would retroactively impact the federal income tax credits from the production of synthetic fuel or the related benefits that have been previously recognized. Additional information is contained under "Risk Factors" in TECO Energy, Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended Dec. 31, 2006, as updated by the information contained in Item 1A of its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended June 30, 2007 and Sept. 30, 2007.
 
 
 
Figures appearing in these statements are presented as general information and not in connection with any sale or offer to sell or solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, nor are they intended as a representation by the company of the value of its securities. All figures reported are subject to adjustments as the annual audit by independent accountants may determine to be necessary and to the explanatory notes affecting income and balance sheet accounts contained in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K. Reference should also be made to information contained in that and other reports filed by TECO Energy, Inc. and Tampa Electric Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


