FILE:TE/TE-8K-20080612154842.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 8  Other Events
 
On June 12, 2008, the Tampa Electric and Peoples Gas Divisions of Tampa Electric Company each delivered a letter to the Florida Public Service Commission notifying it of their intent to file in approximately 60 days a request for an increase in their base rates, to be effective at the conclusion of the respective rate cases. The letters serve as test year notifications under the Florida Administrative Code Rules, and copies are attached as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
The exhibits which are part of this report contain forward-looking statements, which are subject to the inherent uncertainties in predicting future results and conditions. Actual results may differ materially from those forecasted. The forecasted results are based on the company's current expectations and assumptions, and the company does not undertake to update that information or any other information contained in this report, except as may be required by law. Additional information is contained under "Risk Factors" in TECO Energy, Inc.'s and Tampa Electric Company's combined Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2007.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
June 12, 2008
The Honorable Matthew M. Carter II
Chairman
Florida Public Service Commission
2540 Shumard Oak Boulevard
Tallahassee, Florida 32399-0850
 
Dear Chairman Carter:
After careful consideration, Tampa Electric Company ("Tampa Electric" or "the company") has concluded that it must request Commission approval of an increase in the company's retail base rates and service charges. It has been 16 years since Tampa Electric last filed to increase its retail base rates. During this period of time, Tampa Electric has achieved significant improvements in its environmental performance and incurred tremendous increases in customer growth and inflation, while continuously providing cost-effective, reliable electric service without having to request an increase in base rates. To serve its customers in an environmentally responsible and reliable manner, since its last rate case, Tampa Electric has made significant plant investment at a time in which the cost of goods and services, as measured by the Consumer Price Index, has increased 48 percent.
Tampa Electric has improved efficiency and performance in all major areas of operations on its electric system which has experienced an increase in retail peak demand of almost 50 percent since 1992. Tampa Electric currently serves a retail peak load of more than 4,100 megawatts (MW) compared to almost 2,800 MW served in 1992. As Florida's population has grown, Tampa Electric has expanded its system to meet those needs. Today, Tampa Electric serves nearly 667,000 customers, almost 200,000 or 42 percent more customers than in 1992. In addition, by year-end 2009, Tampa Electric will have invested almost $3.4 billion in its system while, at the same time, maintaining retail base rates at the same levels approved in our last base rate proceeding.
 
Customer growth in Florida is expected to continue although at a lower rate than in the past. Projected productivity efficiencies alone will no longer be sufficient for the company to continue to effectively and reliably meet the electric needs of new and existing customers at current base rates. Consequently, on August 11, 2008, Tampa Electric intends to file for an increase in its retail base rates effective on or after May 1, 2009.
This letter is provided to you pursuant to the requirements of Rule 25-6.140, Florida Administrative Code ("F.A.C."), Test Year Notification. Consistent with the requirements of that rule, Tampa Electric submits the following information:
Test Year
In accordance with Rule 25-6.140, F.A.C., we propose the projected 12-month period January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2009 as the appropriate and representative test year for our petition for a permanent increase in our base rates and service charges. The new rates developed in this rate case are expected to be effective on or after May 1, 2009. The company believes the proposed 2009 test year will most accurately reflect the economic conditions during the first 12 months the new rates will be in effect. In addition, using a projected test year is more representative of normal, long-term weather patterns than a historical year which would include the impacts of unusual weather patterns.
Major Factors Necessitating a Rate Increase:
Generation
The company has added significant generating resources to its system since 1992 without a retail base rate increase. To meet the needs of our customers, the company will continue to add additional and more expensive generation resources over the next several years. Tampa Electric cannot continue to absorb future capacity additions under its current rate structure without incremental revenues to cover the associated capital and non-clause operations and maintenance ("O&M") requirements. By year-end 2009, Tampa Electric will have invested $1.7 billion to add or repower approximately 1,700 MW of environmentally friendly generation to meet customer needs for electricity. Consequently, one of the major factors underlying the need for a change in base rates is to adjust for generation resources added since the company's last rate case that are not included in base rates. Polk Unit 1, an Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle or IGCC power plant, was placed in service in 1996; Polk Units 2 and 3 are simple cycle combustion turbines that were placed into service in 2000 and 2002, respectively; and, Polk Units 4 and 5, which are also simple cycle combustion turbines,
were placed into service in 2007. In addition, the Gannon Power Station coal-fired generation assets were repowered into H.L. Culbreath Bayside Station, a natural gas-fired combined cycle plant that was completed in 2004. The repowering project was part of Tampa Electric's on-going $1.2 billion commitment to reduce air and greenhouse gas emissions from major power plants. By 2010, the company will have reduced system-wide emissions by 90 percent for nitrogen oxide; 90 percent for sulfur dioxide; 72 percent for particulate matter; and by over 70 percent for mercury. In addition, system-wide carbon dioxide emissions have been reduced by approximately 20 percent, bringing carbon emissions to near 1990 levels. Although all of these generation projects were determined to be the lowest cost resources to meet customers' needs at the time, these investments resulted in incremental costs to Tampa Electric's system when they were placed into service.
In addition to generation added since 1992, Tampa Electric's current ten-year generation expansion plan includes over 2,500 MW of new generation. The company will invest a total of $236.6 million for the addition of 300 MW, comprised of five simple cycle combustion turbines, to our system to meet peaking needs and to provide quick start capability in 2009. In 2009, Tampa Electric will incur a total of $220.4 million in capital expenditures for improvements and replacements to existing generating facilities. Tampa Electric also has other substantial capital requirements, including a $45 million rail facility at Big Bend Power Station which is necessary to provide the company with bimodal capability for solid fuel transportation. Additionally, in 2013, Tampa Electric plans to add a natural gas combined cycle unit at Polk Power Station to meet base load capacity needs.
Transmission and Distribution
By year-end 2009, Tampa Electric will have invested $1.5 billion to construct and maintain its transmission and distribution ("T&D") infrastructure since its last rate case. In addition, significant capital investment in new T&D infrastructure is required for Tampa Electric to continue to meet its obligation to serve at the high degree of reliability customers expect while meeting the new system hardening requirements implemented by the Commission in 2006. Based on recent Florida Reliability Coordinating Council ("FRCC") transmission studies, there are also significant investment requirements planned for the next ten years. Tampa Electric will need to build over 100 miles of 230kV transmission lines during this period. In 2009, transmission capital expenditures are anticipated to be approximately $67.2 million, necessitated by increases in generation in the state and FRCC study impacts as well as hardening of the existing infrastructure.
Tampa Electric has continued to invest in its distribution system. Besides normal customer growth that necessitates investment in new distribution infrastructure, the
company has been required to continue on-going maintenance as the system ages. Additionally, following the active hurricane seasons of 2004 and 2005, Tampa Electric committed to an aggressive, but prudent hardening plan that requires significant capital and O&M expenditures to comply with its Commission-approved plan. Also, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and North American Electric Reliability Corporation have recently instituted new requirements in an effort to strengthen and secure the nation's electric power grid due to the northeast blackout of 2003. These requirements have created new capital and O&M pressures on the company, which we expect to increase as these requirements evolve over the coming years.
Customer Demand
Customer growth continues on Tampa Electric's system, but further opportunities to realize economies of scale or other operational efficiencies are now more limited than in the past. In addition to customer growth, customer demand and energy consumption has also increased since the company's last rate case. Although a number of factors such as enhanced energy efficiency programs, improved appliance efficiencies and increased energy prices have resulted in lowering consumption recently, these reductions have been offset by the increasing size of new homes and saturation of electronic appliances as well as other electric equipment. Energy consumption for the 2009 projected test year includes the impacts of Tampa Electric's recently approved new and modified demand side management (DSM) programs as well as higher appliance efficiency trends associated with the Energy Policy Act of 2005.
Operating Expenses
For years, Tampa Electric has managed its operating expenses despite steady growth in demand and the number of customers served, and while achieving and maintaining high levels of service reliability and responding to new federal and state mandates. Actual total operating expenses, excluding fuel, for 2007 were over $610 million. Tampa Electric's costs continue to increase, causing continued upward pressure on operating expenses over the next several years due to the cumulative effects of inflation, customer growth and operational requirements. Tampa Electric expects its total operating expenses, excluding fuel, for 2009 to exceed $700 million.
Major increases in the company's operating expenses since its last base rate increase include employee benefits, depreciation, system hardening, storm-related expenses including insurance, and federal and state compliance costs. Tampa Electric has aggressively managed the health care costs through pricing strategies, employee contribution adjustments, and indexing of deductibles and out of pocket amounts as well as prescription drug restructuring. However, these costs have grown by 26 percent
since 1992. Health care inflation will continue to be a national concern for the public and private sectors and is expected to grow at a nine percent annual rate. In addition, to maintain the service levels that our customers expect and to comply with our Commission-approved hardening plan, Tampa Electric must increase O&M for its T&D maintenance programs and tree trimming expenditures.
Actions and Measures Implemented to Avoid a Retail Base Rate Increase
Over the past 16 years Tampa Electric has avoided a retail base rate increase despite having made significant capital investments to meet the needs of a growing customer base that is now more than 42 percent larger than it was in 1992. Such investments have included over $1.7 billion in the construction of new and repowered generating capacity and approximately $1.5 billion in the expansion and maintenance of Tampa Electric's transmission and distribution systems. During this same period of time, the Consumer Price Index increased by 48 percent. These accomplishments are attributable to a number of efforts and factors. The addition of new, highly efficient generating units has reduced O&M expenses per unit of energy produced. Modern, combined cycle and simple cycle combustion turbine generating units such as those installed at the Polk and Bayside Power stations require fewer personnel to operate and are less costly to maintain than the older units, which have been retired by the company. The installation of these new units has also improved the reliability, efficiency and environmental performance of the Tampa Electric generating fleet.
Additionally, Tampa Electric continues to aggressively implement cost-effective DSM programs. Recently, the company's national ranking has been as high as the 96
th
percentile in cumulative conservation and the 90
th
percentile in load management achievements. As a result, by year-end 2009, Tampa Electric will have implemented 653,000 MWH of annual cumulative energy savings as well as 664 and 229 MW of winter and summer DSM, respectively, which equates to almost four 180 MW power plants being deferred.
Another key to maintaining existing levels of base rates has been the initiative and effort of Tampa Electric's management and employees to control the company's O&M expenses. Tampa Electric continues to pursue efficiency improvements and cost reductions in all aspects of its operations. Nevertheless, these and other measures, although part of Tampa Electric's continual focus to achieve top quality performance at below industry average costs, are not sufficient to avoid the need for an increase in base rates. Tampa Electric is currently finalizing its 2009 revenue requirements; however, we estimate that a $225 to $235 million increase will be needed due to the factors discussed above.
As required by Rule 25-6.140, Tampa Electric must indicate in this letter whether it will request that its petition be processed as a matter of proposed agency action pursuant to Section 366.06(4), Florida Statutes. The company advises that it is not eligible to make such a request because the company's annual sales to end-use customers exceed 500 gigawatt-hours.
Conclusion
Tampa Electric has worked very hard to establish itself as a low-cost provider of high quality electric service. Its accomplishments reflect the efforts of a strong management team and a quality-driven work force. Collectively, these efforts have succeeded in delaying as long as possible increases in Tampa Electric's retail base rates while keeping pace with Florida's rapid growth and demand for power. Despite price increases in all areas of our operations, Tampa Electric has managed itself in a way that has enabled it to provide cost-effective and reliable service without a base rate increase since the increases approved in the company's 1992 base rate proceeding. After 16 years, an increase in retail base rates is now necessary to ensure that Tampa Electric can continue to safely provide reliable, cost-effective electric service to its customers.
 
 
Hon. Matthew M. Carter II, Chairman
Hon. Lisa P. Edgar, Commissioner
Hon. Katrina J. McMurrian, Commissioner
Hon. Nathan A. Skop, Commissioner
Hon. Nancy Argenziano, Commissioner
Mary Andrews Bane, Executive Director
Mike G. Cooke, General Counsel
Tim Devlin, Director, Division of Economic Regulation
Office of Public Counsel (via Hand-Delivery)
J. R. Kelly, Public Counsel

Exhibit 99.2
June 12, 2008
The Honorable Matthew M. Carter II, Chairman
Florida Public Service Commission
2540 Shumard Oak Boulevard
Tallahassee, FL 32399-0850
 
Dear Chairman Carter:
Based on a review of its current and projected financial performance, Peoples Gas System ("Peoples" or the "Company") has determined it must seek an increase in base rates to meet the natural gas needs of existing and new customers and to provide an opportunity to earn a reasonable return on the Company's investment while continuing to provide high quality customer service.
This letter is provided as notification to the Commission that Peoples intends to seek general rate relief pursuant to the provisions of Section 366.06 (3), Florida Statutes, as soon as the new rate schedules, the petition relating thereto, and the minimum filing requirements specified in Rule 25-7.039, F.A.C., can be completed and placed in proper form. The Company contemplates a filing date on or about August 11, 2008, and will use a projected test year ending December 31, 2009, based upon the historic base year ended December 31, 2007. The proposed 2009 test year will most accurately reflect the economic conditions during the first 12 months the new rates will be in effect.
Peoples will not be requesting that the Commission process its petition using the proposed agency action process authorized in Section 366.06(4), Florida Statutes. The Company will be seeking interim rate relief pursuant to Section 366.071, Florida Statutes.
Peoples' last rate case (Docket No. 020384-GU) was filed on June 27, 2002 with a final order issued on January 6, 2003. In that docket, the Commission authorized the Company to revise its base rates and charges so as to produce a midpoint return on common equity ("ROE") of 11.25%. The Company's achieved ROE as of December 31, 2007 was 9.96%, with further erosion of earnings expected.
PEOPLES GAS
702 NORTH FRANKLIN STREET
P.O. BOX 2562
TAMPA, FL 33601-2562
The Honorable Matthew M. Carter II
Page 2 of 3
June 12, 2008
It has been almost six years since Peoples last filed to increase its base rates. Since that time, Peoples has steadily expanded its system to new areas in Florida to bring clean-burning natural gas to thousands of people throughout the state. In addition, Peoples has installed or replaced over 1,500 miles of main in over 200 communities it serves.
Peoples has also maintained a very reliable distribution system, even through the active 2004 and 2005 hurricane seasons, with minimal customer service interruptions. Maintaining a high level of customer service is one of the Company's core values.
Several factors contribute to the need for the Company to seek rate relief. Since Peoples' last historic base year, the Consumer Price Index (CPI) has increased more than 17%, not only requiring the Company to pay more for the goods and services it purchases, but also contributing to a steady increase in the level of the Company's direct and indirect payroll costs. Steel pipe and plastic pipe costs, the core of the Company's infrastructure investment, have increased by about 90% and 40% respectively over the last five years. Additionally, insurance and health care costs continue to escalate at a rate significantly higher than that of inflation. During this period, the Company has incurred substantial increases in depreciation expense, non-fuel operating and maintenance expense and the costs of complying with federal requirements. All of these factors have contributed to the increase in the cost of providing service to our customers.
Although costs have increased as described above, the Company has continued to expand its pipeline distribution system in order to make natural gas available as a low-carbon, efficient energy choice to approximately 100,000 new residential and commercial customers. Notwithstanding the additional customers and an increase in gas throughput on the Company's system, Peoples has experienced a declining use per customer due to increases in the efficiencies of appliances, customer conservation efforts, improved home construction and other factors. This trend has caused the Company to consider modifications to its rate design in order to more appropriately recover its cost of service. The modifications will also better enable the Company to continue its aggressive energy conservation programs.
Peoples has made substantial efforts to control expense levels and avoid the need for rate relief. For example, the Company restructured its four regional operating units into three regional operating units and combined four independent call centers into one virtual call center. This resulted in consolidation of both customer service and operations management oversight. Through the restructuring, Peoples was able to reduce its work force by approximately 11%, while continuing to maintain its traditionally high levels of customer service and an outstanding safety record. As another example, significant efficiencies have been achieved as a result of Peoples' new mapping system which, among other things, has reduced the number of line locate tickets to be physically cleared by Company personnel. As a result of these and other measures, Peoples' annual operating and maintenance expense has increased only modestly since the Company's last rate case. While these efforts have allowed Peoples to avoid seeking any rate
The Honorable Matthew M. Carter II
Page 3 of 3
June 12, 2008
increases for the past six years, the combination of continued growth and inflation now causes the Company to seek rate relief. Peoples is currently finalizing its 2009 revenue requirements, but we estimate that a base rate revenue increase of approximately $25 million will be required.
Peoples operates in an extremely competitive energy environment, and the decision to petition for rate relief is not something that we take lightly. We strongly believe, however, that an increase in and a restructuring of rates are necessary for the Company to continue to maintain both its high quality of service and its financial integrity.
Sincerely,
William N. Cantrell
President, Peoples Gas System
 
Honorable Katrina J. McMurrian, Commissioner
Honorable Nathan A. Skop, Commissioner
Honorable Nancy Argenziano, Commissioner
Dr. Mary A. Bane, Executive Director
Mr. Michael G. Cooke, General Counsel
Mr. Timothy J. Devlin, Director of Economic Regulation
Ms. Ann Cole, Commission Clerk
Mr. J.R. Kelly, Office of Public Counsel


