FILE:TE/TE-8K-20090730161535.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
Item 5.02  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
(b) On July 29, 2009, Gordon L. Gillette, 49, previously the Corporation's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, was appointed by the Corporation's subsidiary, Tampa Electric Company, to replace its previous President, Charles R. Black, and the President of its Peoples Gas System Division, William N. Cantrell. Mr. Gillette will no longer serve as the Corporation's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. A press release announcing these events is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
(c) On July 29, 2009, Sandra W. Callahan was appointed Vice President-Finance and Accounting and Chief Financial Officer (Treasurer and Chief Accounting Officer) of TECO Energy, Inc. and Tampa Electric Company. From July 2000 to January 2007, Ms. Callahan, 56, served as the Corporation's Vice President-Risk Management and Treasury (Treasurer), and since January 2007, also served as its Chief Accounting Officer. In connection with such appointment, Ms. Callahan will receive an annual base salary of $310,000 and will be eligible to receive an annual incentive award under the Corporation's 2009 Annual Incentive Compensation Plan based on a target award percentage of 50% of her base salary, depending on the level of achievement of the goals under such Plan.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
99.1 Press Release dated July 30, 2009.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
TECO Energy announces organizational changes and new leadership team
TAMPA, July 30, 2009
Company efficiencies expected in electric and gas operations and support functions to better serve customers.
TECO Energy, Inc. (NYSE: TE) today announced a new senior executive team structure as part of its response to industry changes, economic uncertainties and the overall need to maintain a lean and efficient organization. The changes include establishing a single management team over the electric and gas divisions of Tampa Electric Company, and the integration of operating and support functions. A new Business Strategy team will also be created at TECO Energy to identify opportunities that position the group of companies for growth in an environment of significant industry policy changes.
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer said, "Many companies, local and nationwide, have been affected by the sluggish economy and slowdown in growth. TECO Energy is no exception. As we balance current and future environmental, economic and energy factors, it is clear that we need to continue to improve efficiencies in order to enhance our strong financial position moving forward.
Sherrill W. Hudson
"Our companies have already taken numerous steps to reduce costs by implementing process improvements and limiting compensation and new hires. The organizational change is designed to ensure a continued focus on cost management through enhanced productivity and efficiency through untapped synergies."
and President and Chief Operating Officer will remain in their current roles, with Ramil assuming additional direct reports. Key changes in the TECO Energy senior management team reporting to include:
Hudson
John B. Ramil
Ramil
(formerly Executive Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer, and President of TECO Guatemala) is named the new president for both Tampa Electric and Peoples Gas. Gillette will be responsible for operations of the utilities including Energy Supply, Energy Delivery Operations and Engineering, Customer Care, Fuels Management, TECO Foundation and Regulatory Affairs.
Gordon L. Gillette
(formerly Vice President  Controller, Operations) is named the President of TECO Guatemala and Vice PresidentHuman Resources. Barringer will be responsible for all aspects of the company's Guatemalan operations including generation and energy sales. Barringer will also be responsible for corporate human resource activities.
Phil L. Barringer
(formerly Vice President  Treasury and Risk Management) is named Vice President  Finance and Accounting and Chief Financial Officer responsible for all corporate and operational accounting functions, corporate taxes, investor relations, corporate finance and risk oversight.
Sandra W. Callahan
will continue in his current position as Senior Vice PresidentGeneral Counsel and Chief Legal Officer. In addition to his current legal responsibilities, Attal will assume additional responsibility for state and federal governmental affairs.
Charles A. Attal III
(formerly Vice President  Customer Service and Regulatory Affairs) is named Vice President  Business Strategy and Compliance and Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer. Brown will lead a newly created department for business strategy and compliance in addition to financial and business analysis, corporate compliance, audit services, corporate communications and corporate safety responsibilities. She will be responsible for policy and strategy development and coordination of efficiency improvements.
Deirdre A. Brown
(President, TECO Coal) and (Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resource Officer) will continue in their current positions and will report to Ramil. In addition, Barringer will report to Childress on his Human Resources responsibilities.
J. J. Shackleford
Clinton E. Childress
said, "A financially strong TECO Energy will best raise the capital necessary to serve customers in a reliable, economical and environmentally friendly way. Over the next few months, this new leadership team will review their organizations and identify ways to capitalize on productivity improvements and synergies."
Ramil
also explained that "Managing operating and capital expenditures, improving cash flow and maintaining reliable service are basic expectations from our customers, team members and shareholders. I am confident these changes will result in a stronger company that is well positioned for the significant changes in our industry."
Ramil
The new TECO Energy corporate structure has allowed Tampa Electric Company President and Peoples Gas President to retire after 36 and 34 years of distinguished service, respectively.
Chuck Black
Bill Cantrell
"Both Chuck and Bill leave a legacy of extraordinary contributions to TECO Energy" said .
John Ramil
TECO Energy, Inc. (NYSE: TE) is a diversified energy-related holding company based in Tampa. Its principal businesses are Tampa Electric, Peoples Gas, TECO Guatemala and TECO Coal.
Note: This press release contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to the inherent uncertainties in predicting future results and conditions. Actual results may differ materially from those forecasted. The forecasted results are based on the company's current expectations and assumptions, and the company does not undertake to update that information or any other information contained in this release, except as may be required by law. The company's ability to realize the benefit of productivity improvements and synergies and increase its financial strength is dependent upon many factors. Important factors are described under "Risk Factors" in TECO Energy, Inc.'s and Tampa Electric Company's combined Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended Dec. 31, 2008.


