FILE:TE/TE-8K-20100504162035.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
See the Press Release dated May 4, 2010 furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference, reporting on TECO Energy, Inc.'s financial results for the three months ended March 31, 2010.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 TECO Energy, Inc. (NYSE:TE) today reported first quarter 2010 net income of $55.8 million or $0.26 per share, compared to $34.7 million or $0.16 per share in the first quarter of 2009. First quarter results in 2010 were reduced by charges of $16.2 million for early debt retirement and $0.9 million for restructuring; results in the first quarter of 2009 benefited from $5.1 million of net charges and gains, primarily the gain on the sale of the Guatemalan telecommunications provider, Navega. These are discussed in the non-GAAP results section below and the table later in this release.
TAMPA, May 4, 2010
Results Reconciliation
TECO Energy Chairman and CEO Sherrill Hudson said, "We are pleased with the great start to 2010. Our Florida utilities had the benefit of the coldest winter weather in many years, which allowed Tampa Electric to set a new all-time peak demand record in January. Our coal operations are realizing the benefits of better selling prices as the world's economy, especially the steel industry, recovers. Unemployment in Florida remains high, but we're seeing some signs of improvement in the economy, and in the housing market where the home-buyer tax credit appears to be spurring some new construction and sales of existing homes at this time."
Non-GAAP Results
The table below compares the TECO Energy GAAP net income to the non-GAAP measures used in this release. Non-GAAP results exclude the charges and gains described following the table. See the section and table later in this release for a reconciliation to GAAP results and a discussion regarding this presentation of non-GAAP results and management's use of this information.
Non-GAAP Presentation
Results Reconciliation
All amounts included in the non-GAAP discussion below are after tax, unless otherwise noted.
 
First quarter 2010 non-GAAP results excluded $16.2 million of early debt retirement charges and the final $0.9 million of restructuring charges. The $16.2 million charge represents premiums and costs associated with the early retirement of $300 million of
 
TECO Energy and TECO Finance notes having original maturities in 2011 and 2012. First quarter 2009 results excluded a $3.6 million loss on auction rate securities held at TECO Energy, and an $8.7 million net gain on the sale of TECO Guatemala's 16.5% interest in the Central American fiber optic telecommunications provider Navega. (See the table.)
Results Reconciliation
Segment Reporting
The table below includes TECO Energy segment information on a GAAP basis, which includes all charges and gains for the periods shown.
 
Operating Company Results
All amounts included in the operating company and Parent/other results discussions are after tax, unless otherwise noted.
Due to an accounting rule change related to variable interest entities (VIEs), effective Jan. 1, 2010 the San Jos and Alborada power stations at TECO Guatemala were consolidated in the financial statements of TECO Energy. Prior periods have not been restated to reflect this change, which did not affect net income.
Tampa Electric
Net income for the first quarter was $48.1 million, compared with $18.3 million for the same period in 2009. Results for the quarter reflected significantly higher energy sales as a result of one of the coldest winters in the Tampa area in approximately 40 years. Results for the quarter also reflected higher base rates effective in May 2009 and the 2010 portion of rates approved by the FPSC in December, and lower operations and maintenance expenses discussed below. Net income included $1.0 million of Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFUDC) - equity, which represents allowed equity cost capitalized to construction costs, compared with $3.3 million in the 2009 period.
The pretax base revenue benefit from the exceptionally cold weather is estimated to be between $15 and $20 million for the 2010 quarter compared to the same period last year. Pretax base revenues increased between $25 and $30 million in the first quarter of 2010 due to the new base rates approved by the FPSC for Tampa Electric effective in May 2009 and on Jan. 1, 2010.
Operations and maintenance expense, excluding all FPSC-approved cost recovery clauses, decreased $5.1 million, or about 9%, in the first quarter of 2010, compared to the
 
same period in 2009, reflecting lower generating unit maintenance expenses due to the timing and scope of maintenance outages, lower expenses to operate the distribution system, and the benefits of the 2009 restructuring actions. Pension expense increased in the quarter, as expected, reflecting the impact of the 2008 financial market downturn on pension assets. Interest expense increased due to higher levels of outstanding long-term debt. Depreciation and amortization expense increased due to additions to facilities to serve customers, including the combustion turbines to meet peak load and the rail car unloading facilities at the Big Bend Power Station, all completed in 2009.
Tampa Electric's retail energy sales increased 7.4% in the first quarter driven primarily by total heating and cooling degree days 37% above normal and 33% above 2009 levels, which drove an 18% increase in sales to the weather-sensitive residential customers. Sales to non-phosphate industrial customers declined almost 11%, reflecting the current Florida economic situation. Off-system sales declined due to lower coal-fired unit availability and the need to meet native load demand during the abnormally cold weather. The average number of customers increased 0.4% in the 2010 first quarter as a result of improvements in the Florida housing market, which appear to be driven by the home-buyer tax credit programs.
Peoples Gas
Peoples Gas reported net income of $17.9 million for the first quarter, compared to $11.2 million in the same period in 2009. Pretax base revenues increased approximately $10 million due to the unusually cold winter weather and approximately $1 million due to the higher permanent base rates which became effective in June 2009. Quarterly results reflect a 0.2% higher average number of customers primarily due to winter seasonal residents. Total therm sales increased 25%, driven by 40% and 14% increases in sales to residential and commercial customers, respectively, due to the colder than normal winter weather. Higher therm sales to industrial customers reflect generally higher usage by those customers. Gas transported for power generation customers and off-system sales increased in 2010 compared to the first quarter of 2009 due to high energy demands from the cold weather. Non-fuel operations and maintenance expense was essentially unchanged compared to 2009 levels. Results also reflect slightly higher depreciation and property tax expenses due to routine plant additions.
TECO Coal
TECO Coal reported first quarter net income of $16.8 million, compared to $8.0 million in the same period in 2009. Results in 2010 included a $3.3 million benefit from the settlement of state income tax issues recorded in prior years.
In 2010, first quarter sales were 2.1 million tons, compared to 2.3 million tons in the first quarter of 2009. Results reflected an average net per-ton selling price, excluding transportation allowances, of more than $76 per ton, almost 10% higher than in 2009. First-quarter sales volumes were affected by rail shipment disruptions throughout Central Appalachia from severe winter weather in January and February. Shipping volumes partially recovered in March and full-year sales are expected to be at previously forecasted levels. In the first quarter of 2010, the all-in total per-ton cost of production was $68 per ton, an increase of less than 4% over 2009's level and within the cost guidance range previously provided. Costs increased in the first quarter primarily due to the timing of certain surface mine reclamation activities early in the year and lost productivity due to winter weather. TECO Coal's effective income tax rate in the first quarter of 2010 was 23%, excluding the effect of the state income tax settlement, compared to 14% in the 2009 period.
 
TECO Guatemala
TECO Guatemala reported first quarter net income of $10.4 million in 2010, compared to $13.2 million in the 2009 period. TECO Guatemala's first quarter 2009 non-GAAP results of $4.5 million excluded the $8.7 million gain from the sale of the telecommunications service provider, Navega, which was sold in the first quarter of 2009 (see the table). The improved 2010 first quarter results reflect a full quarter of normal operations for the San Jos Power Station, compared to the first quarter of 2009 when the plant experienced unplanned outages for much of the quarter. Improved availability allowed for higher spot energy sales at higher margins driven by the current high cost of residual fuel oil, which sets the market clearing price, and lower than normal power supplies from hydro-electric sources. Higher net income from normal operations and spot energy sales was partially offset by $2.0 million lower capacity payments under the power sales contract. Capacity payments for the San Jos Power Station are based on a 12-month rolling average availability, and were reduced starting in the second half of 2009 as a result of the unplanned outages in the first six months of 2009. At EEGSA, the distribution utility, 2010 first quarter results reflect the benefit of customer growth, higher energy sales, and cost control measures to offset the impact of the lower distribution tariff implemented in August 2008. Higher earnings at the remaining DECA II unregulated EEGSA-affiliated companies, which provide, among other things, electricity transmission services, wholesale power sales to unregulated electric customers and engineering services, were more than offset by the absence of Navega earnings after its sale.
Results Reconciliation
Parent / Other
Parent/other cost in the first quarter was $37.4 million, compared to a cost of $16.0 million for the 2009 period. First quarter 2010 non-GAAP results for Parent/other were a cost of $20.3 million, which excluded a $16.2 million charge related to the early debt retirement previously described and a $0.9 million charge related to the 2009 restructuring activities. The 2009 non-GAAP cost of $12.4 million excluded a $3.6 million valuation adjustment on student loan securities held at TECO Energy parent (see the table). Results in 2010 included a $5.2 million negative valuation adjustment to foreign tax credits based on estimated foreign source income and projected timing of the utilization of the net operating loss (NOL) carry forwards, and a $1.1 million charge to adjust deferred tax balances related to the Medicare Part D subsidies as a result of the recently enacted Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.
Results Reconciliation
Cash and Liquidity
The table below sets forth the Mar. 31, 2010 consolidated liquidity and cash balances, the cash balances at the operating companies and TECO Energy parent, and amounts available under the TECO Finance and Tampa Electric Company credit facilities.
 
 
In the first quarter, TECO Energy and TECO Finance tendered for, purchased and retired a total of $300 million of 7.00% and 7.20% notes, and TECO Finance issued $250 million of 4.00% notes due in 2016 and $300 million of 5.15% notes due in 2020. In April 2010, TECO Energy redeemed all of its $100 million of its outstanding floating rate notes due in May 2010 and $100 million of its 7.20% notes due in 2011.
2010 Guidance and Business Drivers
TECO Energy is maintaining its 2010 earnings per share guidance range between $1.20 and $1.35, excluding charges and gains. TECO Energy expects earnings in 2010 to be driven by the factors discussed below.
Tampa Electric and Peoples Gas have combined the organizations under a single management team with new organizational structures following the restructuring actions taken in the third quarter of 2009. These actions have reduced Tampa Electric's expected operations and maintenance expenses in 2010 to approximately 2008 levels to offset the approximately $40 million revenue shortfall compared to the revenue projections filed in its base rate case. These restructuring actions are expected to enable the utilities to earn the authorized returns on equity set in the respective 2009 rate case decisions.
Tampa Electric and Peoples Gas will have the full year benefit of the 2009 base rate increases implemented in 2009. In addition, the FPSC approved a $26 million base rate increase related to the five combustion turbines and the rail unloading facilities placed in service in 2009, with rates effective Jan. 1, 2010, subject to refund pending the outcome of a hearing on that increase to be held by the FPSC in 2010. The hearing is scheduled for Sep. 1 and 2, and a Commission vote is expected in early November.
The forecast for Tampa Electric and Peoples Gas assumes normal weather for the remainder of the year. The outlook and timing for a Florida economic recovery remains uncertain due to high unemployment and an uncertain housing market. Year-to-date housing market improvements appear to be driven by the home-buyer tax credit programs. The strength of the housing market is uncertain after the expiration of these tax credits at mid-year. Economists continue to forecast a very slow recovery in employment starting in 2010, while others are forecasting a flat economy for 2010. The forecast used by Tampa Electric and Peoples Gas reflects a slight decline in energy sales due to continued weakness in the commercial and industrial sectors and lower customer usage in response to the continued weak economy.
Due to the current strong markets for metallurgical and pulverized coal injection (PCI) coals, TECO Coal now expects its sales in 2010 to be near the upper end of the previously
 
provided production sales range of 8.3 to 8.7 million tons. The total expected sales are contracted and priced at an average price of more than $75 per ton. More than one-third of sales are to steel producers and specialty stoker coal users with the remainder sold to utility steam coal customers. The all-in, fully-loaded production costs are expected to be in a range between $65 and $69 per ton, driven by lower diesel fuel costs offset by higher safety requirements, lower productivity that reflects the industry-wide trend of increased inspections by state and federal agencies, and higher royalty cost and severance taxes due to the higher selling prices. Diesel fuel prices have been hedged for those contracts that do not have diesel price adjustments in the contract at average prices below 2009 levels. Production costs may be negatively impacted if there are increased mine safety requirements as a result of the recent mine tragedy in West Virginia.
TECO Guatemala expects improved operating and financial performance at the San Jos Power Station following the extended unplanned outages in 2009, and higher contract capacity payments, which are expected to increase as the 12-month rolling average availability factor improves. Assuming a return to more normal hydro-electric operating conditions, spot energy sales from the San Jos Power Station are expected to return to more normal levels for the remainder of the year. EEGSA, the Guatemalan distribution utility, continues to experience customer and energy sales growth, but the issue with the value added distribution tariff (VAD), which was reduced by the Guatemalan regulators in August 2008, remains unresolved. Iberdrola, EEGSA's largest investor, is in an international arbitration process under the bilateral trade agreement between Spain and Guatemala. At this time, there is no firm schedule to resolve this matter. TECO Guatemala is currently in discussions with the Guatemalan regulatory authorities regarding the five-year extension of the power sales contract for the Alborada Power Station, which expires in September 2010.
This guidance is provided in the form of a range to allow for varying outcomes with respect to important variables, such as the timing of the start of and the strength of an economic and housing market recovery in Florida, weather and customer usage at the Florida utilities, steam coal inventories at TECO Coal's utility customers and their ability to accept contracted amounts, and margins at TECO Coal.
Non-GAAP Presentation
Management believes it is helpful to present a non-GAAP measure of performance that reflects the ongoing operations of TECO Energy's businesses and which allows investors to better understand and evaluate the business as it is expected to operate in future periods.
Management and the Board of Directors use non-GAAP measures as a yardstick for measuring the company's performance, for making decisions that are dependent upon the profitability of the company's various operating units, and for determining levels of incentive compensation.
The non-GAAP measures of financial performance used by the company are not measures of performance under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and should not be considered an alternative to net income or other GAAP figures as an indicator of the company's financial performance or liquidity. TECO Energy's non-GAAP presentation of net income may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
The table below presents non-GAAP financial results after elimination of the effects of certain identified charges and gains. This provides investors additional information to assess the company's results and future earnings potential.
Results Reconciliation
 
 
Conference call information
As previously announced, TECO Energy will conduct a Webcast and conference call with the financial community at 5:00 pm Eastern time on May 4, 2010 covering its first quarter results and its outlook for the remainder of 2010. The Webcast will be accessible through the link on TECO Energy's Website: . The Webcast and accompanying slides will be available for replay for 30 days through the Web site, beginning approximately two hours after the conclusion of the live event.
www.tecoenergy.com
TECO Energy, Inc. (NYSE: TE) is an energy-related holding company. Its principal subsidiary, Tampa Electric Company, is a regulated utility in Florida with both electric and gas divisions (Tampa Electric and Peoples Gas System). Other subsidiaries include TECO Coal, which owns and operates coal production facilities in Kentucky and Virginia, and TECO Guatemala, which is engaged in electric power generation and distribution and energy-related businesses in Guatemala.
Note: This press release contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to the inherent uncertainties in predicting future results and conditions. Actual results may differ materially from those forecasted. The forecasted results are based on the company's current expectations and assumptions, and the company does not undertake to update that information or any other information contained in this press release, except as may be required by law. Factors that could impact actual results include: regulatory actions by
 
federal, state or local authorities; the hearing before the FPSC in September on Tampa Electric's 2010 portion of rates approved in 2009, and the intervenor's appeal of that rate change to the Florida Supreme Court; unexpected capital needs or unanticipated reductions in cash flow that affect liquidity; the ability to access the capital and credit markets when required; the availability of adequate rail transportation capacity for the shipment of TECO Coal's production; general economic conditions affecting energy sales at the utility companies; economic conditions, both national and international, affecting the Florida economy and demand for TECO Coal's production; weather variations and changes in customer energy usage patterns affecting sales and operating costs at Tampa Electric and Peoples Gas and the effect of extreme weather conditions or hurricanes; operating conditions, commodity prices; operating cost and environmental or safety rule changes affecting the production levels and margins at TECO Coal; fuel cost recoveries and related cash at Tampa Electric and natural gas demand at Peoples Gas; the ability of TECO Energy's subsidiaries to operate equipment without undue accidents, breakdowns or failures; changes in the U.S. federal tax code on earnings from foreign investments that could reduce earnings; the success of ongoing discussions with regulators in Guatemala to extend the purchase power agreement for the Alborada Power Station; and the ultimate outcome of efforts to revise the significantly lower EEGSA VAD tariff rates implemented by regulatory authorities in Guatemala effective Aug. 1, 2008 affecting TECO Guatemala's results. Additional information is contained under "Risk Factors" in TECO Energy, Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended Dec. 31, 2009.
 
 
 
Figures appearing in these statements are presented as general information and not in connection with any sale or offer to sell or solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, nor are they intended as a representation by the company of the value of its securities. All figures reported are subject to adjustments as the annual audit by independent accountants may determine to be necessary and to the explanatory notes affecting income and balance sheet accounts contained in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K. Reference should also be made to information contained in that and other reports filed by TECO Energy, Inc. and Tampa Electric Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


