FILE:TE/TE-8K-20100804165514.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 and Exhibit 10.1 are being filed by TECO Energy, Inc. Item 8.01 is being filed by its wholly-owned subsidiary, Tampa Electric Company.
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
Item 5.02  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On August 4, 2010, the Board of Directors of TECO Energy, Inc. (the "Corporation") appointed John B. Ramil to the position of President and Chief Executive Officer, effective immediately. On that date, Mr. Ramil was also appointed by the Board of Directors of the Corporation's principal subsidiary, Tampa Electric Company, as that company's Chief Executive Officer, effective immediately. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Ramil, 54, served as the Corporation's President and Chief Operating Officer since July 2004. Mr. Ramil has also been a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation and Tampa Electric Company since January 2008. In connection with such appointment, Mr. Ramil's annual base salary was increased to $700,000.
Also on August 4, 2010, the Board of Directors of the Corporation and Tampa Electric Company each appointed Sherrill W. Hudson as Executive Chairman of the Board, effective immediately. Prior to such appointment, Mr. Hudson, 67, served as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation and Tampa Electric Company since July 2004. He has also been a member of the Board of Directors of both companies since January 2003.
In connection with Mr. Hudson's appointment, the Corporation entered into an Employment Agreement with Mr. Hudson dated August 4, 2010 (the "Agreement"). The Agreement provides for Mr. Hudson to serve as Executive Chairman through December 31, 2012, for an annual salary of $430,000 for 2010 (prorated for the remainder of the year, for a total salary of approximately $176,700 for the remainder of 2010), $325,000 for 2011, and $270,000 for 2012. The Agreement provides for a target incentive opportunity of 75% of his then annual salary under the Corporation's annual incentive plan (which target amount will be prorated for 2010, for a total target incentive opportunity of approximately $533,600 for 2010). The Agreement also provides that he will receive equity incentive grants under the Corporation's equity incentive plan at the same time and under the same terms and conditions as the Corporation's other officers, except that the target amount of such grants shall be based on 150% of his then annual base salary. The Agreement provides that Mr. Hudson will be entitled to a severance payment if his employment is terminated without Cause, as defined in the Agreement, and if he signs the release attached as Exhibit A to the Agreement. The severance payment in such event would be equal to 100% of his base salary plus target bonus for the remainder of the term of the Agreement. In the event of a termination in connection with a Change in Control, as defined in the Change-in-Control Agreement dated July 30, 2008 between Mr. Hudson and the Corporation (the "Change-in-Control Agreement"), severance would be calculated pursuant to the Change-in-Control Agreement, and no severance would be due under the Agreement.
The foregoing summary of the Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the complete text of the Agreement, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Report and is incorporated herein by reference.
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01: Other Events
The information in Item 5.02 is hereby incorporated by reference.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01: Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
THIS AGREEMENT made this 4
th
day of August 2010, by and between TECO Energy, Inc. ("TECO"), a Florida corporation, and Sherrill W. Hudson, ("Executive"):
, Executive has served as Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of TECO and its principal subsidiary, Tampa Electric Company, since July 6, 2004; and
Whereas
, the Board of Directors of TECO and Tampa Electric Company wish to split the positions of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer as part of their management succession planning, with the appointment of a new Chief Executive Officer and with Executive continuing to serve as Chairman of the Board of Directors of both TECO and Tampa Electric Company as part of a new role as Executive Chairman during the term of this Agreement;
Whereas
Now therefore, it is agreed as follows:
 
 
 
Exhibit 10.1
 
 
The Executive shall also be eligible to participate in TECO's Annual Incentive officer bonus program. Executive's 2010 bonus shall be determined by adding the results of two separate calculations, the first calculation of bonus from January 1, 2010 through August 3, 2010 shall be calculated using Executive's goals, target (80%) and actual base compensation during that period and the second calculation shall use a 75% target, $176,712.33 base compensation and Executive's goals for that period. For 2011 and 2012, Executive's bonus shall be calculated using Executive's goals, a seventy-five percent (75%) target and Executive's then base compensation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
The Executive, during his employment with TECO, has had and will continue to have access to and become familiar with information concerning the business and affairs of TECO including but not limited to strategic plans, methods of operation and training, quality control, budgeting and purchasing and financial information and data used by TECO in carrying out its business. The Executive shall not disclose any of the above-stated information or records, directly or indirectly, nor use them in any way, either during the term of his employment or at any time thereafter, except as required in the course of his/her employment. All information and items set forth above, including but not limited to information that would be detrimental to the business of TECO if disclosed, whether prepared by the Executive, or otherwise coming into his/her possession, shall be assigned immediately for no additional consideration to and remain the exclusive property of TECO.
 
Exhibit 10.1
 
The parties hereto agree that damages at law, including but not limited to monetary damages, will be insufficient remedy to TECO in the event that the confidentiality provision of this Section is violated and that, in addition to any remedies or rights that may be available to TECO, all of which other remedies or rights shall be deemed to be cumulative, retained by TECO and not waived by the enforcement of any remedy available hereunder, including but not limited to the right to sue for monetary damages, TECO also shall be entitled, upon application to a court to competent jurisdiction, to obtain injunctive relief, including but not limited to a temporary restraining order to temporary, preliminary or permanent injunction, to enforce the provisions of this Section.
 
This Agreement is intended to comply with the restrictions contained in Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and the final Treasury Regulation thereunder. This Agreement shall be construed in a manner to give effect to such intention. Notwithstanding any provisions of this Agreement to the contrary, if the Executive is a "(within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code and the regulations thereunder and determined pursuant to procedures adopted by TECO) and he experiences a "separation from service" (including in respect of his position as a member of the Board) and if any portion of the payments or benefits to be received by the Chairman upon such a "separation from service" would be considered deferred compensation under Section 409A of the Code, amounts that would otherwise be payable pursuant to this Agreement during the six-month period immediately following the Chairman's separation from service and benefits that would otherwise be provided pursuant to this Agreement during the six-month period immediately following the Chairman's separation from service shall instead be paid or made available on the earlier of (i) the first business day of the seventh month following the date of the Chairman's separation from service or (ii) Chairman's death.
specified employee"
 
 
 
 
Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
TECO Energy, Inc.
702 North Franklin Street
Tampa, FL 33602
Attn:  General Counsel
 
Sherrill W. Hudson
745 San Esteban Avenue
Coral Gables, FL 33146
 
Exhibit 10.1
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have hereunto caused this Agreement to be executed the day and year first above written.
 
 
Exhibit 10.1
 
For and in consideration of the payment made to Executive pursuant to Section 6(c) of the Employment Agreement, the Executive, for himself, his heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns acknowledges that the payment being made as consideration is in addition to anything of value to which he is entitled and accordingly hereby releases and agrees to hold harmless TECO from all claims, rights, causes of action or liabilities of whatever nature, whether at law or in equity, or damages (compensatory, consequential or punitive) against TECO that the Executive, his heirs, executors, administrators, successors, and assigns, may now have or hereafter can, shall or may have for, upon, or by reason of any matter, cause or thing, whatsoever, that has happened, developed or occurred on or before the date of this Release, arising out of the Executive's employment (other than Workers' Compensation claims pending or otherwise related to such employment) with or termination of employment from TECO or retirement therefrom, including, but not limited to, claims for wrongful termination, discrimination, retaliation, invasion of privacy, defamation, slander, and/or intentional infliction of emotional distress, any rights to a grievance proceeding and those arising under any federal, state, or local discrimination or civil rights or labor laws and/or rules or regulations, and/or common law, whether in contract or in tort, as they relate to the employment relationship of the Employee/Employer (including without limitation claims arising under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Older Workers' Benefit Protection Act (29 USC 626), Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act (29 USC 2101-2109), or the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, as such laws have been or may be amended from time to time).
TECO and the Executive agree that by entering into this Release the Executive does not waive claims that may arise after the date of execution of this Release.
The Executive acknowledges and agrees that this Release shall not be construed as an admission by TECO of any improper or unlawful actions or of any wrongdoing whatsoever against the Executive or any other person, and TECO expressly denies any wrongdoing whatsoever against the Executive or any other person.
For the purposes of this Release, "TECO" shall include TECO Energy, Inc., Tampa Electric Company, Peoples Gas System, TECO Coal Corporation, TECO Guatemala, Inc., TECO Partners, Inc, their subsidiaries and affiliates, and any agent, officer, director, or employee thereof.
BY SIGNING THIS GENERAL RELEASE, I REPRESENT AND AGREE AS FOLLOWS: I HAVE READ THIS GENERAL RELEASE CAREFULLY;
 
 
 
Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 


