FILE:TE/TE-8K-20100205073057.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
 
See the Press Release dated February 5, 2010 furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference, reporting on TECO Energy, Inc.'s financial results for the three months and twelve months ended December 31, 2009.
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
 
On February 3, 2010, the Board of Directors of TECO Energy, Inc. (the "Corporation") approved the amendment of the change-in-control severance agreement between the Corporation and Sandra W. Callahan, Vice President-Finance and Accounting and Chief Financial Officer (the "Agreement"). The Agreement continues to provide for certain payments to the officer if there is change in control (as defined in the Agreement) or one is contemplated, and employment is terminated without cause or for good reason (as defined the Agreement). The amendment to the Agreement changed the payments due upon such an event as follows: (i) the lump sum severance payment was changed from two times the sum of annual salary and target annual incentive to three times such amount, (ii) the payment for additional retirement benefits was changed to the amount that would have been earned under the Corporation's retirement plans if employment had continued for three years, instead of two years, (iii) the length of continued participation in the Corporation's available life, disability, accident and health insurance plans was changed from a two-year period to a three-year period, and (iv) the period of time the Agreement remains in effect following a change in control was changed from two years to three years. The Agreement is filed as exhibit 10.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
PRIVILEGED AND CONFIDENTIAL
February 3, 2010
TECO Energy, Inc. (the "Company") considers it essential to the best interests of its stockholders to foster the continuous employment of key management personnel. In this connection, the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") recognizes that, as is the case with many publicly held corporations, the possibility of a change in control may exist and that such possibility, and the uncertainty and questions which it may raise among management, may result in the departure or distraction of key management personnel to the detriment of the Company and its stockholders.
The Board has determined that appropriate steps should be taken to reinforce and encourage the continued attention and dedication of members of the Company's management, including yourself, to their assigned duties without distraction in the face of potentially disturbing circumstances arising from the possibility of a change in control of the Company.
In order to induce you to remain in the employ of the Company and in consideration of your agreement set forth in Subsection 2(iii) hereof, the Company agrees that you shall receive the severance benefits set forth in this letter agreement (the "Agreement") in the event your employment with the Company is terminated subsequent to a "change in control of the Company" (as defined in Section 2(i) hereof) (or is deemed to be terminated subsequent to a change in control of the Company in accordance with the second sentence of Section 3 hereof) under the circumstances described below. This Agreement amends and restates the letter agreement dated November 1, 2007 between you and the Company (the "Prior Agreement").
1. . This Agreement shall commence on the date hereof and shall continue in effect through June 30, 2012; provided, however, that commencing on July 1, 2011 and each July 1 thereafter, the term of this Agreement shall automatically be extended for one additional year unless, not later than March 31 of such year, the Company shall have given notice that it does not wish to extend this Agreement (provided that no such notice may be given during the pendency of or within two years following a potential change in control of the Company, as defined in Section 2(ii) hereof); provided, further, if a change in control of the Company shall have occurred during the original or extended term of this Agreement, this Agreement shall continue in effect for a period of thirty-six (36) months beyond the month in which such change in control occurred.
Term of Agreement
2. . (i) Except as provided in the second sentence of Section 3 hereof, no benefits shall be payable hereunder unless there shall have been a change in control of the Company, as set forth below. For purposes of this Agreement, a "change in control of the Company" shall mean a change in control of a nature that would be required to be reported in response to Item 6(e) of Schedule 14A of Regulation 14A promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), whether or not the Company is in fact required to comply therewith; provided, that, without limitation, such a change in control shall be deemed to have occurred if:
Change in Control; Potential Change in Control
(A) any "person" (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act), other than the Company, any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Company, is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 30% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities;
(B) the following individuals cease to constitute a majority of the number of directors then serving: individuals who on the date hereof constitute the Board and any new director (other than a director whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest, including but not limited to a consent solicitation, relating to the election of directors of the Company) whose election by the Board or nomination for election by the stockholders of the Company was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors on the date hereof or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved, cease for any reason to constitute a majority thereof; or
(C) there is consummated a merger or consolidation of the Company or any direct or indirect subsidiary of the Company with any other corporation, other than (i) a merger or consolidation resulting in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) at least 50% of the combined voting securities of the Company or such surviving entity or any parent thereof outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation or (ii) a merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of the Company (or similar transaction) in which no "person" (as hereinabove defined) acquires 30% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities; or
(D) the stockholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation of the Company or there is consummated the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company's assets.
(ii) For purposes of this Agreement, a "potential change in control of the Company" shall be deemed to have occurred if:
(A) the Company enters into an agreement, the consummation of which would result in the occurrence of a change in control of the Company;
 
(B) any person (as hereinabove defined), including the Company, publicly announces an intention to take or consider taking actions which if consummated would constitute a change in control of the Company;
(C) any person (as hereinabove defined), other than the Company, any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Company (a) is or becomes the beneficial owner, (b) discloses directly or indirectly to the Company or publicly a plan or intention to become the beneficial owner, or (c) makes a filing under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, with respect to securities to become the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of securities representing 9.9% or more of the combined voting power of the outstanding voting securities of the Company; or
(D) the Board adopts a resolution to the effect that, for purposes of this Agreement, a potential change in control of the Company has occurred.
(iii) You agree that, subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, in the event of a potential change in control of the Company during the term of this Agreement (as determined under Section 1 hereof), you will remain in the employ of the Company until the earliest of (a) a date which is one (1) year from the occurrence of such potential change in control of the Company, (b) the termination by you of your employment after you attain "normal retirement age" under the provisions of the TECO Energy Group Retirement Plan or any successor thereto (the "Retirement Plan") or by reason of death or Disability as defined in Section 3(i), or (c) the date of the occurrence of a change in control of the Company.
3. . If your employment is terminated following a change in control of the Company and during the term of this Agreement, other than (A) by the Company for Cause, (B) by reason of death or Disability, or (C) by you without Good Reason, then the Company shall pay you the amounts, and provide you the benefits, described in Section 4(iii) hereof. For purposes of this Agreement, your employment shall be deemed to have been terminated following a change in control of the Company by the Company without Cause or by you with Good Reason, if (i) your employment is terminated by the Company without Cause prior to a change in control of the Company (whether or not such a change in control ever occurs) and such termination was at the request or direction of a "person" (as hereinabove defined) who has entered into an agreement with the Company the consummation of which would constitute a change in control of the Company, (ii) you terminate your employment for Good Reason prior to a change in control of the Company (whether or not such a change in control ever occurs) and the circumstance or event which constitutes Good Reason occurs at the request or direction of such person, or (iii) your employment is terminated by the Company without Cause or by you for Good Reason and such termination or the circumstance or event which constitutes Good Reason is otherwise in connection with or in anticipation of a change in control of the Company (whether or not such a change in
Termination Following Change in Control
 
control ever occurs). Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, you shall not be entitled to the benefits provided in Section 4 hereof unless you have incurred a "separation from service" under Section 409A of the Code.
(i) . If, as a result of your incapacity due to physical or mental illness, you shall have been absent from the full-time performance of your duties with the Company for six (6) consecutive months, and within thirty (30) days after written notice of termination is given you shall not have returned to the full-time performance of your duties, your employment may be terminated for "Disability".
Disability
(ii) . Termination by the Company of your employment for "Cause" shall mean termination upon (A) the willful and continued failure by you to substantially perform your duties with the Company (other than any such failure resulting from your incapacity due to physical or mental illness or any such actual or anticipated failure after the issuance of a Notice of Termination by you for Good Reason, as defined in Subsections 3(iv) and 3(iii), respectively) after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to you by the Board, which demand specifically identifies the manner in which the Board believes that you have not substantially performed your duties, or (B) the willful engaging by you in conduct which is demonstrably and materially injurious to the Company, monetarily or otherwise. For purposes of this Subsection, no act, or failure to act, on your part shall be deemed "willful" unless done, or omitted to be done, by you not in good faith and without reasonable belief that your action or omission was in the best interest of the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, you shall not be deemed to have been terminated for Cause unless and until there shall have been delivered to you a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the affirmative vote of not less than three-quarters (3/4) of the entire membership of the Board at a meeting of the Board called and held for such purpose (after reasonable notice to you and an opportunity for you, together with your counsel, to be heard before the Board), finding that in the good faith opinion of the Board you were guilty of conduct set forth above in this Subsection and specifying the particulars thereof in detail.
Cause
(iii) . "Good Reason" for termination by you of your employment shall mean the occurrence (without your express written consent) after any change in control of the Company, or prior to a change in control of the Company under the circumstances described in the second sentence of Section 3 hereof (treating all references in paragraphs (A) through (H) below to a "change in control of the Company" as references to a "potential change in control of the Company"), of any one of the following acts by the Company, or failures by the Company to act:
Good Reason
(A) the assignment to you of any duties inconsistent (except in the nature of a promotion) with the position in the Company that you held immediately prior to the change in control of the Company or a substantial adverse alteration in the nature or status of your position or responsibilities or the conditions of your employment from those in effect immediately prior to the change in control of the Company;
 
(B) a reduction by the Company in your annual base salary as in effect on the date hereof or as the same may be increased from time to time;
(C) the Company's requiring you to be based more than fifty (50) miles from the Company's offices at which you were principally employed immediately prior to the date of the change in control of the Company except for required travel on the Company's business to an extent substantially consistent with your present business travel obligations;
(D) the failure by the Company to pay to you any portion of your current compensation or compensation under any deferred compensation program of the Company, within seven (7) days of the date such compensation is due;
(E) the failure by the Company to continue in effect any material compensation or benefit plan in which you participate immediately prior to the change in control of the Company unless an equitable arrangement (embodied in an ongoing substitute or alternative plan) has been made with respect to such plan, or the failure by the Company to continue your participation therein (or in such substitute or alternative plan) on a basis not materially less favorable, both in terms of the amount of benefits provided and the level of your participation relative to other participants, than existed at the time of the change in control;
(F) the failure by the Company to continue to provide you with benefits substantially similar to those enjoyed by you under any of the Company's pension, life insurance, medical, health and accident, or disability plans in which you were participating at the time of the change in control of the Company, the taking of any action by the Company which would directly or indirectly materially reduce any of such benefits or deprive you of any material fringe benefit enjoyed by you at the time of the change in control of the Company, or the failure by the Company to provide you with the number of paid vacation days to which you are entitled on the basis of your years of service with the Company in accordance with the Company's normal vacation policy in effect at the time of the change in control of the Company;
(G) the failure of the Company to obtain a satisfactory agreement from any successor to assume and agree to perform this Agreement, as contemplated in Section 6 hereof; or
(H) any purported termination of your employment which is not effected pursuant to a Notice of Termination satisfying the requirements of Subsection (iv) below (and, if applicable, the requirements of Subsection (ii) above), which purported termination shall not be effective for purposes of this Agreement.
 
Your right to terminate your employment pursuant to this Subsection shall not be affected by your incapacity due to physical or mental illness. Your continued employment shall not constitute consent to, or a waiver of rights with respect to, any circumstance constituting Good Reason hereunder.
(iv) . Any purported termination of your employment by the Company or by you shall be communicated by written Notice of Termination to the other party hereto in accordance with Section 7 hereof. For purposes of this Agreement, a "Notice of Termination" shall mean a notice which shall indicate the specific termination provision in this Agreement relied upon and shall set forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of your employment under the provision so indicated.
Notice of Termination
(v) . "Date of Termination" shall mean (A) if your employment is terminated for Disability, thirty (30) days after Notice of Termination is given (provided that you shall not have returned to the full-time performance of your duties during such thirty (30) day period), and (B) if your employment is terminated pursuant to Subsection (ii) or (iii) above or for any other reason (other than Disability), the date specified in the Notice of Termination (which, in the case of a termination pursuant to Subsection (ii) above shall not be less than thirty (30) days, and in the case of a termination pursuant to Subsection (iii) above shall not be less than fifteen (15) nor more than sixty (60) days, respectively, from the date such Notice of Termination is given); provided that if within fifteen (15) days after any Notice of Termination is given, or, if later, prior to the Date of Termination (as determined without regard to this proviso), the party receiving such Notice of Termination notifies the other party that a dispute exists concerning the termination, the Date of Termination shall be the date on which the dispute is finally determined, either by mutual written agreement of the parties or by a binding arbitration award; and provided further that the Date of Termination shall be extended by a notice of dispute given by you only if such notice is given in good faith and you pursue the resolution of such dispute with reasonable diligence. Notwithstanding the pendency of any such dispute, the Company will continue to pay you your full compensation in effect when the notice giving rise to the dispute was given (including, but not limited to, base salary) and continue you as a participant in all compensation, benefit and insurance plans in which you were participating when the notice giving rise to the dispute was given, until the dispute is finally resolved in accordance with this Subsection. Amounts paid under this Subsection are in addition to all other amounts due under this Agreement and shall not be offset against or reduce any other amounts due under this Agreement. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, you shall not be entitled to the benefits provided in Section 4 hereof unless you have incurred a "separation from service" under Code Section 409A.
Date of Termination, Etc
 
4. . Following a change in control of the Company, as defined by Subsection 2(i), or prior to a change in control of the Company under the circumstances described in the second sentence of Section 3 hereof, upon termination of your employment or during a period of disability you shall be entitled to the following benefits:
Compensation Upon Termination or During Disability
(i) During any period that you fail to perform your full-time duties with the Company as a result of incapacity due to physical or mental illness, you shall continue to receive your base salary at the rate in effect at the commencement of any such period, together with all compensation payable to you under the Company's disability plan or program or other similar plan during such period, until this Agreement is terminated pursuant to Section 3(i) hereof. Thereafter, or in the event your employment shall be terminated by reason of your death, your benefits shall be determined under the Company's retirement, insurance and other compensation programs then in effect in accordance with the terms of such programs.
(ii) If your employment shall be terminated by the Company for Cause or by you other than for Good Reason, the Company shall pay you your full base salary through the Date of Termination at the rate in effect at the time Notice of Termination is given, plus all other amounts to which you are entitled under any compensation plan of the Company at the time such payments are due, and the Company shall have no further obligations to you under this Agreement.
(iii) If your employment by the Company terminates in a manner entitling you to benefits under this Section pursuant to Section 3 hereof, then you shall be entitled to the benefits provided below:
(A) the Company shall pay you your full base salary through the Date of Termination at the rate in effect at the time Notice of Termination is given, plus all other amounts to which you are entitled under any compensation plan of the Company, at the time such payments are due, except as otherwise provided below;
(B) in lieu of any further salary payments to you for periods subsequent to the Date of Termination, the Company shall pay as severance pay to you a lump sum severance payment (together with the payments provided in paragraphs (C) and (D) below, the "Severance Payments") equal to three (3) times the sum of (1) the greater of (a) your annual rate of base salary in effect on the Date of Termination or (b) your annual rate of base salary in effect immediately prior to the change in control of the Company and (2) your highest annual incentive target award in effect at any time during the 36 months prior to the Date of Termination;
(C) for a thirty-six (36) month period after such termination, the Company shall arrange to provide you with life, disability, accident and health insurance benefits substantially similar to those which you are receiving immediately prior to the Notice of Termination. Benefits otherwise receivable by you pursuant to this Subsection 4(iii)(D) shall be reduced to the extent comparable benefits are actually received by you from a subsequent employer during the thirty-six (36) month period following your termination, and any such benefits actually received by you shall be reported to the Company. The period during which benefits are provided under this Section shall satisfy the Company's obligations to provide continuation coverage under Section 4980B of the Code; and
 
(D) in addition to the retirement benefits to which you are entitled under the Retirement Plan, any supplemental retirement or excess benefit plan maintained by TECO or any of its subsidiaries or any successor plans thereto (hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Pension Plans"), the Company shall pay you in cash a lump sum equal to the excess of (a) the actuarial equivalent (computed at your date of termination) of the retirement pension (taking into account any early retirement subsidies and post-retirement surviving spouse benefits associated therewith and determined as an annuity payable in the normal form under the Pension Plans commencing at your normal retirement age under the Retirement Plan or any earlier date, but in no event earlier than the third anniversary of the Date of Termination, whichever annuity the actuarial equivalent of which is greatest) which you would have accrued under the terms of the Pension Plans (without regard to the limitations imposed by Section 401(a)(17) of the Code, or any amendment to the Pension Plans made subsequent to a change in control of the Company and on or prior to the Date of Termination, which amendment adversely affects in any manner the computation of retirement benefits thereunder), determined as if you were fully vested thereunder and had continued to be a participant in each of the Pension Plans for thirty-six (36) additional months and as if you had accumulated thirty-six (36) additional months of compensation (for purposes of determining your pension benefits thereunder), each in an amount equal to the sum of the amounts determined under clauses (1) and (2) of Section 4(iii)(B) hereof over (b) the actuarial equivalent (computed at your date of termination) of the vested retirement pension (taking into account any early retirement subsidies and post-retirement surviving spouse benefits associated therewith and determined as an annuity payable in the normal form under the Pension Plans commencing at your normal retirement age under the Retirement Plan or any earlier date, but in no event earlier than the Date of Termination, whichever annuity the actuarial equivalent of which is greatest) which you had then accrued pursuant to the provisions of the Pension Plans. For purposes of this Subsection, "actuarial equivalent" shall be determined using the same actuarial assumptions utilized in determining the amount of alternate forms of benefits under the Retirement Plan immediately prior to the change in control of the Company.
(iv) Except as otherwise specifically provided in paragraph (C) hereof, the payments provided for in Subsection (iii) shall be made not later than the fifth day following the Date of Termination; provided, however, that if the amounts of such payments cannot be finally determined on or before such day, the Company shall pay to you on such day an estimate, as determined in good faith by the Company, of the minimum amount of such payments and shall pay the remainder of such payments (together with interest at the rate provided in Section 1274(b)(2)(B) of the Code) as soon as the amount thereof can be determined but in no event later than the thirtieth day after the Date of Termination. In the event that the amount of the estimated payments exceeds the amount subsequently determined to have been due, such excess shall constitute a loan by the Company to you payable on the fifth day after demand therefor by the Company (together with interest at the rate provided in Section 1274(b)(2)(B) of the Code). Notwithstanding anything in this
 
Agreement to the contrary, to the extent required by Section 409A of the Code, payment of the amounts payable under this Agreement shall commence no earlier than the earlier of (i) the first day of the first month commencing at least six (6) months following your separation from service with the Company (within the meaning of Section 409A) or (ii) your date of death. Any amount the payment of which is delayed by application of the preceding sentence shall be paid as soon as possible following the expiration of such six month period and shall be paid with interest (at an interest rate equal to the rate used to calculate actuarial equivalence in the Pension Plans) from the date on which such amount would otherwise have been paid but for the application of the preceding sentence to the date such amount is actually paid. To the extent you are terminated (i) following a change in control of the Company but prior to a change in ownership or control of the Company within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code or (ii) prior to a change in control of the Company in a manner described in the second sentence of Section 3, to the extent required to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Section 409A of the Code, amounts payable to you hereunder, to the extent not in excess of the amount that you would have received under any other pre-change in control severance plan or arrangement with the Company had such plan or arrangement been applicable, shall be paid at the time and in the manner provided by such plan or arrangement and the remainder shall be paid to you in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4;
(v) You shall not be required to mitigate the amount of any payment provided for in this Section 4 by seeking other employment or otherwise, nor, except as specifically provided in Sections 4(iii)(C) above, shall the amount of any payment or benefit provided for in this Section 4 be reduced by any compensation earned by you as the result of employment by another employer, by retirement benefits, by offset against any amount claimed to be owed by you to the Company, or otherwise; and
(vi) the Company shall also pay to you all legal fees and expenses incurred by you as a result of or in connection with such termination, including all such fees and expenses, if any, incurred in contesting or disputing any such termination or in seeking to obtain or enforce any right or benefit provided by this Agreement (other than any such fees or expenses incurred in connection with any such claim which is determined by arbitration, in accordance with Section 11 of this Agreement, to be frivolous) or in connection with any tax audit or proceeding to the extent attributable to the application of Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), to any payment or benefit provided hereunder. Such payments shall be made within five (5) business days after delivery of your written requests for payment accompanied with such evidence of fees and expenses incurred as the Company reasonably may require; provided, however, that in no event shall any such payments be made later than the last day of your taxable year following the taxable year in which the fee or expense was incurred.
5. . In the event that (i) any payment or benefit received or to be received by you in connection with a change in control of the Company or the termination of
Limit on Severance Payments
 
your employment (whether pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or any other plan, arrangement or agreement with the Company, any person whose actions result in a change in control or any person affiliated with the Company or such person) (collectively with the Severance Payments, "Total Payments") would not be deductible (in whole or part) as a result of section 280G of the Code by the Company, an affiliate or other person making such payment or providing such benefit and (ii) the net amount retained by you, after paying the excise tax imposed by section 4999 of the Code and any federal, state and local income and employment taxes on the Total Payments, would not exceed the net amount that would have been retained by you after the reduction of the Severance Payments as set forth below and the payment of any federal, state and local income and employment taxes on the Total Payments as so reduced, the Severance Payments shall be reduced until no portion of the Total Payments is not deductible, or the Severance Payments are reduced to zero. For purposes of this limitation (a) no portion of the Total Payments the receipt or enjoyment of which you shall have effectively waived in writing prior to the date of payment of the Severance Payments shall be taken into account, (b) no portion of the Total Payments shall be taken into account which in the opinion of tax counsel selected by the Company's independent auditors and acceptable to you does not constitute a "parachute payment" within the meaning of section 280G(b)(2) of the Code, (c) the Severance Payments shall be reduced only to the extent necessary so that the Total Payments (other than those referred to in clauses (a) or (b)) in their entirety constitute reasonable compensation for services actually rendered within the meaning of section 280G(b)(4) of the Code or are otherwise not subject to disallowance as deductions, in the opinion of the tax counsel referred to in clause (b); and (d) the value of any non-cash benefit or any deferred payment or benefit included in the Total Payments shall be determined by the Company's independent auditors in accordance with the principles of sections 280G(d)(3) and (4) of the Code. For purposes of determining the income taxes on the Total Payments, you shall be deemed to pay federal income tax at the highest marginal rate of federal income taxation in the calendar year in which the Total Payments are to be made and local income taxes at the highest marginal rate of taxation in the state and locality of your residence on the Date of Termination, net of the maximum reduction in federal income taxes which could be obtained from deduction of such state and local taxes.
6. .
Successors; Binding Agreement
(i) The Company will require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company to expressly assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place. Failure of the Company to obtain such assumption and agreement prior to the effectiveness of any such succession shall be a breach of this Agreement and shall entitle you to compensation from the Company in the same amount and on the same terms as you would be entitled to hereunder if you terminate your employment for Good Reason following a change in control of the Company, except that for purposes of implementing the foregoing, the date on which any such succession becomes effective shall be deemed the Date of Termination. As used in this Agreement, "Company" shall mean the Company as hereinbefore defined and any successor to its business and/or assets as aforesaid which assumes and agrees to perform this Agreement by operation of law, or otherwise.
 
(ii) This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by your personal or legal representatives, executors, administrators, successors, heirs, distributees, devisees and legatees. If you should die while any amount would still be payable to you hereunder if you had continued to live, all such amounts, unless otherwise provided herein, shall be paid in accordance with the terms of this Agreement to your devisee, legatee or other designee or, if there is no such designee, to your estate.
7. . For the purpose of this Agreement, notices and all other communications provided for in the Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when delivered or mailed by United States registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed to the respective addresses set forth on the first page of this Agreement, provided that all notices to the Company shall be directed to the attention of the Board with a copy to the Secretary of the Company, or to such other address as either party may have furnished to the other in writing in accordance herewith, except that notices of change of address shall be effective only upon receipt.
Notice
8. . No provision of this Agreement may be modified, waived or discharged unless such waiver, modification or discharge is agreed to in writing and signed by you and such officer as may be specifically designated by the Board. No waiver by either party hereto at any time of any breach by the other party hereto of, or compliance with, any condition or provision of this Agreement to be performed by such other party shall be deemed a waiver of similar or dissimilar provisions or conditions at the same or at any prior or subsequent time. No agreements or representations, oral or otherwise, express or implied, with respect to the subject matter hereof have been made by either party which are not expressly set forth in this Agreement. The validity, interpretation, construction and performance of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Florida, without giving effect to the conflicts of law principles thereof. All references to sections of the Exchange Act or the Code shall be deemed also to refer to any successor provisions to such sections. Any payments provided for hereunder shall be paid net of any applicable withholding required under federal, state or local law. The obligations of the Company under Section 4 shall survive the expiration of the term of this Agreement.
Miscellaneous
9. . The invalidity or unenforceability or any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement, which shall remain in full force and effect.
Validity
10. . This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original but all of which together will constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
11. . Any dispute or controversy arising under or in connection with this Agreement shall be settled exclusively by arbitration conducted before a panel of three arbitrators in
Arbitration
 
the State of Florida in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association then in effect. Judgment may be entered on the arbitrator's award in any court having jurisdiction; provided, however, that you shall be entitled to seek specific performance of your right to be paid until the Date of Termination during the pendency of any dispute or controversy arising under or in connection with this Agreement.
12. . This Agreement sets forth the entire agreement of the parties hereto in respect of the subject matter contained herein and during the term of the Agreement supersedes the provisions of all prior agreements, promises, covenants, arrangements, communications, representations or warranties, whether oral or written, by any officer, employee or representative of any party hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof, including the Prior Agreement.
Entire Agreement
 
13. . This Agreement shall become effective as of the date set forth above. If this letter sets forth our agreement on the subject matter hereof, kindly sign and return to the Company the enclosed copy of this letter which will then constitute our agreement on this subject.
Effective Date
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 TECO Energy, Inc. (NYSE:TE) today reported fourth quarter 2009 net income of $53.5 million or $0.25 per share, compared to $22.0 million or $0.10 per share in the fourth quarter of 2008. Fourth quarter results in 2009 were reduced by $0.4 million of restructuring charges, and results in the fourth quarter of 2008 were reduced by $20.3 million of net charges and gains, primarily taxes on the repatriation of cash and investments from Guatemala, discussed below.
TAMPA, February 5, 2010
Full-year net income and earnings per share were $213.9 million or $1.00 per share in 2009, compared to $162.4 million or $0.77 per share in 2008. Full year results in 2009 were reduced by $16.1 million of net charges and gains, which are discussed in the non-GAAP results section below and the table later in this release. Results in 2008 were reduced by $20.9 million of net charges and gains reflecting primarily the fourth quarter items.
Results Reconciliation
TECO Energy Chairman and CEO Sherrill Hudson said, "We are pleased with the strong results in 2009 in the face of the economic recession which impacted both our utility and coal businesses. In 2009, we took steps at TECO Energy and the operating companies to position our utilities to earn their allowed returns and for TECO Energy to deliver earnings growth in 2010. We're seeing some early signs of an economic recovery in Florida, particularly in the housing market, but we expect 2010 to be another challenging year for the State's economy. Our unregulated coal and Guatemalan operations are well-positioned to deliver improved results in 2010 as a result of their 2009 efforts."
Non-GAAP Results
The table below compares the TECO Energy GAAP net income to the non-GAAP measures used in this release. Non-GAAP results exclude the charges and gains described following the table. See the section and table later in this release for a reconciliation to GAAP results and a discussion regarding this presentation of non-GAAP results and management's use of this information.
Non-GAAP Presentation
Results Reconciliation
All amounts included in the non-GAAP discussion below are after tax, unless otherwise noted.
 
 
Fourth quarter 2009 non-GAAP results excluded $0.4 million of restructuring charges. Full year non-GAAP results excluded net charges and gains of $16.1 million consisting of $15.8 million of restructuring charges at Tampa Electric, Peoples Gas and TECO Energy, the write-off of $5.2 million of project development costs at Tampa Electric, primarily related to the Polk Unit 6 IGCC plant, a $3.8 million loss on student loan securities held at TECO Energy, and an $8.7 million net gain on the sale of TECO Guatemala's 16.5% interest in the Central American fiber optic telecommunications provider Navega.
Fourth quarter 2008 non-GAAP results excluded $21.6 million of taxes related to the repatriation of cash and investments from Guatemala, a $1.9 million charge associated with a regulatory settlement with the Florida Public Service Commission (FPSC) related to the calculation of Tampa Electric's waterborne transportation disallowance over its five-year life, and a $3.2 million favorable income tax adjustment related to the sale of TECO Transport. (See the table.) In addition to the items discussed above, full-year 2008 non-GAAP results excluded a $0.6 million adjustment to previously estimated transaction costs related to the sale of TECO Transport.
Results Reconciliation
Segment Reporting
The table below includes TECO Energy segment information on a GAAP basis, which includes all charges and gains for the periods shown.
 
Operating Company Results
All amounts included in the operating company and Parent/other results discussions are after tax, unless otherwise noted.
Tampa Electric
Net income for the fourth quarter was $39.1 million, compared with $28.9 million for the same period in 2008. Tampa Electric's 2009 fourth quarter non-GAAP results were $39.3 million, which excluded a $0.2 million restructuring charge, compared to $30.8 million in 2008. Non-GAAP results in 2008 excluded a $1.9 million charge related to the settlement with the FPSC of a dispute that arose in 2008 over the calculation of Tampa Electric's waterborne transportation disallowance over its five-year life.
Results for the quarter reflected higher base rates approved by the FPSC in March, higher retail energy sales, a higher average number of customers, up 0.2%, the first increase in the number of customers since the second quarter of 2008, and higher operations and maintenance
 
expenses discussed below. Net income included $1.0 million of Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFUDC) - equity, which represents allowed equity cost capitalized to construction costs, related to the installation of nitrogen oxide (NO
x
) pollution control equipment and construction of rail unloading facilities, compared with $2.0 million in the 2008 period.
Operations and maintenance expense, excluding all FPSC-approved cost recovery clauses, increased $3.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2009, compared to the same period in 2008, reflecting higher generating unit maintenance expenses, higher expenses to operate the distribution system, and higher employee-related expenses, partially offset by savings in salaries and other benefits as a result of the restructuring actions taken in the third quarter. Interest expense increased due to higher levels of outstanding long-term debt. Depreciation and amortization expense increased due to additions to facilities to serve customers, including the combustion turbines to meet peak load completed in 2009.
The average number of customers increased 0.2% in the 2009 fourth quarter as a result of what appear to be early signs of improvements in the Florida housing market and a stabilizing of economic conditions. Tampa Electric's retail energy sales increased 1.1% in the fourth quarter due to hotter than normal weather early in the quarter. Sales to industrial and phosphate customers declined 14%, reflecting the weak Florida economy and planned outages at phosphate customer facilities. Off-system sales declined due to lower state-wide demand. Total heating and cooling degree days for the Tampa area in the fourth quarter were 7% above normal and 23% above 2008 levels.
Pretax base revenues increased approximately $25 million in the fourth quarter from the higher base rates approved by the FPSC for Tampa Electric effective in 2009. In the fourth quarter of 2009, there was no reduction in net income due to the previous waterborne transportation disallowance for the transportation of solid fuel, which reduced net income $2.6 million in the 2008 period. In November 2008, the FPSC approved Tampa Electric's fuel adjustment filing, which included full recovery of waterborne transportation costs under new contracts effective Jan. 1, 2009. This approval eliminated the annual reduction in net income that occurred in 2004 through 2008 during the previous transportation contract.
Net income in 2009 was $160.2 million, compared to $135.6 million in 2008. Tampa Electric's full-year non-GAAP results were $176.7 million, which excluded the $11.3 million of restructuring charges and the $5.2 million write-off of project development costs primarily related to the Polk Unit 6 IGCC plant, compared to non-GAAP results of $137.5 million in 2008, which excluded the $1.9 million waterborne transportation settlement charge discussed above.
Pretax base revenues increased approximately $72 million in 2009 from the higher base rates approved by the FPSC for Tampa Electric effective May 7, 2009. In the 2009 full-year period, there was no reduction in net income due to the waterborne transportation disallowance for the transportation of solid fuel, compared to a $8.9 million reduction in the 2008 period.
The higher base revenues were partially offset by lower retail energy sales and higher operations and maintenance, depreciation, property tax and interest expense. Results reflect 1.1% lower retail energy sales in 2009, primarily due to lower sales to commercial and industrial customers as a result of the weak Florida economy, and voluntary conservation by residential customers, which we believe was in response to the generally weaker economic conditions. Off-system sales declined due to lower state-wide demand. Total heating and cooling degree days were 4% above normal and 10% above 2008 levels. The average number of retail customers decreased 0.1% for the year.
 
In 2009, excluding all FPSC-approved cost recovery clause-related expenses, restructuring charges and the Polk 6 write-off, operations and maintenance expense increased $8.7 million, compared to 2008, primarily due to higher spending on generating unit maintenance and repairs, higher expenses to operate the distribution system, higher employee-related expenses, and slightly higher bad debt expense; partially offset by savings in salaries and other benefits as a result of the restructuring actions taken in the third quarter. Depreciation and amortization expense increased $9.1 million reflecting additional facilities to serve customers. Interest expense increased due to higher long-term debt balances, and interest income decreased due to lower interest rates on lower under-recovered fuel balances. Net income also included $9.3 million of AFUDC-equity related to the construction of the peaking generation units and the installation of NO
x
pollution control equipment, compared to $6.3 million in 2008.
Peoples Gas
Peoples Gas reported net income of $12.7 million for the fourth quarter, compared to $9.2 million in the same period in 2008. Peoples Gas had fourth quarter non-GAAP results of $12.8 million, which excluded $0.1 million of restructuring charges. These results reflect a $4.0 million favorable adjustment to previously recorded deferred tax balances. There were no non-GAAP adjustments to the 2008 period. Quarterly results reflect a 0.1% lower average number of customers due to the weak Florida housing market, decreased sales to residential customers due to mild December weather and increased sales to commercial customers due to several higher volume new customers and conversion of propane customers to natural gas. Base revenues increased due to the higher permanent base rates which became effective Jun. 18, 2009. Gas transported for power generation customers increased in 2009, compared to the fourth quarter of 2008 when natural gas prices reduced demand for natural gas for power generation. Off-system sales volumes, which are very low margin sales, increased due to higher spot sales to power generation customers. Excluding restructuring charges, non-fuel operations and maintenance expense increased $2.4 million compared to 2008 levels when operations and maintenance expense included a $1.5 million benefit from the recognition of environmental remediation insurance recoveries and a $0.9 million benefit related to the completion of pipeline installations for power generation customers. Absent the 2008 benefits, operations and maintenance expense was essentially unchanged in 2009. Results also reflect increased depreciation expense due to routine plant additions.
Peoples Gas reported net income of $31.9 million for the full-year period, compared to $27.1 million in 2008. Full-year non-GAAP results, which exclude $2.9 million of restructuring charges, were $34.8 million (see the table). There were no non-GAAP adjustments to the 2008 period. The 2009 improvement reflects the $4.0 million deferred tax adjustment, described above, and the new base rates effective in June, partially offset by higher non-fuel operations and maintenance expenses and depreciation. Results reflect a 0.2% lower average number of customers. Residential customer usage increased due to colder winter weather in the first quarter of 2009, compared to the very mild winter weather in 2008. Lower sales volumes to industrial customers reflected economic conditions and reduced operations by industries sensitive to the housing market, such as cement plants. Gas transported for power generation customers increased over the 2008 full-year period due to lower natural gas prices, which made it a more economical generating fuel choice. Excluding restructuring charges, non-fuel operations and maintenance expense increased primarily due to the fourth quarter items noted above, and higher pipeline integrity costs.
Results Reconciliation
 
TECO Coal
TECO Coal reported fourth quarter net income of $7.5 million, compared to $2.6 million in the same period in 2008. The 2008 quarter included $1.3 million of benefits from the sale of right-of-way easements, sales tax adjustments and adjustments to reclamation costs.
In 2009, fourth quarter sales were 1.9 million tons, compared to 2.3 million tons in the fourth quarter of 2008. Results reflect an average net per-ton selling price, excluding transportation allowances, of more than $73 per ton, almost 22% higher than in 2008. Fourth-quarter sales volumes were reduced approximately 100,000 tons due to rail shipment delays as a result of a major December snow storm which disrupted rail service throughout Central Appalachia. In the fourth quarter of 2009, the all-in total per-ton cost of production increased to almost $69 per ton, 16% over 2008's level, and above the cost guidance range previously provided, but on lower tons than previously forecast. Cost increased in the fourth quarter due to reclamation work at surface mines that were closed earlier in the year due to weak demand, increased safety inspections by outside authorities, higher hedged diesel fuel prices than spot prices paid in 2008, and lost productivity due to winter weather. Due to tax percentage depletion, in the fourth quarter of 2009 TECO Coal's effective income tax rate was 12%.
TECO Coal recorded full-year net income of $37.2 million, more than double the $18.0 million in 2008, on sales of 8.7 million tons, compared to sales of 9.3 million tons in 2008. Lower volume and the sales mix in 2009 reflects coal market conditions, which included high inventory levels at utility steam coal customers and reduced demand for coal used in the production of steel. At almost $72 per ton, the 2009 full-year average net per-ton selling price was 20% above the 2008 average selling price. At almost $67 per ton, the 2009 all-in total per-ton cost of production was 14% higher than in 2008, as expected. In the 2009 full-year period, TECO Coal's effective income tax rate was 17%.
TECO Guatemala
TECO Guatemala reported fourth quarter net income of $9.4 million in 2009, compared to a net loss of $0.2 million in the 2008 period. In December 2008, TECO Guatemala repatriated to TECO Energy cash and investments of $71.7 million, resulting in additional taxes of $9.6 million. TECO Guatemala's fourth quarter 2008 non-GAAP results, which exclude the $9.6 million of taxes related to the repatriation, were $9.4 million (see the table). In 2009, fourth quarter results reflect a $1.7 million net insurance recovery related to the unplanned outages at the San Jos Power Station in the first half of 2009. In the fourth quarter, excluding the insurance recovery, earnings from the San Jos Power Station decreased, despite higher energy production than in the 2008 period. Capacity payments under the power sales contract decreased $2.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2009 as a result of the unplanned outages in the first six months of 2009. At EEGSA, the distribution utility, 2009 fourth quarter results reflect the benefit of customer growth, higher energy sales, and cost control measures. The earnings from the DECA II unregulated EEGSA-affiliated companies, which provide, among other things, electricity transmission services, wholesale power sales to unregulated electric customers and engineering services, decreased due to the loss of the earnings from the telecommunications service provider, Navega, which was sold in the first quarter of 2009.
Results Reconciliation
Full-year 2009 net income was $38.6 million, compared to $36.9 million in 2008. TECO Guatemala's full-year 2009 non-GAAP results, which exclude the $8.7 million gain on
 
the sale of Navega were $29.9 million, compared to 2008 non-GAAP results of $46.5 million, which exclude $9.6 million of taxes related to the December repatriation. In addition to the fourth quarter effects, full-year 2009 results at the San Jos Power Station reflect the unplanned outages for much of the first half of the year and lower capacity payments that were a result of lower availability. The reduction in the VAD tariff at EEGSA reduced earnings at TECO Guatemala by approximately $5.0 million. The full-year results for EEGSA and affiliated companies also include a $2.5 million benefit related to an adjustment to previously estimated year-end equity balances, compared to a similar $3.1 million benefit in 2008.
Parent / Other
Parent/other cost in the fourth quarter was $15.2 million, compared to a cost of $18.5 million for the 2008 period. Results in 2009 reflect a $2.6 million negative valuation adjustment to foreign tax credits. Results in 2009 also reflect negative tax return adjustments that normally occur in the fourth quarter, compared to 2008 when the tax return adjustments were favorable. There were no non-GAAP adjustments to Parent/other for the fourth quarter of 2009. The 2008 non-GAAP cost for Parent/other in the fourth quarter was $9.7 million. Non-GAAP costs in 2008 exclude $12.0 million of non-cash income taxes on the repatriation of cash and investments from TECO Guatemala and a $3.2 million favorable adjustment to income taxes related to the sale of TECO Transport (see the table).
Results Reconciliation
Full-year Parent/other cost was $54.0 million, compared to a cost of $55.2 million in 2008. Full year non-GAAP Parent/other cost was $48.6 million, which excluded $1.6 million of restructuring costs and a $3.8 million charge associated with the sale of student-loan securities held at TECO Energy parent (see the table). In 2008 the non-GAAP cost was $45.8 million, which, in addition to the fourth quarter items, excluded $0.6 million of adjustments to previously estimated costs related to the sale of TECO Transport. Full-year 2009 results included a $1.5 million gain on the sale of a lease, the final asset held in a leveraged lease portfolio, and a $2.6 million benefit from a sale of property by TECO Properties.
Results Reconciliation
Cash and Liquidity
The table below sets forth the Dec. 31, 2009 consolidated liquidity and cash balances, the cash balances at the operating companies and TECO Energy parent, and amounts available under the TECO Energy/Finance and Tampa Electric Company credit facilities.
 
Consolidated other cash and short-term investments includes $18.6 million of cash at the unregulated operating companies for normal operations. In addition to consolidated cash, as of
 
Dec. 31, 2009 unconsolidated affiliates owned by TECO Guatemala, CGESJ (San Jos) and TCAE (Alborada), had unrestricted cash balances of $24.1 million, which are not included in the table above.
2010 Guidance and Business Drivers
TECO Energy expects earnings per share in 2010 to be in a range between $1.20 and $1.35, excluding all charges and gains. TECO Energy expects earnings in 2010 to be driven by the factors discussed below.
Tampa Electric and Peoples Gas have combined the organizations under a single management team with new organizational structures following the restructuring actions taken in the third quarter of 2009. These actions have reduced Tampa Electric's expected operations and maintenance expenses in 2010 to approximately 2008 levels to offset the approximately $40 million revenue shortfall compared to the revenue projections filed in its base rate case. These restructuring actions are expected to enable the utilities to earn the authorized returns on equity set in the respective 2009 rate case decisions.
Tampa Electric and Peoples Gas will have the full year benefit of the 2009 base rate increases implemented in 2009. In addition, the FPSC approved the $26 million base rate increase related to the five combustion turbines and the rail unloading facilities placed in service in 2009 for rates effective Jan. 1, 2010. The 2010 base rate increase revenues are subject to refund pending the outcome of the hearing to be held by the FPSC in 2010. There is no date set for these hearings at this time.
The forecast for Tampa Electric and Peoples Gas assumes normal weather for the full year. The outlook and timing for a Florida economic recovery remains uncertain due to high unemployment and the weak housing market. Some economists are forecasting a very slow recovery starting about the middle of 2010, while others are forecasting a flat economy for 2010. The forecast used by Tampa Electric and Peoples Gas reflects no recovery in customer growth in 2010 and a slight decline in energy sales due to lower customer usage in response to the continued weak economy.
TECO Coal expects sales to be in range between 8.3 and 8.7 million tons. The total expected sales are contracted and priced at an average price of more than $75 per ton. More than one-third of sales are to steel producers and specialty stoker coal users with the remainder sold to utility steam coal customers. The all-in, fully-loaded production costs are expected to be in a range between $65 and $69 per ton, driven by lower diesel fuel costs offset by higher safety requirements, productivity that reflects the industry-wide trend of increased inspections by state and federal agencies, and higher royalty cost and severance taxes due to the higher selling prices. Diesel fuel prices have been hedged for those contracts that do not have diesel price adjustments in the contract at average prices below 2009 levels.
TECO Guatemala expects improved operating and financial performance at the San Jos Power Station following the extended unplanned outages in 2009, and higher contract capacity payments, which are expected to increase as the 12-month rolling average capacity factor improves. EEGSA, the Guatemalan distribution utility, continues to experience customer and energy sales growth, but the issue with the VAD remains unresolved. There have been hearings in the Guatemalan courts, and Iberdrola, EEGSA's largest investor, is in an international arbitration process under the bilateral trade agreement between Spain and Guatemala. At this time, there is no firm schedule to resolve this matter. TECO Guatemala is currently negotiating with the Guatemalan regulatory authorities regarding the five-year extension of the power sales contract for the Alborada Power Station, which expires in September 2010.
 
This guidance is provided in the form of a range to allow for varying outcomes with respect to important variables, such as the timing of the start of and the strength of an economic and housing market recovery in Florida, weather and customer usage at the Florida utilities, steam coal inventories at TECO Coal's utility customers and their ability to accept contracted amounts, and margins at TECO Coal.
Non-GAAP Presentation
Management believes it is helpful to present a non-GAAP measure of performance that reflects the ongoing operations of TECO Energy's businesses and which allows investors to better understand and evaluate the business as it is expected to operate in future periods.
Management and the Board of Directors use non-GAAP measures as a yardstick for measuring the company's performance, for making decisions that are dependent upon the profitability of the company's various operating units, and for determining levels of incentive compensation.
The non-GAAP measures of financial performance used by the company are not measures of performance under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and should not be considered an alternative to net income or other GAAP figures as an indicator of the company's financial performance or liquidity. TECO Energy's non-GAAP presentation of net income may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
The table below presents non-GAAP financial results after elimination of the effects of certain identified charges and gains. This provides investors additional information to assess the company's results and future earnings potential.
Results Reconciliation
 
 
 
Conference call information
As previously announced, TECO Energy will conduct a Webcast and conference call with the financial community at 9:00 am Eastern time on Feb. 5, 2010 covering its fourth quarter and full-year results and its 2010 guidance and business drivers. The Webcast will be accessible through the link on TECO Energy's Website: www.tecoenergy.com. The Webcast and accompanying slides will be available for replay for 30 days through the Web site, beginning approximately two hours after the conclusion of the live event.
TECO Energy, Inc. (NYSE: TE) is an energy-related holding company. Its principal subsidiary, Tampa Electric Company, is a regulated utility in Florida with both electric and gas divisions (Tampa Electric and Peoples Gas System). Other subsidiaries include TECO Coal, which owns and operates coal production facilities in Kentucky and Virginia, and TECO Guatemala, which is engaged in electric power generation and distribution and energy-related businesses in Guatemala.
Note: This press release contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to the inherent uncertainties in predicting future results and conditions. Actual results may differ materially from those forecasted. The forecasted results are based on the company's current expectations and assumptions, and the company does not undertake to update that information or any other information contained in this press release, except as may be required by law. Factors that could impact actual results include: regulatory actions by federal, state or local authorities; unexpected capital needs or unanticipated reductions in cash flow that affect liquidity; the ability to access the capital and credit markets when required; the availability of adequate rail transportation capacity for the shipment of TECO Coal's production; general economic conditions affecting energy sales at the utility companies; economic conditions, both national and international, affecting the Florida economy and demand for TECO Coal's production; weather variations and changes in customer energy usage patterns affecting sales and operating costs at Tampa Electric and Peoples Gas and the effect of extreme weather conditions or hurricanes; operating conditions, commodity price and operating cost changes affecting the production levels and margins at TECO Coal; fuel cost recoveries and related cash at Tampa Electric and natural gas demand at Peoples Gas; the ability of TECO Energy's subsidiaries to operate equipment without undue accidents, breakdowns or failures; changes in the U.S. federal tax code on earnings from foreign investments that could reduce earnings; and the ultimate outcome of efforts to revise the significantly lower EEGSA VAD tariff rates implemented by regulatory authorities in Guatemala effective Aug. 1, 2008 affecting TECO Guatemala's results. Additional information is contained under "Risk Factors" in TECO Energy, Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended Dec. 31, 2008, and as updated in periodic filings with the SEC.
 
 
 
 
Figures appearing in these statements are presented as general information and not in connection with any sale or offer to sell or solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, nor are they intended as a representation by the company of the value of its securities. All figures reported are subject to adjustments as the annual audit by independent accountants may determine to be necessary and to the explanatory notes affecting income and balance sheet accounts contained in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K. Reference should also be made to information contained in that and other reports filed by TECO Energy, Inc. and Tampa Electric Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


