FILE:TE/TE-8K-20121023133840.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1  Registrant's Business and Operations
Item 1.01: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
As previously reported, on September 27, 2012, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of TECO Energy, Inc. ("TECO Energy"), TECO Guatemala Holdings II, LLC ("Guatemala Holdings II"), entered into an equity purchase agreement (the "EPA") with Renewable Energy Investments Guatemala Limited ("REIN") pursuant to which it agreed to sell all of its ownership interests in TPS San Jose International, Inc. ("TPS San Jose") for $213.5 million. TPS San Jose is the parent company of (i) Central Generadora Elctrica San Jos, Limitada (CGESJ), the owner of an electric generating station located in Guatemala, which consists of a single-unit pulverized-coal baseload facility (the San Jos Power Station), and (ii) Tecnologa Martima, S.A., which provides unloading services to third parties in addition to receiving the coal shipments for CGESJ at a port facility.
Also as previously reported, a condition precedent to the closing of the EPA was that the third party that held a right of first offer with respect to TPS San Jose, not exercise such right. On October 17, 2012, the third party, C.F. Financeco, Ltd. ("C.F. Financeco"), exercised its right of first offer, and, as a result, on such date Guatemala Holdings II entered into an equity purchase agreement with C.F. Financeco (the "C.F. Financeco EPA"), pursuant to which it agreed to sell all of its ownership interests in TPS San Jose for $213.5 million, on the same terms as contained in the EPA. If the sale under the C.F. Financeco EPA does not close within ninety days from October 17, 2012, REIN will be obligated to close on its EPA absent an intervening event causing a material adverse effect, which includes an adverse change in the credit markets, in which case it has the right to terminate the transaction.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


