FILE:TE/TE-8K-20120802075534.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
 
See the Press Release dated August 2, 2012 furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference, reporting on TECO Energy, Inc.'s financial results for the three and six months ended June 30, 2012.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibit
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 TECO Energy, Inc. (NYSE: TE) today reported second quarter net income of $73.1 million, or $0.34 per share, compared with $77.5 million, or $0.36 per share, in the second quarter of 2011.
TAMPA, Aug. 2, 2012
Year-to-date net income and earnings per share were $123.6 million, or $0.58 per share, in 2012, compared with $129.2 million, or $0.60 per share, in the same period in 2011.
TECO Energy President and Chief Executive Officer John Ramil said, "Our results this quarter reflect better growth at our Florida utilities, and the current challenging coal markets. Our Florida utilities are benefiting from continued improvement in the state and local economies with the strongest customer growth in more than three years, but weather has not been our friend this year."
Non-GAAP Results
There were no non-GAAP adjustments to net income in the second quarter or year-to-date periods of 2012 or 2011, or the 12 months ended June 30, 2012.
The table below compares the TECO Energy GAAP net income with the non-GAAP measures used in this release for the 12-months-ended 2011 period. Non-GAAP results exclude charges and gains contained in the table later in this release. See the section and table later in this release for a reconciliation to GAAP results and a discussion regarding this presentation of non-GAAP results and management's use of this information.
Results Reconciliation
Non-GAAP Presentation
Results Reconciliation
All amounts included in the non-GAAP discussion below are after tax, unless otherwise noted.
 
Segment Reporting
The table below includes TECO Energy segment information on a GAAP basis, which includes all charges and gains for the periods shown.
 
Operating Company Results
All amounts included in the operating company and Parent & other results discussions below are after tax, unless otherwise noted.
Tampa Electric
Tampa Electric reported net income for the second quarter of $52.0 million, compared with $58.4 million for the same period in 2011. Results for the quarter reflected a 1.3% higher average number of customers, lower base revenues due to milder weather, and higher depreciation and operations and maintenance expenses.
Total degree days in Tampa Electric's service area in the second quarter of 2012 were 5% above normal, but 6% below the same period in 2011. Pretax base revenue was approximately $9.0 million lower than in 2011, primarily reflecting the wet and mild June weather after above-normal cooling degree days in April and May. Total net energy for load, which is a calendar measurement of retail energy sales rather than a billing cycle measurement, decreased 2.3% in the second quarter of 2012 compared to the same period in 2011. The quarterly energy sales shown on the statistical summary that accompanies this earnings release reflect the energy sales based on the timing of billing cycles, which can vary period to period. Milder weather in the 2012 period reduced sales to residential customers. Energy sales to industrial-phosphate customers increased due to the transfer of certain load from self-generation to Tampa Electric's system. Sales to commercial and other industrial customers increased due to improvements in the Florida economy.
Operations and maintenance expense, excluding all Florida Public Service Commission (FPSC)-approved cost-recovery clauses, increased $1.6 million, reflecting lower generating system maintenance expenses and lower bad-debt expense more than offset by higher pension and other employee benefit expenses. Depreciation and amortization expense increased $2.7 million due to additions to facilities to serve customers.
Year-to-date net income was $83.4 million, compared with $90.0 million in the 2011 period, driven primarily by lower energy sales due to milder weather, partially offset by 1.1% higher average number of customers, and higher depreciation and operations and maintenance expenses.
Year-to-date total degree days in Tampa Electric's service area were 7% above normal, but slightly below the prior year-to-date period, reflecting mild weather in January, February and June offset by above-normal cooling degree days in March, April and May. Pretax base revenue was $7 million lower than in 2011, primarily reflecting lower sales to residential customers from the milder weather and voluntary conservation that typically occurs during periods without extreme weather.
 
In the 2012 year-to-date period, total net energy for load was essentially unchanged compared to the same period in 2011. Milder weather reduced sales to higher-margin residential customers, while sales to commercial and industrial-other sales were higher. Sales to interruptible industrial-phosphate customers increased due to the factors described above. Higher sales to commercial and industrial-other customers reflect the improvements in the Florida economy.
Operations and maintenance expenses, excluding all FPSC-approved cost-recovery clauses, increased $1.5 million reflecting the same factors as the second quarter. Compared to the 2011 year-to-date period, depreciation and amortization expense increased $4.2 million, reflecting additions to facilities to serve customers.
Peoples Gas
Peoples Gas reported net income of $9.0 million for the second quarter, compared with $5.9 million in the same period in 2011. Quarterly results reflect a 1.2% higher average number of customers, higher sales to residential customers due to customer growth and increased sales volumes to commercial and interruptible industrial customers due to improved economic conditions. Non-fuel operations and maintenance expense decreased $2.5 million compared to the 2011 period, when operations and maintenance expenses included $2.1 million related to legal expenses associated with environmental contamination claims.
Peoples Gas reported net income of $20.0 million for the year-to-date period, compared with $20.6 million in the same period in 2011. Results reflect a 1.0% higher average number of customers, but lower usage by residential customers due to the unusually mild winter weather in the first quarter. Lower off-system sales volumes reflect the addition of new interstate pipeline capacity in 2011. Gas transported for power generation customers increased over the 2011 year-to-date period due to lower natural gas prices, which made it more economical to use natural gas for power generation. Non-fuel operations and maintenance expense decreased $1.7 million compared to the 2011 period, driven primarily by the same factors as in the second quarter.
TECO Coal
TECO Coal achieved second quarter net income of $12.2 million on sales of 1.6 million tons, compared with $15.8 million on sales of 2.1 million tons in the same period in 2011. Lower sales volumes in the 2012 quarter reflect the current coal market conditions and the timing of specialty coal shipments.
In 2012, second quarter results reflect an average net per-ton selling price, excluding transportation allowances, of slightly more than $94 per ton, almost 6% higher than in 2011, but below prior guidance due to a sales mix that was more heavily weighted to steam coal in the quarter due to the timing of metallurgical coal shipments. In the second quarter of 2012, the all-in total per-ton cost of production increased to slightly more than $84 per ton, which is below the middle of the cost guidance range previously provided. Compared with the 2011 period, the increased cost of production in the second quarter was driven by spreading fixed costs over fewer tons and higher surface mining costs due to increased diesel fuel usage as a result of trucking coal and overburden further due to the lack of new surface-mine permits. These factors were partially offset by reduced overtime and lower contract miner costs in 2012. TECO Coal's effective income tax rate in the second quarter of 2012 was 25%, compared with 24% in the 2011 period.
 
TECO Coal recorded year-to-date net income of $22.0 million on sales of 3.0 million tons in 2012, compared with $24.0 million on sales of 4.1 million tons in the 2011 period. Lower sales volumes in the 2012 year-to-date period reflect the current coal market conditions. The 2012 year-to-date average net per-ton selling price was $95 per ton, compared with $85 per ton in 2011, and the all-in total per-ton cost of production was almost $86 per ton compared with $78 per ton in 2011. In addition to the same cost factors as the second quarter, the 2012 year-to-date cost of production reflects costs incurred in the first quarter associated with idling a section of a mine and other costs associated with reducing production. TECO Coal's effective income tax rate was 25%, compared with 22% in the 2011 year-to-date period.
TECO Guatemala
TECO Guatemala reported second quarter net income of $7.4 million in 2012, compared with $5.6 million in the 2011 period. Year-to-date 2012 net income was $14.0 million, compared with $11.9 million in the 2011 period. Results in the second quarter reflect higher contract and spot energy sales at the San Jos Power Station and lower operating expenses. Year-to-date results reflect lower contract and spot energy sales at the San Jos Power Station due to lower unit availability in the first quarter, but at higher prices than the 2011 period, and lower operating expenses.
Parent & other
The cost for Parent & other in the second quarter of 2012 was $7.5 million, compared with a cost of $8.2 million in the same period in 2011. The year-to-date Parent & other cost was $15.8 million in 2012, compared with $17.3 million in the 2011 period. Results for the 2012 quarter and year-to-date periods reflect lower interest expenses as a result of mid-year 2011 debt retirement, and higher earnings from the Seacoast Gas Transmission LLC, which are recorded in Parent & other.
2012 Guidance and Business Drivers Update
Based on year-to-date actual results and expectations for the remainder of the year, TECO Energy is revising its 2012 earnings per share guidance to a range of $1.20 to $1.30, excluding charges and gains, and is updating its business drivers as discussed below.
Tampa Electric and Peoples Gas expect customer growth to continue to be in line with the trends experienced in the first half of 2012, and the forecast assumes normal weather for the remaining five months of the year. Based on the unfavorable effects of mild weather through July, Tampa Electric expects to earn near the bottom of its allowed return on equity range. Due to a new rate design implemented in its 2009 base rate proceeding, Peoples Gas is less weather sensitive and expects to earn near the middle of its allowed return on equity range.
TECO Coal now expects 2012 sales of between 6.0 million and 6.3 million tons at an average selling price across all products of about $96 per ton. The lower coal sales are driven primarily by an expectation that the unsold tons included in the previous sales forecast will not be sold. All of the expected 2012 sales are under contract. The selling price will average more than $97 per ton over the remainder of the year due to the timing of metallurgical coal shipments in the second half of the year. The 2012 product mix is now expected to be about 45% specialty coal, reflecting lower PCI coal sales. The cost of production is expected to remain within the previously provided cost range of $83 and $87 per ton as a result of cost-control efforts. TECO Coal's effective income tax rate is expected to be about 25% for the full year.
 
The guidance assumes normal operations for the Alborada and San Jos power stations in Guatemala; however, the planned extended outage for a turbine rotor replacement at the San Jos Power Station, which is expected to reduce 2012 net income about $4 million compared with 2011, is scheduled for the fourth quarter.
This guidance is provided in the form of a range to allow for varying outcomes with respect to important variables, such as continuation of the current conditions in the Florida economy and housing markets, weather and customer usage at the Florida utilities, and the timing of contracted deliveries and production costs at TECO Coal.
Non-GAAP Presentation
Management believes it is helpful to present a non-GAAP measure of performance that reflects the ongoing operations of TECO Energy's businesses and that allows investors to better understand and evaluate the business as it is expected to operate in future periods.
Management and the board of directors use non-GAAP measures as a yardstick for measuring the company's performance, for making decisions that are dependent upon the profitability of the company's various operating units, and for determining levels of incentive compensation.
The non-GAAP measures of financial performance used by the company are not measures of performance under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and should not be considered an alternative to net income or other GAAP figures as an indicator of the company's financial performance or liquidity. TECO Energy's non-GAAP presentation of net income may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
The table below presents non-GAAP financial results after elimination of the effects of certain identified charges and gains. This provides investors additional information to assess the company's results and future earnings potential.
Results Reconciliation
 
 
Webcast
As previously announced, TECO Energy will host a webcast with the investment community to discuss its second quarter results and outlook for the remainder of 2012 at 9:00 am Eastern time, Thursday, Aug. 2, 2012. The webcast will be accessible through the link on TECO Energy's website: . The webcast and accompanying slides will be available for replay for 30 days through the website, beginning approximately two hours after the conclusion of the live event.
www.tecoenergy.com
TECO Energy, Inc. (NYSE: TE) is an energy-related holding company. Its principal subsidiary, Tampa Electric Company, is a regulated utility in Florida with both electric and gas divisions (Tampa Electric and Peoples Gas System). Other subsidiaries include TECO Coal, which owns and operates coal production facilities in Kentucky and Virginia, and TECO Guatemala, which is engaged in electric power generation and energy-related businesses in Guatemala.
Note: This press release contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to the inherent uncertainties in predicting future results and conditions. Actual results may differ materially from those forecasted. The forecasted results are based on the company's current expectations and assumptions, and the company does not undertake to update that information or any other information contained in this press release, except as may be required by law. Factors that could impact actual results include: regulatory actions by federal, state or local authorities; unexpected capital needs or unanticipated reductions in cash flow that affect liquidity; the ability to access the capital and credit markets when required; the availability of adequate rail transportation capacity for the shipment of TECO Coal's production; general economic conditions affecting energy sales at the utility companies; economic conditions, both national and international, affecting the Florida economy and demand for TECO Coal's production; costs for alternative fuels used for power generation affecting demand for TECO Coal's thermal coal production; weather variations and changes in customer energy usage patterns affecting sales and operating costs at Tampa Electric and Peoples Gas and the effect of extreme weather conditions or hurricanes; operating conditions; commodity prices; operating cost and environmental or safety regulations affecting the production levels and margins at TECO Coal; fuel cost recoveries and related cash at Tampa Electric and natural gas demand at Peoples Gas; the ability to complete the scheduled 2012 outage at the San Jos Power Station on time and on budget; and the ability of TECO Energy's subsidiaries to operate equipment without undue accidents, breakdowns or failures. Additional information is contained under "Risk Factors" in TECO Energy, Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended Dec. 31, 2011.
 
 
 
 
 
Figures appearing in these statements are presented as general information and not in connection with any sale or offer to sell or solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, nor are they intended as a representation by the company of the value of its securities. All figures reported are subject to adjustments as the annual audit by independent accountants may determine to be necessary and to the explanatory notes affecting income and balance sheet accounts contained in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K. Reference should also be made to information contained in that and other reports filed by TECO Energy, Inc. and Tampa Electric Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The attached financial statements include the results of operations, financial position and cash flows for two power generation projects in Guatemala, previously reflected as unconsolidated affiliates, that were reconsolidated effective January 1, 2010 in accordance with new accounting guidance.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


