FILE:GPC/GPC-8K-20020809162535.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: 
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
   
Item
7.
Financial Statements,
Pro Forma
Information and Exhibits.
     The following exhibits are filed herewith:
   
Item
9.
Regulation FD Disclosure
     On August 9, 2002, Larry L. Prince, the Registrant's Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer), and Jerry W. Nix, the Registrant's Executive Vice President  Finance (Principal Financial Officer), each filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("Commission") the sworn statements required by the Commission's June 27, 2002 Order Requiring the Filing of Sworn Statements Pursuant to Section 21(a)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (File No. 4-460). Copies of the sworn statements are attached as Exhibit 99.1 and 99.2.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

EXHIBIT 99.1 STATEMENT UNDER OATH OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER REGARDING FACTS AND CIRCUMSTANCES RELATING TO EXCHANGE ACT FILINGS I, Larry L. Prince, Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer, state and attest that: (1) To the best of my knowledge, based upon a review of the covered reports of Genuine Parts Company, and, except as corrected or supplemented in a subsequent covered report: - no covered report contained an untrue statement of material fact as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed); and - no covered report omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements in the covered report, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed). (2) I have reviewed the contents of this statement with the Company's audit committee. (3) In this statement under oath, each of the following, if filed on or before the date of this statement, is a "covered report": - Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001 of Genuine Parts Company; - all reports on Form 10-Q, all reports on Form 8-K, and all definitive proxy materials of Genuine Parts Company filed with the Commission subsequent to the filing of the Form 10-K identified above; and - any amendments to any of the foregoing. /s/ Larry L. Prince Subscribed and sworn to before me - ----------------------------------- this 9th day of August, 2002. LARRY L. PRINCE Chairman of the Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer) August 9, 2002 /s/ Cleo D. Durham ----------------------------------- Notary Public My Commission Expires: Nov. 8, 2004 Notary Public Cherokee County, Georgia

EXHIBIT 99.2 STATEMENT UNDER OATH OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER REGARDING FACTS AND CIRCUMSTANCES RELATING TO EXCHANGE ACT FILINGS I, Jerry W. Nix, Executive Vice President - Finance and Chief Financial Officer, state and attest that: (1) To the best of my knowledge, based upon a review of the covered reports of Genuine Parts Company, and, except as corrected or supplemented in a subsequent covered report: - no covered report contained an untrue statement of material fact as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed); and - no covered report omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements in the covered report, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed). (2) I have reviewed the contents of this statement with the Company's audit committee. (3) In this statement under oath, each of the following, if filed on or before the date of this statement, is a "covered report": - Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001 of Genuine Parts Company; - all reports on Form 10-Q, all reports on Form 8-K, and all definitive proxy materials of Genuine Parts Company filed with the Commission subsequent to the filing of the Form 10-K identified above; and - any amendments to any of the foregoing. /s/ Jerry W. Nix Subscribed and sworn to before me - ----------------------------------- this 9th day of August, 2002. JERRY W. NIX Executive Vice President - Finance, Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer) August 9, 2002 /s/ Cleo D. Durham ----------------------------------- Notary Public My Commission Expires: Nov. 8, 2004 Notary Public, Cherokee County, Georgia


