FILE:GPC/GPC-8K-20030417093028.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure
     On April 17, 2003, Genuine Parts Company (the "Company") issued a press release setting forth the Company's 1st quarter 2003 earnings. A copy of the Company's press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is hereby incorporated by reference.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Jerry W. Nix, Executive Vice President - Finance (770) 612-2048 GENUINE PARTS COMPANY REPORTS FIRST QUARTER RESULTS AND DECLARES REGULAR QUARTERLY DIVIDEND Atlanta, Georgia, April 17, 2003 -- Genuine Parts Company (NYSE: GPC) reported sales and earnings for the first quarter ended March 31, 2003. Larry Prince, Chairman of the Board of Directors, announced today that sales totaling $2.02 billion were up 2% compared to the first quarter of 2002. Net income, before the effect of changes in accounting principles discussed below, was $88.4 million, an increase of 2% over $87 million for the first quarter of 2002 and, on a per share diluted basis, net income equaled 51 cents, up 2% compared to 50 cents reported in the comparable quarter of the prior year. After accounting changes for the first quarter of 2002 and 2003 as discussed below, net income was $69 million this year compared to a net loss of $308 million in the previous year. Earnings per share were 39 cents compared to a loss of $1.76 last year. Mr. Prince stated: "There have been a number of accounting changes coming forward from the Financial Accounting Standards Board in recent times. As you may recall in the first quarter of 2002, we completed our impairment testing for goodwill in conjunction with the new provisions introduced in FASB Statement No. 142 resulting in a non-cash charge of $395 million. This was recorded as of January 2002 as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle. Now, effective January 1, 2003, all companies including GPC are required to adopt the Financial Accounting Standards Board's EITF No. 02-16 affecting the accounting treatment of cash consideration received from vendors. This encompasses certain advertising and promotional allowances, catalog support and other cash support arrangements that normally exist among retailers and distributors with their vendors. "GPC has in certain instances accounted for funds of this type as a reduction in our SG&A, an approved method and in compliance with generally accepted accounting principles. Under the new method, vendor allowances are generally considered a reduction in the cost of goods sold. As a result of EITF No. 02-16, a non-cash charge of $20 million was recorded as of January 1, representing the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle."
Page 2 Mr. Prince further commented: "The Automotive Group improved revenues by 2% for the quarter and this was the seventh consecutive quarter of sales growth for our automotive parts operations. Both Motion Industries, our industrial group, and S.P. Richards, our office products company, were up 3% for the quarter showing steady improvement. EIS, our electrical group, was down 8% and in line with our expectations as they continue to make progress." Mr. Prince also announced: "The Board of Directors of the Company declared a regular quarterly dividend of 29.5 cents per share on the Company's common stock. The dividend is payable July 1, 2003 to shareholders of record June 6, 2003." Mr. Prince concluded: "We plan to continue to push hard to outperform all of the markets we are operating in. Our balance sheet remains strong and we currently have tight expense controls in place. We continue to be an excellent cash generator. We look forward to reporting continued improvement to you as 2003 progresses." CONFERENCE CALL Genuine Parts Company will hold a conference call today at 11:00 a.m. EDT to discuss the results of the quarter and the future outlook. Interested parties may listen by dialing 877-422-4780, conference ID 9502099. A replay will also be available at 800-642-1687 two hours after the completion of the conference call until 12:00 a.m. Eastern Time on May 1, 2003. FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Various statements in this release may constitute forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated as a result of various important factors. Such factors include, but are not limited to, changes in general economic conditions, the growth rate of the market for the Company's products and services, the ability to maintain favorable supplier arrangements and relationships, competitive product and pricing pressures, the effectiveness of the Company's promotional, marketing and advertising programs, changes in laws and regulations, including changes in accounting and taxation guidance, the uncertainties of litigation, as well as other risks and uncertainties discussed from time to time in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. ABOUT GENUINE PARTS COMPANY Genuine Parts Company is a distributor of automotive replacement parts in the U.S., Canada and Mexico. The Company also distributes industrial replacement parts in the U.S., Canada and Mexico through its Motion Industries subsidiary. S. P. Richards Company, the Office Products Group, distributes product nationwide in the U.S. and in Canada. The Electrical/Electronic Group, EIS, Inc., distributes electrical and electronic components throughout the U.S. and Mexico.
GENUINE PARTS COMPANY and SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME --------------------------------- (Unaudited) (1) On January 1, 2003 the Company recorded a non-cash charge related to the capitalization of certain vendor consideration in connection with the new Financial Accounting Standards Board's EITF No. 02-16, "Accounting by a Customer for Cash Consideration Received from a Vendor". In addition, on January 1, 2002 the Company recorded a non-cash charge related to goodwill impairment in conjunction with the new Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets".
GENUINE PARTS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES SEGMENT INFORMATION AND FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS -------------------------------------------- (Unaudited) (1) Represents the net effect of discounts, incentives and freight billed reported as a component of net sales.
GENUINE PARTS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ASSETS
GENUINE PARTS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Unaudited) ###


