FILE:GPC/GPC-8K-20051121131320.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
On November 21, 2005, the Board of Directors of Genuine Parts Company elected Gary W. Rollins and Jerry W. Nix as new Directors of the Company and elected Mr. Nix as Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors. The Companys press release announcing the election of Mr. Rollins and Mr. Nix is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report, and the first, second, third and fourth paragraphs thereof are incorporated herein by reference.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On November 21, 2005, the Board of Directors of Genuine Parts Company declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $.3125 cents per share on the Company's common stock. The dividend is payable January 2, 2006 to shareholders of record December 9, 2005. A copy of the press release is furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K as exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits 99.1 Press Release dated November 21, 2005 relating to the election of Gary W. Rollins and Jerry W. Nix as new Directors of the Company and the Companys declaration of a regular quarterly cash dividend. (The first, second, third and fourth paragraphs of the press release are filed herewith and are incorporated herein by reference in connection with Item 5.02 of this report. All other portions of the press release are furnished, not filed, herewith.)
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Atlanta, Georgia, November 21, 2005  Thomas C. Gallagher, Chairman of the Board, President, and Chief Executive Officer of Genuine Parts Company (NYSE: GPC), announced the election of Gary W. Rollins as a new Director of the Company. Mr. Rollins is currently Chief Executive Officer and President of Rollins, Inc. Mr. Rollins has held the position of Chief Executive Officer for over four years and has been President and Chief Operating Officer for 21 years. Rollins, Inc., a NYSE company, is one of the nation's largest consumer services companies.
Mr. Gallagher stated, "Gary Rollins is an experienced and successful executive. We are pleased to have him joining our Board and we look forward to his contributions in the years ahead."
In addition, the Board elected Jerry W. Nix, currently Executive Vice President  Finance and Chief Financial Officer, to the position of Vice Chairman of the Board. Mr. Nix was also elected as a new Director of the company.
Mr. Gallagher stated, "Jerry has been a real contributor to our success over the past 28 years and he is an extremely valuable member of our team. He has certainly earned this additional recognition."
The Board of Directors of Genuine Parts Company declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of 31 cents per share on the Company's common stock.
1/4
The dividend is payable January 2, 2006 to shareholders of record December 9, 2005.
About Genuine Parts Company
Genuine Parts Company is a distributor of automotive replacement parts in the U.S., Canada and Mexico. The Company also distributes industrial replacement parts in the U.S. and Canada through its Motion Industries subsidiary. S. P. Richards Company, the Office Products Group, distributes business products nationwide in the U.S. and Canada. The Electrical/Electronic Group, EIS, Inc., distributes electrical and electronic components throughout the U.S., Canada and Mexico.


