FILE:GPC/GPC-8K-20060418142400.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On April 17, 2006, the Shareholders of Genuine Parts Company approved the Genuine Parts Company 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan ("GPC 2006 LTIP"). A description of the material terms of the GPC 2006 LTIP was included in Genuine Parts Company's definitive proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 3, 2006. A copy of the GPC 2006 LTIP is filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.1.
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
On April 17, 2006, the Shareholders of Genuine Parts Company approved an amendment to the Restated Articles of Incorporation to eliminate the classification of the Board of Directors and to provide for the annual election of directors. A copy of the Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Genuine Parts Company is filed as Exhibit 3.1 to this Form 8-K.
Additionally, on April 17, 2006, the Board of Directors amended the By-Laws to provide for directors to be elected by Shareholders pursuant to the requirements of the Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation. A copy of the By-Laws as amended and restated on April 17, 2006, is filed as Exhibit 3.2 to this Form 8-K.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On April 17, 2006, the Board of Directors of Genuine Parts Company declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $.3375 cents per share on the Company's common stock. The dividend is payable July 3, 2006 to shareholders of record June 9, 2006. A copy of the press release is furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
c) Exhibits
3.1 Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Genuine Parts Company
3.2 Amended By-Laws of Genuine Parts Company
10.1 Genuine Parts Company 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan
99.1 Press Release dated April 18, 2006
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 3.1 AMENDED AND RESTATED ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION OF GENUINE PARTS COMPANY ARTICLE ONE NAME The name of the corporation is "GENUINE PARTS COMPANY" (the "Corporation"). ARTICLE TWO GOVERNING LAW The Corporation is organized pursuant to the provisions of the Georgia Business Corporation Code. ARTICLE THREE PURPOSE The Corporation is organized as a corporation for profit for any lawful purpose not specifically prohibited to corporations under the applicable laws of the State of Georgia, including but not limited to the distribution of automotive replacement parts, industrial replacement parts, office products and electrical/electronic materials and shall be authorized therewith to engage in any lawful business, act or activity. ARTICLE FOUR CAPITAL STOCK 4.1 Authorized Shares. The total number of shares of capital stock which the Corporation shall have authority to issue is Four Hundred Sixty Million (460,000,000), of which Four Hundred Fifty Million (450,000,000) shares shall be common stock of the par value of $1.00 per share (hereinafter called the "Common Stock") and Ten Million (10,000,000) shares shall be preferred stock of the par value $1.00 per share (hereinafter called the "Preferred Stock"). 4.2 Designations. The Preferred Stock may be issued from time to time by the Corporation in one or more series, with such voting powers, full or limited, or no voting powers, and such designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, as shall be stated and expressed in the resolution or resolutions providing for the issue of such stock adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation pursuant to authority to do so which is hereby vested in the Board of Directors. Each such series of Preferred Stock shall be distinctly designated. Except in respect of the particulars fixed by the Board of Directors for each series as permitted hereby, all shares of Preferred Stock so designated by the Board of Directors shall be alike in every particular, except that shares of any one series issued at different times may differ as to the dates from which dividends thereon shall be cumulative. The voting rights, if any, of each such series and the preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights of each such series and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, if any, may differ from those of any and all other series at any time outstanding; and the Board of Directors of the Corporation is hereby expressly granted authority to fix, by resolutions duly adopted prior to the issuance of any shares of a particular series of Preferred Stock so designated by the Board of Directors, the voting powers of stock of such series, if any, and the designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, if any, for such series, including without limitation the following: (1) The distinctive designation of and the number of shares of Preferred Stock which shall constitute such series; provided that such number may be increased (except where otherwise provided by the Board of Directors) or decreased (but not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding) from time to time by like action of the Board of Directors; (2) The rate and time at which, and the terms and conditions upon which, dividends, if any, on Preferred Stock of such series shall be paid, the extent of the preference or relation, if any, of such dividends to the dividends payable on any other series of Preferred Stock or any other class of stock of the Corporation and whether such dividends shall be cumulative or non-cumulative;
(3) The right, if any, of the holders of Preferred Stock of such series to convert the same into, or exchange the same for shares of any other class of stock or any series of any class of stock of the Corporation and the terms and conditions of such conversion or exchange; (4) Whether or not Preferred Stock of such series shall be subject to redemption, and the redemption price or prices and the time or times at which, and the terms and conditions upon which, Preferred Stock of such series may be redeemed; (5) The rights, if any, of the holders of Preferred Stock of such series upon the voluntary or involuntary liquidation of the Corporation; (6) The terms of the sinking fund or redemption or purchase account, if any, to be provided for the Preferred Stock of such series; and (7) The voting powers, if any, of the holders of such series of Preferred Stock which may, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, include the right, voting as a series by itself or together with any other series of the Preferred Stock as a class, (i) to vote more or less than one vote per share or any or all matters voted upon by the shareholders and (ii) to elect one or more directors of the Corporation if there has been a default in the payment of dividends on any one or more series of the Preferred Stock or under other circumstances and upon such other conditions as the Board of Directors may fix. 4.3 Issuance of Shares. Except as otherwise provided in these Restated Articles of Incorporation, the Board of Directors shall have authority to authorize the issuance, from time to time, without any vote or other action by the shareholders, of any or all shares of stock of the Corporation of any class or series at any time authorized, and any securities convertible into or exchangeable for any such shares, and any options, rights or warrants to purchase or acquire any such shares, in each case to such persons and on such terms (including as a dividend or distribution on or with respect to, or in connection with a split or combination of, the outstanding shares of stock of a series or any other class or series) as the Board of Directors from time to time in its discretion lawfully may determine; provided, that the consideration for the issuance of shares of stock of the Corporation (unless issued as such a dividend or distribution or in connection with such a split or combination) shall not be less than the par value of such shares. Shares so issued shall be fully paid stock, and the holders of such stock shall not be liable to any further call or assessments hereon. ARTICLE FIVE PREEMPTIVE RIGHTS None of the holders of shares of any class of stock of the Corporation shall be entitled as a matter of right to purchase, subscribe for or otherwise acquire any new or additional shares of stock of the Corporation of any class now or hereafter authorized, or any options or warrants to purchase, subscribe for or otherwise acquire any new or additional shares of stock of the Corporation of any class now or hereafter authorized, or any shares, evidences of indebtedness, or any other securities convertible into or carrying options or warrants to purchase, subscribe for or otherwise acquire any new or additional shares. ARTICLE SIX BUSINESS COMBINATIONS The shareholders vote required to approve Business Combinations (as hereinafter defined) shall be set forth in this Article Six. 6.1 Notwithstanding any other provisions of these Restated Articles of Incorporation or any provision of law which might otherwise permit a lesser vote or no vote and in addition to any affirmative vote required of the holders of any particular class or series of "Voting Stock" (as hereinafter defined) by law, these Restated Articles of Incorporation or any Preferred Stock Designation (as hereinafter defined), the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than two-thirds (2/3) of the outstanding shares of Voting Stock of the Corporation, which shall include the affirmative vote of at least fifty percent (50%) of the outstanding shares of Voting Stock held by shareholders other than the "Related Person" (as hereinafter defined), shall be required for the approval or authorization of any Business Combination; provided, however, that the two-thirds (2/3) and fifty percent (50%) voting requirements shall not be required, and such Business Combination shall require only such affirmative vote as is required by law and any other provision of these Restated Articles of Incorporation if: (1) the Business Combination was approved by the Board of Directors of the Corporation either: (a) prior to the date that such Related Person became the Beneficial Owner (as hereinafter defined) of ten
percent (10%) or more of the outstanding shares of the Voting Stock of the Corporation; or (b) after such date, but only so long as such Related Person has sought and obtained the approval of the Board of Directors; provided, however, that such approval shall only be effective if at least two thirds (2/3) of the directors and Continuing Directors (as hereinafter defined); or (2) all of the following conditions are satisfied: (a) the Business Combination involves a merger or consolidation of the Corporation and the consideration to be received per share by holders of Voting Stock in such Business Combination shall be either cash, or if the Related Person shall have acquired the majority of its holdings of the Corporation's Voting Stock for a form of consideration other than cash, in the same form of consideration as the Related Person acquired such majority; and (b) the cash or Fair Market Value (as hereinafter defined) of the property, securities or Other Consideration to be Received (as hereinafter defined) per share by holders of Common Stock of the Corporation shall have a Fair Market Value (as adjusted for stock splits, stock dividends, reclassifications of shares into a lesser number of shares and similar events) which is not less than the greater of (i) the highest per share price (including brokerage commissions, soliciting dealers' fees and transfer taxes) paid by such Related Person in acquiring any of its holdings of the Corporation's Common Stock or (ii) an amount which bears the same or greater percentage relationship to the Fair Market Value of the Corporation's Common Stock on the date of the first public announcement of such Business Combination ("Announcement Date") as the highest per share price determined in (b)(i) above bears to the Fair Market Value of the Corporation's Common Stock on the date on which the Related Person first became a Related Person; or (iii) the earnings per share of Common Stock of the Corporation for the four consecutive quarters immediately preceding the Announcement Date, multiplied by the higher of the then price earnings multiple (if any) of such Related Person or the highest price earnings multiple of the Corporation during the two years immediately preceding the Announcement Date; and (c) if applicable, the cash or Fair Market Value of the property, securities or Other Consideration to be Received per share by holders of shares of any class of outstanding Voting Stock, other than Common Stock, shall have a Fair Market Value (as adjusted for stock splits, stock dividends, reclassifications of shares into a lesser number of shares and similar events) which is not less than the greatest of (i) the highest per share price (including brokerage commissions, soliciting dealers' fees and transfer taxes) paid by such Related Person in acquiring any of its holdings of such class of Voting Stock during the two year period immediately prior to the date of the first public announcement of such Business Combination; or (ii) if applicable, an amount which bears the same or greater percentage relationship to the Fair Market Value of such class of Voting Stock on the date of the first public announcement of such Business Combination as the highest per share price determined in (c)(i) above bears to Fair Market Value of such Voting Stock on the date on which the Related Person first became a Related Person; or (iii) if applicable, the highest preferential amount per share to which holders of such class of Voting Stock would be entitled in the event of voluntary or involuntary liquidation of the Corporation; and (d) after such Related Person has become a Related Person and prior to the consummation of such Business Combination, (i) there shall have been (aa) no failure to declare and pay at the regular date thereof any quarterly dividends (whether or not cumulative) or any outstanding Preferred Stock, and (bb) no reduction in the annual rate of dividends paid on Common Stock (after giving effect to any reclassification, including any reverse stock split, recapitalization, reorganization or similar transaction which has the effect of enlarging or reducing the number of outstanding shares of Common Stock) unless such reduction has been approved by the Board of Directors, at least two-thirds (2/3) of the members of which are Continuing Directors, (ii) such Related Person shall not have become the Beneficial Owner of any additional shares of Voting Stock of the Corporation, except as part of the transaction which resulted in such Related Person becoming a Related Person or upon conversion of convertible securities acquired by it prior to becoming a Related Person or as a result of a pro rata stock dividend or stock split, and (iii) such Related Person shall not have received the benefit, directly or indirectly (except proportionately as a shareholder), of any loans, advances, guarantees, pledges or other financial assistance or tax credits or other tax advantages provided by the Corporation or any Subsidiary (as hereinafter defined); and (e) a proxy statement describing the proposed Business Combination and complying with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules and regulations thereunder (or any subsequent provisions replacing such Act, rules and regulations), whether or not the Corporation is then subject to such requirements, shall be mailed at least thirty (30) days prior to the consummation of such Business Combination to the public shareholders of the Corporation for the purpose of soliciting shareholders approval of such Business Combination and shall contain at the front thereof in a prominent place (i) any recommendations as to the advisability (or inadvisability) of the Business Combination which the Continuing Directors, if any, may choose to state, and (ii) the opinion of a reputable national investment banking firm as to the fairness (or not) of such Business Combination from the financial point of view of the remaining public shareholders of the
Corporation (such investment banking firm to be engaged solely on behalf of the remaining public shareholders, to be paid a reasonable fee for their services by the Corporation upon receipt of such opinion, to be one of the so-called major bracket investment banking firms which has not previously been associated with such Related Person, and, if there are at the time any such directors, to be selected by a majority of the Continuing Directors). 6.2 For Purposes of this Article Six: (1) the term "Business Combination" shall mean (a) any merger or consolidation of the Corporation or any Subsidiary with or into a Related Person or any merger or consolidation of a Related Person with or into the Corporation or any Subsidiary, (b) any sale, lease, exchange, transfer or other disposition in either one transaction or in a series of related transactions) including, without limitation, the mortgage of or the use of any other security device relating to all or any Substantial Part (as hereinafter defined) of the assets of the Corporation (including, without limitation, any voting securities of any Subsidiary) or of any Subsidiary to a Related Person, (c) any sale, lease, exchange, mortgage, pledge, transfer or other disposition (in either one transaction or a series of related transactions) of all or any Substantial Part of the assets of a Related Person to the Corporation or any Subsidiary, (d) the adoption of any plan or proposal for the liquidation or dissolution of the Corporation if, as of the record date for the determination of shareholders entitled to vote with respect thereto, any person is a Related Person, (e) the issuance of or transfer by the Corporation or any Subsidiary (in one transaction or in a series of related transactions) of any securities of the Corporation or any Subsidiary to a Related Person, (f) the acquisition by the Corporation or any Subsidiary of any securities of a Related Person, (g) any reclassification of securities (including any reverse stock split), recapitalization or reorganization of the Corporation or any merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any of its Subsidiaries or any similar transaction (whether or not into or otherwise involving a Related Person) which has the effect, directly or indirectly, of increasing the proportionate share of the outstanding shares of any class of equity securities of the Corporation or any Subsidiary which is, directly or indirectly, owned by any Related Person, (h) any loan or other extension of credit by the Corporation or any Subsidiary to a Related Person or any guarantees by the Corporation or any Subsidiary of any loan or other extension of credit by any person to a Related Person, or (i) any transaction or related series of transactions having, directly or indirectly, the same effect as any of the foregoing. (2) The term "person" shall mean any individual, firm, group, corporation or other entity (as such terms are used on March 21, 1986 in Rule 13d of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended). (3) The term "Related Person" shall mean (a) any person (other than the Corporation, any Subsidiary or any employee benefit plan of the Corporation or any Subsidiary) who or which, as of the record date for the determination of shareholders entitled to notice and to vote on such Business Combination or, if there is no record date, immediately prior to the consummation of any such transaction, together with its "Affiliates" and "Associates" (as such terms are defined on March 21, 1986 in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) is the "Beneficial Owner" (as defined on March 21, 1986, in the Securities Exchange Act, as amended) of ten percent (10%) or more of the outstanding shares of Voting Stock of the Corporation, (b) any Affiliate or Associate of such person described in the foregoing subparagraph 3(a) of this Section 6.2, (c) any Affiliate of the Corporation which at any time within the two year period immediately prior to the date in question was the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of ten percent (10%) or more of the outstanding Voting Stock of
the Corporation, or (d) any person who is an assignee of or has otherwise succeeded to any shares of Voting Stock which were at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question, beneficially owned by any Related Person, if such assignment or succession shall have occurred in the course of a transaction or series of transactions not involving a public offering within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933. Without limitation, any person that has the right to acquire any shares of Voting Stock of the Corporation pursuant to any agreement, or upon exercise of conversion rights, warrants, or options, or otherwise, shall be deemed a Beneficial Owner of such shares for purposes of determining whether such person or group, individually or together with its Affiliates and Associates, is a Related Person, but the number of shares deemed to be outstanding pursuant to this paragraph (3) of Section 6.2 shall not include any other shares of Voting Stock which may be issuable pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding, or upon exercise of conversion rights, warrants or options, or otherwise. (4) The term "Substantial Part" shall mean more than ten percent (10%) of the total consolidated assets of the corporation in question as of the end of the most recent fiscal year ending prior to the time the determination is being made. (5) The term "Subsidiary" shall mean any corporation of which a majority of any class of equity security is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Corporation; provided, however, that for the purposes of the definition of a Related Person set forth in paragraph (3) of this Section 6.2, the term "Subsidiary" shall mean only a corporation of which a majority of each class of equity security is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Corporation. (6) For the purposes of subparagraphs 2(b) and 2(c) of Section 6.1, the term "Other Consideration to be Received" shall include, without limitation, Common Stock, if applicable, shares of any other class of outstanding Voting Stock, retained by its existing public shareholders in the event of a Business Combination with such Related Person in which the Corporation is the surviving corporation. (7) The term "Continuing Director" shall mean any person who (a) is not affiliated with a Related Person and who was a member of the Corporation's Board of Directors prior to the time the Related Person became a Related Person, or (b) any successor to a Continuing Director who is not affiliated with a Related Person and who was recommended for election (before such person's initial election as a Director) as a Continuing Director by a majority of the Board of Directors if at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors were Continuing Directors. (8) The term "Fair Market Value" shall mean (a) in the case of stock, the highest closing sale price during the thirty (30) day period immediately preceding the date in question of a share of such stock on the Composite Tape for New York Stock Exchange Listed Stocks, or, if such stock is not listed on such Exchange, on the principal United States securities exchange registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 on which such stock is listed or, if such stock is not listed on any such exchange the highest closing bid quotation with respect to a share of such stock during the thirty (30) day period preceding the date in question on the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations System or any system then in use or, if no such quotations are available, the Fair Market Value on the date in question of a share of such stock as determined by the Board of Directors if at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors are Continuing Directors; and (b) in the case of property other than cash or stock, the fair market value of such property on the date in question as determined by the Board of Directors if at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors are Continuing Directors. (9) The term "Voting Stock" shall mean all outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors of the Corporation considered for the purposes of this Article Six as one class (it being understood that, for purposes of this Article Six, each share of the Voting Stock shall have the number of votes granted to it pursuant to Article Four of these Restated Articles of Incorporation or any designation of the rights, powers and preferences of any class or series of Preferred Stock made pursuant to said Article Four (a "Preferred Stock Designation"). Each reference in this Article Six to a percentage of shares of Voting Stock shall refer to the percentage of the votes entitled to be cast by such shares. (10) In the event any paragraph (or portions thereof) of this Article Six shall be found to be invalid, prohibited or
unenforceable for any reason, the remaining provisions (or portions thereof) of this Article Six shall be deemed to remain in full force and effect and shall be construed as if such invalid, prohibited or unenforceable provisions had been stricken herefrom or otherwise rendered inapplicable, it being the intent of the Corporation and its shareholders that each remaining provision (or portion thereof) of this Article Six remain to the fullest extent permitted by law, applicable and enforceable as to all shareholders, including Related Persons, notwithstanding any such finding. 6.3 Notwithstanding any other provisions of these Restated Articles of Incorporation or the Bylaws of the Corporation or any provision of law which might otherwise permit a lesser vote or no vote, but in addition to any affirmative vote of the holders of any particular class or series or Voting Stock required by law, these Restated Articles of Incorporation or any Preferred Stock Designation, the provisions set forth in this Article Six may not be repealed or amended in any respect unless such action is approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than two-thirds (2/3) of the outstanding shares of the Voting Stock of the Corporation; provided, however, that if there is a Related Person on the record date for the meeting at which such action is submitted to the shareholders for their consideration, such two-thirds (2/3) vote must include the affirmative vote of at least fifty percent (50%) of the outstanding shares of Voting Stock held by shareholders other than the Related Person. 6.4 A majority of the Board of Directors, if at least two-thirds (2/3) are Continuing Directors, shall have the power and duty to determine on the basis of information known to them after reasonable inquiry, all facts necessary to determine compliance with this Article Six, including, without limitation: (1) whether a person is a Related Person, (2) the number of shares of Voting Stock beneficially owned by any person, (3) whether a person is an Affiliate or Associate of another, and (4) whether the applicable conditions set forth in paragraph (2) of Section 6.2 have been met with respect to any Business Combination. 6.5 Nothing contained in this Article Six shall be construed to relieve any Related Person from any fiduciary obligation imposed by law. ARTICLE SEVEN PERIOD OF DURATION The Corporation shall have perpetual duration. ARTICLE EIGHT PERSONAL LIABILITY OF DIRECTORS 8.1 A director of the Corporation shall not be personally liable to the Corporation or its shareholders for monetary damages for breach of duty of care or other duty as a director, except for liability (i) for any appropriation, in violation of his duties, of any business opportunity of the Corporation, (ii) for acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, (iii) of the types set forth in Section 14-2-832 of the Georgia Business Corporation Code, or (iv) for any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit. The provision of this article shall not apply with respect to acts or omissions occurring prior to the effective date of this article. 8.2 Any repeal or modification of the provisions of this article by the shareholders of the Corporation shall be prospective only, and shall not adversely affect any limitation on the personal liability of a director of the Corporation with respect to any act or omission occurring prior to the effective date of such repeal or modification. 8.3 If the Georgia Business Corporation Code hereafter is amended to authorize the further elimination or limitation of the liability of directors, then the liability of a director of the Corporation, in addition to the limitation on personal liability provided herein, shall be limited to the fullest extent permitted by the amended Georgia Business Corporation Code. 8.4 In the event that any of the provisions of this article (including any provision within a single sentence) is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or otherwise unenforceable, the remaining provisions are severable and shall remain enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.
ARTICLE NINE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 9.1 Number of Directors. The number of directors of the Corporation shall be not less than nine or more than fifteen. The exact number of directors within such minimum and maximum shall be fixed or changed from time to time solely by a resolution adopted by an affirmative vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the total number of directors then in office. 9.2 Classification, Terms and Election of Directors. The directors shall be divided into three classes, designated Class I, Class II and Class III. Each class shall consist, as nearly as may be possible, of one-third of the total number of directors constituting the entire Board of Directors. At each annual meeting of shareholders, successors to the class of directors whose term expires at the annual meeting shall be elected or reelected for a three-year term. Except as provided in Article 9.4, a director shall be elected by the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares of the class of stock represented at the annual meeting of shareholders for which the director stands for election and entitled to elect such director. If the number of directors is changed, any increase or decrease shall be apportioned among the classes so as to maintain the number of directors in each class as nearly equal as possible. In no case shall a decrease in the number of directors have the effect of shortening the term of an incumbent director. If the number of directors is increased, and any newly created directorships are filled by the Board, there shall be no classification of additional directors elected by the Board until the next meeting of the shareholders called for the purpose of electing directors. Effective at the time of the annual meeting of shareholders in 2007, directors shall no longer be divided into classes and each director shall be elected for a term of one year. Each director shall serve until his successor is elected and qualified or until his earlier resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or death. 9.3. Removal. The entire Board of Directors or any individual director may be removed from office only for cause and by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the outstanding shares of Voting Stock (as defined in Article Six), excluding from the number of shares deemed to be outstanding at the time of such vote and from such vote on the removal action, all outstanding shares of Voting Stock held by a Related Person (as defined in Article Six) on the record date for the meeting at which such action is submitted to the shareholders for their approval. Removal action may be taken at any shareholders' meeting with respect to which notice of such purpose has been given, and a removed director's successor may be elected at the same meeting to serve the unexpired term. 9.4 Vacancies. A vacancy occurring on the Board of Directors, however occurring, whether by increase in the number of directors, death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or otherwise, may be filled, until the next election of directors by the shareholders, by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the total number of directors then remaining in office, though they constitute less than a quorum of the Board of Directors. 9.5 Election of Directors by Holders of Preferred Stock. Notwithstanding any of the foregoing provisions in this Article Nine, whenever the holders of any one or more classes of Preferred Stock or series thereof issued by the Corporation shall have the right, voting separately by class or series, to elect directors at an annual or special meeting of shareholders, the number of such directors, and the election, term of office, filling of vacancies and other features of each such directorship, shall be governed by the terms of these Restated Articles of Incorporation and any Preferred Stock Designation (as defined in Article Six) applicable thereto, and such directors so elected shall not be divided into classes pursuant to this Article Nine. 9.6 Amendment or Repeal. Notwithstanding any other provisions of these Restated Articles of Incorporation or the Bylaws of the Corporation or any provision of any law which might otherwise permit a lesser vote or no vote, but in addition to any affirmative vote of the holders of any particular class or series or Voting Stock required by law, these Restated Articles of Incorporation or any Preferred Stock Designation, the provisions set forth in this Article Nine may not be repealed or amended in any respect unless such action is approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than two-thirds (2/3) of the outstanding shares of the Voting Stock of the Corporation, excluding shares held by a Related Person on the record date for the meeting at which such action is submitted to the shareholders for their consideration.
CERTIFICATE OF RESTATEMENT OF GENUINE PARTS COMPANY Pursuant to the provisions of Section 14-2-1007 of the Georgia Business Corporation Code (the "Code"), Genuine Parts Company, a Georgia corporation (the "Company"), certifies as follows: 1. The attached Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation contain an amendment in the form of a resolution to declassify the board and provide for the annual election of directors. The resolution was adopted by the Board of Directors and duly approved by the shareholders of the Company on April 17, 2006 in accordance with the provisions of Code Section 14-2-1003. 2. The attached Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company supersede the Restated Articles of Incorporation. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned executes the Certificate of Restatement this 17th day of April, 2006. GENUINE PARTS COMPANY By: /s/ THOMAS C. GALLAGHER --------------------------------- Thomas C. Gallagher Chief Executive Officer Attest: /s/ CAROL B. YANCEY - ------------------------------------- Carol B. Yancey Secretary

Exhibit 3.2 GENUINE PARTS COMPANY BY-LAWS
. . . GENUINE PARTS COMPANY BY-LAWS TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE ONE - OFFICES 1.1 General 1.2 Other Offices ARTICLE TWO - SHAREHOLDERS' MEETINGS 2.1 Place of Meeting 2.2 Annual Meeting 2.3 Special Meetings 2.4 Voting of Shares 2.5 Notice of Meetings 2.6 Quorum 2.7 Proxies 2.8 Adjournments 2.9 Conduct of Meetings ARTICLE THREE - BOARD OF DIRECTORS 3.1 Powers 3.2 Retirement of Directors 3.3 Compensation 3.4 Other ARTICLE FOUR - MEETINGS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 4.1 Regular Meetings 4.2 Special Meetings 4.3 Quorum 4.4 Vote Required for Action 4.5 Action by Directors Without a Meeting ARTICLE FIVE - COMMITTEES 5.1 Appointment of Executive Committee 5.2 Procedures of Executive Commitee 5.3 Other Committees 5.4 Action by Committee 5.5 Alternate Members 5.6 Removal and Vacancies ARTICLE SIX - NOTICES 6.1 Procedure 6.2 Waiver ARTICLE SEVEN - OFFICERS 7.1 Number 7.2 Election and Term 7.3 Compensation 7.4 Removal 7.5 Vacancies 7.6 Disability of Officers 7.7 Chairman of the Board of Directors 7.8 Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors 7.9 President 7.10 Vice Presidents 7.11 Secretary 7.12 Assistant Secretary 7.13 Treasurer 7.14 Assistant Treasurers 7.15 Bond ARTICLE EIGHT - SHARES 8.1 Certificates
8.2 Transfer of Shares 8.3 Equitable Share Interests 8.4 Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Certificates 8.5 Regulations 8.6 Fixing of Record Date with Regard to Shareholder Action ARTICLE NINE - DISTRIBUTIONS AND SHARE DIVIDENDS. 9.1 Authorization or Declaration 9.2 Record Date with Regard to Distributions and Share Dividends 9.3 Depositories. 9.4 Fiscal Year ARTICLE TEN - INDEMNIFICATION 10.1 Definitions 10.2 Basic Indemnification Arrangement 10.3 Advances for Expenses 10.4 Authorization of and Determination of Entitlement to Indemnification 10.5 Court-Ordered Indemnification and Advances for Expenses 17.6 Indemnification of Employees and Agents 10.7 Shareholder Approved Indemnification 10.8 Liability Insurance 10.9 Witness Fees 10.10 Report to Shareholders 10.11 Severability ARTICLE ELEVEN - MISCELLANEOUS 11.1 Inspection of Books and Records 11.2 Description of Seal 11.3 Annual Statements ARTICLE TWELVE - AMENDMENTS 12.1 Power to Amend By-Laws ARTICLE THIRTEEN - RESTRICTIONS ON CERTAIN BUSINESS COMBINATIONS WITH INTERESTED SHAREHOLDERS 13.1 Governing Authority 13.2 Irrevocability
As Amended and Restated April 17, 2006 BY-LAWS OF GENUINE PARTS COMPANY ARTICLE ONE - OFFICES 1.1 Registered Office and Registered Agent. The Corporation shall maintain a registered office at 2999 Circle 75 Parkway, Atlanta, Georgia and shall have a registered agent whose business office is identical with such registered office. 1.2 Other Offices. The Corporation may, in addition to its registered office, have offices at such other places as the Board of Directors may from time to time appoint, or as the business of the Corporation may require. ARTICLE TWO - SHAREHOLDERS' MEETINGS 2.1 Place of Meetings. The place of all meetings of the shareholders shall be in the Executive Offices of the Corporation at 2999 Circle 75 Parkway, Atlanta, Georgia or such other place within or without the State of Georgia as shall be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors, and the place at which such meeting shall be held shall be stated in the notice and call of the meeting. 2.2 Annual Meeting. The annual meeting of shareholders of the corporation shall be held on such date and at such time as shall be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors and stated in the notice of the meetings, at which the shareholders shall elect the directors to be elected at such meetings pursuant to the requirements of the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation, and transact such other business as may properly be brought before the meetings. 2.3 Special Meetings. Special meetings of the shareholders for any purpose or purposes may be called by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, or in his absence by any Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors or the President, or by a majority of the Board of Directors, and shall be called at any time by the Chairman of the Board of Directors or any Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors or the President or the Secretary upon the written request of shareholders owning forty per cent (40%) of the outstanding shares of the corporation entitled to vote at an election of directors. A request by shareholders for the calling of a special meeting, as provided herein, shall be made in writing to the Secretary, signed by such shareholders and shall specify the purpose or purposes of the meeting. 2.4 Voting of Shares. The voting at all meetings of shareholders may be viva voce, but any qualified voter may demand a share vote whereupon such share vote may be taken by ballot, each of which shall state the name of the shareholder voting and the number of shares voted by him, and if such ballot be cast by proxy, it shall also state the name of such proxy. At any meeting of the shareholders, every shareholder having the right to vote shall be entitled to vote in person, or by proxy appointed by instrument in writing subscribed by such shareholder. Each shareholder shall have one vote for each share having voting power registered in his name on the books of the corporation on the record date for determination of its shareholders entitled to vote if such a record date has been fixed, or on the date the transfer books were closed if they have been closed. 2.5 Notice of Meetings. Unless waived as contemplated in Section 6.2. notice of the date, time and place of all meetings of shareholders shall be given not less than ten (10) days, and not more than sixty (60) days prior to the meeting, to each shareholder of record of the corporation entitled to vote at such meeting. The Board of Directors may fix in advance a date, not exceeding seventy (70) days preceding the date of any meeting of shareholders, as a record date for the determination of the shareholders entitled to notice of and to vote at any such meeting. In the case of an annual or substitute annual meeting, the notice of the meeting need not state the purpose or purposes of
the meeting unless the purpose or purposes constitute a matter which is required by law to be stated in the notice of the meeting. In the case of a special meeting, the notice of meeting shall state the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called. 2.6 Quorum. A quorum at any annual or special meeting of shareholders shall consist of shareholders representing, either in person or by proxy, a majority of the outstanding shares of the corporation entitled to vote at such meeting, except as otherwise specifically provided by law. If a quorum is present, a majority of the shares outstanding and entitled to vote which are represented at any meeting shall determine any matter coming before the meeting unless a different vote is required by statute, by the Articles of Incorporation or by these By-Laws. Shareholders at a meeting at which a quorum is present may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough shareholders to leave less than a quorum. 2.7 Proxies. A shareholder entitled to vote pursuant to Section 2.4 may vote in person or by proxy executed in writing by the shareholder or by his attorney in fact. A proxy shall not be valid after eleven (11) months from the date of its execution, unless a longer period is expressly stated therein. If the validity of any proxy is questioned it must be submitted to the secretary of the shareholders' meeting for examination or to a proxy officer or committee appointed by the person presiding at the meeting. The secretary of the meeting or, if appointed, the proxy officer or committee, shall determine the validity or invalidity of any proxy submitted and reference by the secretary in the minutes of the meeting to the irregularity of a proxy shall be received as prima facie evidence of the facts stated for the purpose of establishing the presence of a quorum at such meeting and for all other purposes. 2.8 Adjournments. A majority of the voting shares present at any properly called shareholders' meeting, whether or not a quorum is present, may adjourn the meeting to reconvene at a specific time and place, but no later than 120 days after the date fixed for the original meeting unless the requirements of the Georgia Business Corporation Code concerning the selection of a new record date and notice to shareholders have been met. It shall not be necessary to give any notice of the reconvened meeting or of the business to be transacted, if the time and place of the reconvened meeting are announced at the meeting which was adjourned. At any such reconvened meeting at which a quorum is represented or present, any business may be transacted which could have been transacted at the meeting which was adjourned. 2.9 Conduct of Meetings. All meetings of shareholders shall be governed by such rules and decisions as the chairman of the meeting, or a parliamentarian appointed by him, may deem appropriate. ARTICLE THREE - BOARD OF DIRECTORS 3.1 Powers. The management of all the affairs, property, and business of the corporation shall be vested in the Board of Directors or in an Executive Committee as may be established pursuant to these By-Laws. In addition to the powers and authority by these By-Laws expressly conferred upon it, the Board of Directors may exercise all such powers of the corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by statute, the Articles of Incorporation or by these By-Laws directed or required to be exercised or done by the shareholders. 3.2 Retirement of Directors. (a) Any director who shall have attained the age of seventy-two (72) years on or before the first day of January, preceding the next annual meeting shall serve only to the date of such annual meeting and shall not be eligible to serve as a director thereafter, notwithstanding the fact that such director may have been elected for a term which would extend beyond the dates set forth above. (b) Any Director, other than a Director who has served the Corporation as Chief Executive Officer, who is also (i) an officer of the Corporation, or (ii) an officer of any wholly-owned or majority-owned subsidiary or former subsidiary of the Corporation, shall cease to be a Director of this Corporation upon such Director's retirement, resignation, removal or termination, for any reason, as an officer. (c) Any person who has been a director but who becomes ineligible for reelection under (a) hereof, may, upon the nomination of the Chief Executive Officer, be designated a "Director Emeritus" by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Board of Directors. Such a designation shall be based on past meritorious service to the corporation
and shall continue for life but shall carry no duties or responsibilities by such person nor shall such person be considered a member of the Board of Directors for any purpose. Directors Emeriti may be paid such fixed annual compensation as may be deemed appropriate by the Chief Executive Officer in view of their past services to the corporation. 3.3 Compensation. The Board of Directors may determine from time to time the compensation, if any, directors may receive for their services as directors. A director may also serve the corporation in a capacity other than that of director and receive compensation, as determined by the Board of Directors, for services rendered in any other capacity. 3.4 Other. Information concerning (i) Number of Directors, (ii) Classification, Terms and Election of Directors, (iii) Removal, (iv) Vacancies, and (v) Election of Directors by Holders of Preferred Stock, is set forth in Article Nine of this Corporation's Articles of Incorporation, specifically paragraphs 9.1, 9.2, 9.3, 9.4 and 9.5 thereof. [needs to remain as-is until Articles are formally amended] ARTICLE FOUR - MEETINGS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 4.1 Regular Meetings. Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held without notice at the principal office of the corporation or at such other place or places, within or without the State of Georgia, as the Board of Directors may from time to time designate. 4.2 Special Meetings. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called at any time by the Chairman of the Board of Directors or any Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors or the President or by any two directors to be held at the principal office of the corporation, or at such other place or places, within or without the State of Georgia, as may be designated in the notice of such meeting. Unless waived as contemplated in Section 6.2, the Chairman of the Board of Directors or any Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors or the President or Secretary of the corporation or any director thereof shall give at least one day's notice to each director of each special meeting stating the date, time, and place of the meeting. 4.3 Quorum. At meetings of the Board of Directors, more than one-half the number of directors fixed by the shareholders at that time shall be necessary to constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. A majority of the directors present at any meeting, whether or not a quorum exists, may adjourn any meeting of the Board of Directors to reconvene at a specific time and place without further notice thereof. At any such reconvened meeting at which a quorum is present, any business may be transacted which could have been transacted at the meeting which was adjourned. 4.4 Vote Required for Action. (a) Except as otherwise provided in the Articles of Incorporation, these By-Laws, or by law, the act of a majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present at the time shall be the act of the Board of Directors. (b) A director who is present at a meeting of the Board of Directors or a committee of the Board of Directors when corporate action is taken is deemed to have assented to the action taken unless: (1) He objects at the beginning of the meeting (or promptly upon his arrival) to holding it or transacting business at the meeting; (2) His dissent or abstention from the action taken is entered in the minutes of the meeting; or (3) He delivers written notice of his dissent or abstention to the presiding officer of the meeting before its adjournment or to the corporation immediately after adjournment of the meeting. The right of dissent or abstention is not available to a director who votes in favor of the action taken. (c) The vote of a majority of the full Board of Directors shall be required to adopt a resolution constituting a
Committee. The vote of two-thirds of the directors is required to adopt a resolution recommending dissolution of the corporation to the shareholders. 4.5 Action by Directors Without a Meeting. Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if a written consent thereto shall be signed by all of the directors or members of such committee, as the case may be, and such written consent is filed with the minutes of the proceedings of the Board of Directors or committee. Such consent shall have the same force and effect as a unanimous vote of the Board of Directors or committee. ARTICLE FIVE - COMMITTEES 5.1 Appointment of Executive Committee. The Board of Directors may by resolution adopted by a majority of the full Board of Directors appoint an Executive Committee of not less than three (3) nor more than five (5) directors, which Executive Committee shall to the extent provided in such resolution have all of the powers and authority of the Board of Directors, except as otherwise provided by law. The Executive Committee shall have the power to amend or repeal any resolution of the Board of Directors unless such resolution is by its terms not subject to amendment or repeal by the Executive Committee. An act of the Executive Committee taken within the scope of its authority shall be an act of the Board of Directors. 5.2 Procedures of Executive Committee. The Executive Committee shall meet from time to time on the call of the Chairman of the Board of Directors or any Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors or the President or any two or more members of the Executive Committee. Meetings of the Executive Committee may be held at such place or places as the Executive Committee shall determine or may be specified or fixed in the respective notices or waivers of such meetings. The Executive Committee may fix its own rules of procedure, including provision for a notice of its meetings. It shall keep a record of its proceedings and shall report these proceedings to the Board of Directors at the next meeting of the Board, and all such proceedings shall be subject to revision or alteration by the Board of Directors except to the extent that action shall have been taken pursuant to or in reliance upon such proceedings prior to any such revision or alteration. 5.3 Other Committees. The Board of Directors, by resolution adopted by a majority of the full Board of Directors, may designate one or more additional committees, each committee to consist of one or more directors of the corporation, and it shall have such name or names and shall have any and may exercise such powers of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the corporation, except as otherwise provided by law, as may be determined from time to time by resolution adopted by a majority of the full Board of Directors. Each of such committees shall call and hold meetings, adopt rules of procedure, maintain records, and report to the Board of Directors in the manner provided for the Executive Committee in Section 5.2 of these By-Laws. 5.4 Action by Committees. Articles 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, and 4.5, which govern meetings, action without meetings, notice and waiver of notice, and quorum and voting requirements of the Board of Directors, apply to the Executive Committee or any other committee designated by the Board of Directors, and their members as well. 5.5 Alternate Members. The Board of Directors, by resolution adopted in accordance with Sect on 5.1. may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any such committee, who may act in the place of any absent member or members at any meeting of such committee. 5.6 Removal and Vacancies. The Board of Directors shall have power at any time to remove any member of any committee, with or without cause, and to fill vacancies in or to dissolve any such committee. ARTICLE SIX - NOTICES 6.1 Procedure. Whenever these By-Laws require notice to be given to any shareholder or director, the notice shall be given in accordance with this Section 6.1. Notice under these By-Laws shall be in writing unless oral notice is reasonable under the circumstances. Any notice to directors may be written or oral. Notice may be communicated in person; by telephone, telegraph, teletype, or other form of wire or wireless communication; or by mail or private
carrier. If these forms of personal notice are impracticable, notice may be communicated by a newspaper of general circulation in the area where published, or by radio, television, or other form of public broadcast communication. Written notice to the shareholders, if in a comprehensible form, is effective when mailed, if mailed with first-class postage prepaid and correctly addressed to the shareholder's address shown in the corporation's current record of shareholders. If the corporation has more than 500 shareholders of record entitled to vote at a meeting, it may utilize a class of mail other than first class if the notice of the meeting is mailed, with adequate postage prepaid, not less than thirty (30) days before the date of the meeting. Except as provided above, written notice, if in a comprehensible form, is effective at the earliest of the following: (1) When received or when delivered, properly addressed, to the addressee's last known principal place of business or residence; (2) Five days after its deposit in the mail, as evidenced by the postmark, if mailed with first-class postage prepaid and correctly addressed; or (3) On the date shown on the return receipt, if sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, and the receipt is signed by or on behalf of the addressee. Oral notice is effective when communicated if communicated in a comprehensible manner. In calculating time periods for notice, when a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years, or other measurement of time is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted. 6.2 Waiver. (a) A shareholder may waive any notice before or after the date and time stated in the notice. The waiver must be in writing, specify the business transacted or the purpose of the meeting, be signed by the shareholder entitled to the notice, and be delivered to the corporation for inclusion in the minutes or filing with the corporate records. (b) A shareholder's attendance at a meeting (i) waives objection to lack of notice or defective notice of the meeting, unless the shareholder at the beginning of the meeting objects to holding the meeting or transacting business at the meeting, and (ii) waives objection to consideration of a particular matter at the meeting that is not within the purpose or purposes described in the meeting notice, unless the shareholder objects to considering the matter when it is presented. (c) A director may waive any notice before or after the date and time specified in the notice. Except as provided below in (d), the waiver must be in writing, signed by the director entitled to the notice, and delivered to the corporation for inclusion in the minutes or filing with the corporate records. (d) A director's attendance at or participation in a meeting waives any required notice to him of the meeting unless the director at the beginning of the meeting (or promptly upon his arrival) objects to holding the meeting or transacting business at the meeting and does not thereafter vote for or assent to action taken at the meeting. ARTICLE SEVEN - OFFICERS 7.1 Number. The officers of the corporation shall consist of a Chairman of the Board of Directors, one or more Vice Chairmen of the Board of Directors, a President, one or more Vice Presidents, a Secretary, a Treasurer, and any other officers as may be appointed by the Board of Directors or appointed by the Chairman of the Board of Directors pursuant to Section 7.7. The Board of Directors shall designate those officers who shall be deemed the chief executive officer, the chief operating officer and the chief financial officer of the corporation. 7.2 Election and Term. All officer's shall be elected by the Board of Directors, or by the Chairman of the Board pursuant to Section 7.7, and shall serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board of Directors until their successors have been elected and have qualified or until their earlier death, resignation,
removal, retirement or disqualification. 7.3 Compensation. The compensation of the following senior Officers of the Corporation shall be fixed by the Compensation and Stock Option Committee of the Board of Directors. Chairman of the Board Vice Chairmen of the Board President Any Executive Vice President Any Group Vice President Any Senior Vice President Compensation of all other Officers shall be fixed by the Chief Executive Officer. 7.4 Removal. Any officer, however elected or appointed, may be removed at any time with or without cause by the affirmative vote of a majority of the whole Board of Directors provided that any officer who is not a member of the Board of Directors may be removed at any time with or without cause by the Chairman of the Board of Directors or by any other officer who is a member of the Board of Directors and whose duties include supervision of such discharged officer. 7.5 Vacancies. Vacancy in any office arising from any cause may be filled by the Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting. 7.6 Disability of Officers. In the case of absence or inability to act of any officer of the corporation or of any person herein authorized to act in his place, the Board of Directors may from time to time delegate the powers and duties of such officer to any other officer, or any director or other person whom it may select. 7.7 Chairman of the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall make reports to the Board of Directors and to the shareholders and shall perform all such other duties as are incident to his office or as are properly required of him by the Board of Directors. He shall preside at all meetings of the shareholders and of the Board of Directors at which he may be present. The Chairman of the Board of Directors may from time to time appoint one or more assistant secretaries of the corporation. 7.8 Vice Chairmen of the Board of Directors. Any Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors shall have such other powers and duties as may from time to time be designated by the Board of Directors or by the Chief Executive Officer. 7.9 President. The President shall have responsibility for supervising and directing the operations of the corporation's businesses subject to the direction of the Board of Directors. He shall preside at all meetings of the shareholders or the Board of Directors in the absence of the Chairman of the Board of Directors. 7.10 Vice Presidents. The Vice Presidents shall perform such duties not inconsistent with these By-Laws as may be specifically designated by the Board of Directors or by the Chairman of the Board of Directors or any Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors or the President. 7.11 Secretary. The Secretary shall have authority to issue notices for all meetings (except that notices for special meetings of directors called at the request of two directors as provided in Section 4.2 of these By-Laws may be issued by such directors), shall keep minutes of all meetings, shall have charge of the seal and of the corporate books, and shall make such reports and perform such other duties as are incident to the office or are properly required of him by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors or any Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors or the President. 7.12 Assistant Secretaries. The Assistant Secretaries may in the absence or disability of the Secretary perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Secretary, and shall perform such other duties as the Board of Directors or the
person appointing them may prescribe. 7.13 Treasurer. The Treasurer shall be responsible for the custody of all monies and securities of the corporation and shall be responsible for the maintenance of regular books of account. He shall have general supervision of the disbursement of funds of the corporation and shall render to the Board of Directors from time to time, as may be required of him, an account of all transactions for which he is responsible and of the financial condition of the corporation. He shall perform all duties incident to his office or which are properly required of him by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors or any Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors or the President. 7.14 Assistant Treasurers. The Assistant Treasurers may, in the absence or disability of the Treasurer, perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Treasurer, and shall perform such other duties as the Board of Directors or the person appointing them shall prescribe. 7.15 Bond. The Board of Directors may, by resolution, require any and all officers to give bond to the corporation, with sufficient surety or sureties, conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of their respective offices, and to comply with such other conditions as may from time to time be required by the Board of Directors. ARTICLE EIGHT - SHARES 8.1 Certificates. The interest of each shareholder shall be evidenced by a certificate or certificates representing shares of the corporation which shall be in such form as the Board of Directors may from time to time adopt. Each certificate shall exhibit the holder's name, the number of shares and class of shares and series, if any, represented thereby, the name of the corporation, a statement that the corporation is organized under the laws of the State of Georgia, and the par value of each share or a statement that the shares are without par value. Each certificate shall be signed by the Chairman of the Board of Directors or any Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors or the President; provided, however, that where such certificate is signed by a transfer agent, or registered by a registrar, the signature of any such officer may be facsimile. In case any officer who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been used on a certificate has ceased to be an officer before the certificate has been delivered, such certificate may, nonetheless, be adopted and issued and delivered by the corporation as though the officer who signed such certificate or certificates, or whose facsimile signature or signatures shall have been used thereon, had not ceased to be such officer of the corporation. 8.2 Transfer of Shares. The transfer of shares shall be made upon the transfer books of the corporation, kept in the office of the transfer agent designated to transfer the shares, only by the person named in the certificate, or by an attorney lawfully constituted in writing; and before a new certificate is issued, the old certificate shall be surrendered for cancellation or, in the case of a certificate alleged to have been lost, stolen, or destroyed, the provisions of Section 8.4 of these By-Laws shall have been complied with. 8.3 Equitable Share Interest. Registered shareholders only shall be entitled to be treated by the corporation as the holders in fact of the shares standing in their respective names, and the corporation shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in any share on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as expressly provided by the laws of Georgia. 8.4 Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Certificates. In the case of loss, theft or destruction of any share certificate, another may be issued in its place upon proof of such loss, theft or destruction, and upon the giving of a satisfactory bond of indemnity to the corporation and/or to the transfer agent and registrar of such share certificate, in such sum as the Board of Directors may provide. 8.5 Regulations. The Board of Directors shall have power and authority to make all rules and regulations as it may deem expedient, concerning the issue, transfer, conversion, and registration of share certificates of the corporation, not inconsistent with the laws of Georgia, the Articles of Incorporation, and these By-Laws; and the Board of Directors may appoint one or more transfer agents and one or more registrars. 8.6 Fixing of Record Date with Regard to Shareholder Action. For the purpose of determining shareholders entitled
to notice of a shareholders meeting, to demand a special meeting, to vote, or to take any other action, the Board of Directors may fix a future date as the record date, the date to be not more than seventy (70) days prior to the date on which the particular action, requiring a determination of shareholders, is to be taken. A determination of shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a shareholders meeting is effective for any adjournment of the meeting unless the Board of Directors fixes a new record date, which it must do if the meeting is adjourned to a date more than 120 days after the date fixed for the original meeting. If no record date is fixed by the Board of Directors, the record date shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of the Georgia Business Corporation Code.
ARTICLE NINE - DISTRIBUTIONS AND SHARE DIVIDENDS 9.1 Authorization or Declaration. Unless the Articles of Incorporation provide otherwise, the Board of Directors from time to time in its discretion may authorize or declare distributions or share dividends in accordance with the Georgia Business Corporation Code. 9.2 Record Date with Regard to Distributions and Share Dividends. For the purpose of determining shareholders entitled to a distribution (other than one involving a purchase, redemption, or other reacquisition of the corporation's shares) or a share dividend, the Board of Directors may fix a date as the record date. If no record date is fixed by the Board of Directors, the record date shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of the Georgia Business Corporation Code. 9.3 Depositories. The monies of the corporation shall be deposited in the name of the corporation, or in its duly adopted tradename, in such bank or banks or trust company or trust companies as the Board of Directors shall designate, and shall be drawn out only by check signed by persons designated by resolution of the Board of Directors. 9.4 Fiscal Year. The fiscal year of the corporation shall begin on the first day of January each year, unless otherwise provided by the Board of Directors. ARTICLE TEN - INDEMNIFICATION 10.1 Definitions. As used in this Article, the term: (a) "Corporation" includes any domestic or foreign predecessor entity of this corporation in a merger or other transaction in which the predecessor's existence ceased upon consummation of the transaction. (b) "Director" means an individual who is or was a director of the corporation or an individual who, while a director of the corporation, is or was serving at the corporation's request as a director, officer, partner, trustee, employee, or agent of another foreign or domestic corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan, or other enterprise. A director is considered to be serving an employee benefit plan at the corporation's request if his duties to the corporation also impose duties on, or otherwise involve services by, him to the plan or to participants in or beneficiaries of the plan. "Director" includes, unless the context requires otherwise, the estate or personal representative of a director. (c) "Expenses" includes attorneys' fees. (d) "Liability" means the obligation to pay a judgment, settlement, penalty, fine (including an excise tax assessed with respect to an employee benefit plan), or reasonable expenses incurred with respect to a proceeding. (e) "Officer" means an individual who is or was an officer of the corporation or an individual who, while an officer of the corporation, is or was serving at the corporation's request as a director, officer, partner, trustee, employee, or agent of another foreign or domestic corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan, or other enterprise. An "Officer" is considered to be serving an employee benefit plan at the corporation's request if his duties to the corporation also impose duties on, or otherwise involve services by, him to the plan or to participants in or beneficiaries of the plan. "Officer" includes, unless the context requires otherwise, the estate or personal representative of an officer. (f) "Party" includes an individual who was, is, or is threatened to be made a named defendant or respondent in a proceeding. (g) "Proceeding" means any threatened, pending, or completed action, suit, or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative, or investigative and whether formal or informal.
10.2 Basic Indemnification Arrangement. (a) Except as provided in subsections 10.2(d) and 10.2(e) below, the corporation shall indemnify an individual who is made a party to a proceeding because he is or was a director or officer against liability incurred by him in the proceeding if he acted in a manner he believed in good faith to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the corporation and, in the case of any criminal proceeding, he had no reasonable cause to believe his conduct was unlawful. (b) A person's conduct with respect to an employee benefit plan for a purpose he believed in good faith to be in the interests of the participants in and beneficiaries of the plan is conduct that satisfies the requirement of subsection 9.2(a). (c) The termination of a proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, or conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent shall not, of itself, be determinative that the proposed indemnitee did not meet the standard of conduct set forth in subsection 10.2(a). (d) The corporation shall not indemnify a person under this Article in connection with (i) a proceeding by or in the right of the corporation in which such person was adjudged liable to the corporation, or (ii) any proceeding in which such person was adjudged liable on the basis that he improperly received a personal benefit unless, and then only to the extent that, a court of competent jurisdiction determines pursuant to Section 14-2-854 of the Georgia Business Corporation Code that in view of the circumstances of the case, such person is fairly and reasonable entitled to indemnification. (e) Indemnification permitted under this Article in connection with a proceeding by or in the right of the corporation is limited to reasonable expenses incurred in connection with the proceeding. 10.3 Advances for Expenses. (a) The corporation shall pay for or reimburse the reasonable expenses incurred by a director or officer as a party to a proceeding in advance of final disposition of the proceeding if: (i) such person furnishes the corporation a written affirmation of his good faith belief that he has met the standard of conduct set forth in subsection 10.2(a) above; and (ii) such person furnishes the corporation a written undertaking meeting the qualifications set forth below in subsection 10.3(b) excuted personally or on his behalf, to repay any advances if it is ultimately determined that he is not entitled to any indemnification under this Article or otherwise. (b) The undertaking required by subsection 10.3(a)(ii) above must be an unlimited general obligation of the director or officer but need not be secured and shall be accepted without reference to financial ability to make repayment. 10.4 Authorization of and Determination of Entitlement to Indemnification. (a) The corporation acknowledges that indemnification of a director or officer under Section 10.2 has been pre-authorized by the corporation in the manner described in subsection 10.4(b) below. Nevertheless, the corporation shall not indemnify a director or officer under Section 10.2 unless a separate determination has been made in the specific case that indemnification of such person is permissible in the circumstances because he has met the standard of conduct set forth in subsection 10.2(a); provided, however, that regardless of the result or absence of any such determination, and unless limited by the Articles of Incorporation of the corporation, to the extent that a director or officer has been successful, on the merits or otherwise, in the defense of any proceeding to which he was a party, or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, because he is or was a director or officer, the corporation shall indemnify such person against reasonable expenses incurred by him in connection therewith. (b) The determination referred to in subsection 10.4(a) above shall be made, at the election of the Board of Directors: (i) by the Board of Directors of the corporation by majority vote of a quorum consisting of directors not at the time parties to the proceeding; (ii) If a quorum cannot be obtained under subdivision (i), by majority vote of a committee duly designated by the Board of Directors (in which designation directors who are parties may participate), consisting solely of
two or more directors not at the time parties to the proceeding; (iii) by special legal counsel: (1) selected by the Board of Directors or its committee in the manner prescribed in subdivision (i) or (ii); or (2) if a quorum of the Board of Directors cannot be obtained under subdivision (i) and a committee cannot be designated under subdivision (ii), selected by a majority vote of the full Board of Directors (in which selection directors who are parties may participate); or (iv) by the shareholders; provided that shares owned by or voted under the control of directors or officers who are at the time parties to the proceeding may not be voted on the determination. (c) As acknowledged above, the corporation has pre-authorized the indemnification of directors and officers hereunder, subject to a case-by-case determination that the proposed indemnitee met the applicable standard of conduct under subsection 10.2(a). Consequently, no further decision need or shall be made on a case-by-case basis as to the authorization of the corporation's indemnification of directors or officers hereunder. Nevertheless, evaluation as to reasonableness of expenses of a director or officer in the specific case shall be made in the same manner as the determination that indemnification is permissible, as described in subsection 10.4(b) above, except that if the determination is made by special legal counsel, evaluation as to reasonableness of expenses shall be made by those entitled under subsection 10.4(b)(iii) to select counsel. 10.5 Court-Ordered Indemnification and Advances for Expenses. Unless the corporation's Articles of Incorporation provide otherwise, a director or officer who, is a party to a proceeding may apply for indemnification or advances for expenses to the court conducting the proceeding or to another court of competent jurisdiction. On receipt of an application, the court, after giving any notice the court considers necessary, may order indemnification or advances for expenses if it determines that: (i) The applicant is entitled to mandatory indemnification under the final clause of subsection 10.4(a) above (in which case the corporation shall pay the indemnitee's reasonable expenses incurred to obtain court-ordered indemnification); (ii) The applicant is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnification in view of all the relevant circumstances, whether or not he met the standard of conduct set forth in subsection 10.2(a) above or was adjudged liable as described in subsection 10.2(d) above (but if he was adjudged so liable, any court-ordered indemnification shall be limited to reasonable expenses incurred by the indemnitee unless the Articles of Incorporation of the corporation or a By-Law, contract or resolution approved or ratified by shareholders pursuant to Section 10.7 provides otherwise); or (iii) In the case of advances for expenses, the applicant is entitled pursuant to the Articles of Incorporation, By-Laws or any applicable resolution or agreement, to payment or reimbursement of his reasonable expenses incurred as a party to a proceding in advance of final disposition of the proceeding. 10.6 Indemnification of Employees and Agents. Unless the corporation's Articles of Incorporation provide otherwise, the corporation may indemnify and advance expenses under this Article to an employee or agent of the corporation who is not a director or officer to the same extent as to a director or officer. 10.7 Shareholder Approved Indemnification. (a) If authorized by the Articles of Incorporation or a By-Law, contract or resolution approved or ratified by shareholders of the corporation by a majority of the votes entitled to be cast, the corporation may indemnify or obligate itself to indemnify a person made a party to a proceeding, including a proceeding brought by or in the right of the corporation, without regard to the limitations in other sections of this Article; provided, however, that such provisions shall be valid only if and to the extent they are consistent with this Article. The corporation shall not indemnify a person under this Section 10.7 for any liability
incurred in a proceeding in which the person is adjudged liable to the corporation or is subjected to injunctive relief in favor of the corporation: (i) for any appropriation, in violation of his duties, of any business opportunity of the corporation; (ii) for acts or omissions which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law; (iii) for the types of liability set forth in Section 14-2-832 of the Georgia Business Corporation Code; or (iv) from any transaction from which he received an improper personal benefit. (b) Where approved or authorized in the manner described in subsection 10.7(a) above, the corporation may advance or reimburse expenses incurred in advance of final disposition of the proceeding only if: (i) the proposed indemnitee furnishes the corporation a written affirmation of his good faith belief that his conduct does not constitute behavior of the kind described in subsection 10.7(a)(i) -- (iv) above; and (ii) the proposed indemnitee furnishes the corporation a written undertaking, executed personally, or on his behalf, to repay any advances if it is ultimately determined that he is not entitled to indemnification. 10.8 Liability Insurance. The corporation may purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of a director or officer or an individual who is or was an employee or agent of the corporation or who, while an employee or agent of the corporation, is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director, officer, partner, trustee, employee or agent of another foreign or domestic corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan, or other enterprise against liability asserted against or incurred by him in that capacity or arising from his status as a director officer, employee, or agent, whether or not the corporation would have power to indemnify against the same liability under Section 10.2 or Section 10.3 above. 10.9 Witness Fees. Nothing in this Article shall limit the corporation's power to pay or reimburse expenses incurred by a person in connection with his appearance as a witness in a proceeding at a time when he has not been made a named defendant or respondent in the proceeding. 10.10 Report to Shareholders. If the corporation indemnifies or advances expenses to a director in connection with a proceeding by or in the right of the corporation, the corporation shall report the indemnification or advance, in writing, to shareholders with or before the notice of the next shareholders' meeting. 10.11 Severability. In the event that any of the provisions of this Article (including any provision within a single section, subsection, division or sentence) is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or otherwise unenforceable, the remaining provisions of this Article shall remain enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law. ARTICLE ELEVEN - MISCELLANEOUS 11.1 Inspection of Books and Records. The Board of Directors shall determine whether and to what extent the accounts and books of the corporation, or any of them, other than the share records, shall be open to the inspection of shareholders, and no shareholder shall have any right to inspect any account or books or document of the corporation except as conferred by law or by resolution of the shareholders or the Board of Directors. Without prior approval of the Board of Directors in their discretion, the right of inspection set forth in Section 14-2-1602(c) of the Georgia Business Corporation Code shall not be available to any shareholder owning two (2) percent or less of the shares outstanding. 11.2 Description of Seal. The corporate seal of the corporation shall consist of two concentric circles, between which shall be inscribed the words "Genuine Parts Company, Atlanta, Ga.", and in the center shall be inscribed the year of its incorporation and the word "Seal".
11.3 Annual Statements. Not later than four months after the close of each fiscal year, and in any case prior to the next annual meeting of shareholders, the corporation shall prepare (a) a balance sheet showing in reasonable detail the financial condition of the corporation as of the close of its fiscal year, and (b) a profit and loss statement showing the results of its operations during its fiscal year. Upon receipt of written request, the corporation promptly shall mail to any shareholder of record a copy of the most recent such balance sheet and profit and loss statement. ARTICLE TWELVE - AMENDMENTS 12.1 Power to Amend By-Laws. Alterations, amendments, or repeals of the By-Laws may be made by the shareholders, if the notice of such meeting contains a statement of the proposed alteration, amendment, or repeal, or by the Board of Directors by a majority vote of all directors then holding office at any regular or special meeting. ARTICLE THIRTEEN - RESTRICTIONS ON CERTAIN BUSINESS COMBINATIONS WITH INTERESTED SHAREHOLDERS 13.1 Governing Authority. The Corporation shall be governed by all of the requirements of Article 11A of the Georgia Business Corporation Code (Sections 14-2-1131, et seq). 13.2 Irrevocability. Article Thirteen of these By-laws shall be irrevocable except as provided in Section 14-2-1133(b) of the Georgia Business Corporation Code.

Exhibit 10.1 GENUINE PARTS COMPANY 2006 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN
. . . GENUINE PARTS COMPANY 2006 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN
ARTICLE 1 PURPOSE 1.1 General ARTICLE 2 DEFINITIONS 2.1 Definitions ARTICLE 3 EFFECTIVE TERM OF PLAN 3.1 Effective Date 3.2 Term of Plan ARTICLE 4 ADMINISTRATION 4.1 Committee 4.2 Actions and Interpretations by the Committee 4.3 Authority of Committee 4.4 Award Certificates ARTICLE 5 SHARES SUBJECT TO THE PLAN 5.1 Number of Shares 5.2 Share Counting 5.3 Stock Distributed 5.4 Limitation on Awards ARTICLE 6 ELIGIBILITY 6.1 General ARTICLE 7 STOCK OPTIONS 7.1 General 7.2 Incentive Stock Options ARTICLE 8 STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS 8.1 Grant of Stock Appreciation Rights ARTICLE 9 PERFORMANCE AWARDS 9.1 Grant of Performance Awards 9.2 Performance Goals 9.3 Right to Payment 9.4 Other Terms ARTICLE 10 RESTRICTED STOCK AND RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARDS 10.1 Grant of Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units 10.2 Issuance and Restrictions 10.3 Forfeiture 10.4 Delivery of Restricted Stock ARTICLE 11 DEFERRED STOCK UNITS
11.1 Grant of Deferred Stock Units ARTICLE 12 DIVIDEND EQUIVALENTS 12.1 Grant of Dividend Equivalents ARTICLE 13 STOCK OR OTHER STOCK-BASED AWARDS 13.1 Grant of Stock or Other Stock-Based Awards ARTICLE 14 PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO AWARDS 14.1 Stand-Alone and Tandem Awards 14.2 Term of Awards 14.3 Form of Payment of Awards 14.4 Limits on Transfer 14.5 Beneficiaries 14.6 Stock Certificates 14.7 Acceleration upon Death or Disability 14.9 Acceleration upon a Change in Control 14.10 Acceleration for Any Other Reason 14.11 Effect of Acceleration 14.12 Qualified Performance-Based Awards 14.13 Termination of Employment 14.17 Forfeiture Events 14.18 Substitute Awards ARTICLE 15 CHANGES IN CAPITAL STRUCTURE 15.1 General ARTICLE 16 AMENDMENT, MODIFICATION AND TERMINATION 16.1 Amendment, Modification and Termination 16.2 Awards Previously Granted ARTICLE 17 GENERAL PROVISIONS 17.1 No Rights to Awards; Non-Uniform Determinations 17.2 No Shareholder Rights 17.3 Withholding 17.4 Special Provisions Related to Section 409A of the Code 17.5 No Right to Continued Service 17.6 Unfunded Status of Awards 17.7 Relationship to Other Benefits 17.8 Expenses 17.9 Titles and Headings 17.10 Gender and Number 17.11 Fractional Shares 17.12 Government and Other Regulations 17.13 Governing Law 17.14 Additional Provisions 17.15 No Limitations on Rights of Company 17.16 Indemnification
GENUINE PARTS COMPANY 2006 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN ARTICLE 1 PURPOSE 1.1. GENERAL. The purpose of the Genuine Parts Company 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan") is to promote the success, and enhance the value, of Genuine Parts Company (the "Company"), by linking the personal interests of employees, officers, and directors of the Company or any Affiliate (as defined below) to those of Company shareholders and by providing such persons with an incentive for outstanding performance. The Plan is further intended to provide flexibility to the Company in its ability to motivate, attract, and retain the services of employees, officers and directors upon whose judgment, interest, and special effort the successful conduct of the Company's operation is largely dependent. Accordingly, the Plan permits the grant of incentive awards from time to time to selected employees, officers and directors of the Company and its Affiliates. ARTICLE 2 DEFINITIONS 2.1. DEFINITIONS. When a word or phrase appears in this Plan with the initial letter capitalized, and the word or phrase does not commence a sentence, the word or phrase shall generally be given the meaning ascribed to it in this Section or in Section 1.1 unless a clearly different meaning is required by the context. The following words and phrases shall have the following meanings: (a) "Affiliate" means (i) any Subsidiary or Parent, or (ii) an entity that directly or through one or more intermediaries controls, is controlled by or is under common control with, the Company, as determined by the Committee. (b) "Award" means any Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock Award, Restricted Stock Unit Award, Deferred Stock Unit Award, Performance Award, Dividend Equivalent Award, Other Stock-Based Award, Performance-Based Cash Awards, or any other right or interest relating to Stock or cash, granted to a Participant under the Plan. (c) "Award Certificate" means a written document, in such form as the Committee prescribes from time to time, setting forth the terms and conditions of an Award. Award Certificates may be in the form of individual award agreements or certificates or a program document describing the terms and provisions of an Awards or series of Awards under the Plan. (d) "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company. (e) "Cause" as a reason for a Participant's termination of employment, unless otherwise defined in the applicable Award Certificate, shall mean a determination by the Board that Executive has committed or engaged in either (i) any act that constitutes, on the part of the Participant, fraud, dishonesty, breach of fiduciary duty, misappropriation, embezzlement or gross misfeasance of duty; (ii) willful disregard of published Company policies and procedures or codes of ethics; or (iii) conduct by the Participant in his office with the Company that is grossly inappropriate and demonstrably likely to lead to material injury to the Company, as determined by the Board acting reasonably and in good faith; provided, that in the case of (ii) or (iii) above, such conduct shall not constitute "Cause" unless the Board shall have delivered to Executive notice setting forth with specificity (A) the conduct deemed to qualify as "Cause", (B) reasonable action that would remedy such objection, and (C) a reasonable time (not less than 30 days) within which the Participant may take such remedial action, and the Participant shall not have taken such specified remedial action within the specified time. (f) "Change in Control" means and includes the occurrence of any one of the following events:
(i) The acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the 1934 Act) (a "Person") of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the 1934 Act) of 20% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"); provided, however, that for purposes of this subsection (1), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change of Control: (i) any acquisition by a Person who is on the Effective Date the beneficial owner of 20% or more of the Outstanding Company Voting Securities, (ii) any acquisition directly from the Company, (iii) any acquisition by the Company, (iv) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any corporation controlled by the Company, or (v) any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a transaction which complies with clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of subsection (3) of this definition; or (ii) Individuals who, as of the Effective Date, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; provided, however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the Effective Date whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's shareholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board; or (iii) Consummation of a reorganization, merger, consolidation or share exchange or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company (a "Business Combination"), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination, (i) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners of the Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding Company Voting Securities, and (ii) no Person (excluding any corporation resulting from such Business Combination or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination, and (iii) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement, or of the action of the Board, providing for such Business Combination; or (iv) Approval by the shareholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company. (g) "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and includes a reference to the underlying final regulations. (h) "Committee" means the committee of the Board described in Article 4. (i) "Company" means Genuine Parts Company, a Georgia corporation, or any successor corporation. (j) "Continuous Status as a Participant" means the absence of any interruption or termination of service as an employee, officer or director of the Company or any Affiliate, as applicable; provided, however, that for purposes of an Incentive Stock Option, or a Stock Appreciation Right issued in tandem with an Incentive Stock Option, "Continuous Status as a Participant" means the absence of any interruption or termination of service as
an employee of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary, as applicable, pursuant to applicable tax regulations. Continuous Status as a Participant shall not be considered interrupted in the case of any leave of absence authorized in writing by the Company prior to its commencement; provided, however, that for purposes of Incentive Stock Options, no such leave may exceed 90 days, unless reemployment upon expiration of such leave is guaranteed by statute or contract. If reemployment upon expiration of a leave of absence approved by the Company is not so guaranteed, on the 91st day of such leave any Incentive Stock Option held by the Participant shall cease to be treated as an Incentive Stock Option and shall be treated for tax purposes as a Non-Qualified Stock Option. (k) "Covered Employee" means a covered employee as defined in Code Section 162(m)(3). (l) "Disability" shall mean any illness or other physical or mental condition of a Participant that renders the Participant incapable of performing his customary and usual duties for the Company, or any medically determinable illness or other physical or mental condition resulting from a bodily injury, disease or mental disorder which, in the judgment of the Committee, is permanent and continuous in nature. The Committee may require such medical or other evidence as it deems necessary to judge the nature and permanency of the Participant's condition. Notwithstanding the above, with respect to an Incentive Stock Option, Disability shall mean Permanent and Total Disability as defined in Section 22(e)(3) of the Code. (m) "Deferred Stock Unit" means a right granted to a Participant under Article 11. (n) "Dividend Equivalent" means a right granted to a Participant under Article 12. (o) "Effective Date" has the meaning assigned such term in Section 3.1. (p) "Eligible Participant" means an employee, officer, consultant or director of the Company or any Affiliate. (q) "Exchange" means the Nasdaq National Market or any national securities exchange on which the Stock may from time to time be listed or traded. (r) "Fair Market Value", on any date, means (i) if the Stock is listed on a securities exchange or is traded over the Nasdaq National Market, the closing sales price on such exchange or over such system on such date or, in the absence of reported sales on such date, the closing sales price on the immediately preceding date on which sales were reported, or (ii) if the Stock is not listed on a securities exchange or traded over the Nasdaq National Market, the mean between the bid and offered prices as quoted by Nasdaq for such date, provided that if it is determined that the fair market value is not properly reflected by such Nasdaq quotations, Fair Market Value will be determined by such other method as the Committee determines in good faith to be reasonable. (s) "Grant Date" of an Award means the first date on which all necessary corporate action has been taken to approve the grant of the Award as provided in the Plan, or such later date as is determined and specified as part of that authorization process. Notice of the grant shall be provided to the grantee within a relatively short period of time after the Grant Date. (t) "Incentive Stock Option" means an Option that is intended to be an incentive stock option and meets the requirements of Section 422 of the Code or any successor provision thereto. (u) "Non-Employee Director" means a director of the Company who is not a common law employee of the Company or an Affiliate. (v) "Non-Qualified Stock Option" means an Option that is not an Incentive Stock Option. (w) "Option" means a right granted to a Participant under Article 7 of the Plan to purchase Stock at a specified price during specified time periods. An Option may be either an Incentive Stock Option or a Non-
Qualified Stock Option. (x) "Other Stock-Based Award" means a right, granted to a Participant under Article 13, that relates to or is valued by reference to Stock or other Awards relating to Stock. (y) "Parent" means a corporation, limited liability company, partnership or other entity which owns or beneficially owns a majority of the outstanding voting stock or voting power of the Company. Notwithstanding the above, with respect to an Incentive Stock Option, Parent shall have the meaning set forth in Section 424(e) of the Code. (z) "Participant" means a person who, as an employee, officer, director or consultant of the Company or any Affiliate, has been granted an Award under the Plan; provided that in the case of the death of a Participant, the term "Participant" refers to a beneficiary designated pursuant to Section 14.5 or the legal guardian or other legal representative acting in a fiduciary capacity on behalf of the Participant under applicable state law and court supervision. (aa) "Performance Award" means Performance Shares or Performance Units or Performance-Based Cash Awards granted pursuant to Article 9. (bb) "Performance-Based Cash Award" means a right granted to a Participant under Article 9 to a cash award to be paid upon achievement of such performance goals as the Committee establishes with regard to such Award. (cc) "Performance Share" means any right granted to a Participant under Article 9 to a unit to be valued by reference to a designated number of Shares to be paid upon achievement of such performance goals as the Committee establishes with regard to such Performance Share. (dd) "Performance Unit" means a right granted to a Participant under Article 9 to a unit valued by reference to a designated amount of cash or property other than Shares, to be paid to the Participant upon achievement of such performance goals as the Committee establishes with regard to such Performance Unit. (ee) "Person" means any individual, entity or group, within the meaning of Section 3(a)(9) of the 1934 Act and as used in Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the 1934 Act. (ff) "Plan" means the Genuine Parts Company 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time. (gg) "Qualified Performance-Based Award" means an Award that is either (i) intended to qualify for the Section 162(m) Exemption and is made subject to performance goals based on Qualified Business Criteria as set forth in Section 14.12(b), or (ii) an Option or SAR having an exercise price equal to or greater than the Fair Market Value of the underlying Stock as of the Grant Date. (hh) "Qualified Business Criteria" means one or more of the Business Criteria listed in Section 14.12(b) upon which performance goals for certain Qualified Performance-Based Awards may be established by the Committee. (ii) "Restricted Stock Award" means Stock granted to a Participant under Article 10 that is subject to certain restrictions and to risk of forfeiture. (jj) "Restricted Stock Unit Award" means the right granted to a Participant under Article 10 to receive shares of Stock (or the equivalent value in cash or other property if the Committee so provides) in the future, which right is subject to certain restrictions and to risk of forfeiture. (kk) "Retirement" in the case of an employee means termination of employment with the Company, a
Parent or Subsidiary after attaining age 65. (ll) "Section 162(m) Exemption" means the exemption from the limitation on deductibility imposed by Section 162(m) of the Code that is set forth in Section 162(m)(4)(C) of the Code or any successor provision thereto. (mm) "Shares" means shares of the Company's Stock. If there has been an adjustment or substitution pursuant to Section 15.1, the term "Shares" shall also include any shares of stock or other securities that are substituted for Shares or into which Shares are adjusted pursuant to Section 15.1. (nn) "Stock" means the $1.00 par value common stock of the Company and such other securities of the Company as may be substituted for Stock pursuant to Article 15. (oo) "Stock Appreciation Right" or "SAR" means a right granted to a Participant under Article 8 to receive a payment equal to the difference between the Fair Market Value of a Share as of the date of exercise of the SAR over the grant price of the SAR, all as determined pursuant to Article 8. (pp) "Subsidiary" means any corporation, limited liability company, partnership or other entity of which a majority of the outstanding voting stock or voting power is beneficially owned directly or indirectly by the Company. Notwithstanding the above, with respect to an Incentive Stock Option, Subsidiary shall have the meaning set forth in Section 424(f) of the Code. (qq) "1933 Act" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time. (rr) "1934 Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time. ARTICLE 3 EFFECTIVE TERM OF PLAN 3.1. EFFECTIVE DATE. The Plan shall be effective as of the date it is approved by both the Board and the shareholders of the Company (the "Effective Date"). 3.2. TERMINATION OF PLAN. The Plan shall terminate on the tenth anniversary of the Effective Date unless earlier terminated as provided herein. The termination of the Plan on such date shall not affect the validity of any Award outstanding on the date of termination. ARTICLE 4 ADMINISTRATION 4.1. COMMITTEE. The Plan shall be administered by the Compensation, Nominating and Governance Committee (which Committee shall consist of at least two directors) or, at the discretion of the Board from time to time, the Plan may be administered by the Board. It is intended that at least two of the directors appointed to serve on the Committee shall be "non-employee directors" (within the meaning of Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the 1934 Act) and "outside directors" (within the meaning of Code Section 162(m)) and that any such members of the Committee who do not so qualify shall abstain from participating in any decision to make or administer Awards that are made to Eligible Participants who at the time of consideration for such Award (i) are persons subject to the short-swing profit rules of Section 16 of the 1934 Act, or (ii) are reasonably anticipated to become Covered Employees during the term of the Award. However, the mere fact that a Committee member shall fail to qualify under either of the foregoing requirements or shall fail to abstain from such action shall not invalidate any Award made by the Committee which Award is otherwise validly made under the Plan. The members of the Committee shall be appointed by, and may be changed at any time and from time to time in the discretion of, the Board. The Board may reserve to itself any or all of the authority and responsibility of the Committee under the Plan or may act as administrator of the Plan for any and all purposes. To the extent the Board has reserved any authority and responsibility or during any time that the Board is acting as administrator of the Plan, it shall have all the powers of
the Committee hereunder, and any reference herein to the Committee (other than in this Section 4.1) shall include the Board. To the extent any action of the Board under the Plan conflicts with actions taken by the Committee, the actions of the Board shall control. 4.2. ACTION AND INTERPRETATIONS BY THE COMMITTEE. For purposes of administering the Plan, the Committee may from time to time adopt rules, regulations, guidelines and procedures for carrying out the provisions and purposes of the Plan and make such other determinations, not inconsistent with the Plan, as the Committee may deem appropriate. The Committee's interpretation of the Plan, any Awards granted under the Plan, any Award Certificate and all decisions and determinations by the Committee with respect to the Plan are final, binding, and conclusive on all parties. Each member of the Committee is entitled to, in good faith, rely or act upon any report or other information furnished to that member by any officer or other employee of the Company or any Affiliate, the Company's or an Affiliate's independent certified public accountants, Company counsel or any executive compensation consultant or other professional retained by the Company to assist in the administration of the Plan. 4.3. AUTHORITY OF COMMITTEE. Except as provided below, the Committee has the exclusive power, authority and discretion to: (a) Grant Awards; (b) Designate Participants; (c) Determine the type or types of Awards to be granted to each Participant; (d) Determine the number of Awards to be granted and the number of Shares or dollar amount to which an Award will relate; (e) Determine the terms and conditions of any Award granted under the Plan, including but not limited to, the exercise price, grant price, or purchase price, any restrictions or limitations on the Award, any schedule for lapse of forfeiture restrictions or restrictions on the exercisability of an Award, and accelerations or waivers thereof, based in each case on such considerations as the Committee in its sole discretion determines; (f) Accelerate the vesting, exercisability or lapse of restrictions of any outstanding Award, in accordance with Article 14, based in each case on such considerations as the Committee in its sole discretion determines; (g) Determine whether, to what extent, and under what circumstances an Award may be settled in, or the exercise price of an Award may be paid in, cash, Stock, other Awards, or other property, or an Award may be canceled, forfeited, or surrendered; (h) Prescribe the form of each Award Certificate, which need not be identical for each Participant; (i) Decide all other matters that must be determined in connection with an Award; (j) Establish, adopt or revise any rules, regulations, guidelines or procedures as it may deem necessary or advisable to administer the Plan; (k) Make all other decisions and determinations that may be required under the Plan or as the Committee deems necessary or advisable to administer the Plan; (l) Amend the Plan or any Award Certificate as provided herein; and (m) Adopt such modifications, procedures, and subplans as may be necessary or desirable to comply with provisions of the laws of non-U.S. jurisdictions in which the Company or any Affiliate may operate, in order to assure the viability of the benefits of Awards granted to participants located in such other jurisdictions and to
meet the objectives of the Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, grants of Awards to Non-Employee Directors hereunder shall be made only in accordance with the terms, conditions and parameters of a plan, program or policy for the compensation of Non-Employee Directors as in effect from time to time, and the Committee may not make discretionary grants hereunder to Non-Employee Directors. 4.4. AWARD CERTIFICATES. Each Award shall be evidenced by an Award Certificate. Each Award Certificate shall include such provisions, not inconsistent with the Plan, as may be specified by the Committee. ARTICLE 5 SHARES SUBJECT TO THE PLAN 5.1. NUMBER OF SHARES. Subject to adjustment as provided in Sections 5.2 and 15.1, the aggregate number of Shares reserved and available for issuance pursuant to Awards granted under the Plan shall be [8,000,000]. 5.2. SHARE COUNTING. (a) To the extent that an Award is canceled, terminates, expires, is forfeited or lapses for any reason, any unissued or forfeited Shares subject to the Award will again be available for issuance pursuant to Awards granted under the Plan. (b) Shares subject to Awards settled in cash will again be available for issuance pursuant to Awards granted under the Plan. (c) Shares withheld from an Award to satisfy minimum tax withholding requirements will again be available for issuance pursuant to Awards granted under the Plan (but Shares delivered by a Participant to satisfy tax withholding requirements shall not be added back to the number of Shares available for issuance under the Plan). (d) If the exercise price of an Option is satisfied by delivering Shares to the Company (by either actual delivery or attestation), only the number of Shares issued in excess of the delivery or attestation shall be considered for purposes of determining the number of Shares remaining available for issuance pursuant to Awards granted under the Plan. (e) To the extent that the full number of Shares subject to an Option or SAR is not issued upon exercise of the Option or SAR for any reason, only the number of Shares issued and delivered upon exercise of the Option or SAR shall be considered for purposes of determining the number of Shares remaining available for issuance pursuant to Awards granted under the Plan. (f) Substitute Awards granted pursuant to Section 14.14 of the Plan shall not count against the Shares otherwise available for issuance under the Plan under Section 5.1. 5.3. STOCK DISTRIBUTED. Any Stock distributed pursuant to an Award may consist, in whole or in part, of authorized and unissued Stock, treasury Stock or Stock purchased on the open market. 5.4. LIMITATION ON AWARDS. Notwithstanding any provision in the Plan to the contrary (but subject to adjustment as provided in Section 15.1), the maximum number of Shares with respect to one or more Options and/or SARs that may be granted during any one calendar year under the Plan to any one Participant shall be 500,000; The maximum aggregate grant with respect to Awards of Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Deferred Stock Units, Performance Shares or other Stock-Based Awards (other than Options or SARs) granted in any one calendar year to any one Participant shall be 500,000. The aggregate dollar value of any Performance-Based Cash Award or other cash-based award that may be paid to any one Participant during any one calendar year
under the Plan shall be $7,500,000. ARTICLE 6 ELIGIBILITY 6.1. GENERAL. Awards may be granted only to Eligible Participants; except that Incentive Stock Options may be granted to only to Eligible Participants who are employees of the Company or a Parent or Subsidiary as defined in Section 424(e) and (f) of the Code. ARTICLE 7 STOCK OPTIONS 7.1. GENERAL. The Committee is authorized to grant Options to Participants on the following terms and conditions: (a) EXERCISE PRICE. The exercise price per Share under an Option shall be determined by the Committee, provided that the exercise price for any Option (other than an Option issued as a substitute Award pursuant to Section 14.18) shall not be less than the Fair Market Value as of the Grant Date. (b) TIME AND CONDITIONS OF EXERCISE. The Committee shall determine the time or times at which an Option may be exercised in whole or in part, subject to Section 7.1(d). The Committee shall also determine the performance or other conditions, if any, that must be satisfied before all or part of an Option may be exercised or vested. Subject to Section 14.9, the Committee may waive any exercise or vesting provisions at any time in whole or in part based upon factors as the Committee may determine in its sole discretion so that the Option becomes exercisable or vested at an earlier date. The Committee may permit an arrangement whereby receipt of Stock upon exercise of an Option is delayed until a specified future date. (c) PAYMENT. The Committee shall determine the methods by which the exercise price of an Option may be paid, the form of payment, including, without limitation, cash, Shares, or other property (including "cashless exercise" arrangements), and the methods by which Shares shall be delivered or deemed to be delivered to Participants. (d) EXERCISE TERM. In no event may any Option be exercisable for more than ten years from the Grant Date. 7.2. INCENTIVE STOCK OPTIONS. The terms of any Incentive Stock Options granted under the Plan must comply with the following additional rules: (a) EXERCISE PRICE. The exercise price of an Incentive Stock Option shall not be less than the Fair Market Value as of the Grant Date. (b) LAPSE OF OPTION. Subject to any earlier termination provision contained in the Award Certificate, an Incentive Stock Option shall lapse upon the earliest of the following circumstances; provided, however, that the Committee may, prior to the lapse of the Incentive Stock Option under the circumstances described in subsections (3), (4) or (5) below, provide in writing that the Option will extend until a later date, but if an Option is so extended and is exercised after the dates specified in subsections (3) and (4) below, it will automatically become a Non-Qualified Stock Option: (1) The expiration date set forth in the Award Certificate. (2) The tenth anniversary of the Grant Date. (3) Three months after termination of the Participant's Continuous Status as a Participant for any reason other than the Participant's Disability or death.
(4) One year after the Participant's Continuous Status as a Participant by reason of the Participant's Disability. (5) One year after the Participant's death if the Participant dies while employed, or during the three-month period described in paragraph (3) or during the one-year period described in paragraph (4) and before the Option otherwise lapses. Unless the exercisability of the Incentive Stock Option is accelerated as provided in Article 14, if a Participant exercises an Option after termination of employment, the Option may be exercised only with respect to the Shares that were otherwise vested on the Participant's termination of employment. Upon the Participant's death, any exercisable Incentive Stock Options may be exercised by the Participant's beneficiary, determined in accordance with Section 14.5. (c) INDIVIDUAL DOLLAR LIMITATION. The aggregate Fair Market Value (determined as of the Grant Date) of all Shares with respect to which Incentive Stock Options are first exercisable by a Participant in any calendar year may not exceed $100,000.00. (d) TEN PERCENT OWNERS. No Incentive Stock Option shall be granted to any individual who, at the Grant Date, owns stock possessing more than ten percent of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary unless the exercise price per share of such Option is at least 110% of the Fair Market Value per Share at the Grant Date and the Option expires no later than five years after the Grant Date. (e) RIGHT TO EXERCISE. During a Participant's lifetime, an Incentive Stock Option may be exercised only by the Participant or, in the case of the Participant's Disability, by the Participant's guardian or legal representative. (f) ELIGIBLE GRANTEES. The Committee may not grant an Incentive Stock Option to a person who is not at the Grant Date an employee of the Company or a Parent or Subsidiary. ARTICLE 8 STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS 8.1. GRANT OF STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS. The Committee is authorized to grant Stock Appreciation Rights to Participants on the following terms and conditions: (a) RIGHT TO PAYMENT. Upon the exercise of a Stock Appreciation Right, the Participant to whom it is granted has the right to receive the excess, if any, of: (1) The Fair Market Value of one Share on the date of exercise; over (2) The base price of the Stock Appreciation Right as determined by the Committee, which shall not be less than the Fair Market Value of one Share on the Grant Date (unless the SAR is granted in tandem with an Option after the Grant Date of the Option, in which case, the base price of the SAR may equal the exercise price of the related Option even if less than the Fair Market Value of one Share on the Grant Date of the SAR). (b) OTHER TERMS. All awards of Stock Appreciation Rights shall be evidenced by an Award Certificate. The terms, methods of exercise, methods of settlement, form of consideration payable in settlement, and any other terms and conditions of any Stock Appreciation Right shall be determined by the Committee at the time of the grant of the Award and shall be reflected in the Award Certificate. ARTICLE 9 PERFORMANCE AWARDS
9.1. GRANT OF PERFORMANCE AWARDS. The Committee is authorized to grant Performance Shares, Performance Units or Performance-Based Cash Awards to Participants on such terms and conditions as may be selected by the Committee. The Committee shall have the complete discretion to determine the number of Performance Awards granted to each Participant, subject to Section 5.4, and to designate the provisions of such Performance Awards as provided in Section 4.3. All Performance Awards shall be evidenced by an Award Certificate or a written program established by the Committee, pursuant to which Performance Awards are awarded under the Plan under uniform terms, conditions and restrictions set forth in such written program. 9.2. PERFORMANCE GOALS. The Committee may establish performance goals for Performance Awards which may be based on any criteria selected by the Committee. Such performance goals may be described in terms of Company-wide objectives or in terms of objectives that relate to the performance of the Participant, an Affiliate or a division, region, department or function within the Company or an Affiliate. If the Committee determines that a change in the business, operations, corporate structure or capital structure of the Company or the manner in which the Company or an Affiliate conducts its business, or other events or circumstances render performance goals to be unsuitable, the Committee may modify such performance goals in whole or in part, as the Committee deems appropriate. If a Participant is promoted, demoted or transferred to a different business unit or function during a performance period, the Committee may determine that the performance goals or performance period are no longer appropriate and may (i) adjust, change or eliminate the performance goals or the applicable performance period as it deems appropriate to make such goals and period comparable to the initial goals and period, or (ii) make a cash payment to the participant in amount determined by the Committee. The foregoing two sentences shall not apply with respect to a Performance Award that is intended to be a Qualified Performance-Based Award if the recipient of such award (a) was a Covered Employee on the date of the modification, adjustment, change or elimination of the performance goals or performance period, or (b) in the reasonable judgment of the Committee, may be a Covered Employee on the date the Performance Award is expected to be paid. 9.3. RIGHT TO PAYMENT. The grant of a Performance Share to a Participant will entitle the Participant to receive at a specified later time a specified number of Shares, or the equivalent cash value, if the performance goals established by the Committee are achieved and the other terms and conditions thereof are satisfied. The grant of a Performance Unit to a Participant will entitle the Participant to receive at a specified later time a specified dollar value in cash or other property, including Shares, variable under conditions specified in the Award, if the performance goals in the Award are achieved and the other terms and conditions thereof are satisfied. The grant of a Performance-Based Cash Award to a Participant will entitle the Participant to receive at a specified later time a specified dollar value in cash variable under conditions specified in the Award, if the performance goals in the Award are achieved and the other terms and conditions thereof are satisfied. The Committee shall set performance goals and other terms or conditions to payment of the Performance Awards in its discretion which, depending on the extent to which they are met, will determine the value of the Performance Awards that will be paid to the Participant. 9.4. OTHER TERMS. Performance Awards may be payable in cash, Stock, or other property, and have such other terms and conditions as determined by the Committee and reflected in the Award Certificate. For purposes of determining the number of Shares to be used in payment of a Performance Award denominated in cash but payable in whole or in part in Shares or Restricted Stock, the number of Shares to be so paid will be determined by dividing the cash value of the Award to be so paid by the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of determination by the Committee of the amount of the payment under the Award, or, if the Committee so directs, the date immediately preceding the date the Award is paid. ARTICLE 10 RESTRICTED STOCK AND RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARDS 10.1. GRANT OF RESTRICTED STOCK AND RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS. The Committee is authorized to make Awards of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units to Participants in such amounts and subject to such terms and conditions as may be selected by the Committee. An Award of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units shall be evidenced by an Award Certificate setting forth the terms, conditions, and restrictions applicable to the Award.
10.2. ISSUANCE AND RESTRICTIONS. Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to such restrictions on transferability and other restrictions as the Committee may impose (including, without limitation, limitations on the right to vote Restricted Stock or the right to receive dividends on the Restricted Stock). These restrictions may lapse separately or in combination at such times, under such circumstances, in such installments, upon the satisfaction of performance goals or otherwise, as the Committee determines at the time of the grant of the Award or thereafter. Except as otherwise provided in an Award Certificate or any special Plan document governing an Award, the Participant shall have all of the rights of a shareholder with respect to the Restricted Stock, and the Participant shall have none of the rights of a stockholder with respect to Restricted Stock Units until such time as Shares of Stock are paid in settlement of the Restricted Stock Units. 10.3. FORFEITURE. Except as otherwise determined by the Committee at the time of the grant of the Award or thereafter, upon termination of Continuous Status as a Participant during the applicable restriction period or upon failure to satisfy a performance goal during the applicable restriction period, Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units that are at that time subject to restrictions shall be forfeited; provided, however, that the Committee may provide in any Award Certificate that restrictions or forfeiture conditions relating to Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units will be waived in whole or in part in the event of terminations resulting from specified causes, and the Committee may in other cases waive in whole or in part restrictions or forfeiture conditions relating to Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units. 10.4. DELIVERY OF RESTRICTED STOCK. Shares of Restricted Stock shall be delivered to the Participant at the time of grant either by book-entry registration or by delivering to the Participant, or a custodian or escrow agent (including, without limitation, the Company or one or more of its employees) designated by the Committee, a stock certificate or certificates registered in the name of the Participant. If physical certificates representing shares of Restricted Stock are registered in the name of the Participant, such certificates must bear an appropriate legend referring to the terms, conditions, and restrictions applicable to such Restricted Stock. ARTICLE 11 DEFERRED STOCK UNITS 11.1. GRANT OF DEFERRED STOCK UNITS. The Committee is authorized to grant Deferred Stock Units to Participants subject to such terms and conditions as may be selected by the Committee. Deferred Stock Units shall entitle the Participant to receive Shares of Stock (or the equivalent value in cash or other property if so determined by the Committee) at a future time as determined by the Committee, or as determined by the Participant within guidelines established by the Committee in the case of voluntary deferral elections. An Award of Deferred Stock Units shall be evidenced by an Award Certificate setting forth the terms and conditions applicable to the Award. ARTICLE 12 DIVIDEND EQUIVALENTS 12.1. GRANT OF DIVIDEND EQUIVALENTS. The Committee is authorized to grant Dividend Equivalents to Participants subject to such terms and conditions as may be selected by the Committee. Dividend Equivalents shall entitle the Participant to receive payments equal to dividends with respect to all or a portion of the number of Shares subject to an Award, as determined by the Committee. The Committee may provide that Dividend Equivalents be paid or distributed when accrued or be deemed to have been reinvested in additional Shares, or otherwise reinvested. ARTICLE 13 STOCK OR OTHER STOCK-BASED AWARDS 13.1. GRANT OF STOCK OR OTHER STOCK-BASED AWARDS. The Committee is authorized, subject to limitations under applicable law, to grant to Participants such other Awards that are payable in, valued in whole or in part by reference to, or otherwise based on or related to Shares, as deemed by the Committee to be consistent with the purposes of the Plan, including without limitation Shares awarded purely as a "bonus" and not subject to
any restrictions or conditions, convertible or exchangeable debt securities, other rights convertible or exchangeable into Shares, and Awards valued by reference to book value of Shares or the value of securities of or the performance of specified Parents or Subsidiaries. The Committee shall determine the terms and conditions of such Awards. ARTICLE 14 PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO AWARDS 14.1. STAND-ALONE AND TANDEM AWARDS. Awards granted under the Plan may, in the discretion of the Committee, be granted either alone or in addition to, in tandem with, any other Award granted under the Plan. Subject to Section 16.2, awards granted in addition to or in tandem with other Awards may be granted either at the same time as or at a different time from the grant of such other Awards. 14.2. TERM OF AWARD. The term of each Award shall be for the period as determined by the Committee, provided that in no event shall the term of any Option or a Stock Appreciation Right exceed a period of ten years from its Grant Date (or, if Section 7.2(d) applies, five years from its Grant Date). 14.3. FORM OF PAYMENT FOR AWARDS. Subject to the terms of the Plan and any applicable law or Award Certificate, payments or transfers to be made by the Company or an Affiliate on the grant or exercise of an Award may be made in such form as the Committee determines at or after the Grant Date, including without limitation, cash, Stock, other Awards, or other property, or any combination, and may be made in a single payment or transfer, in installments, or on a deferred basis, in each case determined in accordance with rules adopted by, and at the discretion of, the Committee. 14.4. LIMITS ON TRANSFER. No right or interest of a Participant in any unexercised or restricted Award may be pledged, encumbered, or hypothecated to or in favor of any party other than the Company or an Affiliate, or shall be subject to any lien, obligation, or liability of such Participant to any other party other than the Company or an Affiliate. No unexercised or restricted Award shall be assignable or transferable by a Participant other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution; provided, however, that the Committee may (but need not) permit other transfers where the Committee concludes that such transferability (i) does not result in accelerated taxation, (ii) does not cause any Option intended to be an Incentive Stock Option to fail to be described in Code Section 422(b), and (iii) is otherwise appropriate and desirable, taking into account any factors deemed relevant, including without limitation, state or federal tax or securities laws applicable to transferable Awards. 14.5. BENEFICIARIES. Notwithstanding Section 14.4, a Participant may, in the manner determined by the Committee, designate a beneficiary to exercise the rights of the Participant and to receive any distribution with respect to any Award upon the Participant's death. A beneficiary, legal guardian, legal representative, or other person claiming any rights under the Plan is subject to all terms and conditions of the Plan and any Award Certificate applicable to the Participant, except to the extent the Plan and Award Certificate otherwise provide, and to any additional restrictions deemed necessary or appropriate by the Committee. If no beneficiary has been designated or survives the Participant, payment shall be made to the Participant's estate. Subject to the foregoing, a beneficiary designation may be changed or revoked by a Participant at any time provided the change or revocation is filed with the Committee. 14.6. STOCK CERTIFICATES. All Stock issuable under the Plan is subject to any stop-transfer orders and other restrictions as the Committee deems necessary or advisable to comply with federal or state securities laws, rules and regulations and the rules of any national securities exchange or automated quotation system on which the Stock is listed, quoted, or traded. The Committee may place legends on any Stock certificate or issue instructions to the transfer agent to reference restrictions applicable to the Stock. 14.7. ACCELERATION UPON DEATH OR DISABILITY. Except as otherwise provided in the Award Certificate or any special Plan document governing an Award, upon the Participant's death or Disability during his or her Continuous Status as a Participant, (i) all of such Participant's outstanding Options, SARs, and other Awards in the nature of rights that may be exercised shall become fully exercisable, (ii) all time-based vesting restrictions
on the Participant's outstanding Awards shall lapse, and (iii) the target payout opportunities attainable under all of such Participant's outstanding performance-based Awards shall be deemed to have been fully earned as of the date of termination based upon (A) an assumed achievement of all relevant performance goals at the "target" level if the date of termination occurs during the first half of the applicable performance period, or (B) the actual level of achievement of all relevant performance goals against target, if the date of termination occurs during the second half of the applicable performance period, and, in either such case, there shall be a prorata payout to the Participant or his or her estate within thirty (30) days following the date of termination based upon the length of time within the performance period that has elapsed prior to the date of termination. Any Awards shall thereafter continue or lapse in accordance with the other provisions of the Plan and the Award Certificate. To the extent that this provision causes Incentive Stock Options to exceed the dollar limitation set forth in Section 7.2(c), the excess Options shall be deemed to be Non-Qualified Stock Options. 14.8. ACCELERATION UPON A CHANGE IN CONTROL. Except as otherwise provided in the Award Certificate or in an employment agreement, consulting agreement, change in control agreement or similar agreement in effect between the Company or an Affiliate and the Participant, if a Participant's employment is terminated without Cause within two years after the effective date of a Change in Control, then (i) all of that Participant's outstanding Options, SARs and other Awards in the nature of rights that may be exercised shall become fully exercisable, (ii) all time-based vesting restrictions on the Participant's outstanding Awards shall lapse, and (iii) the target payout opportunities attainable under all outstanding of that Participant's performance-based Awards shall be deemed to have been fully earned based upon an assumed achievement of all relevant performance goals at the "target" level and there shall be prorata payout to such Participant within thirty (30) days following the date of termination of employment based upon the length of time within the performance period that has elapsed prior to the date of termination of employment. 14.9. ACCELERATION FOR ANY OTHER REASON. Regardless of whether an event has occurred as described in Section 14.7 or 14.8 above, and subject to Section 14.11 as to Qualified Performance-Based Awards, the Committee may in its sole discretion at any time determine that all or a portion of a Participant's Options, SARs, and other Awards in the nature of rights that may be exercised shall become fully or partially exercisable, that all or a part of the time-based vesting restrictions on all or a portion of the outstanding Awards shall lapse, and/or that any performance-based criteria with respect to any Awards shall be deemed to be wholly or partially satisfied, in each case, as of such date as the Committee may, in its sole discretion, declare. The Committee may discriminate among Participants and among Awards granted to a Participant in exercising its discretion pursuant to this Section 14.9. 14.10. EFFECT OF ACCELERATION. If an Award is accelerated under Section 14.7, 14.8, or 14.9, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, provide (i) that the Award will expire after a designated period of time after such acceleration to the extent not then exercised, (ii) that the Award will be settled in cash rather than Stock, (iii) that the Award will be assumed by another party to a transaction giving rise to the acceleration or otherwise be equitably converted or substituted in connection with such transaction, (iv) that the Award may be settled by payment in cash or cash equivalents equal to the excess of the Fair Market Value of the underlying Stock, as of a specified date associated with the transaction, over the exercise price of the Award, or (v) any combination of the foregoing. The Committee's determination need not be uniform and may be different for different Participants whether or not such Participants are similarly situated. To the extent that such acceleration causes Incentive Stock Options to exceed the dollar limitation set forth in Section 7.2(c), the excess Options shall be deemed to be Non-Qualified Stock Options. 14.11. QUALIFIED PERFORMANCE-BASED AWARDS. (a) The provisions of the Plan are intended to ensure that all Options and Stock Appreciation Rights granted hereunder to any Covered Employee shall qualify for the Section 162(m) Exemption; provided that the exercise or base price of such Award is not less than the Fair Market Value of the Shares on the Grant Date. (b) When granting any other Award, the Committee may designate such Award as a Qualified Performance-Based Award, based upon a determination that the recipient is or may be a Covered Employee with respect to such Award, and the Committee wishes such Award to qualify for the Section 162(m)
Exemption. If an Award is so designated, the Committee shall establish performance goals for such Award within the time period prescribed by Section 162(m) of the Code based on one or more of the following Qualified Business Criteria, which may be expressed in terms of Company-wide objectives or in terms of objectives that relate to the performance of an Affiliate or a division, region, department or function within the Company or an Affiliate: Revenue Sales Profit (net profit, gross profit, operating profit, economic profit, profit margins or other corporate profit measures) Earnings (EBIT, EBITDA, earnings per share, or other corporate earnings measures) Net income (before or after taxes, operating income or other income measures) Cash (cash flow, cash generation or other cash measures) Stock price or performance Total stockholder return (stock price appreciation plus reinvested dividends divided by beginning share price) Return measures (including, but not limited to, return on assets, capital, equity, or sales, and cash flow return on assets, capital, equity, or sales); Market share Improvements in capital structure Expenses (expense management, expense ratio, expense efficiency ratios or other expense measures) Business expansion or consolidation (acquisitions and divestitures) Internal rate of return or increase in net present value Working capital targets relating to inventory and/or accounts receivable Service or product delivery Service or product quality Inventory management Customer satisfaction Meeting budgets Employee retention Performance goals with respect to the foregoing Qualified Business Criteria may be specified in absolute terms, in percentages, or in terms of growth from period to period or growth rates over time, as well as
measured relative to an established or specially-created performance index of Company competitors or peers. Any member of an index that disappears during a measurement period shall be disregarded for the entire measurement period. Performance Goals need not be based upon an increase or positive result under a business criterion and could include, for example, the maintenance of the status quo or the limitation of economic losses (measured, in each case, by reference to a specific business criterion). (c) Each Qualified Performance-Based Award (other than a market-priced Option or SAR) shall be earned, vested and payable (as applicable) only upon the achievement of performance goals established by the Committee based upon one or more of the Qualified Business Criteria, together with the satisfaction of any other conditions, such as continued employment, as the Committee may determine to be appropriate; provided, however, that the Committee may provide, either in connection with the grant thereof or by amendment thereafter, that achievement of such performance goals will be waived upon the death or Disability of the Participant, or on the effective date of a Change in Control. Performance periods established by the Committee for any such Qualified Performance-Based Award may be as short as three months and may be any longer period. (d) The Committee may provide in any Qualified Performance-Based Award that any evaluation of performance may include or exclude any of the following events that occurs during a performance period: (a) asset write-downs or impairment charges; (b) litigation or claim judgments or settlements; (c) the effect of changes in tax laws, accounting principles or other laws or provisions affecting reported results; (d) accruals for reorganization and restructuring programs; (e) extraordinary nonrecurring items as described in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 30 and/or in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations appearing in the Company's annual report to stockholders for the applicable year; (f) acquisitions or divestitures; and (g) foreign exchange gains and losses. To the extent such inclusions or exclusions affect Awards to Covered Employees, they shall be prescribed in a form that meets the requirements of Code Section 162(m) for deductibility. (e) Any payment of a Qualified Performance-Based Award granted with performance goals pursuant to subsection (c) above shall be conditioned on the written certification of the Committee in each case that the performance goals and any other material conditions were satisfied. Except as specifically provided in subsection (c), no Qualified Performance-Based Award held by a Covered Employee or by an employee who in the reasonable judgment of the Committee may be a Covered Employee on the date of payment, may be amended, nor may the Committee exercise any discretionary authority it may otherwise have under the Plan with respect to a Qualified Performance-Based Award under the Plan, in any manner to waive the achievement of the applicable performance goal based on Qualified Business Criteria or to increase the amount payable pursuant thereto or the value thereof, or otherwise in a manner that would cause the Qualified Performance-Based Award to cease to qualify for the Section 162(m) Exemption. (f) Section 5.4 sets forth the maximum number of Shares or dollar value that may be granted in any one-year period to a Participant in designated forms of Qualified Performance-Based Awards. 14.12. TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT. Whether military, government or other service or other leave of absence shall constitute a termination of employment shall be determined in each case by the Committee at its discretion, and any determination by the Committee shall be final and conclusive. A Participant's Continuous Status as a Participant shall not be deemed to terminate (i) in a circumstance in which a Participant transfers from the Company to an Affiliate, transfers from an Affiliate to the Company, or transfers from one Affiliate to another Affiliate, or (ii) in the discretion of the Committee as specified at or prior to such occurrence, in the case of a spin-off, sale or disposition of the Participant's employer from the Company or any Affiliate. To the extent that this provision causes Incentive Stock Options to extend beyond three months from the date a Participant is deemed to be an employee of the Company, a Parent or Subsidiary for purposes of Sections 424(e) and 424(f) of the Code, the Options held by such Participant shall be deemed to be Non-Qualified Stock Options. 14.13. FORFEITURE EVENTS. The Committee may specify in an Award Certificate that the Participant's rights, payments and benefits with respect to an Award shall be subject to reduction, cancellation, forfeiture or recoupment upon the occurrence of certain specified events, in addition to any otherwise applicable vesting or
performance conditions of an Award. Such events shall include, but shall not be limited to, termination of employment for cause, violation of material Company or Affiliate policies, breach of noncompetition, confidentiality or other restrictive covenants that may apply to the Participant, or other conduct by the Participant that is detrimental to the business or reputation of the Company or any Affiliate. 14.14. SUBSTITUTE AWARDS. The Committee may grant Awards under the Plan in substitution for stock and stock-based awards held by employees of another entity who become employees of the Company or an Affiliate as a result of a merger or consolidation of the former employing entity with the Company or an Affiliate or the acquisition by the Company or an Affiliate of property or stock of the former employing corporation. The Committee may direct that the substitute awards be granted on such terms and conditions as the Committee considers appropriate in the circumstances. ARTICLE 15 CHANGES IN CAPITAL STRUCTURE 15.1. GENERAL. In the event of a corporate event or transaction involving the Company (including, without limitation, any stock dividend, stock split, extraordinary cash dividend, recapitalization, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination or exchange of shares), the authorization limits under Section 5.1 and 5.4 shall be adjusted proportionately, and the Committee may adjust the Plan and Awards to preserve the benefits or potential benefits of the Awards. Action by the Committee may include: (i) adjustment of the number and kind of shares which may be delivered under the Plan; (ii) adjustment of the number and kind of shares subject to outstanding Awards; (iii) adjustment of the exercise price of outstanding Awards or the measure to be used to determine the amount of the benefit payable on an Award; and (iv) any other adjustments that the Committee determines to be equitable. In addition, upon the occurrence or in anticipation of such an event, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, provide (i) that Awards will be settled in cash rather than Stock, (ii) that Awards will become immediately vested and exercisable and will expire after a designated period of time to the extent not then exercised, (iii) that Awards will be assumed by another party to a transaction or otherwise be equitably converted or substituted in connection with such transaction, (iv) that outstanding Awards may be settled by payment in cash or cash equivalents equal to the excess of the Fair Market Value of the underlying Stock, as of a specified date associated with the transaction, over the exercise price of the Award, (v) that performance targets and performance periods for Performance Awards will be modified, consistent with Code Section 162(m) where applicable, or (vi) any combination of the foregoing. The Committee's determination need not be uniform and may be different for different Participants whether or not such Participants are similarly situated. Without limiting the foregoing, in the event of a subdivision of the outstanding Stock (stock-split), a declaration of a dividend payable in Shares, or a combination or consolidation of the outstanding Stock into a lesser number of Shares, the authorization limits under Section 5.1 and 5.4 shall automatically be adjusted proportionately, and the Shares then subject to each Award shall automatically be adjusted proportionately without any change in the aggregate purchase price therefor. To the extent that any adjustments made pursuant to this Article 15 cause Incentive Stock Options to cease to qualify as Incentive Stock Options, such Options shall be deemed to be Non-Qualified Stock Options. ARTICLE 16 AMENDMENT, MODIFICATION AND TERMINATION 16.1. AMENDMENT, MODIFICATION AND TERMINATION. The Board or the Committee may, at any time and from time to time, amend, modify or terminate the Plan without shareholder approval; provided, however, that if an amendment to the Plan would, in the reasonable opinion of the Board or the Committee, (i) materially increase the number of Shares available under the Plan, (ii) expand the types of awards under the Plan, (iii) materially expand the class of participants eligible to participate in the Plan, (iv) materially extend the term of the Plan, or (v) otherwise constitute a material change requiring shareholder approval under applicable laws, policies or regulations or the applicable listing or other requirements of an Exchange, then such amendment shall be subject to shareholder approval; and provided, further, that the Board or Committee may condition any other amendment or modification on the approval of shareholders of the Company for any reason, including by reason of such approval being necessary or deemed advisable (i) to comply with the listing or other requirements of an Exchange, or (ii) to satisfy any other tax, securities or other applicable laws, policies or regulations.
16.2. AWARDS PREVIOUSLY GRANTED. At any time and from time to time, the Committee may amend, modify or terminate any outstanding Award without approval of the Participant; provided, however: (a) Subject to the terms of the applicable Award Certificate, such amendment, modification or termination shall not, without the Participant's consent, reduce or diminish the value of such Award determined as if the Award had been exercised, vested, cashed in or otherwise settled on the date of such amendment or termination (with the per-share value of an Option or Stock Appreciation Right for this purpose being calculated as the excess, if any, of the Fair Market Value as of the date of such amendment or termination over the exercise or base price of such Award); (b) The original term of an Option may not be extended without the prior approval of the shareholders of the Company; (c) Except as otherwise provided in Article 15, the exercise price of an Option may not be reduced, directly or indirectly, without the prior approval of the shareholders of the Company; and (d) No termination, amendment, or modification of the Plan shall adversely affect any Award previously granted under the Plan, without the written consent of the Participant affected thereby. An outstanding Award shall not be deemed to be "adversely affected" by a Plan amendment if such amendment would not reduce or diminish the value of such Award determined as if the Award had been exercised, vested, cashed in or otherwise settled on the date of such amendment (with the per-share value of an Option or Stock Appreciation Right for this purpose being calculated as the excess, if any, of the Fair Market Value as of the date of such amendment over the exercise or base price of such Award). ARTICLE 17 GENERAL PROVISIONS 17.1. NO RIGHTS TO AWARDS; NON-UNIFORM DETERMINATIONS. No Participant or any Eligible Participant shall have any claim to be granted any Award under the Plan. Neither the Company, its Affiliates nor the Committee is obligated to treat Participants or Eligible Participants uniformly, and determinations made under the Plan may be made by the Committee selectively among Eligible Participants who receive, or are eligible to receive, Awards (whether or not such Eligible Participants are similarly situated). 17.2. NO SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS. No Award gives a Participant any of the rights of a shareholder of the Company unless and until Shares are in fact issued to such person in connection with such Award. 17.3. WITHHOLDING. The Company or any Affiliate shall have the authority and the right to deduct or withhold, or require a Participant to remit to the Company, an amount sufficient to satisfy federal, state, and local taxes (including the Participant's FICA obligation) required by law to be withheld with respect to any exercise, lapse of restriction or other taxable event arising as a result of the Plan. If Shares are surrendered to the Company to satisfy tax obligations in excess of the minimum tax withholding obligation, such Shares must have been held by the Participant as fully vested shares for such period of time, if any, as necessary to avoid the recognition of an expense under generally accepted accounting principles. The Company shall have the authority to require a Participant to remit cash to the Company in lieu of the surrender of Shares for taxes if the surrender of Shares for such purpose would result in the Company's recognition of expense under generally accepted accounting principles. With respect to withholding required upon any taxable event under the Plan, the Committee may, at the time the Award is granted or thereafter, require or permit that any such withholding requirement be satisfied, in whole or in part, by withholding from the Award Shares having a Fair Market Value on the date of withholding equal to the minimum amount (and not any greater amount) required to be withheld for tax purposes, all in accordance with such procedures as the Committee establishes. 17.4. SPECIAL PROVISIONS RELATED TO SECTION 409A OF THE CODE. (a) Notwithstanding anything in the Plan or in any Award Certificate to the contrary, to the extent that any
amount or benefit that would constitute "deferred compensation" for purposes of Section 409A of the Code would otherwise be payable or distributable under the Plan or any Award Certificate by reason the occurrence of a Change in Control or the Participant's Disability or separation from service, such amount or benefit will not be payable or distributable to the Participant by reason of such circumstance unless (i) the circumstances giving rise to such Change in Control, Disability or separation from service meet the description or definition of "change in control event", "disability" or "separation from service", as the case may be, in Section 409A of the Code and applicable proposed or final regulations, or (ii) the payment or distribution of such amount or benefit would be exempt from the application of Section 409A of the Code by reason of the short-term deferral exemption or otherwise. This provision does not prohibit the vesting of any Award or the vesting of any right to eventual payment or distribution of any amount or benefit under the Plan or any Award Certificate. (b) Notwithstanding anything in the Plan or in any Award Certificate to the contrary, to the extent necessary to avoid the application of Section 409A of the Code, (i) the Committee may not amend an outstanding Option, SAR or similar Award to extend the time to exercise such Award beyond the later of the 15th day of the third month following the date at which, or December 31 of the calendar year in which, the Award would otherwise have expired if the Award had not been extended, based on the terms of the Award at the original Grant Date (the "Safe Harbor Extension Period"), and (ii) any purported extension of the exercise period of an outstanding Award beyond the Safe Harbor Extension Period shall be deemed to be an amendment to the last day of the Safe Harbor Extension Period and no later. 17.5 NO RIGHT TO CONTINUED SERVICE. Nothing in the Plan, any Award Certificate or any other document or statement made with respect to the Plan, shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company or any Affiliate to terminate any Participant's employment or status as an officer, director or consultant at any time, nor confer upon any Participant any right to continue as an employee, officer, director or consultant of the Company or any Affiliate, whether for the duration of a Participant's Award or otherwise. 17.6. UNFUNDED STATUS OF AWARDS. The Plan is intended to be an "unfunded" plan for incentive and deferred compensation. With respect to any payments not yet made to a Participant pursuant to an Award, nothing contained in the Plan or any Award Certificate shall give the Participant any rights that are greater than those of a general creditor of the Company or any Affiliate. This Plan is not intended to be subject to ERISA. 17.7. RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER BENEFITS. No payment under the Plan shall be taken into account in determining any benefits under any pension, retirement, savings, profit sharing, group insurance, welfare or benefit plan of the Company or any Affiliate unless provided otherwise in such other plan. 17.8. EXPENSES. The expenses of administering the Plan shall be borne by the Company and its Affiliates. 17.9. TITLES AND HEADINGS. The titles and headings of the Sections in the Plan are for convenience of reference only, and in the event of any conflict, the text of the Plan, rather than such titles or headings, shall control. 17.10. GENDER AND NUMBER. Except where otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine term used herein also shall include the feminine; the plural shall include the singular and the singular shall include the plural. 17.11. FRACTIONAL SHARES. No fractional Shares shall be issued and the Committee shall determine, in its discretion, whether cash shall be given in lieu of fractional Shares or whether such fractional Shares shall be eliminated by rounding up or down. 17.12. GOVERNMENT AND OTHER REGULATIONS. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, no Participant who acquires Shares pursuant to the Plan may, during any period of time that such Participant is an affiliate of the Company (within the meaning of the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission under the 1933 Act), sell such Shares, unless such offer and sale is made (i) pursuant to an effective registration statement under the 1933 Act, which
is current and includes the Shares to be sold, or (ii) pursuant to an appropriate exemption from the registration requirement of the 1933 Act, such as that set forth in Rule 144 promulgated under the 1933 Act. (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, if at any time the Committee shall determine that the registration, listing or qualification of the Shares covered by an Award upon any Exchange or under any foreign, federal, state or local law or practice, or the consent or approval of any governmental regulatory body, is necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in connection with, the granting of such Award or the purchase or receipt of Shares thereunder, no Shares may be purchased, delivered or received pursuant to such Award unless and until such registration, listing, qualification, consent or approval shall have been effected or obtained free of any condition not acceptable to the Committee. Any Participant receiving or purchasing Shares pursuant to an Award shall make such representations and agreements and furnish such information as the Committee may request to assure compliance with the foregoing or any other applicable legal requirements. The Company shall not be required to issue or deliver any certificate or certificates for Shares under the Plan prior to the Committee's determination that all related requirements have been fulfilled. The Company shall in no event be obligated to register any securities pursuant to the 1933 Act or applicable state or foreign law or to take any other action in order to cause the issuance and delivery of such certificates to comply with any such law, regulation or requirement. 17.13. GOVERNING LAW. To the extent not governed by federal law, the Plan and all Award Certificates shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Georgia. 17.14. ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS. Each Award Certificate may contain such other terms and conditions as the Committee may determine; provided that such other terms and conditions are not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan. 17.15. NO LIMITATIONS ON RIGHTS OF COMPANY. The grant of any Award shall not in any way affect the right or power of the Company to make adjustments, reclassification or changes in its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets. The Plan shall not restrict the authority of the Company, for proper corporate purposes, to draft or assume awards, other than under the Plan, to or with respect to any person. If the Committee so directs, the Company may issue or transfer Shares to an Affiliate, for such lawful consideration as the Committee may specify, upon the condition or understanding that the Affiliate will transfer such Shares to a Participant in accordance with the terms of an Award granted to such Participant and specified by the Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Plan. 17.16. INDEMNIFICATION. Each person who is or shall have been a member of the Committee, or of the Board, or an officer of the Company to whom authority was delegated in accordance with Article 4 shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company against and from any loss, cost, liability, or expense that may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit, or proceeding to which he or she may be a party or in which he or she may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under the Plan and against and from any and all amounts paid by him or her in settlement thereof, with the Company's approval, or paid by him or her in satisfaction of any judgment in any such action, suit, or proceeding against him or her, provided he or she shall give the Company an opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same before he or she undertakes to handle and defend it on his or her own behalf, unless such loss, cost, liability, or expense is a result of his or her own willful misconduct or except as expressly provided by statute. The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which such persons may be entitled under the Company's charter or bylaws, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or any power that the Company may have to indemnify them or hold them harmless. The foregoing is hereby acknowledged as being the Genuine Parts Company 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan as adopted by the Board on November 21, 2005 and by the shareholders on April 17, 2006. GENUINE PARTS COMPANY By: /s/ Carol B. Yancey --------------------------------- Its: Senior Vice President and Corporate Secretary

Exhibit 99.1 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Jerry W. Nix, Vice Chairman and CFO (770) 612-2048 GENUINE PARTS COMPANY DECLARES REGULAR QUARTERLY DIVIDEND Atlanta, Georgia, April 18, 2006 -- The Board of Directors of Genuine Parts Company (NYSE: GPC) declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of thirty-three and three quarter cents ($.3375) per share on the Company's common stock. The dividend is payable July 3, 2006 to shareholders of record June 9, 2006. ABOUT GENUINE PARTS COMPANY Genuine Parts Company is a distributor of automotive replacement parts in the U.S., Canada and Mexico. The Company also distributes industrial replacement parts in the U.S. and Canada through its Motion Industries subsidiary. S. P. Richards Company, the Office Products Group, distributes product nationwide in the U.S. and in Canada. The Electrical/Electronic Group, EIS, Inc., distributes electrical and electronic components throughout the U.S. and in Canada and Mexico. Genuine Parts Company had 2005 revenues of $9.8 billion.


