FILE:GPC/GPC-8K-20081017091340.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 17, 2008, Genuine Parts Company issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the third quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2008. A copy of the press release is furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K as exhibit 99.1. The information, including the exhibits attached hereto contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K of Genuine Parts Company is being "furnished" and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in Item 2.02 and Item 9.01 of this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or into any filing or other document pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except as otherwise expressly stated in any such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits 99.1 Press Release dated October 17, 2008
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Atlanta, Georgia, October 17, 2008  Genuine Parts Company (NYSE: GPC) reported increased sales and earnings for the third quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2008. Thomas C. Gallagher, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, announced today that sales totaling $2.9 billion were up 3% compared to the third quarter of 2007. Net income for the quarter was $131.0 million, an increase of 2% over $128.6 million recorded in the same period of the previous year. Earnings per share on a diluted basis were 81 cents, up 7% compared to 76 cents for the third quarter last year.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2008, sales totaled $8.5 billion, up 3% compared to the same period in 2007. Net income for the nine months was $387.6 million, an increase of 2% over $380.3 million recorded in the previous year. Earnings per share on a diluted basis were $2.36, up 6% compared to $2.23 for the same period last year.
In review of the quarter, Mr. Gallagher commented, "We are pleased to report that the 3 Quarter of 2008 was another period of steady and consistent sales and earnings growth for Genuine Parts Company. EIS, our Electrical Group, reported another excellent quarter and, once again, generated the strongest sales growth among our four business segments. They were up 13% in the quarter, following a 7% increase in the first quarter and 11% growth in the second quarter. Motion Industries, our Industrial Group, is also performing well, with their sales increasing 7% for the second consecutive quarter, following a 6% sales increase in the first quarter. We expect to see both EIS and Motion continue their positive sales trends in the fourth quarter. Our two most challenging businesses currently are Automotive and Office Products. The Automotive Group reported a 1% sales increase in the quarter and S.P. Richards, our Office Products Group, ended the quarter even with the prior year. Our results in each of these segments are reflective of the overall slowdown in their respective industries and, while we do not anticipate a quick recovery in either case, we do remain optimistic about our prospects in each of these businesses in the quarters ahead."
rd
Mr. Gallagher added, "The Balance Sheet at September 30, 2008 remains in excellent condition and we continue to strengthen our financial position through steady and consistent earnings growth as well as working capital and asset management initiatives. The Company also continues to generate strong cash flows and our cash position remains sound. We have used cash in several key areas to maximize the total return to shareholders, including the dividends paid to shareholders, which we have increased for 52
consecutive years. Another priority for cash has been opportunistic share repurchases and as part of our share repurchase program, we have purchased approximately 6.7 million shares of our Company stock thus far in 2008. Other key uses for cash remain the ongoing reinvestment in our four business segments and strategic complimentary types of acquisitions in each of the businesses."
Mr. Gallagher concluded, "As we enter the last quarter of 2008, we are witnessing heightened levels of economic uncertainty, which are having an impact on all businesses, GPC included. Our Company remains in sound condition, however, and we believe that our continued focus on the consistent execution of our short and long term growth plans, as well as our ongoing initiatives to further strengthen our balance sheet, will pull our Company through the difficult economy. This proven strategy has allowed us to show steady and consistent progress over our 80-year history and we look forward to reporting another year of record sales and earnings in 2008."
Conference Call
Genuine Parts Company will hold a conference call today at 11:00 a.m. Eastern time to discuss the results of the quarter and the future outlook. Interested parties may listen to the call on the Company's website, www.genpt.com, by clicking "Investor Services", or by dialing 877-422-4780, conference ID 67330418. A replay will also be available on the Company's website or at 800-642-1687, conference ID 67330418, two hours after the completion of the conference call until 12:00 a.m. Eastern time on November 1, 2008.
Forward Looking Statements
Some statements in this release, as well as in other materials we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") or otherwise release to the public and in materials that we make available on our website, constitute forward-looking statements that are subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Senior officers may also make verbal statements to analysts, investors, the media and others that are forward-looking. Forward-looking statements may relate, for example, to our future operations, prospects, strategies, financial condition, economic performance (including growth and earnings), industry conditions and demand for our products and services. The Company cautions that its forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and while we believe that our expectations for the future are reasonable in view of currently available information, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Actual results or events may differ materially from those indicated as a result of various important factors. Such factors include, but are not limited to, changes in general economic conditions, the growth rate of the market for the Company's products and services, the ability to maintain favorable supplier arrangements and relationships, competitive product and pricing pressures, including internet related initiatives, the effectiveness of the Company's promotional, marketing and advertising programs, changes in laws and regulations, including changes in accounting and taxation guidance, the uncertainties of litigation, as well as other risks and uncertainties discussed from time to time in the Company's filings with the SEC.
Forward-looking statements are only as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no duty to update its forward-looking statements except as required by law. You are advised, however, to review any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our Form 10-Q, 10-K, 8-K and other reports to the SEC.
About Genuine Parts Company
Genuine Parts Company is a distributor of automotive replacement parts in the U.S., Canada and Mexico. The Company also distributes industrial replacement parts in the U.S. and Canada through its Motion Industries subsidiary. S. P. Richards Company, the Office Products Group, distributes business products nationwide in the U.S. and Canada. The Electrical/Electronic Group, EIS, Inc., distributes electrical and electronic components throughout the U.S., Canada and Mexico.


