FILE:GPC/GPC-8K-20080717095129.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 17, 2008, Genuine Parts Company issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the second quarter and six months ended June 30, 2008. A copy of the press release is furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K as exhibit 99.1. The information, including the exhibits attached hereto contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K of Genuine Parts Company is being "furnished" and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in Item 2.02 and Item 9.01 of this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or into any filing or other document pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except as otherwise expressly stated in any such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits 99.1 Press Release dated July 17, 2008
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Atlanta, Georgia, July 17, 2008  Genuine Parts Company (NYSE: GPC) reported record sales and earnings for the second quarter and six months ended June 30, 2008. Thomas C. Gallagher, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, announced today that sales totaling $2.87 billion were up 4% compared to the second quarter of 2007. Net income for the quarter was $133.1 million, an increase of 2% over $130.1 million recorded in the same period of the previous year. Earnings per share on a diluted basis were 81 cents, up 7% compared to 76 cents for the second quarter last year.
For the six months ended June 30, 2008, sales totaled $5.61 billion, up 4% compared to the same period in 2007. Net income for the six months was $256.6 million, an increase of 2% over $251.7 million recorded in the previous year. Earnings per share on a diluted basis were $1.56, up 6% compared to $1.47 for the same period last year.
Mr. Gallagher stated, "We are pleased to report that the 2nd Quarter of 2008 was another period of steady and consistent sales and earnings growth for Genuine Parts Company. EIS, our Electrical Group, once again generated the strongest sales growth among our four business segments. They were up 11% in the quarter and this follows a 7% increase in the first quarter. Motion Industries, our Industrial Group, is also putting together a fine year, with their sales increasing 7% for the quarter following a 6% sales increase last quarter. We expect to see both EIS and Motion continue their positive sales trends over the last half of the year. The Automotive Group reported a 2% sales increase for the quarter and S.P. Richards, our Office Products Group, reported flat sales relative to the second quarter last year. The Automotive and Office Products segments continue to feel the impact of sluggish macro economic conditions. That said, we are optimistic that both of these businesses can show more progress over the balance of the year, despite this difficult environment."
Mr. Gallagher added, "The balance sheet at June 30, 2008 remains in excellent condition and we continue to strengthen our financial position and generate strong cash flows. Our key priority for cash remains the dividend, which was increased to $1.56 per share for 2008 and is currently yielding approximately 4%.
Page 2
Additional priorities include opportunistic share repurchases, the ongoing reinvestment in our four business segments and strategic complimentary types of acquisitions. We believe our use of cash in these areas serves to maximize the total return to shareholders."
Mr. Gallagher concluded, "At the midpoint of the year, we continue to operate in an uncertain and challenging economic environment. We are fortunate, however, to see additional opportunities for improvement in each of our business segments, despite the external challenges, through the consistent execution of our growth and operational strategies, as well as through our ongoing initiatives to further strengthen our balance sheet. These three areas of focus remain our top priorities as we enter the second half of the year."
Conference Call
Genuine Parts Company will hold a conference call today at 11:00 a.m. Eastern time to discuss the results of the quarter and the future outlook. Interested parties may listen to the call on the Company's website, www.genpt.com, by clicking "Investor Services", or by dialing 877-422-4780, conference ID 53751317. A replay will also be available on the Company's website or at 800-642-1687, conference ID 53751317, two hours after the completion of the conference call until 12:00 a.m. Eastern time on August 1, 2008.
Forward Looking Statements
Some statements in this release, as well as in other materials we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") or otherwise release to the public and in materials that we make available on our website, constitute forward-looking statements that are subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Senior officers may also make verbal statements to analysts, investors, the media and others that are forward-looking. Forward-looking statements may relate, for example, to our future operations, prospects, strategies, financial condition, economic performance (including growth and earnings), industry conditions and demand for our products and services. The Company cautions that its forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and while we believe that our expectations for the future are reasonable in view of currently available information, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Actual results or events may differ materially from those indicated as a result of various important factors. Such factors include, but are not limited to, changes in general economic conditions, the growth rate of the market for the Company's products and services, the ability to maintain favorable supplier arrangements and relationships, competitive product and pricing pressures, including internet related initiatives, the effectiveness of the Company's promotional, marketing and advertising programs, changes in laws and regulations, including changes in accounting and taxation guidance, the uncertainties of litigation, as well as other risks and uncertainties discussed from time to time in the Company's filings with the SEC.
Forward-looking statements are only as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no duty to update its forward-looking statements except as required by law. You are advised, however, to review any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our Form 10-Q, 10-K, 8-K and other reports to the SEC.
About Genuine Parts Company
Genuine Parts Company is a distributor of automotive replacement parts in the U.S., Canada and Mexico. The Company also distributes industrial replacement parts in the U.S. and Canada through its Motion Industries subsidiary. S. P. Richards Company, the Office Products Group, distributes business products nationwide in the U.S. and Canada. The Electrical/Electronic Group, EIS, Inc., distributes electrical and electronic components throughout the U.S., Canada and Mexico.


