FILE:GPC/GPC-8K-20100416085251.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 16, 2010, Genuine Parts Company issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the first quarter ended March 31, 2010. A copy of the press release is furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K as exhibit 99.1. The information, including the exhibits attached hereto contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K of Genuine Parts Company is being "furnished" and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in Item 2.02 and Item 9.01 of this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or into any filing or other document pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except as otherwise expressly stated in any such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits 99.1 Press Release dated April 16, 2010
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Atlanta, Georgia, April 16, 2010  Genuine Parts Company (NYSE: GPC) reports sales and earnings for the first quarter ended March 31, 2010.
Thomas C. Gallagher, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, announced today that sales totaling $2.6 billion were up 6% compared to the first quarter of 2009. Net income for the quarter was $100.6 million, an increase of 13% over $89.2 million recorded in the same period of the previous year. Earnings per share on a diluted basis were 63 cents, up 13% compared to 56 cents for the first quarter last year.
Mr. Gallagher stated, "We are pleased to report a good start to 2010 with three of our four business segments generating sales growth for the first quarter. The Automotive Group reported a 6% sales increase for the quarter, consistent with our results in the fourth quarter of 2009. We are the most encouraged by the sales results in our Industrial and Electrical Groups, which improved significantly from their trends in the fourth quarter and full year in 2009. Motion Industries, our Industrial Group, had a 9% sales increase in the quarter, and EIS, our Electrical Group, had a 16% increase. Both Motion and EIS are benefiting from their internal growth initiatives as well as improving end market conditions in their respective industries. Additionally, Motion completed the BC Bearing acquisition on March 1st and EIS acquired Fay Wire on January 1st. Results at S.P. Richards, our Office Products Group, were down only slightly and improved from the fourth quarter, ending the first quarter down 1%."
Mr. Gallagher concluded, "We are encouraged by this solid start to the year and we feel that each of our businesses is well positioned to contribute to our primary goals of producing solid sales results, improving operating margins, generating strong cash flows and maintaining the strength of our balance sheet. As a result, we feel confident in our ability to drive sales and earnings growth in 2010." Page 2
Conference Call
Genuine Parts Company will hold a conference call today at 11:00 a.m. ET to discuss the results of the quarter and the future outlook. Interested parties may listen to the call on the Company's website, , by clicking "Investor Services", or by dialing 877-316-2549, conference ID 65675645. A replay will also be available on the Company's website or at 800-642-1687, conference ID 65675645, two hours after the completion of the call until 12:00 a.m. Eastern time on May 1, 2010.
www.genpt.com
Forward Looking Statements
Some statements in this report, as well as in other materials we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) or otherwise release to the public and in materials that we make available on our website, constitute forward-looking statements that are subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Senior officers may also make verbal statements to analysts, investors, the media and others that are forward-looking. Forward-looking statements may relate, for example, to future operations, prospects, strategies, financial condition, economic performance (including growth and earnings), industry conditions and demand for our products and services. The Company cautions that its forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and while we believe that our expectations for the future are reasonable in view of currently available information, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Actual results or events may differ materially from those indicated as a result of various important factors. Such factors include, but are not limited to, the ability to maintain favorable supplier arrangements and relationships, changes in general economic conditions, the growth rate of the market demand for the Company's products and services, competitive product, service and pricing pressures, including internet related initiatives, changes in financial markets, including particularly the capital and credit markets, impairment of financial institutions, the effectiveness of the Company's promotional, marketing and advertising programs, changes in laws and regulations, including changes in accounting and taxation guidance, the uncertainties of litigation, as well as other risks and uncertainties discussed in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2009 and from time to time in the Company's subsequent filings with the SEC.
Forward-looking statements are only as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no duty to update its forward-looking statements except as required by law. You are advised, however, to review any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our subsequent Forms 10-K, 10-Q, Form 8-K and other reports to the SEC.
About Genuine Parts Company
Genuine Parts Company is a distributor of automotive replacement parts in the U.S., Canada and Mexico. The Company also distributes industrial replacement parts in the U.S., Canada and Mexico through its Motion Industries subsidiary. S.P. Richards Company, the Office Products Group, distributes business products nationwide in the U.S. and Canada. The Electrical/Electronic Group, EIS, Inc., distributes electrical and electronic components throughout the U.S., Canada and Mexico.


