FILE:GPC/GPC-8K-20100719151816.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On July 19, 2010, Tom Gallagher, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Genuine Parts Company announced that Eric Sundby has been named Vice President - Information Technology effective immediately. Mr. Sundby was previously Senior Director of Information Technology and has been with the Company eight years. As Vice President at GPC, Mr. Sundby will help lead the corporate-wide information technology efforts and initiatives across the Company. In addition, Mr. Gallagher announced that David Haskett has been named Assistant Vice President and Corporate Controller and Napoleon Rutledge has been named Assistant Vice President - Internal Audit. Mr. Haskett has been with the Company for over 22 years and previously served as Director of Financial Reporting for the past eight years. Mr. Rutledge has been with the Company for ten years and most recently served as the Director of Internal Audit for the past five years. A copy of the press release is furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits 99.1 Press Release dated July 19, 2010
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contacts: Jerry W. Nix, Vice Chairman and CFO  (770) 612-2048
Sidney G. Jones, Vice President-Investor Relations  (770) 818-4628
Atlanta, Georgia, July 19, 2010  Tom Gallagher, Chairman, President and CEO of Genuine Parts Company (NYSE: GPC), announced today that Eric Sundby has been named Vice President  Information Technology effective immediately. Mr. Sundby was previously Senior Director of Information Technology and has been with the Company eight years. As Vice President at GPC, Mr. Sundby will help lead the corporate-wide information technology efforts and initiatives across the Company.
Mr. Gallagher stated, "Eric has made a significant contribution in his previous leadership role within the IT area, and we look forward to leveraging his talent across all our systems and technology platforms as we continue to enhance our IT investment."
In addition, Mr. Gallagher announced that David Haskett has been named Assistant Vice President and Corporate Controller and Napoleon Rutledge has been named Assistant Vice President  Internal Audit. Mr. Haskett has been with the Company for over 22 years and previously served as Director of Financial Reporting for the past eight years. Mr. Rutledge has been with the Company for ten years and most recently served as the Director of Internal Audit for the past five years.
Mr. Gallagher commented, "Both David and Napoleon are extremely talented members of our Finance team and we look forward to their continued leadership in the Finance area."
About Genuine Parts Company
Genuine Parts Company is a distributor of automotive replacement parts in the U.S., Canada and Mexico. The Company also distributes industrial replacement parts in the U.S., Canada and Mexico through its Motion Industries subsidiary. S. P. Richards Company, the Office Products Group, distributes business products nationwide in the U.S. and in Canada. The Electrical/Electronic Group, EIS, Inc., distributes electrical and electronic components throughout the U.S., Canada and Mexico. Genuine Parts Company had 2009 revenues of $10.1 billion.


