FILE:GPC/GPC-8K-20110415084939.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 15, 2011, Genuine Parts Company issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the first quarter ended March 31, 2011. A copy of the press release is furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K as exhibit 99.1. The information, including the exhibits attached hereto contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K of Genuine Parts Company is being "furnished" and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in Item 2.02 and Item 9.01 of this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or into any filing or other document pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except as otherwise expressly stated in any such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits 99.1 Press Release dated April 15, 2011
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Atlanta, Georgia, April 15, 2011  Genuine Parts Company (NYSE: GPC) reports sales and earnings for the first quarter ended March 31, 2011.
Thomas C. Gallagher, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, announced today that record sales totaling $3.0 billion were up 14% compared to the first quarter of 2010. Net income for the quarter was $126.5 million, an increase of 26% over $100.6 million recorded in the same period of the previous year. Earnings per share on a diluted basis were 80 cents, up 27% compared to 63 cents for the first quarter last year.
Mr. Gallagher stated, "We are pleased to report another period of solid sales and earnings growth for the Company and are especially encouraged by the positive sales momentum in all four of our business units. Our Automotive Group produced a 9% sales increase for the second consecutive quarter, which reflects the solid execution of our sales initiatives combined with the positive fundamentals of the aftermarket. Our Industrial and Electrical businesses continue to turn in the strongest results among our four business segments. Sales for Motion Industries, our Industrial Group, were up 24% in the quarter, and EIS, our Electrical Group, generated a 39% increase. Both Motion Industries and EIS sell into the manufacturing sector of the economy, which began its recovery in 2010 and continues to perform well today. S.P. Richards, our Office Products Group, showed a 5% sales increase for the quarter, marking their second consecutive period of sales growth and up sequentially from a 3% increase in the fourth quarter of 2010."
Mr. Gallagher concluded, "We feel good about the sales and earnings growth achieved in the first quarter and are optimistic that our businesses will show continued progress over the balance of the year. Our management team remains committed to sustaining good revenue growth, further improving operating margins, generating solid cash flows and maintaining a strong balance sheet."
Conference Call
Genuine Parts Company will hold a conference call today at 11:00 a.m. EDT to discuss the results of the quarter and the future outlook. Interested parties may listen to the call on the Company's website, , by clicking "Investor Services", or by dialing 1-866-777-9139, conference ID 55843045. A replay will also be available on the Company's website or at 1-800-642-1687, conference ID 55843045, two hours after the completion of the call until 12:00 a.m. EDT on April 30, 2011.
www.genpt.com
Forward Looking Statements
Some statements in this report, as well as in other materials we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) or otherwise release to the public and in materials that we make available on our website, constitute forward-looking statements that are subject to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Senior officers may also make verbal statements to analysts, investors, the media and others that are forward-looking. Forward-looking statements may relate, for example, to future operations, prospects, strategies, financial condition, economic performance (including growth and earnings), industry conditions and demand for our products and services. The Company cautions that its forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and while we believe that our expectations for the future are reasonable in view of currently available information, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Actual results or events may differ materially from those indicated as a result of various important factors. Such factors may include, among other things, slowing demand for the Company's products, changes in general economic conditions, including, unemployment, inflation or deflation, high energy costs, uncertain credit markets and other macro-economic conditions, the ability to maintain favorable vendor arrangements and relationships, disruptions in our vendors' operations, competitive product, service and pricing pressures, the Company's ability to successfully implement its business initiatives in each of its four business segments, the uncertainties and costs of litigation, as well as other risks and uncertainties discussed in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2010 and from time to time in the Company's subsequent filings with the SEC.
Forward-looking statements are only as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no duty to update its forward-looking statements except as required by law. You are advised, however, to review any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our subsequent Forms 10-K, 10-Q, Form 8-K and other reports to the SEC.
About Genuine Parts Company
Genuine Parts Company is a distributor of automotive replacement parts in the U.S., Canada and Mexico. The Company also distributes industrial replacement parts in the U.S., Canada and Mexico through its Motion Industries subsidiary. S.P. Richards Company, the Office Products Group, distributes business products nationwide in the U.S. and Canada. The Electrical/Electronic Group, EIS, Inc., distributes electrical and electronic components throughout the U.S., Canada and Mexico.


