FILE:WYNN/WYNN-8K-20030730134543.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 ____________________ FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT ____________________ Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): July 30, 2003 Wynn Resorts, Limited (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter) (702) 733-4444 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
Item 5. Other Events. - ------ ------------ On July 30, 2003, the Registrant issued a press release, filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and by this reference incorporated herein, announcing the sale of an additional $50 million aggregate principal amount of its 6% Convertible Subordinated Debentures due 2015 in a private offering under Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The sale was made pursuant to the full exercise of an option granted to the initial purchasers of its previously announced offering of debentures, which closed July 7, 2003. The Registrant contributed approximately $9 million of the net proceeds from the sale of additional debentures to a subsidiary, which purchased U.S. government securities to secure the payment of three years of scheduled interest payments as required by the indenture governing the debentures. In addition, the subsidiary has guaranteed the debentures and the Registrant has guaranteed the subsidiary's obligations under the subsidiary's guarantee. The Registrant intends to use the remaining net proceeds from the sale to help finance its Macau project and for general corporate purposes. The debentures are the Registrant's subordinated unsecured (other than with respect to three years of scheduled interest payments) obligations and rank junior in right of payment to all existing and future senior indebtedness of the Registrant, and equally with any existing and future subordinated indebtedness. The Registrant will pay interest on the debentures on January 15 and July 15 of each year, beginning January 15, 2004. Each $1,000 principal amount of the debentures will be convertible at each holder's option into 43.4782 shares of the Registrant's common stock (subject to adjustment as provided in the indenture governing the debentures). The conversion rate of the debentures is equivalent to an initial conversion price of $23.00 per share of the Registrant's common stock. The Registrant may redeem some or all of the debentures for cash on or after July 20, 2007 at the prices specified in the indenture. The holders may require the Registrant to repurchase all or a portion of their debentures, subject to certain exceptions, upon a change of control of the Registrant. If any holder requires the Registrant to repurchase its debentures, the Registrant may elect to pay the repurchase price in cash or shares of its common stock or a combination of cash and shares of its common stock. The Registrant has agreed to file a shelf registration statement with respect to the resale of the debentures, the guarantees of the debentures and the common stock issuable upon conversion of the debentures and to use commercially reasonable efforts to cause the shelf registration statement to become effective within 250 days after July 7, 2003. Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits (c) Exhibits: Exhibit Number Description 99.1 Press Release, dated July 30, 2003, by Wynn Resorts, Limited.
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. Date: July 30, 2003 Wynn Resorts, Limited By: /s/ John Strzemp ----------------------------- John Strzemp Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit Number Description ------- ----------- 99.1 Press Release, dated July 30, 2003, by Wynn Resorts, Limited.

WYNN RESORTS, LIMITED ANNOUNCES SALE OF ADDITIONAL CONVERTIBLE DEBENTURES LAS VEGAS--(BUSINESS WIRE)--July 30, 2003--Wynn Resorts, Limited (Nasdaq:WYNN) today announced the sale of an additional $50 million aggregate principal amount of its 6% Convertible Subordinated Debentures due 2015. The sale was made pursuant to the full exercise of an option granted to the initial purchasers of its previously announced private offering of debentures, which closed July 7, 2003. The total offering, including the additional debentures, resulted in the issuance of $250.0 million aggregate principal amount of debentures. Wynn Resorts contributed approximately $9 million of the net proceeds from the sale of the additional debentures to a subsidiary, which purchased U.S. government securities to secure the payment of three years of scheduled interest payments as required by the indenture governing the debentures. Wynn Resorts intends to use the remaining net proceeds from the sale to help finance its Macau project and for general corporate purposes. The securities have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933 or any state securities laws and unless so registered may not be offered or sold in the United States except pursuant to an exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 and applicable state securities laws. This announcement does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of offers to buy any security and shall not constitute an offer, solicitation or sale of any security in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful. This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws. The forward-looking statements in this press release involve risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ from those expressed in or implied by the statements herein. Additional information concerning potential factors that could affect the company's future results is included under the caption "Risk Factors" in Item 1 of Wynn Resorts' annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002. CONTACT: Wynn Resorts, Limited Samanta Hegedus, 702/733-4520 investorrelations@wynnresorts.com SOURCE: Wynn Resorts, Limited


