FILE:WYNN/WYNN-8K-20080912193442.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01.  Entry Into a Definitive Agreement.
Material
 
On September 11, 2008, Wynn Resorts, Limited (the Company) entered into a third amendment to the Employment Agreement, dated as of October 4, 2002, as amended, between the Company and Stephen A. Wynn (Mr. Wynn), the Companys Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.  The third amendment extends the term of Mr. Wynns employment agreement to October 24, 2020.  All other terms of Mr. Wynns employment agreement remain unchanged.  The foregoing description of the amendment to Mr. Wynns employment agreement, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1, is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of such amendment, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
The information contained in Item 1.01 of this report is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)   Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date:  September 12, 2008

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
This THIRD AMENDMENT EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT (this ) is entered into on the 11th day of September 2008, by and between Wynn Resorts, Limited () and Stephen A. Wynn ().  Capitalized terms that are not defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Agreement (as defined below).
TO
Amendment
Employer
Employee
 
 
 
 
A.           Employer and have entered into that certain Employment Agreement, dated as of October 4, 2002, as amended by that certain First Amendment to Employment Agreement dated August 6, 2004 and as further amended by that certain Second Amendment to Employment Agreement dated January 31, 2007 (collectively, the ); and
Employee
Agreement
 
B.           Employer and Employee desire to amend the Agreement to extend the Term of the Agreement as provided herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing, the parties agree as follows:
1.           .   Subsection 6 of the Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows:
Term
 
 Unless sooner terminated as provided in this Agreement, the term of this Agreement (the ) shall commence on the Effective Date of this Agreement and expire on October 24, 2020.
6.
TERM
.
Term
 
 
2.           .   Other than as provided herein, the terms and conditions of the Agreement are ratified and confirmed.
Other of Agreement
Provisions
 
IN WITNESS , the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be executed as of the date first written above.
WHEREOF
 
 
 


