FILE:WYNN/WYNN-8K-20080328130509.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01.  Entry Into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On March 26, 2008, Wynn Resorts, Limited (the Company) entered into an amendment to the Employment Agreement, dated as of August 31, 2005, between the Company and John Strzemp.  The amendment, which is effective as of March 18, 2008, reflects Mr. Strzemps previously announced promotion to Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer on March 17, 2008, and extends the term of his employment agreement to March 31, 2009.
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
The information contained in Item 1.01 of this report is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)   Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

 
 
Exhibit 10.1
 
 
This First Amendment to Employment Agreement (this ) is made this 26th day of March, 2008, effective March 18, 2008 (the ), by and between Wynn Resorts, Limited () and John Strzemp ().
First Amendment
Effective Date
Employer
Employee
 
 
Whereas, Employer and Employee are party to that certain Employment Agreement dated as of August 31, 2005 (the ); and
Existing Agreement
 
Whereas, Employer and Employee have agreed to modify the Existing Agreement as set forth herein.
 
Now therefore, for and in consideration of the foregoing recitals, and in consideration of the mutual covenants, agreements, understandings, undertakings, representations, warranties and promises hereinafter set forth, and intending to be legally bound thereby, Employer and Employee agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
In witness whereof, the parties have executed and delivered this First Amendment effective on the Effective Date.
 


