FILE:WYNN/WYNN-8K-20090818192430.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 1.01.  Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On August 13, 2009, Stephen A. Wynn (Mr. Wynn), the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Wynn Resorts, Limited (the Registrant), and Aruze USA, Inc. (Aruze), a Nevada corporation, entered into a Waiver and Consent (the Waiver and Consent) with respect to that certain Stockholders Agreement, entered into as of April 11, 2002, among Mr. Wynn, Aruze and Baron Investment Funds Trust (formerly known as Baron Asset Fund), a Massachusetts business trust, as amended by that certain Amendment to Stockholders Agreement, entered into as of November 8, 2006, between Mr. Wynn and Aruze, and as further amended by that certain Waiver and Consent, dated July 31, 2009 (as amended, the Stockholders Agreement).  Pursuant to the Waiver and Consent, Mr. Wynn and Aruze each (a) consented to the transfer of up to 2,000,000 shares of the Registrants common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the Released Shares), held by each other and (b) waived all of their respective rights under the Stockholders Agreement, including without limitation their rights of first refusal, in connection with a transfer or proposed transfer of the Released Shares.
 
 
The foregoing description of the Waiver and Consent does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Waiver and Consent which is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by this reference.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date:           August 18, 2009
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
This WAIVER AND CONSENT (this "Waiver and Consent"), dated as of the 13th day of August, 2009, is entered into by and between Stephen A. Wynn ("Wynn"), an individual, and Aruze USA, Inc., a Nevada corporation ("Aruze").
 
 
Reference is made to that certain Stockholders Agreement, entered into as of April 11, 2002, among Wynn, Aruze and Baron, as amended by that certain Amendment to Stockholders Agreement, entered into as of November 8, 2006, between Wynn and Aruze, and Waiver and Consent dated as of July 31, 2009 (as amended, the "Stockholders Agreement").  Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have respective meanings ascribed to such terms in the Stockholders Agreement.
 
WHEREAS, Section 2(e) of the Stockholders Agreement provides that neither party has the right to Transfer any Shares without the prior written consent of the other; and
 
WHEREAS, each party has consented to the transfer by the other of up to 2 million Shares; and
 
WHEREAS, Section 9 of the Stockholders Agreement provides for a right of first refusal in favor of the non-transferring Stockholders in the event any Stockholder wishes to Transfer any or all of its Shares to any Person other than a Permitted Transferee and who receives a bona fide offer from any Person who is not a Prohibited Transferee for the purchase of all or any portion of such Stockholder's Shares; and
 
WHEREAS, Wynn and Aruze each desire to waive their right of first refusal in connection with the Transfer of up to 2 million Shares by the other.
 
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, the mutual covenants and agreements contained herein, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
1.           .  Each of Wynn and Aruze consent to the Transfer by the other of up to 2 million Shares (such Shares referred to as the Released Shares) and hereby waives all rights such party may have in connection with a Transfer under the Stockholders Agreement with respect to such shares, including without limitation, the right of first refusal in connection with a Transfer or proposed Transfer of Shares.
Waivers and Consents
 
2.           .  The transferee of the Released Shares shall not be bound
Transferee Not Bound
 
 
 
 
 
by the terms of the Stockholders Agreement.
 
3.           .  The waivers and consents set forth herein are limited as written and shall not be deemed to be a waiver of or consent to, or modification of in any respect, any other term or condition in the Stockholders Agreement.  Except as expressly waived hereby, all of the terms and provisions of the Stockholders Agreement are and shall remain in full force and effect.
Limited Scope
 
4.           .  This Waiver and Consent has been duly authorized and executed by each of Wynn and Aruze and is a valid and binding waiver and consent of each such party, enforceable against each such party in accordance with its terms.
Authorization
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Waiver and Consent has been duly executed and delivered by Wynn and a duly authorized officer of Aruze on the day and year first written above.
 
 
 
 


