FILE:WYNN/WYNN-8K-20090803160310.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01.  Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On July 31, 2009, Stephen A. Wynn (Mr. Wynn), the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Wynn Resorts, Limited (the Registrant), Aruze USA, Inc. (Aruze), a Nevada corporation, and Baron Investment Funds Trust (formerly known as Baron Asset Fund) (Baron), a Massachusetts business trust, entered into a Waiver and Consent (the Waiver and Consent) with respect to that certain Stockholders Agreement, entered into as of April 11, 2002, among Mr. Wynn, Aruze and Baron, as amended by that certain Amendment to Stockholders Agreement, entered into as of November 8, 2006, between Mr. Wynn and Aruze (as amended, the Stockholders Agreement).  Pursuant to the Waiver and Consent, (a) Baron and Aruze consented to the transfer of 395,805 shares of the Registrants common stock, par value $0.01 per share, held by certain of Mr. Wynns permitted transferees under the Stockholders Agreement, (b) Baron waived all of its rights under the Stockholders Agreement and (c) Mr. Wynn and Aruze waived the right of first refusal in connection with a transfer or proposed transfer of shares by Baron.
 
The foregoing description of the Waiver and Consent does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Waiver and Consent which is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by this reference.
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On July 31, 2009, the Board of Directors elected Russell Goldsmith to the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)   Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date:   August 3, 2009

Exhibit 10.1
This WAIVER AND CONSENT (this "Waiver and Consent"), dated as of the 31st day of July, 2009, is entered into by and among Stephen A. Wynn ("Wynn"), an individual, Baron Investment Funds Trust (formerly known as Baron Asset Fund) ("Baron"), a Massachusetts business trust, and Aruze USA, Inc., a Nevada corporation ("Aruze").
Reference is made to that certain Stockholders Agreement, entered into as of April 11, 2002, among Wynn, Aruze and Baron, as amended by that certain Amendment to Stockholders Agreement, entered into as of November 8, 2006, between Wynn and Aruze (as amended, the "Stockholders Agreement").  Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have respective meanings ascribed to such terms in the Stockholders Agreement.
WHEREAS, certain grantor retained annuity trusts (collectively, the "GRATs") previously created by Wynn, in their capacity as Permitted Transferees of Wynn, hold, in the aggregate, 395,805 Shares subject to the Stockholders Agreement (the "GRAT Shares");
WHEREAS, the GRATs desire to Transfer the GRAT Shares pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act");
WHEREAS, the Stockholders Agreement contains certain restrictions on and conditions to the Transfer of the GRAT Shares, including, but not limited to, certain consent rights, rights of first refusal and tag-along rights;
WHEREAS, in addition to the rights described in the prior recital, the Stockholders Agreement provides certain rights in favor of Baron, including, but not limited to, certain rights of first refusal, tag-along rights, rights with respect to Upstream Transfers, rights triggered by the institution of a Bankruptcy, preemptive rights and rights as the beneficiary of a non-competition agreement (all of Baron's rights under the Stockholders Agreement, collectively, the "Baron Rights");
WHEREAS, Aruze and Baron each desire to consent to the Transfer of the GRAT Shares for all purposes under the Stockholders Agreement and to waive any rights such party may have in connection with a Transfer of the GRAT Shares for all purposes under the Stockholders Agreement;
WHEREAS, Baron further desires to waive the Baron Rights;
WHEREAS, Section 9 of the Stockholders Agreement provides for a right of first refusal
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in favor of the non-transferring Stockholders in the event any Stockholder wishes to Transfer any or all of its Shares to any Person other than a Permitted Transferee and who receives a bona fide offer from any Person who is not a Prohibited Transferee for the purchase of all or any portion of such Stockholder's Shares; and
WHEREAS, Wynn and Aruze each desire to waive their right of first refusal in connection with any Transfer or proposed Transfer by Baron of Shares.
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, the mutual covenants and agreements contained herein, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
1.           .
Waivers and Consents
(a)  Each of Baron and Aruze hereby consents to the Transfer of the GRAT Shares for all purposes under the Stockholders Agreement and does hereby waive any rights such party may have in connection with a Transfer of the GRAT Shares for all purposes under the Stockholders Agreement.
(b)  Baron hereby waives the Baron Rights.
(c)  Each of Wynn and Aruze hereby waives the right of first refusal in connection with a Transfer or proposed Transfer of Shares by Baron; , , that such Transfer or proposed Transfer must be pursuant to open market transactions made in compliance with a valid exemption under the Securities Act.
provided
however
2.           .  The transferee of the GRAT Shares and any Shares transferred by Baron pursuant to the foregoing clause 1(c) shall not be bound by the terms of the Stockholders Agreement.
Transferee Not Bound
3.           .  The waivers and consents set forth herein are limited as written and shall not be deemed to be a waiver of or consent to, or modification of in any respect, any other term or condition in the Stockholders Agreement.  Except as expressly waived hereby, all of the terms and provisions of the Stockholders Agreement are and shall remain in full force and effect.
Limited Scope
4.           .  This Waiver and Consent has been duly authorized and executed by each of Wynn, Aruze and Baron and is a valid and binding waiver and consent of each such party, enforceable against each such party in accordance with its terms.
Authorization
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Waiver and Consent has been duly executed and delivered by Wynn and a duly authorized officer of Aruze and Baron on the day and year first written above.


