FILE:WYNN/WYNN-8K-20090416212628.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 1.02      Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement.
On April 13, 2009, Wynn Las Vegas, LLC (the Company) and David R. Sisk, the Companys Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Mr. Sisk), agreed to terminate his employment pursuant to the terms of the employment agreement, dated as of March 3, 2008, by and between the Company and Mr. Sisk (the Employment Agreement).  In connection with his termination, Mr. Sisk will receive a separation payment payable over the course of 12 months equal to the sum of (i) $500,000, which amount is equal to his annual base salary without regard to the salary reduction pursuant to the efficiency initiatives the Company announced on February 3, 2009 (as more fully described in the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 3, 2009 and filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 5, 2009), (ii) $225,000, which is an amount equal to Mr. Sisks 2008 bonus, and (iii) 4 weeks of accrued but unpaid vacation pay.  In addition, any stock options held by Mr. Sisk that were vested as of the termination date or that vest as a result of the termination of employment shall be exercisable for a period of 90 days.  Additionally, Mr. Sisk is entitled to receive health benefits coverage for himself and his dependents under the same plan(s) or arrangement(s) under which he was covered immediately prior to his termination, or plan(s) established or arrangement(s) provided by the Company or any of its affiliates following his termination until the earlier of 12 months following termination and the date Mr. Sisk becomes covered under any other group health plan not maintained by the Company or any of its affiliates.
Item 5.02.     Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
The information under Item 1.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated by reference into this Item 5.02.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:   April 16, 2009
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:   April 16, 2009


