FILE:WYNN/WYNN-8K-20100820163739.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 20, 2010, Wynn Macau, Limited ("WML"), an indirect subsidiary of Wynn Resorts, Limited (the "Registrant") with ordinary shares of its common stock listed on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, filed its preliminary results in respect of the six months ended June 30, 2010 (the "Semi-Annual Results Announcement") with The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited. The Registrant owns approximately 72.3% of WML's ordinary shares of common stock. The Semi-Annual Results Announcement is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1. The information in this Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date: August 20, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited and The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited take no responsibility for the contents of this announcement, make no representation as to its accuracy or completeness and expressly disclaim any liability whatsoever for any loss howsoever arising from or in reliance upon the whole or any part of the contents of this announcement.
The Board of Directors of Wynn Macau, Limited (the "") is pleased to announce the unaudited consolidated results of the Company and its subsidiaries (collectively, the "") for the six months ended 30 June 2010 as follows.
Company
Group
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
 
DIVIDEND
The Board has not recommended an interim dividend payment for the six months ended 30 June 2010.
 
 
Condensed Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
 
 
Condensed Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
 
 
Notes to Interim Financial Information
 
The Company is a limited liability company incorporated in the Cayman Islands on 4 September 2009. The Company's Shares were listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange on 9 October 2009. The Company's registered office address is P.O. Box 309, Ugland House, Grand Cayman, KY1-1104, Cayman Islands, or at such other place as the Directors may from time to time decide.
The Group owns and operates a hotel and casino resort, Wynn Macau, which conducts gaming activities in casinos in Macau under a concession contract signed with the Macau Government on 24 June 2002. The 20-year concession period commenced on 27 June 2002 and will expire on 26 June 2022.
The Group opened Encore at Wynn Macau, a second hotel tower with additional related amenities that are integrated with the current facilities at Wynn Macau on 21 April 2010.
Pursuant to the Group Reorganization which was undertaken for the purpose of the Listing of the Company's Shares on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, the Company acquired WM Cayman Holdings Limited II, which was at the relevant time the holding company of the subsidiaries comprising the Group, from the Company's immediate parent company, WM Cayman Holdings Limited I. The consideration for the acquisition consisted of (a) the issue by the Company to WM Cayman Holdings Limited I of an acquisition note; and (b) the issue by the Company to WM Cayman Holdings Limited I of such number of new Shares as would amount to approximately 75% of the Company's issued share capital (as calculated based on the Company's issued share capital following its initial public offering and assuming no exercise of the over-allotment option). The acquisition was completed on 8 October 2009 with the relevant Shares and acquisition note being issued by the Company to WM Cayman Holdings Limited I. The acquisition note was redeemed by the Company on 9 October 2009 for a sum of HK$12.6 billion. Since the completion of the Group Reorganization on 8 October 2009, the Group has been the holding company of the subsidiaries now comprising the Group. The details of the Group Reorganization are set out in the section headed "Reorganization" in Appendix VI "Statutory and General Information" to the IPO Prospectus of the Company dated 24 September 2009, filed in connection with the Listing.
WM Cayman Holdings Limited I owns approximately 72.29% of the Company and approximately 27.71% of the Company is owned by public shareholders. The ultimate parent company of Wynn Macau, Limited is Wynn Resorts, Limited, a publicly-traded company incorporated in the United States of America.
The interim financial information have been prepared in accordance with the applicable disclosure requirements of Appendix 16 to the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange and the International Accounting Standard ("IAS") 34 "Interim Financial Reporting". The interim financial information does not include all the information and disclosures required in the annual financial statements, and should be read in conjunction with the Group's annual financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009. The accounting policies and basis of preparation adopted in the preparation of the interim financial information are the same as those used in the annual financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009, except for the adoption of certain new and revised International Financial Reporting Standards ("IFRSs") for the first time in the current period as disclosed in note 2 below.
Segment Reporting
The Group concurrently operates in one business segment, namely, the management of its casino, hotel, retail and food and beverage operations. A single management team reports to the chief operating decision-maker who comprehensively manages the entire business. Accordingly, the Group does not have separate reportable segments.
Reclassifications
Certain amounts in the interim financial information for the six months ended 30 June 2009 have been reclassified to be consistent with the current period's presentation. These reclassifications have no effect on the previously reported profits for the prior period.
 
The following new and revised IFRSs are adopted for the first time for the current period's interim financial information:
 
Apart from the above, the IASB has issued Improvements to IFRSs 2009 which sets out amendments to a number of IFRSs primarily with a view to removing inconsistencies and clarifying wording. The amendments to IFRS 2, IAS 38, IFRIC 9 and IFRIC 16 are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009 while the amendments to IFRS 5, IFRS 8, IAS 1, IAS 7, IAS 17, IAS 36 and IAS 39 are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010 although there are separate transitional provisions for each standard or interpretation.
The adoption of these new and revised IFRSs and interpretations has had no significant financial effects on the interim financial information and there have been no significant changes to the accounting policies applied in the interim financial information.
The Group has not early applied the new and revised IFRSs that have been issued but are not yet effective.
 
 
 
 
 
No provision for Hong Kong profits tax for the six months ended 30 June 2010 has been made as there were no assessable profits generated in Hong Kong (six months ended 30 June 2009: Nil). Taxation for overseas jurisdictions is charged at the appropriate prevailing rates ruling in the respective jurisdictions and the maximum rate is 12% (six months ended 30 June 2009: 12%).
Effective 6 September 2006, WRM received a 5-year exemption from Macau's 12% Complementary Tax on casino gaming profits ("Tax Holiday"). Accordingly, the Group was exempted from the payment of approximately HK$215.6 million in such tax for the six months ended 30 June 2010 (six months ended 30 June 2009: HK$117.5 million). The Group's non- gaming profits remain subject to the Macau Complementary Tax and its casino winnings remain subject to the Macau Special Gaming Tax and other levies in accordance with its Concession Agreement.
For the six months ended 30 June 2010, MOP3.6 million (approximately HK$3.5 million) has been incurred and accrued for the WRM Shareholder Dividend Tax Agreement into which WRM entered with the Macau Special Administrative Region in June 2009. Accordingly, for the six months ended 30 June 2009, MOP25.2 million (approximately HK$24.5 million) was accrued for the years from 2006 through June 2009.
The Group is exempted from income tax in the Isle of Man and the Cayman Islands. The Group's subsidiaries file income tax returns in Macau and various foreign jurisdictions as required by law. The Group's income tax returns are subject to examination by tax authorities in the locations where it operates. The Group's 2006 to 2009 Macau income tax returns remain subject to examination by the Macau Finance Bureau and during June 2010, the Macau Finance Bureau commenced an examination of the 2006 and 2007 Macau income tax returns. Since the examination is in its initial stages, the Group is unable to determine if it will conclude within the next 12 months. The Group believes that the tax reserve established for any uncertain tax issues is adequate with respect to these years.
Quarterly, the Group reviews any potentially unfavorable tax outcome and when an unfavorable outcome is identified as probable and can be reasonably estimated, the Group then establishes a tax reserve for such possible unfavorable outcome. Estimating potential tax outcomes for any uncertain tax issues is highly judgmental and may not be indicative of the ultimate settlement with tax authorities. With respect to these items, as at 30 June 2010, the Group has provided a reserve of HK$37.4 million (31 December 2009: HK$37.4 million) and included this amount in "other long-term liabilities". The Group believes that it has adequately provided reasonable reserves for prudent and foreseeable outcomes related to uncertain tax matters. As a result of the lack of authoritative guidance regarding the computation of the Group's complementary tax exemptions, the Group establishes reserves for its estimates of additional tax exposures if such exemptions are denied by the tax authorities.
 
 
Prior to the Group Reorganization, the Group declared and paid cash distributions of HK$559.1 million in June 2009 from the income generated through its operations to its former shareholder. The rate of dividends and the number of shares are not presented as such information is not meaningful for the purpose of the interim financial information.
The Board of Directors has not recommended any interim dividend for the six months ended 30 June 2010.
 
The calculation of basic earnings per Share amount for the six months ended 30 June 2010 is based on the consolidated net profits attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Company and on the weighted average number of Shares of 5,187,500,000 in issue during the period.
The weighted average number of Shares used to calculate the basic earnings per Share for the six months ended 30 June 2009 included the pro forma issued share capital of the Company of 5,000,000,000 Shares, comprising the following and on the assumption that the Group Reorganization had been effective on 1 January 2009:
 
 
The diluted earnings per Share amount for the six months ended 30 June 2010 is calculated based on the consolidated net profits attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Company and on the weighted average number of 5,187,500,000 Shares in issue plus nil potential shares arising from exercise of share options. The diluted earnings per Share for the six months ended 30 June 2009 equals to the basic earnings per Share for that period as there were no potential dilutive Shares outstanding during that period.
 
 
 
An aged analysis of receivables is as follows:
 
Substantially all of the trade and other receivables as at 30 June 2010 were repayable within 14 days.
 
During the six months ended 30 June 2010, the Group normally received credit terms of 30 days. An aged analysis of accounts payable as at the end of the reporting period, based on invoice dates, is as follows:
 
 
Other payables and accruals consisted of the following as at the end of the period:
 
The WRM term loan matures in June 2014, and the WRM revolving credit facility matures in June 2012. The principal amount of the WRM term loan is required to be repaid in quarterly installments, commencing in September 2011. Borrowings under the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities currently bear interest at LIBOR or HIBOR plus a margin of 1.75%.
During the six months ended 30 June 2010, the Group repaid approximately HK$2.9 billion (six months ended 30 June 2009: HK$194.7 million) of borrowings under the WRM revolving credit facility. As at 30 June 2010, the Group had approximately HK$6.8 billion (31 December 2009: HK$3.9 billion) available under the credit facilities.
 
As at the end of the period, amounts due from/(to) related companies are unsecured, interest-free and repayable on demand.
The Group had the following material transactions with related companies:
 
All of the above transactions are noted as continuing related party transactions.
Notes:
 
Wynn Resorts, Limited provides corporate support services in large part related to assisting the Group with U.S. regulatory requirements. These services consist of a limited number of executives in relevant areas assisting the Group on U.S. regulatory and certain limited other matters. The assistance includes guidance on certain issues and ensuring that from a regulatory standpoint Wynn Resorts, Limited standard operating procedures are followed and maintained by the Group. The annual fee for the services provided by Wynn Resorts, Limited is based on an allocation of the actual proportion of Wynn Resorts, Limited's annual corporate departments' costs (including salaries and benefits for such employees during the period in which such services are rendered) and overhead expense related to the provision of such services, and in any event, such annual fee shall not exceed 50% of the aggregate annual corporate departments' costs and overhead expense incurred by Wynn Resorts, Limited during any financial year.
 
Similarly, WML and WRM had reciprocal arrangements to allow Wynn Resorts, Limited or its subsidiaries (other than the Group) to have access to the services of any of the Group's employees provided that such services do not materially interfere with such employee's obligations to, and responsibilities with, the Group. For services provided by the Group's employees, Wynn Resorts, Limited shall pay for the services based on an actual cost (including salaries and benefits for such employees during the period when such services are being rendered) and expense reimbursement basis.
Wynn Resorts, Limited allows WRM and its employees to use aircraft assets owned by Wynn Resorts, Limited and its subsidiaries (other than the Group) at hourly rates set by Las Vegas Jet, LLC, a subsidiary of Wynn Resorts, Limited. Similarly, WRM has reciprocal arrangements to allow Wynn Resorts, Limited or its subsidiaries (other than the Group) to use any aircraft assets that the Group could own in the future.
 
Prior to Listing, WRM had an arrangement with Wynn Resorts, Limited and Wynn Resorts Holdings, LLC (together, the "Licensors") under which the Licensors licensed to WRM certain trademarks and service marks, other marks and works, domain names, hotel casino design, development, and management know-how (collectively, the "Intellectual Property Rights"). On 19 September 2009, each of the Company and WRM entered into an intellectual property license agreement with the Licensors (together, the "IP License Arrangement"), which has a perpetual term. Pursuant to the IP License Arrangement, the Licensors licensed to each of the Company and WRM the right to use the Intellectual Property Rights using the same pricing basis as described below. The IP License Arrangement is also subject to restrictions in the agreements between Wynn Resorts Holdings, LLC or Wynn Resorts, Limited and any third parties, including Mr. Stephen A. Wynn, in respect of a third parties' intellectual property, including any applicable limitations on the scope of the license, limitations on sub-licensing, termination (including change of control) under certain circumstances and other standard provisions.
The license fee payable to Wynn Resorts Holdings, LLC equals the greater of (1) 3% of the IP gross monthly revenues, and (2) US$1.5 million (approximately HK$11.6 million) per month. For the purposes of each intellectual property license agreement, the term "IP gross revenues" refers to the licensee's total operating revenues as adjusted by adding back (1) commissions and discounts which were netted against operating revenues, and (2) promotional allowances, and the term "IP gross monthly revenues" refers to the licensee's IP gross revenues accrued at the end of each calendar month. The calculation of each licensee's operating revenues, promotional allowances, and commissions and discounts in connection with the IP gross revenues stated in the intellectual property license agreements shall always be consistent with the Group's accounting policies and prepared in accordance with IFRS as in effect from 31 December 2008. If any other subsidiary of the Company (other than WRM) acquires the Intellectual Property Rights under the intellectual property license agreement between the Company and the Licensors, "IP gross revenues" and "IP monthly gross revenues" will be interpreted to include the gross revenues of such relevant subsidiary.
The following table presents a reconciliation of total operating revenues (as reported in the Group's interim financial information) to WRM's IP gross revenues as used for purposes of the IP License Arrangement between WRM and the Licensors.
 
 
WIML, a subsidiary of Wynn Resorts, Limited, (i) provides administrative, promotional, and marketing services as well as a limited number of marketing executives to attract and introduce customers to WRM, and (ii) employs certain non-Macau residents based in or to be based in Macau ("Foreign Resident Staff") on the Company's behalf and seconds the Foreign Resident Staff to the Group.
These administrative, promotional and marketing services are provided through branch offices located in various cities around the world under the direction and supervision provided by WIML. For the services provided under this arrangement, WIML charges a service fee equal to the total costs it incurs in rendering the services plus 5%.
 
Worldwide Wynn, a subsidiary of Wynn Resorts, Limited, is responsible for supplying management personnel to WRM for a pre-determined length of time through secondment arrangements. During the secondment period, employees are expected to devote their efforts and all of their business time and attention to the operations and functions of WRM. The seconded employees live and work in Macau for the duration of the secondment periods. Worldwide Wynn was compensated for these services with a service fee equal to its aggregate costs plus 5% to Worldwide Wynn of the seconded employees during the periods of secondment to WRM, including:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wynn Resorts Hotel Sales & Marketing, LLC, a subsidiary of Wynn Resorts, Limited, provides services to attract and introduce customers to Wynn Macau, with an emphasis on the resort's luxury hotel accommodation. Wynn Resorts Hotel Sales & Marketing LLC's primary business is to promote the luxury hotel services offered at the Wynn Macau resort to customers in China. It operates customer service outlets in China to help arrange hotel stays for individual and group travel. During 2009, offices were located in Shanghai and Guangzhou. The branch offices operate under the direction and supervision provided by Wynn Resorts Hotel Sales & Marketing, LLC. For the hotel marketing and promotion services it performed on behalf of WRM in 2009, Wynn Resorts Hotel Sales & Marketing, LLC charged service fees equal to the total costs it incurred in rendering the services.
The transactions were carried out on terms mutually agreed between the Group and the related companies. There were no significant charges from the Group to the related companies during the six months ended 30 June 2010 and 2009. In the opinion of the Directors, the related party transactions were conducted in the ordinary and usual course of the Group's business.
All such outstanding balances between the Group and the related companies are deemed to be trade in nature.
House Purchase
In May 2010, Worldwide Wynn entered into a new employment agreement with Linda Chen, who is also a director. The term of the new employment agreement is through 24 February 2020. Under the terms of the new employment agreement, Worldwide Wynn caused Wynn Macau to purchase a house in Macau for use by Ms. Chen costing approximately HK$42 million, and will expend additional funds to renovate the house and will also provide Ms. Chen the use of an automobile in Macau. Ms. Chen shall have the option to purchase the house and it is exercisable for (a) no consideration at the end of the 10-year term, (b) US$1.00 in the event of termination of Ms. Chen's employment without "cause" or termination of Ms. Chen's employment for "good reason" following a "change of control", and (c) at a price based on a percentage of the fair market value of the house that is reduced by ten percent per year during the term of the agreement ("the Discount Percentage") in the event Ms. Chen terminates the employment agreement due to material breach by Worldwide Wynn. Upon Ms. Chen's termination for "cause", Ms. Chen will be deemed to have elected to purchase the Macau house based on the applicable Discount Percentage unless Worldwide Wynn determines to not require Ms. Chen to purchase the house. If Ms. Chen's employment terminates for any other reason before the expiration of the term (e.g., because of her death or disability or due to revocation of gaming license), the option will terminate.
 
Management Discussion and Analysis
OVERVIEW
Wynn Macau opened to the public on 6 September 2006 at the center of casino activities on the urban Macau peninsula. In December 2007 and November 2009, Wynn Macau completed expansions, adding more gaming space and additional food and beverage and retail amenities. We opened Encore at Wynn Macau ("Encore"), on 21 April 2010, a further expansion of Wynn Macau that adds a fully integrated resort hotel with, among other offerings, 410 luxury suites and four villas, additional gaming space, restaurants and retail space. As at 30 June 2010, Wynn Macau and Encore occupied approximately 16 acres of land in Macau featuring a casino of approximately 256,000 square feet offering 24-hour gaming with a full range of games and 1,014 luxury rooms and suites.
On 9 October 2009, the Company completed an initial public offering and the Company's Shares were listed on the Main Board of the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.
For the six months ended 30 June 2010, our total operating revenues were HK$10.1 billion, and our net profits were HK$1.9 billion, a 52.2% increase over total operating revenues of HK$6.7 billion, and a 111.0% increase over net profits of HK$903.7 million for the six months ended 30 June 2009.
Macau
Macau, which was a territory under Portuguese administration for approximately 450 years, was transferred from Portuguese to Chinese political control in December 1999. Macau is governed as a special administrative region of China and is located approximately 37 miles southwest of, and less than one hour away via ferry from, Hong Kong. Macau, which has been a casino destination for more than 40 years, consists principally of a peninsula on mainland China, and two neighboring islands, Taipa and Coloane, connected by bridges. We believe that Macau is located in one of the world's largest concentrations of potential gaming customers. According to Macau Statistical Information, casinos in Macau generated approximately HK$83.4 billion in gaming revenue in the six months ended 30 June 2010, an approximately 66.9% increase over the approximately HK$49.9 billion generated in the six months ended 30 June 2009, making Macau the largest gaming market in the world.
Macau's gaming market is primarily dependent on tourists. The Macau market has experienced tremendous growth in capacity in the last few years. As at 31 May 2010, there were 19,573 hotel rooms and as at 30 June 2010, there were 4,828 table games in Macau, compared to 17,533 hotel rooms and 4,017 table games as at 31 December 2008.
Wynn Macau
We opened Wynn Macau on 6 September 2006 and completed expansions of the resort in December 2007 and November 2009. Wynn Macau features:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Encore
We opened Encore on 21 April 2010. While Encore is a destination in itself, it also is complemented by, and fully integrated with, the existing operations and facilities at Wynn Macau. We believe we have further solidified Wynn Macau's position as a premier destination for VIP clients in Macau as well as enhanced our offerings to mass market clients with the addition of the following at Encore:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total development and construction costs for Encore at Wynn Macau as at 30 June 2010 were approximately HK$4,294.3 million. The project was funded through a combination of existing cash balances and cash flow from operations. With the expansion of Wynn Macau and the opening of Encore, Wynn Macau's aggregate number of VIP table games has increased by 51.0% from 155 as at 31 October 2009 to 234 tables as at 30 June 2010, allowing us to serve additional gaming promoter-driven and in-house VIP gaming.
 
As at 30 June 2010, we had a total of 234 VIP table games, 212 mass market table games, 1,155 slot machines and 11 poker tables at Wynn Macau and Encore.
In response to our evaluation of our operations and the reactions of our guests, we have and expect to continue to make enhancements and refinements to this resort complex.
Cotai Development
The Group has applied to the Macau government for a land concession on approximately 52 acres of land on Cotai and is awaiting final approval by the Macau government on the concession. We continue to work on the concept and design of this property, but cannot prepare a final timeline or budget until the Macau government approval on the land concession has been received.
Cotai Land Agreement
On 1 August 2008, Palo Real Estate Company Limited entered into an agreement with a Macau incorporated company that is not a connected person to the Group to make a one-time payment in the amount of US$50 million (approximately HK$389.3 million) in consideration of its relinquishment of certain rights in and to any future development on the 52 acres of land on Cotai. The payment will be made within 15 days after the Macau government publishes the Group's rights to the land in the Macau government's official gazette.
FACTORS AFFECTING OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
Tourism
The levels of tourism and overall gaming activities in Macau are key drivers of our business. Both the Macau gaming market and visitation to Macau have grown significantly in the last few years. We have benefited from the rise in visitation to Macau over the past several years.
Gaming customers traveling to Macau typically come from nearby destinations in Asia including Hong Kong, mainland China, Taiwan, South Korea and Japan. According to the Macau Statistics and Census Service Monthly Bulletin of Statistics, approximately 88% of visitors to Macau in the six months ended 30 June 2010 were from Hong Kong, mainland China and Taiwan. We believe that visitation and gross gaming revenue growth for the Macau market have been, and will continue to be, driven by a combination of factors, including the level of regional wealth in Asia which, should it continue to increase, is expected to lead to a large and growing middle class with rising disposable income; Macau's proximity to major Asian population centers; infrastructure improvements that are expected to facilitate more convenient travel to and within Macau; and the increasing supply of better quality casino, hotel and entertainment offerings in Macau.
Tourism levels in Macau are affected by a number of factors, all of which are beyond our control. Key factors affecting tourism levels in Macau may include, among others:
 
 
 
 
 
Current Economic and Operating Environment
Economic conditions have a significant impact on our business. Beginning in the second half of 2008 and continuing into early 2009, a number of factors, including a slowdown in the global economy, contracting credit markets, reduced consumer spending, various countries' policies that affected travel to Macau and an outbreak of the H1N1 influenza, negatively impacted the gaming industry in Macau and our business. We continue to carefully manage our labor force and aggressively negotiate with our vendors to secure advantageous rates on contracts, and are continually reviewing the cost and efficiencies at our property to identify further opportunities to reduce cost. Notwithstanding the issues set out above, our operating environment remained relatively stable, and showed improvement throughout the second half of 2009 and such improvement continued in the first half of 2010.
Competition
Since the liberalization of Macau's gaming industry in 2002, there has been a significant increase in the number of gaming operators and casino properties in Macau. Currently, there are six gaming operators in Macau, including WRM. The three concessionaires are WRM, Galaxy and SJM. The three subconcessionaires are Venetian Macau, Melco Crown, and MGM Macau. As at 30 June 2010, there were approximately 33 casinos in Macau, including 20 operated by SJM. Casino operators are not subject to any limit on the number of casinos that may be operated under their concession or subconcession agreements. Each of the current six operators has commenced casino operating activities and several have expansion plans announced or underway.
Wynn Macau also faces competition from casinos located in other areas of Asia, such as Genting Highlands Resort, a major gaming and resort destination located outside of Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, and casinos in the Philippines. Two large-scale casinos in Singapore, which opened in February 2010 and in April 2010, have added further competition to the region. Wynn Macau also encounters competition from other major gaming centers located around the world, including Australia and Las Vegas, cruise ships in Asia that offer gaming, and other casinos throughout Asia. Further, if current efforts to legalize gaming in other Asian countries are successful, Wynn Macau will face additional regional competition.
Gaming Promoters
A significant amount of our casino play is brought to us by gaming promoters. Gaming promoters have historically played a critical role in the Macau gaming market and are important to Wynn Macau's casino business.
 
Gaming promoters introduce high-spending VIP players to Wynn Macau and often assist those clients with their travel and entertainment arrangements. In addition, gaming promoters often grant credit to their players. In exchange for their services, Wynn Macau pays the gaming promoters a fixed percentage of the gross gaming win generated by each gaming promoter. This percentage has remained stable since 2006. Approximately 80% of these commissions are netted against casino revenues, because such commissions approximate the amount of the commission returned to the VIP players by the gaming promoters, and approximately 20% of these commissions are included in other operating expenses, which approximate the amount of the commission ultimately retained by the gaming promoters for their compensation. The total amounts of commissions netted against casino revenues were HK$2.8 billion and HK$1.7 billion for the six months ended 30 June 2010 and 2009, respectively. Commissions increased 67.0% for the six months ended 30 June 2010 compared to the six months ended 30 June 2009 due to increased volumes and the addition of two new gaming promoters. Additionally, gaming promoters each receive a monthly complimentary allowance based on a percentage of the turnover their clients generate.
The allowance is available for room, food and beverage and other expenses for discretionary use with clients. We typically advance commissions to gaming promoters at the beginning of each month to facilitate their working capital requirements. These advances are provided to a gaming promoter and are offset by the commissions earned by such gaming promoter during the applicable month. The aggregate amounts of exposure to our gaming promoters, which is the difference between commissions advanced to each individual gaming promoter, and the commissions payable to each such gaming promoter, were HK$61.2 million and HK$91.5 million as of 30 June 2010 and 2009, respectively. We believe we have developed strong relationships with our gaming promoters. Our commission levels have remained stable throughout our operating history and we have not increased levels of commissions paid to gaming promoters.
In August 2009, the Macau government published, in its official gazette, certain guidelines with respect to caps on the commission rates payable to gaming promoters that became effective on 1 December 2009. Further changes or tightening of caps may occur and if the Macau government were to implement caps on commission rates payable to gaming promoters that cause WRM to pay gaming promoters effectively less than WRM currently pays, gaming promoters may have less incentive to bring travelers to casinos in Macau, including Wynn Macau.
High-End Credit Play
We selectively extend credit to players contingent upon our marketing team's knowledge of the players, their financial background and payment history. We follow a series of credit procedures and require from each credit recipient various signed documents that are intended to ensure among other things that, if permitted by applicable law, the debt can be legally enforced in the jurisdiction where the player resides. In the event the player does not reside in a jurisdiction where gaming debts are legally enforceable, we often can assert jurisdiction over assets the player maintains in jurisdictions where gaming debts are recognized. In addition, we typically require a check in the amount of the applicable credit line from credit players, collateralizing the credit we grant to a player.
 
Number and Mix of Table Games and Slot Machines
The mix of VIP table games, mass table games and slot machines in operation at Wynn Macau and Encore changes from time to time as a result of marketing and operating strategies in response to changing market demand and industry competition. The shift in the mix of Wynn Macau's and Encore's games will affect casino profitability.
ADJUSTED EBITDA
Adjusted EBITDA is earnings before finance costs, taxes, depreciation, amortization, pre-opening costs, property charges and other, share-based payments, and other non-operating income/(expense). Adjusted EBITDA is presented exclusively as a supplemental disclosure because our Directors believe that it is widely used to measure the performance, and as a basis for valuation, of gaming companies. Our Adjusted EBITDA presented herein also differs from the Adjusted EBITDA presented by Wynn Resorts, Limited for its Macau segment in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission in the United States, primarily due to the inclusion of royalty fees, adjustments for IFRS differences with U.S. GAAP, corporate support and other support services in arriving at operating profits.
The following table sets forth a quantitative reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to its most directly comparable IFRS measurement, operating profits, for the six months ended 30 June 2010 and 2009.
 
Note:
 
 
REVIEW OF HISTORICAL OPERATING RESULTS
Summary Breakdown Table
The following table presents certain selected income statement line items and certain other data.
 
Notes:
 
 
 
The following table presents a reconciliation of net non-casino revenues as reported in our condensed consolidated statement of comprehensive income to gross non-casino revenues calculated on the adjusted basis. The adjusted non-casino revenues as presented below are used for management reporting purposes and are not representative of revenues as determined under IAS 18.
 
 
 
Discussion of Results of Operations
Financial results for the six months ended 30 June 2010 compared to financial results for the six months ended 30 June 2009
Operating Revenues
Total operating revenues increased by 52.2% from HK$6.7 billion in the six months ended 30 June 2009 to HK$10.1 billion in the six months ended 30 June 2010. We believe this increase was due to a combination of factors, including the opening of Encore, increased visitation and overall gaming volumes in Macau during the first half of 2010.
Casino Revenues
Casino revenues increased by 51.8%, from HK$6.3 billion (94.1% of total operating revenues) in the six months ended 30 June 2009 to HK$9.5 billion (93.8% of total operating revenues) in the six months ended 30 June 2010. The components and reasons are as follows:
VIP gross table games win increased by 74.3%, from HK$5.5 billion in the six months ended 30 June 2009 to HK$9.7 billion in the six months ended 30 June 2010. VIP table games turnover increased by 80.2%, from HK$180.8 billion in the six months ended 30 June 2009 to HK$325.6 billion in the six months ended 30 June 2010. VIP gross table games win as a percentage of turnover (calculated before discounts and commissions) decreased from 3.07% in the six months ended 30 June 2009 to 2.97% in the six months ended 30 June 2010 (win percentages are within the expected range of 2.7% to 3.0%). In November 2009, we added two new private gaming salons with 29 VIP tables and on 21 April 2010, we added 37 VIP tables with the opening of Encore which helped drive some of the growth in our VIP segment during the six months ended 30 June 2010 compared to the prior year.
VIP casino gaming operations.
Mass market gross table games win increased by 13.2%, from HK$1.7 billion in the six months ended 30 June 2009 to HK$1.9 billion in the six months ended 30 June 2010. Mass market table games drop increased by 9.7%, from HK$7.6 billion in the six months ended 30 June 2009 to HK$8.4 billion in the six months ended 30 June 2010. The mass market gross table games win percentage (calculated before discounts) was 21.8% in the six months ended 30 June 2009 compared to 22.5% in the six months ended 30 June 2010, which was above the expected win percentage range of 19% to 21%.
Mass market casino gaming operations.
Slot machine win increased by 5.8% from HK$712.2 million in the six months ended 30 June 2009 to HK$753.2 million in the six months ended 30 June 2010. Slot machine handle increased by 8.2%, from HK$14.3 billion in the six months ended 30 June 2009 to HK$15.5 billion in the six months ended 30 June 2010. The increases resulted primarily from the play of high-end slot customers. Consequently, total gross slot win increased and slot machine
Slot machine gaming operations.
 
win per unit per day increased by 10.5% from HK$3,191 in the six months ended 30 June 2009 to HK$3,526 in the six months ended 30 June 2010.
Non-casino Revenues
Net non-casino revenues, which include room, food and beverage and retail revenues, increased by 59.3%, from HK$395.0 million (5.9% of total operating revenues) in the six months ended 30 June 2009 to HK$629.1 million (6.2% of total operating revenues) in the six months ended 30 June 2010. The increase in revenues was largely due to stronger retail sales in the six months ended 30 June 2010 and the opening of Encore.
Our room revenues, which exclude promotional allowances in our condensed consolidated statement of comprehensive income, increased by 3.7% from HK$55.0 million in the six months ended 30 June 2009 to HK$57.0 million in the six months ended 30 June 2010. The increase reflects higher business volumes as the opening of Encore increased room inventory available for sale to customers.
Room.
Management also evaluates room revenues on an adjusted basis which include promotional allowances. Adjusted room revenues including promotional allowances increased by 37.1% from HK$209.7 million in the six months ended 30 June 2009 to HK$287.5 million in the six months ended 30 June 2010.
The following table presents additional information about our adjusted room revenues (which include promotional allowances):
Adjusted room revenues information
 
Food and beverage revenues, which exclude promotional allowances in our condensed consolidated statement of comprehensive income, totale HK$76.0 million in the six months ended 30 June 2010, a 19.4% increase from the six months ended 30 June 2009 revenues of HK$63.7 million. The increase reflects higher business volumes and the opening of Encore.
Food and beverage.
d
 
Management also evaluates food and beverage revenues on an adjusted basis including promotional allowances. Food and beverage revenues in the six months ended 30 June 2010 adjusted to include these promotional allowances were HK$246.6 million, a 31.0% increase from the six months ended 30 June 2009 adjusted revenues of HK$188.3 million reflecting the increase in business volumes and the opening of Encore.
Our retail and other revenues, which exclude promotional allowances in our condensed consolidated statement of comprehensive income, increased by 79.5%, from HK$276.3 million in the six months ended 30 June 2009 to HK$496.0 million in the six months ended 30 June 2010. The increase was due primarily to increased sales at several retail outlets and the opening in November 2009 of Wynn and Co. Watches and Jewelry, which sells Cartier and Jaeger Le Coultre products and new outlets at Encore at Wynn Macau including Chanel, Piaget and Cartier at Encore.
Retail and other.
Management also evaluates retail and other revenues on an adjusted basis which includes promotional allowances. Adjusted retail and other revenues including promotional allowances increased by 79.5% from HK$280.3 million in the six months ended 30 June 2009 to HK$503.2 million in the six months ended 30 June 2010, reflecting the increased sales at several retail outlets and the opening of Wynn and Co. Watches and Jewelry, which sells Cartier and Jaeger Le Coultre at Wynn Macau, and Chanel, Piaget and Cartier at Encore.
Operating Costs and Expenses
Gaming taxes and premiums increased by 54.2%, from HK$3.2 billion in the six months ended 30 June 2009 to HK$4.9 billion in the six months ended 30 June 2010. This increase was due to increased gross gaming win from the six months ended 30 June 2010 compared to the six months ended 30 June 2009. Wynn Macau is subject to a 35% gaming tax on gross gaming win. In addition, Wynn Macau is also required to pay 4% of its gross gaming win as contributions for public development and social facilities.
Gaming taxes and premiums.
Staff costs increased by 7.5%, from HK$817.9 million in the six months ended 30 June 2009 to HK$879.2 million in the six months ended 30 June 2010. The increase was primarily due to the hiring of additional staff for Encore.
Staff costs.
Other operating expenses increased by 54.4%, from HK$1.2 billion in the six months ended 30 June 2009 to HK$1.8 billion in the six months ended 30 June 2010. The increase in other operating costs was primarily due to the opening of Encore offset by the effect of various cost-control measures implemented throughout 2009.
Other operating expenses.
Depreciation and amortization increased by 24.2% from HK$358.6 million in the six months ended 30 June 2009 to HK$445.4 million in the six months ended 30 June 2010. This increase was primarily due to the impact of assets placed in service with the opening of Encore in April 2010 and the expansion that opened in November 2009.
Depreciation and amortization.
Property charges and other increased by 69.3%, from HK$13.5 million in the six months ended 30 June 2009 to HK$22.9 million in the six months ended 30 June 2010. The charges in each period represent gain/loss on the sale of equipment as well as costs related to assets retired or abandoned as a result of renovating certain assets of Wynn Macau in response to customer preferences and changes in market demand.
Property charges and other.
 
As a result of the foregoing, total operating costs and expenses increased by 45.5%, from HK$5.6 billion in the six months ended 30 June 2009 to HK$8.1 billion in the six months ended 30 June 2010.
Finance Revenues
Finance revenues decreased by 91.6%, from HK$3.2 million in the six months ended 30 June 2009 to HK$0.3 million in the six months ended 30 June 2010, reflecting a significant decrease in the average invested cash balances compared to the prior year.
Finance Costs
Finance costs decreased by 44.0%, from HK$191.2 million in the six months ended 30 June 2009 to HK$107.1 million in the six months ended 30 June 2010. Finance costs decreased in the six months ended 30 June 2010 primarily due to the reduction in amounts outstanding under the revolver component of the Wynn Macau Credit Facility and lower interest rates in 2010 compared to 2009.
Interest Rate Swaps
As required under the terms of our various credit facilities, we have entered into agreements which swap a portion of the interest on our loans from floating to fixed rates. These transactions do not qualify for hedge accounting.
Changes in the fair value of our interest rate swaps are recorded as an increase or decrease in swap fair value during each year. We recorded an expense of HK$5.6 million for the six months ended 30 June 2010 resulting from the decrease in the fair value of our interest rate swaps in the six months ended 30 June 2010. We recorded a gain of HK$6.1 million in the six months ended 30 June 2009 resulting from the increase in the fair value of our interest rate swaps in the six months ended 30 June 2009.
Income Tax Expense
In the six months ended 30 June 2010, our income tax expense was HK$36.1 million compared to an income tax expense of HK$22.2 million in the six months ended 30 June 2009. Our current tax expense for the six months ended 30 June 2010, primarily relates to the current tax expense recorded by our subsidiaries owning our interest in WRM under the WRM Shareholder Dividend Tax Agreement and a deferred tax expense recorded by WRM resulting from derecognizing certain deferred tax assets. In the six months ended 30 June 2009, our income tax expense mainly relates to the amount accrued for the years 2006 through June 2009 for the WRM Shareholder Dividend Tax Agreement.
Net Profits Attributable to Equity Holders of the Company
As a result of the foregoing, net profits attributable to equity holders of the Company increased by 111.0%, from HK$903.7 million in the six months ended 30 June 2009 to HK$1.9 billion in the six months ended 30 June 2010.
 
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
Capital Resources
Since Wynn Macau opened in 2006, we have generally funded our working capital and recurring expenses as well as capital expenditures from cash flow from operations and cash on hand.
Gearing Ratio
The gearing ratio is a key indicator of our Group's capital structure. The gearing ratio is net debt divided by total capital plus net debt. The table below presents the calculation of our gearing ratio as at 30 June 2010 and 31 December 2009.
 
Cash Flows
Our cash balances at 30 June 2010 were HK$4.2 billion. Such cash is available for operations, new development activities and enhancements to Wynn Macau and Encore. In addition, as at 30 June 2010, we had HK$6.8 billion available to draw under the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities.
The following table presents a summary of the Group's cash flows for the six months ended 30 June 2010 and 2009.
 
Group Cash Flows
 
Net cash generated from operating activities
Our net cash generated from operating activities is primarily affected by operating income generated by Wynn Macau and Encore as a result of increased casino revenues, better costs control, and benefits from changes in working capital. Net cash from operating activities was HK$2.8 billion in the six months ended 30 June 2010 compared to HK$1.8 billion in the six months ended 30 June 2009.
Operating profits were HK$2.1 billion for the six months ended 30 June 2010 compared to HK$1.1 billion for the six months ended 30 June 2009.
Net cash used in investing activities
Net cash used in investing activities was HK$827.1 million in the six months ended 30 June 2010, compared to net cash used in investing activities of HK$1.0 billion in the six months ended 30 June 2009.
Capital expenditures related primarily to the construction of Encore at Wynn Macau were HK$771.9 million and HK$1,052.9 million for the six months ended 30 June 2010 and 2009, respectively.
Net cash generated from/(used in) financing activities
Net cash used in financing activities was HK$3.0 billion during the six months ended 30 June 2010 compared to net cash generated from financing activities of HK$2.9 billion during the six months ended 30 June 2009.
The significant difference between net cash flow used in 2010 and net cash flow generated from 2009 is primarily due to a HK$2,882.7 million repayment of the senior revolving credit facility
 
under WRM's credit facilities made in 2010 compared to the HK$3,893.5 million drawn from the senior revolving credit facility and the dividend payment of HK$559.1 million in 2009.
Indebtedness
The following table presents a summary of our indebtedness as at 30 June 2010 and 31 December 2009.
Indebtedness information
 
The Group had approximately HK$6.8 billion available to draw under the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities as at 30 June 2010.
Wynn Macau Credit Facilities
Overview
As at 30 June 2010, WRM's credit facilities consisted of HK$12.0 billion in a combination of Hong Kong dollar and U.S. dollar facilities, including a HK$4.3 billion fully funded senior term loan facility and a HK$7.7 billion senior revolving credit facility. The facilities may be used for a variety of purposes, including further enhancements at our resort, investments in other projects in Macau and general corporate purposes.
We have the ability to increase secured debt under the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities by up to an additional US$50 million (approximately HK$389.3 million).
As at 30 June 2010, we had total bank and other borrowings under the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities of HK$5.3 billion, of which HK$1.5 billion was denominated in U.S. dollars and HK$3.8 billion was denominated in Hong Kong dollars.
The Company is not a party to the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities and has no rights or obligations thereunder.
 
Principal and Interest
The term loans under the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities mature in June 2014, and the revolving loans under the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities mature in June 2012. The principal amount of the term loans is required to be repaid in quarterly installments, commencing in September 2011.
Borrowings under the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities currently bear interest at London Inter-bank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") or Hong Kong Interbank Offered Rate ("HIBOR") (depending on the currency of the borrowing) plus a margin of 1.75%. Beginning after 30 September 2010, the margin will be subject to increases or decreases, with a resulting margin of between 1.25% and 2.00%, depending on WRM's leverage ratio.
General Covenants
The Wynn Macau Credit Facilities contain customary covenants restricting certain activities of the obligor group (WM Cayman Holdings Limited II and all of its subsidiaries except Palo Real Estate Company Limited), which does not include the Company, including, but not limited to, the incurrence of additional indebtedness, the incurrence or creation of liens on property, sale and leaseback transactions, the ability to dispose of assets and the making of loans or other investments, entering into mergers, consolidations, liquidations or amalgamations, forming or acquiring subsidiaries, amending, modifying or terminating certain material contracts, permits and governing documents, entering into transactions with affiliates, changing fiscal periods, entering into business activities other than certain permitted activities, and selling or discounting receivables, in each case, subject to certain permitted exceptions.
Financial Covenants
The Wynn Macau Credit Facilities financial covenants require WRM to maintain a Leverage Ratio, as defined in the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities, of not greater than 4.75 to 1 as of 30 June 2010, and an Interest Coverage Ratio, as defined in the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities, of not less than 2 to 1. The Leverage Ratio decreases to not greater than 4.5 to 1 for the quarterly reporting period ending 30 September 2010 and 4 to 1 for the quarterly reporting period ending 31 December 2010. The Interest Coverage Ratio requirement remains at not less than 2 to 1 for each quarterly reporting period during 2010.
Compliance with Covenants
The Directors confirm that there is no material non-compliance with the financial covenants or general covenants contained in the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities.
Mandatory Prepayment
The Wynn Macau Credit Facilities contain mandatory prepayment provisions, which include, among other matters, prepayment of 50% of excess cash flow, as defined in the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities, if WRM's Leverage Ratio is greater than 4 to 1 for each quarterly period.
 
Dividend Restrictions
WRM and certain of its affiliates are subject to restrictions on payment of dividends or distributions or other amounts to their shareholders or to other affiliates, unless certain financial and non-financial criteria have been satisfied. Provided certain conditions are met, WRM is permitted to pay dividends. The conditions to be satisfied for the payment of dividends include:
 
 
 
 
Events of Default
The Wynn Macau Credit Facilities contain customary events of default, such as failure to pay, breach of covenants, insolvency proceedings, material adverse effect and cross default provisions. Events of default also include certain breaches of the terms of the Concession Agreement, and the taking of certain formal measures or administrative intervention by the Macau government in respect of the Concession Agreement or the concession for the land on which Wynn Macau is located.
The Wynn Macau Credit Facilities also include a change of control event of default which includes:
 
 
 
Security and Guarantees
Collateral for the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities consists of substantially all of the assets of WRM. Certain of our direct and indirect subsidiaries have executed guarantees and pledged their interests in WRM in support of the obligations under the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities. With respect to the
 
Concession Agreement, the WRM lenders do have certain cure rights and consultation rights with the Macau government upon an enforcement by the lenders.
Second Ranking Lender
WRM is also party to a bank guarantee reimbursement agreement with Banco National Ultramarino S.A. to secure a guarantee in favor of the Macau government as required under the Concession Agreement. The amount of this guarantee is MOP300 million (HK$291.3 million) and it lasts until 180 days after the end of the term of the Concession Agreement. The guarantee assures WRM's performance under the Concession Agreement, including the payment of certain premiums, fines and indemnities for breach. The guarantee is secured by a second priority security interest in the same collateral package securing the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK
Market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and conditions, such as inflation, interest rates, and foreign currency exchange rates.
Foreign Exchange Risks
The financial statements of foreign operations are translated into Hong Kong dollars, the Group's presentation currency, for incorporation into the consolidated financial statements. Assets and liabilities are translated at the prevailing foreign exchange rates in effect at the end of the reporting period. Income, expenditures and cash flow items are measured at the actual foreign exchange rates or average foreign exchange rates for the period. The Hong Kong dollar is linked to the U.S. dollar and the exchange rate between these two currencies has remained relatively stable over the past several years. However, the exchange linkages of the Hong Kong dollar and the Macau pataca to the U.S. dollar, are subject to potential changes due to, among other things, changes in governmental policies and international economic and political developments.
Interest Rate Risks
One of our primary exposures to market risk is interest rate risk associated with our credit facilities, which bear interest based on floating rates. We attempt to manage interest rate risk by managing the mix of long-term fixed rate borrowings and variable rate borrowings supplemented by hedging activities as considered necessary. We cannot assure you that these risk management strategies will have the desired effect, and interest rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on our results of operations.
As at 30 June 2010, the Group had three interest rate swaps intended to swap a portion of the underlying interest rate risk on borrowings under the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities. Under the first swap agreement, the Group pays a fixed interest rate of 3.632% on U.S. dollar borrowings of approximately US$153.8 million (approximately HK$1.2 billion) incurred under the US$550 million (approximately HK$4.3 billion) term loan portion of the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities in exchange for receipts on the same amount at a variable interest rate based on the applicable LIBOR at the time of payment. Under the second swap agreement, the Group pays a fixed interest
 
rate of 3.39% on Hong Kong dollar borrowings of approximately HK$991.6 million incurred under the US$550 million (approximately HK$4.3 billion) term loan portion of the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities in exchange for receipts on the same amount at a variable interest rate based on the applicable HIBOR at the time of payment. These interest rate swaps fix the interest rates on the U.S. dollar and the Hong Kong dollar term loan borrowings at approximately 5.382% and 5.14%, respectively. These two interest rate swap agreements will mature in August 2011.
The Group entered into another interest rate swap agreement on 17 August 2009, with an effective date of 27 November 2009, to swap a portion of the underlying interest rate risk on borrowings under the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities. Under this swap agreement, beginning 27 November 2009, the Group pays a fixed interest rate of 2.15% on borrowings of approximately HK$2.3 billion incurred under the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities in exchange for receipts on the same amount at a variable interest rate based on the applicable HIBOR at the time of payment. This interest rate swap fixes the interest rate on HK$2.3 billion of borrowings under the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities at approximately 3.9%. This interest rate swap agreement will mature in June 2012.
The carrying values of these interest rate swaps on the condensed consolidated statement of financial position approximates their fair values. The fair value approximates the amount the Group would pay if these contracts were settled at the respective valuation dates. Fair value is estimated based upon current, and predictions of future, interest rate levels along a yield curve, the remaining duration of the instruments and other market conditions, and therefore, is subject to significant estimation and a high degree of variability of fluctuation between periods. We adjust this amount by applying a non-performance valuation, considering our creditworthiness or the creditworthiness of our counterparties at each settlement date, as applicable. These transactions do not qualify for hedge accounting. Accordingly, changes in the fair values during the periods ended 30 June 2010 and 2009 were charged to the condensed consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Our liabilities under the swap agreements are secured by the same collateral package securing the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities.
OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS
We have not entered into any transactions with special purpose entities nor do we engage in any transactions involving derivatives except for interest rate swaps. We do not have any retained or contingent interest in assets transferred to an unconsolidated entity.
OTHER LIQUIDITY MATTERS
We expect that Wynn Macau and Encore will fund their operations and capital expenditure requirements from operating cash flows, cash on hand and availability under the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities. However, we cannot be sure that operating cash flows will be sufficient for those purposes. We may refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We cannot be sure that we will be able to refinance any of the indebtedness on acceptable terms or at all.
New business developments (including our development of a project in Cotai) or other unforeseen events may occur, resulting in the need to raise additional funds. There can be no assurances regarding the business prospects with respect to any other opportunity. Any other development would require us to obtain additional financing.
 
In the ordinary course of business, in response to market demands and client preferences, and in order to increase revenues, we have made and will continue to make enhancements and refinements to Wynn Macau and Encore. We have incurred and will continue to incur capital expenditures related to these enhancements and refinements.
Taking into consideration our financial resources, including our cash and cash equivalents, internally generated funds and availability under the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities, we believe that we have sufficient liquid assets to meet our working capital and operating requirements for the following 12 months.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
For details of the related party transactions, see note 11 to this announcement. Our Directors confirm that all related party transactions are conducted on normal commercial terms, and that their terms are fair and reasonable.
PURCHASE, SALE OR REDEMPTION OF COMPANY'S LISTED SECURITIES
Neither the Company, nor any of its subsidiaries purchased, sold or redeemed any of the Company's shares during the six months ended 30 June 2010.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
The Company is dedicated to maintaining and ensuring high standards of corporate governance practices and the corporate governance principles of the Company are adopted in the best interest of the Company and its Shareholders. The Company's corporate governance practices are based on the principles, code provisions and certain recommended best practices as set out in the Code on Corporate Governance Practices.
The Company has, for the six months ended 30 June 2010, complied with the code provisions in the Code (to the extent that such provisions are applicable) since the Listing, except for the following deviations from code provision A.2.1 of the Code.
Stephen A. Wynn as our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Under code provision A.2.1 of the Code, the roles of chairman and chief executive officer should be separate and should not be performed by the same individual. The Company does not at present separate the roles of the chairman and chief executive officer.
Mr. Wynn, the founder of the Company and Wynn Macau, serves as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company. The Board has determined that the combination of these roles held singularly by Mr. Wynn is in the best interest of the Company and all Shareholders. The Board believes that the issue of whether to combine or separate the offices of Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer is part of the succession planning process and that it is in the best interests of the Company for the Board to make a determination whether to combine or separate the roles
 
based upon the circumstances. The Board has given careful consideration to separating the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and has determined that the Company and its Shareholders are best served by the current structure. Mr. Wynn's combined role promotes unified leadership and direction for the Board and executive management and allows for a single, clear focus for the Company's operational and strategic efforts.
The combined role of Mr. Wynn as both Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is balanced by the Company's governance structure, policies and controls. All major decisions are made in consultation with members of the Board and the relevant Board committees. The Company has three Board committees, namely the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee, and Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee. Each Board committee comprises non-executive Directors only and is chaired by an independent non-executive Director. In addition, there are three independent non-executive Directors on the Board offering independent perspectives. This structure encourages independent and effective oversight of the Company's operations and prudent management of risk.
For the reasons stated above and as a result of the structure, policies and procedures outlined above, and in light of the historical success of Mr. Wynn's leadership, the Board has concluded that the current Board leadership structure is in the best interests of the Company and its Shareholders.
MODEL CODE FOR SECURITIES TRANSACTIONS BY DIRECTORS
The Company adopted the Model Code on 16 September 2009 as its code of conduct for securities transactions by Directors. On 23 March 2010, the Company adopted its own code of conduct for securities transactions, the terms of such code being no less exacting than those set out in the Model Code. Having made specific enquiry of the Directors, all Directors have confirmed that they have complied with the required standard of dealings and code of conduct regarding securities dealings by directors as set out in the Model Code and the Company's own code of conduct for the six months ended 30 June 2010.
AUDIT COMMITTEE
An Audit Committee has been established by the Company to review and supervise the financial reporting process and internal control procedures of the Group. The Audit Committee comprises one non-executive Director and two independent non-executive Directors of the Company. The Audit Committee has reviewed the Group's results for the six months ended 30 June 2010.
INTERIM REPORT
The Group's unaudited interim financial information for the Reporting Period have been reviewed by the Audit Committee of the Company which comprises three non-executive Directors: Mr. Nicholas Sallnow-Smith, Dr. Allan Zeman and Mr. Bruce Rockowitz and by the Company's auditors in accordance with Hong Kong Standards on Review Engagements 2410, "Review of Interim Financial Information Performed by the Independent Auditor of the Entity" issued by the Hong Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants. The report on review of the interim financial information by the auditors will be included in the Interim Report to be sent to the shareholders.
 
DEFINITIONS USED IN THIS ANNOUNCEMENT
 
 
 
 
 
GLOSSARY OF TERMS USED IN THIS ANNOUNCEMENT
 
 
 
 
Hong Kong, 20 August 2010
As of the date of this announcement, the Board comprises Stephen A. Wynn, Ian Michael Coughlan and Linda Chen (as executive Directors); Kazuo Okada, Allan Zeman and Marc D. Schorr (as non-executive directors); and Nicholas Sallnow-Smith, Bruce Rockowitz and Jeffrey Kim-fung Lam (as independent non-executive Directors).
 


