FILE:WYNN/WYNN-8K-20100205160333.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01.  Entry Into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On February 2, 2010, Wynn Resorts, Limited (the Company) entered into a fifth amendment to the Employment Agreement, dated as of October 1, 2005, by and between the Company and Matt Maddox, the Companys Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer.  The amendment provides for a base salary payable to Mr. Maddox of $1,000,000 per annum effective November 6, 2009.  A copy of the amendment is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is hereby incorporated by reference.
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
The information contained in Item 1.01 of this report is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d)   Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date:     February 5, 2010
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
This FIFTH AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT (this "") is entered into on the 2nd day of February 2010, by and between Wynn Resorts, Limited () and Matt Maddox ("").  Capitalized terms that are not defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Agreement (as defined below).
Amendment
Employer
Employee
 
 
WHEREAS, Employer and Employee are party to that certain Employment Agreement, dated as of October 1, 2005, by and between Wynn Las Vegas, LLC and Employee, subsequently assigned to Employer, as amended by that certain First Amendment to Employment Agreement, dated as of May 5, 2008, as further amended by that certain Second Amendment to Employment Agreement, dated as of December 31, 2008, and as further amended by that certain Amendment to Employment Agreement, dated as of February 13, 2009, and Fourth Amendment to Employment Agreement dated March 9, 2009 (collectively, the ""); and
Agreement
 
WHEREAS, the parties have agreed to amend the Agreement as provided herein;
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the above and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties agree as follows:
1.
 
  Section 7(a) of the Agreement is amended to provide that effective November 6, 2009, Base Salary paid to Employee shall be One Million Dollars per annum.
Base Salary
.
2.
 
.  The parties acknowledge that the Agreement is being modified only as stated herein, and agree that nothing else in the Agreement shall be affected by this Amendment.
Other Provisions of Agreement
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be executed as of the date first written above.
 
 
 
 


