FILE:WYNN/WYNN-8K-20100106161807.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On January 6, 2010, Stephen A. Wynn (Mr. Wynn), the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Wynn Resorts, Limited (the Registrant), Elaine P. Wynn (Ms. Wynn) and Aruze USA, Inc. (Aruze), a Nevada corporation, entered into an Amended and Restated Stockholders Agreement (the Amended and Restated Stockholders Agreement) whereby that certain Stockholders Agreement, entered into as of April 11, 2002, between Mr. Wynn and Aruze, as amended by that certain Amendment to Stockholders Agreement, entered into as of November 8, 2006, between Mr. Wynn and Aruze, the Waiver and Consent, dated July 31, 2009, and the Waiver and Consent, dated as of August 13, 2009, was amended and restated in its entirety.  Pursuant to the Amended and Restated Stockholders Agreement, Ms. Wynn (a) became a party to the Amended and Restated Stockholders Agreement in connection with her ownership of 11,076,709 shares of the Registrants common stock, par value $0.01 per share, that were transferred to Ms. Wynn by Mr. Wynn and (b) became subject to the covenants and provisions thereof, including with respect to voting agreements, preemptive rights, rights of first refusal, tag-along rights and certain other restrictions on transfer of such shares subject to release of $10 million of such shares on January 6, 2010 and on each of the following nine anniversaries thereof.  In addition, the Amended and Restated Stockholders Agreement amended the voting agreement provision to provide that each of Mr. Wynn, Ms. Wynn and Aruze agree to vote all shares of the Registrant held by them and subject to the terms of the Amended and Restated Stockholders Agreement in a manner so as to elect to the Registrants Board of Directors each of the nominees contained on each and every slate of directors endorsed by Mr. Wynn, which slate shall include, subject to certain conditions, Ms. Wynn and, so long as such slate results in a majority of directors at all times being candidates endorsed by Mr. Wynn, nominees approved by Aruze.
The foregoing description of the Amended and Restated Stockholders Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amended and Restated Stockholders Agreement which is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by this reference.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:  January 6, 2010

 
Exhibit 10.1
 
AMENDED AND RESTATED
 
This Amended and Restated Stockholders Agreement (the ), is made as of the 6 day of January, 2010, by and among (), an individual, Elaine P. Wynn (), an individual, and ().
"Agreement"
th
Stephen A. Wynn
"SAW"
EW
Aruze USA, Inc., a Nevada corporation
"Aruze"
 
 
WHEREAS, SAW, Baron Asset Fund (Baron) and Aruze entered into that certain Stockholders Agreement as of April 2002, which Stockholders Agreement was amended by that certain Amendment to Stockholders Agreement dated as of November 8, 2006, Waiver and Consent dated as of July 31, 2009, and Waiver and Consent dated as of August 13, 2009 (the Existing Agreement);
 
WHEREAS, SAW has agreed to transfer to EW, 11,076,709 (the EW Shares) shares of common stock of Wynn Resorts, Limited (Wynn) as permitted by the Existing Agreement;
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to the terms of the Existing Agreement, EW is to become a party to the Existing Agreement in connection with her ownership of the EW Shares; and
 
WHEREAS, the parties have agreed to further amend the terms of the Existing Agreement and have agreed to amend and restate the terms and provisions of the Existing Agreement as provided herein.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the agreements set forth below, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 2 - -
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 3 - -
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 4 - -
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 5 - -
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 6 - -
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 7 - -
 
 
 
 
- 8 - -
 
 
          
 
 
- 9 - -
 
 
 
 
 
         
 
 
- 10 - -
 
 
 
 
 
 
         
- 11 - -
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 12 - -
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 13 - -
 
 
 
or to such other address as the person to whom notice is given may have previously furnished to the others in writing in the manner set forth above.
 
- 14 - -
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 15 - -
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 16 - -
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by Wynn and a duly authorized officer of Aruze and Baron on the day and year first written above.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By its execution hereof, and in order to secure obligations under the Amended and Restated Stockholders Agreement of even date herewith among ("SAW"), Elaine P. Wynn, an individual (EW), and (the "Agreement") Stockholder (as defined in the Agreement) other than SAW (collectively Proxy Grantors), hereby irrevocably constitutes and appoints SAW, with full power of substitution and resubstitution, from the date hereof to the termination of the Agreement, as such true and lawful attorney and proxy (its "Proxy"), for and in such ' name, place and stead to vote each of the Shares of each such as such 's Proxy at every annual, special or adjourned meeting of stockholders of Wynn (as defined in the Agreement), and to sign on behalf of such (as a stockholder of Wynn) any ballot, proxy, consent, certificate or other document relating to Wynn that law permits or requires, for the election of directors as more specifically provided and in a manner consistent with the Agreement.  This Proxy is coupled with interest and each intends this Proxy to be irrevocable to the fullest extent permitted by law.  Each hereby revokes any proxy previously granted by such with respect to such 's Shares.  Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Agreement.  Each shall perform such further acts and execute such further documents and instruments as may reasonably be required to vest in SAW or any of his designees, the power to carry out and give effect to the provisions of this Proxy.  This Irrevocable Proxy shall be in full force and effect until the Termination Date.
Stephen A. Wynn, an individual
Aruze USA, Inc., a Nevada corporation
, EW,
Aruze USA, Inc. and each Designated
Proxy Grantors
Proxy Grantors
Proxy Grantor
Proxy Grantor
Proxy Grantor
Proxy Grantor
Proxy Grantor
Proxy Grantor
Proxy Grantor
Proxy Grantor
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Irrevocable Proxy this ____ day of January 2010.
 
 
 
 


