FILE:WYNN/WYNN-8K-20100329160409.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On March 26, 2010, Wynn Resorts, Limited (Wynn Resorts) issued a press release announcing that Wynn Las Vegas, LLC and Wynn Las Vegas Capital Corp., each a direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Wynn Resorts, have commenced a private exchange offer for certain of their outstanding debt securities.  The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by this reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:           March 26, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:           March 26, 2010
 
 

 
 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 Wynn Resorts, Limited (NASDAQ: WYNN) announced today that Wynn Las Vegas, LLC and Wynn Las Vegas Capital Corp. (the issuers), each a direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Wynn Resorts, Limited, intend to commence an offer to exchange all outstanding 6% First Mortgage Notes due 2014 (the 2014 Notes) for 7% First Mortgage Notes due 2020 (the 2020 Notes) of the issuers, upon the terms and subject to the conditions to be set forth in an offering memorandum (the offering memorandum), and a related letter of transmittal (the exchange offer).  The exchange offer is conditioned upon, among other things, the tender of at least $250 million aggr egate principal amount of 2014 Notes. The 2020 Notes will be offered only to qualified institutional buyers and outside the United States in accordance with Rule 144A and Regulation S, respectively, under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act).
LAS VEGAS, Nevada, March 26, 2010
 
The 2020 Notes will rank pari passu in right of payment with borrowings under Wynn Las Vegas, LLCs credit facilities, the 2014 Notes and the issuers 7% First Mortgage Notes due 2017 (the 2017 Notes).  The 2020 Notes will be senior secured obligations of the issuers, will be guaranteed by certain of Wynn Las Vegas, LLCs subsidiaries and will be secured by a first priority lien on substantially all of the existing and future assets of the issuers and guarantors and, subject to approval from the Nevada Gaming Commission, a first priority lien on the equity interests of Wynn Las Vegas, LLC, all of which is the same collateral that secures borrowings under Wynn Las Vegas, LLCs credit facilities, the 2014 Notes and the 2017 Notes.
 
As further described in the offering memorandum, noteholders who validly tender 2014 Notes prior to the early delivery time will receive an early delivery payment in cash.
 
This announcement shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy securities, nor shall there be any offer or sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. The 2020 Notes will not be registered under the Securities Act and they may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration.  Documents relating to the offer will only be distributed to noteholders who complete and return a letter of eligibility confirming that they are within the category of eligible investors for this private offer. Noteholders who desire a copy of the eligibility letter should contact Global Bondholder Services Corporat ion, the information agent for the exchange offer, at (866) 470-3800 (U.S. Toll-free) or (212) 925-1630 (Collect).
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This release contains forward-looking statements about Wynn Las Vegas, LLC and Wynn Las Vegas Capital Corp., including those related to the offering of 2020 Notes and whether or not Wynn Las Vegas, LLC and Wynn Las Vegas Capital Corp. will consummate the offering.  Such forward-looking information involves important risks and uncertainties that could significantly affect anticipated results in the future and, accordingly, such results may differ from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by Wynn Resorts, Limited or the issuers.  The risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, competition in the casino/hotel and resorts industries, the issuers dependence on existing management, levels of travel, leisure and casino spending, general domestic or international economic conditions , and changes in gaming laws or regulations.  Additional information concerning potential factors that could affect the issuers financial results is included in Wynn Las Vegas, LLCs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 and Wynn Las Vegas, LLCs other periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Neither Wynn Resorts, Limited nor the issuers are under any obligation to (and expressly disclaim any such obligation to) update their forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
CONTACT: Wynn Resorts, Limited
Samanta Stewart, 702-770-7555
investorrelations@wynnresorts.com
SOURCE: Wynn Resorts, Limited


