FILE:WYNN/WYNN-8K-20101215161914.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
FORM 8-K
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
   
On December 15, 2010, Stephen A. Wynn (Mr. Wynn), the Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of Wynn Resorts, Limited (the Registrant), Elaine P. Wynn, a member of the Board of Directors of the Registrant (Ms. Wynn), and Aruze USA, Inc. (Aruze), a Nevada corporation, entered into a Waiver and Consent (the Waiver and Consent) with respect to that certain Amended and Restated Stockholders Agreement, dated January 6, 2010, by and among Mr. Wynn, Ms. Wynn and Aruze (the Stockholders Agreement).  Pursuant to the Waiver and Consent, (a) the parties agreed to accelerate the release of 61,956 shares (the EW Released Shares) of common stock, par value $0.01, of the Registrant (Commo n Stock) to Ms. Wynn pursuant to Section 11 of the Stockholders Agreement from January 6, 2011 to December 15, 2010, (b) Mr. Wynn agreed to waive his right of first refusal with respect to the EW Released Shares and (c) each of Mr. Wynn and Ms. Wynn consented to the transfer by Aruze of up to 1,000,000 shares (the Aruze Released Shares) of Common Stock from the Stockholders Agreement.  The parties agreed that the Aruze Released Shares shall be released from all terms and restrictions set forth in the Stockholders Agreement upon the transfer of such shares.  The parties further agreed that until any such transfer, the Aruze Released Shares shall remain subject to all terms and restrictions set forth in the Stockholders Agreement.
The foregoing description of the Waiver and Consent does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Waiver and Consent which is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by this reference.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:           December 15, 2010
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
This Waiver and Consent is made as of the 15th day of December, 2010 by and among Aruze USA, Inc. (Aruze), Stephen A. Wynn (SW) and Elaine P. Wynn (EW).
Now therefore, in consideration of the foregoing and the agreements set forth below, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
           In witness whereof, the parties have set their hand to this Agreement on the day and year first written above.
 
 


