FILE:WYNN/WYNN-8K-20100729161259.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02(d).  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers. 
On July 29, 2010, Wynn Resorts, Limited (the Company) appointed Marc D. Schorr as a member of the Companys Board of Directors. 
Mr. Schorr currently serves as Chief Operating Officer of the Company, a position he has held since June 2002, and is a member of the Companys Gaming Compliance Committee. Mr. Schorr also serves as a member of the Board of Directors of Wynn Macau, Limited, a majority owned subsidiary of the Company, and as an officer of several of the Companys other subsidiaries.
Mr. Schorr is a party to an employment agreement with the Company which is described in the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) on March 4, 2008, which description is hereby incorporated by reference. Mr. Schorr is also a party to a time-sharing agreement with Las Vegas Jet, LLC, a wholly owned indirect subsidiary of the Company, covering his personal use of Company-owned aircraft. The time-sharing agreement is described under Certain Relationships and Related TransactionsAircraft Arrangements in the Companys Definitive Proxy Statement on Form DEF 14A filed with the SEC on April 1, 2010, which description is hereby incorporated by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:           July 29, 2010


