FILE:WYNN/WYNN-8K-20100323194025.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On March 24, 2010 (Macau time) and March 23, 2010 (Las Vegas time), Wynn Macau, Limited ("WML"), an indirect subsidiary of Wynn Resorts, Limited (the "Registrant") with ordinary shares of its common stock listed on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, filed its preliminary results in respect of the year ended December 31, 2009 (the "Annual Results Announcement") with The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited. The Registrant owns approximately 72.3% of WML's ordinary shares of common stock. The Annual Results Announcement is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1. The information in this Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date: March 24, 2010
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited and The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited take no responsibility for the contents of this announcement, make no representation as to its accuracy or completeness and expressly disclaim any liability whatsoever for any loss howsoever arising from or in reliance upon the whole or any part of the contents of this announcement.
The Board of Directors of Wynn Macau, Limited (the "Company") is pleased to announce the audited consolidated annual results of the Company and its subsidiaries (collectively, the "Group") for the year ended 31 December 2009 as follows.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
 
DIVIDEND
The Board has not recommended a final dividend payment for the year ended 31 December 2009.
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
 
 
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Pursuant to the Group Reorganization which was undertaken for the purpose of the Listing of the Company's Shares on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, the Company acquired WM Cayman Holdings Limited II, which was at the relevant time the holding company of the subsidiaries comprising the Group, from the Company's immediate parent company, WM Cayman Holdings Limited I. The consideration for the acquisition consisted of (a) the issue by the Company to WM Cayman Holdings Limited I of an acquisition note; and (b) the issue by the Company to WM Cayman Holdings Limited I of such number of new Shares as would amount to approximately 75% of the Company's issued share capital (as calculated based on the Company's issued share capital following its initial public offering and assuming no exercise of the over-allotment option). The acquisition was completed on 8 October 2009 with the relevant Shares and acquisition note being issued by the Company to WM Cayman Holdings Limited I. The acquisition note was redeemed by the Company on 9 October 2009 for a sum of HK$12.6 billion. Since the completion of Group Reorganization on 8 October 2009, the Group has been the holding company of the subsidiaries now comprising the Group. The details of the Group Reorganization are set out in the section headed "Reorganization" in Appendix VI "Statutory and General Information" to the IPO Prospectus of the Company dated 24 September 2009, filed in connection with the Listing.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards which comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board (the "IASB"), International Accounting Standards ("IAS") and Standing Interpretation Committee interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Committee and the disclosure requirements of the Companies Ordinance. The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except for the revaluation of derivative financial instruments which have been measured at fair value. These financial statements are presented in Hong Kong dollars and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand (HK$'000) except where otherwise indicated.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the principles of merger accounting as a result of the Group Reorganization. On this basis, the Company has been treated as the holding company of its subsidiaries for the financial years presented rather than from the date of their acquisition. Accordingly, the results of the Group for the years ended 31 December 2008 and 2009 include the results of the Company and its subsidiaries with effect from 1 January 2008 or since their respective dates of incorporation, where this is a shorter period. The comparative consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2008 has been prepared on the basis that the existing Group had been in place at that date. All income, expenses and unrealized gains and losses resulting from intercompany transactions and intercompany balances within the Group are eliminated on consolidation in full.
In the opinion of the Directors the consolidated financial statements prepared on the above basis presented more fairly the results and state of affairs of the Group as a whole.
Except for the IAS 1(revised) which will affect the presentation of the Company's financial statements, the adoption of other new interpretations and amendments have had no significant financial effect on these financial statements and there have been no significant changes to the accounting policies applied in these financial statements.
IASB has issued a number of new and revised standards, amendments or interpretations that have been issued but are not yet effective. The Group has not early adopted these new and revised IFRSs.
 
The Group currently operates in one business segment, namely, the management of its casino, hotel, retail and food and beverage operations. A single management team reports to the chief operating decision-makers who comprehensively manage the entire business. Accordingly, the Group does not have separate reportable segments.
 
 
 
 
The major components of the income tax benefit/(expense) for the years ended 31 December 2009 and 2008 were:
 
No provision for Hong Kong profits tax for the year ended 31 December 2009 has been made as there was no assessable profits generated in Hong Kong (2008: Nil). Taxation for overseas jurisdictions is charged at the appropriate prevailing rates ruling in the respective jurisdictions and the maximum rate is 12% (2008: 12%).
 
The charge for the years ended 31 December 2009 and 2008 was reconciled to profits before tax as follows:
 
Deferred income tax as at 31 December 2009 and 2008 relates to the following:
 
The Group incurred Macau tax losses of approximately HK$532.1 million, HK$966.2 million, and HK$1,132.4 million during the tax years ended 31 December 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. These tax losses will expire in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. As at 31 December 2009 and 2008, deferred tax assets, relating to pre-opening expenses and tax losses carried forward, amounting to HK$247.6 million and HK$179.1 million, respectively, were not recognized as the Group determined it was not probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the deferred tax asset could be utilized.
 
Effective 6 September 2006, WRM received a 5-year exemption from Macau's 12% Complementary Tax on casino gaming profits ("Tax Holiday"). Accordingly, the Group was exempted from the payment of approximately HK$242.6 million in such taxes for the year ended 31 December 2009 (2008: HK$189.6 million). The Group's non-gaming profits remain subject to the Macau Complementary Tax and its casino winnings remain subject to the Macau Special Gaming tax and other levies in accordance with its Concession Agreement.
During June 2009, WRM entered into an agreement, effective retroactively to 2006, with the Macau Special Administrative Region that provides for an annual payment of MOP7.2 million (approximately HK$7.0 million) to the Macau Special Administrative Region in lieu of complementary tax on dividend distributions to its shareholders from gaming profits. The term of this agreement is five years, which coincides with the Tax Holiday which began in 2006. The agreement explicitly states that MOP21.6 million (approximately HK$21.0 million) was due upon execution of the agreement for the periods 2006 to 2008, and the remaining payments are due by 31 January of each year that the gaming profits are exempt from Complementary Tax. Therefore, included in the tax provision for the year 2009 are the amounts accrued for the years 2006 through 2009. In November 2009, the Group made a payment of MOP21.6 million (approximately HK$21.0 million) for the periods 2006 to 2008, whereas, MOP7.2 million (approximately HK$7.0 million) has been accrued for the year ended 31 December 2009.
The Group is exempt from income tax in the Isle of Man and the Cayman Islands. The Group's subsidiaries file income tax returns in Macau and various foreign jurisdictions as required by law. The Group's income tax returns are subject to examination by tax authorities in the locations where it operates. As at 31 December 2009, the Group has filed all significant income tax returns for the years 2002 to 2008. The Group's 2006 to 2008 Macau income tax returns remain subject to examination by the Macau Finance Bureau.
Quarterly, the Group reviews any potentially unfavorable tax outcome and when an unfavorable outcome is identified as probable and can be reasonably estimated, the Group then establishes a tax reserve for such possible unfavorable outcome. Estimating potential tax outcomes for any uncertain tax issues is highly judgmental and may not be indicative of the ultimate settlement with tax authorities. With respect to these items, as at 31 December 2009, the Group has provided a reserve of HK$37.4 million (2008: HK$37.4 million), and has included this amount in "other long-term liabilities". The Group believes that it has adequately provided reasonable reserves for prudent and foreseeable outcomes related to uncertain tax matters. As a result of the lack of authoritative guidance regarding the computation of the Group's complementary tax exemptions, the Group establishes reserves for its estimates of additional tax exposures if such exemptions are denied by the tax authorities.
 
The calculation of basic earnings per Share for the year is based on the consolidated net profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Company and on the weighted average number of 5,040,068,493 (2008: 5,000,000,000) Shares in issue during the year on the assumption that the Group Reorganization as determined in note 10 had been effective on 1 January 2008.
The weighted average number of Shares used to calculate the basic earnings per Share for the year ended 31 December 2008 includes the pro forma issued share capital of the Company of 5,000,000,000 Shares, comprising:
 
 
The weighted average number of Shares used to calculate the basic earnings per Share for the year ended 31 December 2009 includes the weighted average of 40,068,493 Shares issued upon the full exercise of the over-allotment option of the Company's Shares on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange on 14 October 2009 in addition to the aforementioned 5,000,000,000 Shares.
No diluted earnings per Share is presented as there were no potential dilutive Shares outstanding during the years.
 
The Group has the leasing right for certain land under a 25-year concession granted by the Macau government in return for the payment of premiums as described in note 9. In 2004, the Group also paid approximately HK$140 million to an unrelated third party for its relinquishment of rights to a portion of land. In November 2009, the Group paid HK$110.1 million to the Macau government related to government required modifications to the land concession due to construction of Encore at Wynn Macau, expansion of Wynn Macau and the additional square footage that will be added as a result of all such construction and expansion.
Leasehold interest activity is as follows:
 
 
Trade and other receivables consist of the following as at 31 December 2009 and 2008:
 
 
 
An aged analysis of receivables is as follows:
 
Substantially all of the trade and other receivables as at 31 December 2009 were repayable within 14 days.
As at 31 December 2009, trade and other receivables at nominal value of HK$268.9 million (2008: HK$289.9 million) were impaired and fully provided for. Movements in the provision for impairment of receivables of the Group were as follows:
 
 
During the year, the Group normally received credit terms of 30 days. An aged analysis of accounts payable, based on the invoice date, consists of the following as at 31 December 2009 and 2008.
 
 
The Group leases land from the Macau government under a 25-year land concession that expires in August 2029. Land premiums to the Macau government under the land concession are made as follows:
For Phase I
 
 
For Phase II
 
For Encore at Wynn Macau and other adjustments to Phase I and Phase II
 
As at 31 December 2009, all land premiums due under the 25-year land concession have been fully paid (2008: HK$47.0 million outstanding).
 
 
The following changes in the Company's authorized and issued share capital took place during the period from 4 September 2009 (date of incorporation) to 31 December 2009:
 
 
 
In connection with the Company's initial public offering, 1,250,000,000 Shares of HK$0.001 each were issued at a price of HK$10.08 per Share for a total cash consideration, before expenses, of HK$12,600,000,000. Dealings in these Shares on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange commenced on 9 October 2009.
 
Except as otherwise provided by the Company's articles of association or Cayman Islands law, each holder of Shares is entitled to one vote for each Share held of record on each matter submitted to a vote of Shareholders. Holders of the Shares have no cumulative voting conversion, redemption or preemptive rights or other rights to subscribe for additional Shares. Subject to any preferences that may be granted to the holders of the Company's preferred stock, each Shareholder is entitled to receive ratably such dividends as may be declared by the Board out of funds legally available therefor, as well as any distributions to the Shareholders and, in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, is entitled to share ratably in all assets of the Company remaining after payment of liabilities.
 
As at 31 December 2009 and 2008, the outstanding balances between the Group and the related companies were as follows:
 
Unless indicated in the above table, the amounts are unsecured, interest-free and repayable on demand.
 
The Group had the following material transactions with related parties:
 
All of the above transactions are noted as continuing related party transactions.
Notes:
 
Wynn Resorts, Limited provides corporate support services in large part related to assisting the Group with U.S. regulatory requirements. These services consist of a limited number of executives in relevant areas assisting the Group on U.S. regulatory and certain limited other matters. The assistance includes guidance on certain issues and ensuring that from a regulatory standpoint Wynn Resorts, Limited standard operating procedures are followed and maintained by the Group. The annual fee for the services provided by Wynn Resorts, Limited is based on an allocation of the actual proportion of Wynn Resorts, Limited's annual corporate departments' costs (including salaries and benefits for such employees during the period in which such services are rendered) and overhead expense related to the provision of such services, and in any event, such annual fee shall not exceed 50% of the aggregate annual corporate departments' costs and overhead expense incurred by Wynn Resorts, Limited during any financial year.
Similarly, WML and WRM had reciprocal arrangements to allow Wynn Resorts, Limited or its subsidiaries (other than the Group) to have access to the services of any of the Group's employees provided that such services do not materially interfere with such employee's obligations to, and responsibilities with, the Group. For services provided by the Group's employees, Wynn Resorts, Limited shall pay for the services based on an actual cost (including salaries and benefits for such employees during the period when such services are being rendered) and expense reimbursement basis.
Wynn Resorts, Limited allows WRM and its employees to use aircraft assets owned by Wynn Resorts, Limited and its subsidiaries (other than the Group) at hourly rates set by Las Vegas Jet, LLC, a subsidiary of Wynn Resorts, Limited. Similarly, WRM has reciprocal arrangements to allow Wynn Resorts, Limited or its subsidiaries (other than the Group) to use any aircraft assets that the Group could own in the future.
 
Prior to Listing, WRM had an arrangement with Wynn Resorts, Limited and Wynn Resorts Holdings, LLC (together, the "Licensors") under which the Licensors licensed to WRM certain trademarks and service marks, other marks and works, domain names, hotel casino design, development, and management know-how (collectively, the "Intellectual Property Rights"). On 19 September 2009, each of the Company and WRM entered into an intellectual property license agreement with the Licensors (together, the "IP License Arrangement"), which has a perpetual term. Pursuant to the IP License Arrangement, the Licensors licensed to each of the Company and WRM the right to use the Intellectual Property Rights using the same pricing basis as described below. The IP License Arrangement is also subject to restrictions in the agreements between Wynn Resorts Holdings, LLC or Wynn Resorts, Limited and any third parties, including Mr. Stephen A. Wynn, in respect of a third parties' intellectual property, including any applicable limitations on the scope of the license, limitations on sub-licensing, termination (including change of control) under certain circumstances and other standard provisions.
The license fee payable to Wynn Resorts Holdings, LLC equals the greater of (1) 3% of the IP gross monthly revenues, and (2) US$1.5 million (approximately HK$11.6 million) per month. For the purposes of each intellectual property license agreement, the term "IP gross revenues" refers to the licensee's total operating revenues as adjusted by adding back (1) commissions and discounts which were netted against operating revenues, and (2) promotional allowances, and the term "IP gross monthly revenues" refers to the licensee's IP gross revenues accrued at the end of each calendar month. The calculation of each licensee's operating revenues, promotional allowances, and commissions and discounts in connection with the IP gross revenues stated in the intellectual property license agreements shall always be consistent with the Group's accounting policies and prepared in accordance with IFRS as in effect from 31 December 2008. If any other subsidiary of the Company (other than WRM) acquires the Intellectual Property Rights under the intellectual property license agreement between the Company and the Licensors, "IP gross revenues" and "IP monthly gross revenues" will be interpreted to include the gross revenues of such relevant subsidiary.
The following table presents a reconciliation of total operating revenues (as reported in the Group's financial statements) to WRM's IP gross revenues as used for purposes of the IP License Arrangement between WRM and the Licensors.
 
 
WIML, a subsidiary of Wynn Resorts, Limited, (i) provides administrative, promotional, and marketing services as well as a limited number of marketing executives to attract and introduce customers to WRM, and (ii) employs certain non-Macau residents based in or to be based in Macau ("Foreign Resident Staff") on the Company's behalf and seconds the Foreign Resident Staff to the Group.
These administrative, promotional and marketing services are provided through branch offices located in various cities around the world under the direction and supervision provided by WIML. For the services provided under this arrangement, WIML charges a service fee equal to the total costs it incurs in rendering the services plus 5%.
 
Worldwide Wynn, a subsidiary of Wynn Resorts, Limited, is responsible for supplying management personnel to WRM for a pre-determined length of time through secondment arrangements. During the secondment period, employees are expected to devote their efforts and all of their business time and attention to the operations and functions of WRM. The seconded employees live and work in Macau for the duration of the secondment periods. Worldwide Wynn was compensated for these services with a service fees equal to its aggregate costs plus 5% to Worldwide Wynn of the seconded employees during the periods of secondment to WRM, including:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wynn Resorts Hotel Sales & Marketing, LLC, a subsidiary of Wynn Resorts, Limited, provides services to attract and introduce customers to Wynn Macau, with an emphasis on the resort's luxury hotel accommodation. Wynn Resorts Hotel Sales & Marketing LLC's primary business is to promote the luxury hotel services offered at the Wynn Macau resort to customers in China. It operates customer service outlets in China to help arrange hotel stays for individual and group travel. During 2009 and 2008, offices were located in Shanghai, Beijing, and Guangzhou. The branch offices operate under the direction and supervision provided by Wynn Resorts Hotel Sales & Marketing, LLC. For the hotel marketing and promotion services it performed on behalf of WRM in 2009 and 2008, Wynn Resorts Hotel Sales & Marketing, LLC charged service fees equal to the total costs it incurred in rendering the services.
 
The transactions were carried out on terms mutually agreed between the Group and the related companies. There were no significant charges from the Group to the related companies during the years ended 31 December 2009 and 2008. In the opinion of the Directors, the related party transactions were conducted in the ordinary and usual course of the Group's business.
In addition to the above, the Group leased through June 2009 living quarters for one of the Group's executives from a shareholder of the Group. This shareholder does not have profit participation shares in the Group. For the year ended 31
December 2009, the Group incurred approximately HK$147,000 (2008: approximately HK$281,000) of rental expenses relating to executive living quarters.
All such outstanding balances between the Group and the related companies are deemed to be trade in nature.
 
Compensation of senior/key management personnel of the Group
 
 
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
Overview
Wynn Macau opened to the public on 6 September 2006 at the center of casino activities on the urban Macau peninsula. In December 2007, Wynn Macau completed an expansion, adding more gaming space and additional food and beverage and retail amenities. As at 31 December 2009, Wynn Macau occupied approximately 16 acres of land in Macau featuring a casino of approximately 222,000 square feet offering 24-hour gaming with a full range of games and 600 luxury rooms and suites. We have nearly completed construction of Encore at Wynn Macau, a further expansion of Wynn Macau that will add a fully integrated resort hotel with, among other offerings, approximately 410 luxury suites and four villas, additional gaming space, restaurants and retail space. We currently expect Encore at Wynn Macau to open in April 2010.
On 9 October 2009, the Company completed an initial public offering and the Company's Shares were listed on the Main Board of the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.
For the year ended 31 December 2009, our total operating revenues were HK$14,076.9 million, and our net profits were HK$2,068.6 million, compared to total operating revenues of HK$14,710.6 million, and net profits of HK$2,039.6 million for the year ended 31 December 2008.
Macau
Macau, which was a Portuguese colony for approximately 450 years, was transferred from Portuguese to Chinese political control in December 1999. Macau is governed as a special administrative region of China and is located approximately 37 miles southwest of, and less than one hour away via ferry from, Hong Kong. Macau, which has been a casino destination for more than 40 years, consists principally of a peninsula on mainland China, and two neighboring islands, Taipa and Coloane, connected by bridges. We believe that Macau is located in one of the world's largest concentrations of potential gaming customers. According to Macau Statistical Information, casinos in Macau generated approximately HK$115.9 billion in gaming revenue in 2009, an approximately 10% increase over the approximately HK$105.6 billion generated in 2008, making Macau the largest gaming market in the world.
Macau's gaming market is primarily dependent on tourists. The Macau market has experienced tremendous growth in capacity in the last few years. As of 31 December 2009, there were approximately 19,200 hotel rooms and approximately 4,770 table games in Macau, compared to approximately 12,978 hotel rooms and approximately 2,760 table games as of 31 December 2006.
 
Existing Operations
Casino gaming at Wynn Macau
The following table presents certain information about the number of casino games available at Wynn Macau as at the dates indicated.
 
Wynn Macau also offers 600 luxury rooms and suites, six casual and fine dining restaurants, a retail promenade of approximately 48,000 square feet featuring high-end, brand-name retail stores and boutiques, such as Bulgari, Chanel, Christian Dior, Dunhill, Ermenegildo Zegna, Fendi, Ferrari, Giorgio Armani, Gucci, Hermes, Hugo Boss, Louis Vuitton, Miu Miu, Piaget, Prada, Rolex, Tiffany, Van Cleef & Arpels, Versace, Vertu and others, a performance lake, a rotunda show, recreation and leisure facilities and lounges and meeting facilities.
Development Projects
Encore at Wynn Macau
We have nearly completed the construction of Encore at Wynn Macau and expect it to open in April 2010. While the new resort will be a destination in itself, it will also be complemented by, and fully integrated with, the existing operations and facilities at Wynn Macau. We believe we will further solidify Wynn Macau's position as a premier destination for VIP clients in Macau as well as enhance our offerings to mass market clients with the addition of the following at Encore at Wynn Macau:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We expect Encore at Wynn Macau to open in April 2010. The total budget is approximately HK$4,655.1 million, including amounts under the guaranteed maximum price construction contract of HK$3,237.1 million representing the major hard construction costs. As at 31 December 2009, approximately HK$3,527.7 million of costs had been incurred. Completion of the project has been funded through a combination of existing cash balances and cash flow from operations. With the expansion of Wynn Macau and the opening of Encore at Wynn Macau, Wynn Macau's aggregate number of VIP table games is expected to increase by 18.9% from approximately 196 to approximately 233 tables, allowing us to serve additional gaming promoter-driven and in-house VIP gaming.
Once Encore at Wynn Macau is fully completed and in service, we will have a total of 233 VIP table games, 222 mass market table games, approximately 1,200 slot machines and 11 poker tables at Wynn Macau and Encore at Wynn Macau.
Cotai and Other Opportunities
We have identified a site of approximately 52 acres in Cotai and Palo Real Estate Company Limited (which is our indirect wholly owned subsidiary) has submitted an application to the Macau government to obtain the right to lease this parcel. No payments or deposits were made to the Macau government when submitting the application. We are awaiting final approval of this application which, if approved, would allow us to construct an integrated casino and five-star resort of up to approximately 6.9 million square feet (including space for gaming, accommodation, food and beverage, retail, leisure, landscaping areas and convention/meeting areas).
The proposed draft land concession agreement prepared by the Macau government in connection with the application contains several undertakings and conditions that are standard for land concessions in Macau, including the obligation to develop the land within a certain period of time.
In this case, this involves the development and construction of a hotel complex of a certain size within five years, but such proposals have not yet been finalized with the Macau government and are not binding. Thus, the specific parameters of any potential Cotai project, including whether such project is to be built at all, are subject to change.
We believe our management's experience, disciplined approach to development and prudent capital management put us in a strong position to evaluate Macau's evolving gaming market and selectively take advantage of opportunities in Cotai and elsewhere in Macau.
On 1 August 2008, Palo Real Estate Company Limited entered into an agreement with a Macau incorporated company that is not a connected person of the Group to pay the latter for its relinquishment of certain rights with respect to its business interests in the potential Cotai project.
Factors Affecting Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Tourism
The levels of tourism and overall gaming activity in Macau are key drivers of our business. Both the Macau gaming market and visitation to Macau have grown significantly in the last few years.
 
We have benefited from the rise in visitation to Macau over the past several years, although recently such visitation numbers have been impacted by various factors such as the global economic slowdown.
Gaming customers traveling to Macau typically come from nearby destinations in Asia including Hong Kong, mainland China, Taiwan, South Korea and Japan. According to the Macau Statistics and Census Service Monthly Bulletin of Statistics, approximately 87% of visitors to Macau in 2009 were from Hong Kong, mainland China and Taiwan. We believe that visitation and gross gaming revenues growth for the Macau market have been, and will continue to be, driven by a combination of factors, including the level of regional wealth in Asia which, should it continue to increase, is expected to lead to a large and growing middle class with rising disposable income; Macau's proximity to major Asian population centers; infrastructure improvements that are expected to facilitate more convenient travel to and within Macau; and the increasing supply of better quality casino, hotel and entertainment offerings in Macau.
Tourism levels in Macau are affected by a number of factors, all of which are beyond our control. Key factors affecting tourism levels in Macau may include, among others:
 
 
 
 
 
Current Economic and Operating Environment
Economic conditions have a significant impact on our business. We benefited materially from the generally strong economic environment in the first half of 2008. Beginning in the second half of 2008 and continuing into early 2009, a number of factors, including a slowdown in the global economy, contracting credit markets, reduced consumer spending, various countries' policies that affected travel to Macau and an outbreak of the H1N1 influenza, negatively impacted the gaming industry in Macau and our business. We have carefully managed our labor force and aggressively negotiated with many of our vendors to secure lower rates on existing contracts, and are continually reviewing the cost and efficiencies at our property to identify further opportunities to reduce costs during these uncertain economic times. Notwithstanding the issues set out above, our operating environment remained relatively stable, and showed improvement through the second half of 2009.
 
Competition
Since the liberalization of Macau's gaming industry in 2002, there has been a significant increase in the number of gaming operators and casino properties in Macau. Currently, there are six gaming operators in Macau, including WRM. The three concessionaires are WRM, Galaxy and SJM. The three subconcessionaires are Venetian Macau, Melco Crown, and MGM Grand Paradise. As at 31 December 2009, there were approximately 33 casinos in Macau, including 20 operated by SJM. Casino operators are not subject to any limit on the number of casinos that may be operated under their concession or subconcession agreements. Each of the current six operators has commenced casino operating activities and several have expansion plans announced or underway. Several new hotels and casinos, including Melco Crown's City of Dreams and SJM's Oceanus and L'Arc, opened in 2009.
Wynn Macau also faces competition from casinos located in other areas of Asia, such as Genting Highlands Resort, a major gaming and resort destination located outside of Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, and casinos in the Philippines. Two large-scale casinos that are being developed in Singapore, one of which opened in February 2010, and the other expected to open its initial phase in April 2010, will add further competition to the region. Wynn Macau also encounters competition from other major gaming centers located around the world, including Australia and Las Vegas, cruise ships in Asia that offer gaming, and other casinos throughout Asia. Further, if current efforts to legalize gaming in other Asian countries are successful, Wynn Macau will face additional regional competition.
Gaming Promoters
A significant amount of our casino play is brought to us by gaming promoters. Gaming promoters have historically played a critical role in the Macau gaming market and are important to Wynn Macau's casino business.
Gaming promoters introduce high-spending VIP players to Wynn Macau and often assist those clients with their travel and entertainment arrangements. In addition, gaming promoters often grant credit to their players. In exchange for their services, Wynn Macau pays the gaming promoters a fixed percentage of the gross gaming win generated by each gaming promoter. Approximately 80% of these commissions are netted against casino revenues, because such commissions approximate the amount of the commission returned to the VIP players by the gaming promoters, and approximately 20% of these commissions are included in other operating expenses, which approximate the amount of the commission ultimately retained by the gaming promoters for their compensation. The total amounts of commissions netted against casino revenues were HK$3,805.9 million and HK$3,779.2 million for the years ended 31 December 2009 and 2008, respectively. Additionally, gaming promoters each receive a monthly allowance based on a percentage of the turnover their clients generate. Such allowance is available for room, food and beverage and other expenses for discretionary use with clients. We typically advance commissions to gaming promoters at the beginning of each month to facilitate their working capital requirements. These advances are provided to a gaming promoter and are offset by the commissions earned by such gaming promoter during the applicable month. The aggregate amount of exposure to our gaming promoters, which is the difference between commissions advanced to each individual gaming promoter, and the commissions payable to each such gaming promoter, was HK$127.7 million and HK$55.4 million for the years ended 31 December 2009 and 2008, respectively. We believe our relationships with our gaming promoters are good. Our commission levels have remained stable throughout our operating history, and we have not increased levels of commissions paid to gaming promoters.
 
In August 2009, the Macau government published, in its official gazette, certain guidelines with respect to caps on the commission rates payable to gaming promoters that became effective on 1 December 2009. The impact of such caps on our business is not known. Further changes or tightening of caps may occur and if the Macau government were to implement caps on commission rates payable to gaming promoters that causes WRM to pay them effectively less than WRM currently pays, gaming promoters may have less incentive to bring travelers to casinos in Macau, including Wynn Macau.
High-End Credit Play
We selectively extend credit to players contingent upon our marketing team's knowledge of the players, their financial background and payment history. We follow a series of credit procedures and require from each credit recipient various signed documents that are intended to ensure among other things that, if permitted by applicable law, the debt can be legally enforced in the jurisdiction where the player resides. In the event the player does not reside in a jurisdiction where gaming debts are legally enforceable, we often can assert jurisdiction over assets the player maintains in jurisdictions where gaming debts are recognized. In addition, we typically require a "front money" deposit from credit players, collateralizing a percentage of the credit we grant to a player.
Number and Mix of Table Games and Slot Machines
The mix of VIP table games, mass table games and slot machines in operation at Wynn Macau changes from time to time as a result of marketing and operating strategies in response to changing market demand and industry competition. The shift in the mix of Wynn Macau's games will affect casino profitability.
Adjusted EBITDA
Adjusted EBITDA is earnings before finance costs, taxes, depreciation, amortization, pre-opening costs, property charges and other, share-based payments, and other non-operating income/(expense). Adjusted EBITDA is presented exclusively as a supplemental disclosure because our Directors believe that it is widely used to measure the performance, and as a basis for valuation, of gaming companies. Our Adjusted EBITDA presented herein also differs from the Adjusted EBITDA presented by Wynn Resorts, Limited for its Macau segment in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission in the United States, primarily due to the inclusion of royalty fees, adjustments for IFRS differences with U.S. GAAP, corporate support and other support services in arriving at operating profits.
 
The following table sets forth a quantitative reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to its most directly comparable IFRS measurement, operating profits, for the years ended 31 December 2009 and 2008.
 
Note:
 
 
Review of Historical Operating Results
Summary Breakdown Table
The following table presents certain selected income statement line items and certain other data.
 
 
Notes:
 
 
 
The following table presents a reconciliation of net non-casino revenues as reported in our consolidated statement of comprehensive income to gross non-casino revenues calculated on the adjusted basis. The adjusted non-casino revenues as presented below are used for management reporting purposes and are not representative of revenues as determined under IAS 18.
 
 
 
Discussion of Results of Operations
Financial results for the year ended 31 December 2009 compared to financial results for the year ended 31 December 2008
Operating Revenues
Total operating revenues decreased by 4.3%, from HK$14,710.6 million in 2008 to HK$14,076.9 million in 2009. We believe this decrease was due to a combination of factors, including a slowdown in the global economy in the second half of 2008 continuing into early 2009.
Casino Revenues
Casino revenues decreased by 5.0%, from HK$13,883.4 million (94.4% of total operating revenues) in 2008 to HK$13,185.6 million (93.7% of total operating revenues) in 2009. The components and reasons are as follows:
VIP gross table games win decreased by 5.8%, from HK$12,953.4 million in 2008 to HK$12,207.2 million in 2009. VIP table games turnover decreased by 2.4%, from HK$431,598.4 million in 2008 to HK$421,045.5 million in 2009. VIP gross table games win as a percentage of turnover (calculated before discounts and commissions) also decreased from 3.0% in 2008 to 2.9% in 2009 (win percentages are within the expected range of 2.7% to 3.0%).
VIP casino gaming operations.
Mass market gross table games win decreased by 2.6%, from HK$3,474.7 million in 2008 to HK$3,382.8 million in 2009. Mass market table games drop decreased by 12.7%, from approximately HK$17,726.1 million in 2008 to HK$15,481.5 million in 2009. The decrease in drop was partially offset by an increase in the mass market gross table games win percentage (calculated before discounts) from 19.6% in 2008 to 21.9% in 2009, which was above the expected win percentage range of 19% to 21%.
Mass market casino gaming operations.
Slot machine win increased by 6.5% from HK$1,225.2 million in 2008 to HK$1,304.4 million in 2009. Slot machine handle increased by 12.1%, from HK$23,481.1 million in 2008 to HK$26,331.8 million in 2009. The increases resulted primarily from the play of high-end slot customers. Consequently, total gross slot win increased and slot machine win per unit per day increased by 11% from HK$2,694 in 2008 to HK$2,991 in 2009.
Slot machine gaming operations.
Non-casino Revenues
Net non-casino revenues, which include room, food and beverage and retail revenues, increased by 7.7%, from HK$827.2 million (5.6% of total operating revenues) in 2008 to HK$891.3 million (6.3% of total operating revenues) in 2009. The increase in revenues was largely due to stronger retail sales in 2009, which offset weaker room and food and beverage performance in 2009.
 
Our room revenues, which exclude promotional allowances in our consolidated statement of comprehensive income, decreased by 25.6% from HK$138.1 million in 2008 to HK$102.8 million in 2009. The decrease reflects increased promotional allowances due to increased VIP business, which resulted in fewer rooms being made available to paying customers and a slight decrease in the room rates.
Room revenues.
Management also evaluates room revenues on an adjusted basis which includes promotional allowances. Adjusted room revenues including promotional allowances decreased by 3.5% from HK$452.8 million in 2008 to HK$437.0 million in 2009.
The following table presents additional information about our adjusted room revenues (which include promotional allowances):
Adjusted room revenues information
 
. Food and beverage revenues, which exclude promotional allowances in our consolidated statement of comprehensive income, totaled approximately HK$133.4 million in 2009, a 17.6% decrease from the 2008 revenues of HK$162.0 million. However, these amounts exclude food and beverages provided to our customers in the form of promotional allowances, which form a significant part of our offerings. Accordingly, management also evaluates food and beverage revenues on an adjusted basis including promotional allowances. Food and beverage revenues in 2009 adjusted to include these promotional allowances were HK$392.1 million, a 5% decrease from the 2008 adjusted revenues of HK$412.9 million. The decrease reflects lower business volumes resulting primarily from a significant increase in the restaurant offerings in Macau as well as decreased spending among the local Macau population due to the general slowdown in the economy.
Food and beverage
Our retail and other revenues, which exclude promotional allowances in our consolidated statement of comprehensive income, increased by 24.3%, from HK$527.1 million in 2008 to HK$655.1 million in 2009. The increase was due primarily to increased sales at several retail outlets and the opening of Wynn and Co. Watches and Jewelry, which sells Cartier, Jaeger Le Coultre, and Kwiat products.
Retail and other.
 
Management also evaluates retail and other revenues on an adjusted basis which includes promotional allowances. Adjusted retail and other revenues including promotional allowances increased by 23.5% from HK$537.0 million in 2008 to HK$663.4 million in 2009, reflecting the increased sales at several retail outlets and the opening of Wynn and Co. Watches and Jewelry, which sells Cartier, Jaeger Le Coultre, and Kwiat products.
Operating Costs and Expenses
Gaming taxes and premiums decreased by 3.7%, from HK$7,004.3 million in 2008 to HK$6,742.1 million in 2009. This decrease was primarily due to decreased gross gaming win from 2008 to 2009. Wynn Macau is subject to a 35% gaming tax on gross gaming win. In addition, the Group is also required to pay 4% of its gross gaming win as contributions for public development and social facilities.
Gaming taxes and premiums.
Staff costs decreased by 6.3%, from HK$1,717.6 million in 2008 to HK$1,610.2 million in 2009. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in staffing as part of natural attrition and the cost reduction program implemented in 2009.
Staff costs.
Other operating expenses decreased by 10.7%, from HK$2,882.6 million in 2008 to HK$2,572.8 million in 2009. The decrease in other operating costs was primarily due to the effect of various cost-control measures implemented in 2009.
Other operating expenses.
Depreciation and amortization increased by 3.1% from HK$696.7 million in 2008 to HK$718.2 million in 2009. This increase was primarily due to the impact of assets capitalized in 2008 that were depreciated for a full year in 2009.
Depreciation and amortization.
Property charges and other decreased by 75.4%, from HK$78.0 million in 2008 to HK$19.2 million in 2009. The charges in each period represent costs related to assets retired or abandoned as a result of renovating certain assets of Wynn Macau in response to customer preferences and changes in market demand.
Property charges and other.
As a result of the foregoing, total operating costs and expenses decreased by 5.8%, from HK$12,379.2 million in 2008 to HK$11,662.4 million in 2009.
Finance Revenues
Finance revenues decreased by 93.9%, from HK$94.2 million in 2008 to HK$5.7 million in 2009, reflecting a significant decrease in the average interest rate earned on invested cash balances compared to the prior year.
Finance Costs
Finance costs decreased by 0.8%, from HK$320.0 million in 2008 to HK$317.4 million in 2009. Finance costs decreased in 2009 primarily due to lower interest rates in 2009 compared to 2008.
 
Decrease in Fair Value of Interest Rate Swaps
As required under the terms of our various credit facilities, we have entered into agreements which swap a portion of the interest on our loans from floating to fixed rates. These transactions do not qualify for hedge accounting.
The fair value of our interest rate swaps are recorded as either assets or liabilities. Changes in the fair value of our interest rate swaps are recorded as an increase or decrease in swap fair value during each year. We recorded an expense of HK$29.5 million for 2009 resulting from the decrease in the fair value of our interest rate swaps in 2009. We recorded an expense of HK$90.3 million in 2008 resulting from the decrease in the fair value of our interest rate swaps in 2008.
Income Tax Benefit/Expense
In 2008, our income tax benefit was HK$57.4 million compared to an income tax expense of HK$5.6 million in 2009. Our 2009 current tax expense primarily relates to the tax expense recorded by our subsidiaries owning our interest in WRM under the WRM Shareholder Dividend Tax Agreement and a deferred tax benefit recorded by WRM resulting from a decrease in its deferred tax liability for property and equipment. In 2008, our income tax benefit primarily resulted from a reduction in our liability for tax contingencies and our reassessment of the expected realization of deferred tax assets.
Net Profits Attributable to Equity Holders of the Company
As a result of the foregoing, net profits attributable to equity holders of the Company increased by 1.4%, from HK$2,039.6 million in 2008 to HK$2,068.6 million in 2009.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Capital Resources
Since Wynn Macau opened in 2006, we have generally funded our working capital and recurring expenses as well as capital expenditures from cash flow from operations and cash on hand.
 
Gearing Ratio
The gearing ratio is a key indicator of our Group's capital structure. The gearing ratio is net debt divided by total capital plus net debt. The table below presents the calculation of our gearing ratio as at 31 December 2009 and 2008.
 
Cash Flows
Our cash balances at 31 December 2009 were HK$5,229.0 million. This cash is available for operations, new development activities, enhancements to Wynn Macau, and to support the development and construction of Encore at Wynn Macau. In addition, as at 31 December 2009, we had HK$3.9 billion available to draw under the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities.
 
The following table presents a summary of the Company's cash flows for each of the years ended 31 December 2009 and 2008.
Company cash flows
 
Net cash generated from operating activities
Our net cash from operating activities is primarily affected by operating income generated by Wynn Macau as a result of better costs control, and benefits from changes in working capital. Net cash from operating activities was HK$4,517.2 million in 2009 compared to HK$3,169.7 million in 2008.
Operating profits were HK$2,414.5 million in 2009 compared to HK$2,331.4 million in 2008.
Net cash used in investing activities
Net cash used in investing activities was HK$14,958.3 million in 2009, compared to net cash used in investing activities of HK$1,519.8 million in 2008.
The major component of the increase in cash flows used in investing activities was the payment to WM Cayman Holdings Limited I on 9 October 2009 for HK$12.6 billion to redeem an acquisition note issued by the Company in connection with the Group Reorganization.
Net cash generated from/(used in) financing activities
Net cash generated from financing activities was HK$13,125.8 million during 2009 compared to net cash used in financing activities of HK$4,639.2 million during 2008.
In connection with the Company's initial public offering on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange and the full exercise of the over-allotment option, HK$14.5 billion was received by the Company. The receipt of the IPO proceeds along with lower dividends paid in 2009 compared to 2008 provided the primary change in financing cash flows.
 
Indebtedness
The following table presents a summary of our indebtedness as at 31 December 2009 and 2008.
Indebtedness information
 
The Company had approximately HK$3.9 billion available to draw under the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities as at 31 December 2009.
Wynn Macau Credit Facilities
Overview
As at 31 December 2009, WRM's then existing credit facilities consisted of HK$12.0 billion in a combination of Hong Kong dollar and U.S. dollar facilities, comprising a HK$4.3 billion fully funded senior term loan facility and a HK$7.7 billion senior revolving credit facility. The facilities may be used for a variety of purposes, including the construction of Encore at Wynn Macau, investments in other projects in Macau and general corporate purposes.
We have the ability to increase secured debt under the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities by up to an additional US$50 million (approximately HK$388.3 million).
As at 31 December 2009, we had total bank and other borrowings under the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities of HK$8,177.0 million, of which HK$2,243.2 million was denominated in U.S. dollars and HK$5,933.8 million was denominated in Hong Kong dollars.
In July 2009, as part of the Pre-IPO Reorganization, WRM requested and obtained from its syndicate of lenders under the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities certain consents necessary to permit the Pre-IPO Reorganization. As a result, WM Cayman Holdings Limited II became the highest level obligor, guarantor and chargor under the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities and Wynn Group Asia, Inc. ceased to be an obligor, guarantor or chargor under the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities.
The Company is not a party to the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities and has no rights or obligations thereunder.
 
Principal and Interest
The term loans under the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities mature in June 2014, and the revolving loans under the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities mature in June 2012. The principal amount of the term loans is required to be repaid in quarterly installments, commencing in September 2011.
Borrowings under the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities currently bear interest at London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") or Hong Kong Interbank Offered Rate ("HIBOR") (depending on the currency of the borrowing) plus a margin of 1.75%. Beginning after the first full quarter after Encore at Wynn Macau opens, the margin will be subject to increases or decreases to between 1.25% and 2.00% depending on WRM's leverage ratio.
General Covenants
The Wynn Macau Credit Facilities contain customary covenants restricting certain activities of the obligor group (WM Cayman Holdings Limited II and all of its subsidiaries except Palo Real Estate Company Limited), which does not include the Company, including, but not limited to, the incurrence of additional indebtedness, the incurrence or creation of liens on property, sale and leaseback transactions, the ability to dispose of assets and the making of loans or other investments, entering into mergers, consolidations, liquidations or amalgamations, forming or acquiring subsidiaries, amending, modifying or terminating certain material contracts, permits and governing documents, entering into transactions with affiliates, changing fiscal periods, entering into business activities other than certain permitted activities, and selling or discounting receivables, in each case, subject to certain permitted exceptions.
Financial Covenants
The Wynn Macau Credit Facilities financial covenants require WRM to maintain a Leverage Ratio, as defined in the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities, of not greater than 5 to 1 as of 31 December 2009, and an Interest Coverage Ratio, as defined in the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities, of not less than 2 to 1. Management believes that we were in compliance with all covenants at 31 December 2009. The Leverage Ratio requirement decreases to not greater than 4.75 to 1 for the quarterly reporting period ending 30 June 2010, 4.5 to 1 for the quarterly reporting period ending 30 September 2010 and 4 to 1 for the quarterly reporting period ending 31 December 2010. The Interest Coverage Ratio requirement remains at not less than 2 to 1 for each reporting period during 2010.
Compliance with Covenants
The Directors confirm that there is no material non-compliance with the financial covenants or general covenants contained in the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities.
Mandatory Prepayment
The Wynn Macau Credit Facilities contain mandatory prepayment provisions, which include, among other matters, prepayment of 50% of excess cash flow, as defined in the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities, if WRMs Leverage Ratio is greater than 4 to 1 for each relevant period.
 
Dividend Restrictions
WRM and its subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on payment of dividends or distributions or other amounts to their shareholders or to other affiliates, unless certain financial and non-financial criteria have been satisfied. Provided certain conditions are met, WRM is permitted to distribute retained earnings. The conditions to be satisfied for the distribution of earnings include:
 
 
 
 
Events of Default
The Wynn Macau Credit Facilities contain customary events of default, such as failure to pay, breach of covenants, insolvency proceedings, material adverse effect and cross default provisions. Events of default also include certain breaches of the terms of the Concession Agreement, and the taking of certain formal measures or administrative intervention by the Macau government in respect of the Concession Agreement or the concession for the land on which Wynn Macau is located.
The Wynn Macau Credit Facilities also include a change of control event of default which includes:
 
 
 
Security and Guarantees
Collateral for the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities consists of substantially all of the assets of WRM. Certain of our direct and indirect subsidiaries have executed guarantees and pledged their interests in WRM in support of the obligations under the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities. With respect to the Concession Agreement, the WRM lenders do have certain cure rights and consultation rights with the Macau government upon an enforcement by the lenders.
 
Second Ranking Lender
WRM is also party to a bank guarantee reimbursement agreement with Banco Nacional Ultramarino S.A. to secure a guarantee in favor of the Macau government as required under the Concession Agreement. The amount of this guarantee is currently MOP300 million (HK$291.3 million) and it lasts until 180 days after the end of the term of the Concession Agreement. The guarantee assures WRM's performance under the Concession Agreement, including the payment of certain premiums, fines and indemnities for breach. The guarantee is secured by a second priority security interest in the same collateral package securing the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk
Market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and conditions, such as inflation, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates.
Foreign exchange risks
The financial statements of foreign operations are translated into Hong Kong dollars, the Group's presentation currency, for incorporation into the consolidated financial statements. Assets and liabilities are translated at the prevailing foreign exchange rates in effect at the statement of financial position date. Income, expenditure and cash flow items are measured at the actual foreign exchange rates or average foreign exchange rates for the period. The Hong Kong dollar is linked to the U.S. dollar and the exchange rate between these two currencies has remained relatively stable over the past several years. However, the exchange linkages of the Hong Kong dollar and the Macau pataca to the U.S. dollar, are subject to potential changes due to, among other things, changes in governmental policies and international economic and political developments.
Interest rate risks
One of our primary exposures to market risk is interest rate risk associated with our credit facilities, which bear interest based on floating rates. We attempt to manage interest rate risk by managing the mix of long-term fixed rate borrowings and variable rate borrowings supplemented by hedging activities as considered necessary. We cannot assure you that these risk management strategies will have the desired effect, and interest rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on our results of operations.
In November 2005, the Group entered into two agreements to swap a portion of the underlying interest rate risk on current and future term loan borrowings under the Group's Wynn Macau Credit Facilities. In August 2008, the Group terminated these interest rate swaps and entered into new interest rate swaps which will terminate in August 2011. Under the first terminated swap agreement, the Group paid a fixed interest rate of 4.84% on borrowings up to a maximum of approximately US$198.2 million (approximately HK$1.54 billion), in exchange for receipts on the same amounts at a variable interest rate based on the applicable LIBOR at the time of payment. Under the second terminated swap agreement, the Group paid a fixed interest rate of 4.77% on borrowings up to a maximum of approximately HK$1.1 billion, in exchange for receipts on the same amounts at a variable interest rate based on the applicable HIBOR at the time of payment. The terminated interest rate swaps fixed the interest rates on the U.S. dollar and the Hong Kong dollar borrowings under the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities at approximately 6.59% and 6.52%, respectively. In connection with these terminations, the Group paid to the counterparties of the terminated swaps a cash settlement payment of approximately HK$17.0 million.
 
Effective August 2008, under the first new swap agreement, the Group pays a fixed interest rate of 3.632% on U.S. dollar borrowings of approximately US$153.8 million (approximately HK$1.2 billion) incurred under the US$550 million (approximately HK$4.3 billion) term loan portion of the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities in exchange for receipts on the same amount at a variable interest rate based on the applicable LIBOR at the time of payment. Under the second new swap agreement, the Group pays a fixed interest rate of 3.39% on Hong Kong dollar borrowings of approximately HK$991.6 million incurred under the US$550 million (approximately HK$4.3 billion) term loan portion of the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities in exchange for receipts on the same amount at a variable interest rate based on the applicable HIBOR at the time of payment. These interest rate swaps fix the interest rates on the U.S. dollar and the Hong Kong dollar term loan borrowings at approximately 5.382% and 5.14%, respectively.
The Group entered into another interest rate swap agreement on 17 August 2009, with an effective date of 27 November 2009, to swap a portion of the underlying interest rate risk on borrowings under the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities. Under this new swap agreement, beginning 27 November 2009, the Group pays a fixed interest rate of 2.15% on borrowings of approximately HK$2.3 billion incurred under the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities in exchange for receipts on the same amount at a variable interest rate based on the applicable HIBOR at the time of payment. This interest rate swap fixes the interest rate on HK$2.3 billion of borrowings under the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities at approximately 3.9%. This interest rate swap agreement will terminate in June 2012.
The carrying value of these interest rate swaps on the consolidated statement of financial position approximates their fair value. The fair value approximates the amount the Group would pay if these contracts were settled at the respective valuation dates. Fair value is estimated based upon current, and predictions of future, interest rate levels along a yield curve, the remaining duration of the instruments and other market conditions, and therefore, is subject to significant estimation and a high degree of variability of fluctuation between periods. We adjust this amount by applying a non-performance valuation, considering our creditworthiness or the creditworthiness of our counterparties at each settlement date, as applicable. These transactions do not qualify for hedge accounting. Accordingly, changes in the fair values during the years ended 31 December 2009 and 2008 were charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Our liabilities under the swap agreements are secured by the same collateral package securing the Wynn Macau Credit Facilities.
 
Off Balance Sheet Arrangements
We have not entered into any transactions with special purpose entities nor do we engage in any transactions involving derivatives except for interest rate swaps. We do not have any retained or contingent interest in assets transferred to an unconsolidated entity.
Other Liquidity Matters
We expect that Wynn Macau will fund its operations and capital expenditure requirements from operating cash flow and cash on hand. However, we cannot be sure that operating cash flows will be sufficient for that purpose. We may refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We cannot be sure that we will be able to refinance any of the indebtedness on acceptable terms or at all.
New business developments (including our possible development of a project in Cotai) or other unforeseen events may occur, resulting in the need to raise additional funds. There can be no assurances regarding the business prospects with respect to any other opportunity. Any other development would require us to obtain additional financing.
In the ordinary course of business, in response to market demands and client preferences, and in order to increase revenues, we have made and will continue to make enhancements and refinements to Wynn Macau. We have incurred and will continue to incur capital expenditures related to these enhancements and refinements.
Taking into consideration our financial resources, including our cash and cash equivalents and internally generated funds, we believe that we have sufficient liquid assets to meet our working capital and operating requirements for the following 12 months.
Related Party Transactions
For details of the related party transactions, see note 11 to this announcement. Our Directors confirm that all related party transactions are conducted on normal commercial terms, and that their terms are fair and reasonable.
DISCLOSURE OF FINANCIAL RESULTS IN MACAU
WRM, our subsidiary and the owner and operator of Wynn Macau, finalized its MFRS statutory financial statements at the end of February 2010 and anticipates filing its MFRS Financial Statements with the Gaming Inspection and Coordination Bureau of Macau by 31 March 2010. This is a statutory filing requirement mandated by Macau law. In addition, WRM expects to publish its MFRS Consolidated Statements in the Macau Official Gazette and local newspapers in Macau by the end of April 2010. The MFRS Financial Statements and the MFRS Consolidated Statements may not be directly comparable with our Company's financial results disclosed herein, which are prepared under IFRS.
 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
The Company is dedicated to maintaining and ensuring high standards of corporate governance practices and the corporate governance principles of the Company are adopted in the best interest of the Company and its Shareholders. The Company's corporate governance practices are based on the principles, code provisions and certain recommended best practices as set out in the Code on Corporate Governance Practices.
The Company has complied with the code provisions in the Code (to the extent that such provisions are applicable) since the Listing, except for the following deviations from code provisions A.1.1, A.2.7 and A.2.1 of the Code.
Holding of at least four board meetings each year and an annual meeting between the Chairman and non-executive directors
Under code provision A.1.1 of the Code, there should be at least four board meetings held per year. Under code provision A.2.7 of the Code, the Chairman should at least annually hold meetings with the non-executive directors without the executive directors present.
As the Company was only incorporated on 4 September 2009 and listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange on 9 October 2009, only one Board meeting was convened in 2009. Starting from the year 2010, however, at least four regular meetings will be convened each year and the Chairman will at least annually hold meetings with the non-executive Directors, in compliance with code provisions A.1.1 and A.2.7 of the Code, respectively.
Stephen A. Wynn as our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Under code provision A.2.1. of the Code, the roles of chairman and chief executive officer should be separate and should not be performed by the same individual. The Company does not at present separate the roles of the chairman and chief executive officer.
Mr. Wynn, the founder of the Company and Wynn Macau, serves as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company. The Board has determined that the combination of these roles held singularly by Mr. Wynn is in the best interest of the Company and all Shareholders. The Board believes that the issue of whether to combine or separate the offices of Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer is part of the succession planning process and that it is in the best interests of the Company for the Board to make a determination whether to combine or separate the roles based upon the circumstances. The Board has given careful consideration to separating the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and has determined that the Company and its Shareholders are best served by the current structure. Mr. Wynn's combined role promotes unified leadership and direction for the Board and executive management and allows for a single, clear focus for the Company's operational and strategic efforts.
The combined role of Mr. Wynn as both Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is balanced by the Company's governance structure, policies and controls. All major decisions are made in consultation with members of the Board and the relevant Board committees. The Company has three Board committees, namely the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee, and Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee. Each Board committee comprises non-executive Directors only and is chaired by an independent non-executive Director. In addition, there are three independent non-executive Directors on the Board offering independent perspectives. This structure encourages independent and effective oversight of the Company's operations and prudent management of risk.
 
For the reasons stated above and as a result of the structure, policies and procedures outlined above, and in light of the historical success of Mr. Wynn's leadership, the Board has concluded that the current Board leadership structure is in the best interests of the Company and its Shareholders.
MODEL CODE FOR SECURITIES TRANSACTIONS BY DIRECTORS
Having made specific enquiry of the Directors, all Directors have confirmed that they have complied with the required standard of dealings and code of conduct regarding securities dealings by directors as set out in the Model Code for the year ended 31 December 2009 with the following exception.
Mr. Sallnow-Smith did not, as required by the Model Code, notify the Company's Chairman or another Director and obtain a dated written acknowledgment prior to his spouse acquiring Shares in the Company. The Company considers such non-compliance to be a technical non-compliance only. The relevant transaction did not occur during a blackout period and only involved an immaterial number of Shares (10,000 Shares out of a total issued share capital of 5,187,500,000 Shares), which also represented the entire shareholding of Mr. Sallnow-Smith's spouse in the Company. At the time of the acquisition, Mr. Sallnow-Smith's spouse was not in possession of any inside information about the Company. Further, Mr. Sallnow-Smith was not aware of his spouse's acquisition of Shares, which was the reason he did not notify the Chairman or another Director prior to the acquisition, as required by the Model Code. Upon becoming aware of the acquisition, however, Mr. Sallnow-Smith promptly gave due notification of the acquisition to the Chairman.
AUDIT COMMITTEE
An Audit Committee has been established by the Company to review and supervise the financial reporting process and internal control procedures of the Group. The Audit Committee comprises one non-executive Director and two independent non-executive Directors of the Company. The Audit Committee has reviewed the Group's annual results for the year ended 31 December 2009.
ANNUAL REPORT
The Company's annual report for the year ended 31 December 2009 containing all the information required by Appendix 16 of the Listing Rules will be published on the Company's and the Hong Kong Stock Exchange's websites in due course.
RETIREMENT OF DIRECTORS
In accordance with Article 17.18 of the Company's articles of association, one-third of the Board shall retire from office by rotation at the forthcoming annual general meeting. The Directors who will retire will be Mr. Ian Michael Coughlan (our executive Director), Mr. Marc D. Schorr (our non-executive Director), and Mr. Jeffrey Kin-fung Lam (our independent non-executive Director). All of the three retiring Directors will offer themselves for re-election.
 
DEFINITIONS USED IN THIS ANNOUNCEMENT
 
 
 
 
 
 
GLOSSARY OF TERMS USED IN THIS ANNOUNCEMENT
 
 
 
 
Hong Kong, 24 March 2010
As at the date of this announcement, the Board comprises Stephen A. Wynn, Ian Michael Coughlan and Linda Chen (as executive Directors); Kazuo Okada, Allan Zeman and Marc D. Schorr (as non-executive Directors); and Nicholas Sallnow-Smith, Bruce Rockowitz and Jeffrey Kin-fung Lam (as independent non-executive Directors).
 


