FILE:WYNN/WYNN-8K-20101124193027.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01          Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On November 24, 2010, Stephen A. Wynn (Mr. Wynn), the Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of Wynn Resorts, Limited (the Registrant), Elaine P. Wynn, a member of the Board of Directors of the Registrant (Ms. Wynn), and Aruze USA, Inc. (Aruze), a Nevada corporation, entered into a Waiver and Consent (the Waiver and Consent) with respect to that certain Amended and Restated Stockholders Agreement, dated January 6, 2010, by and among Mr. Wynn, Ms. Wynn and Aruze (the Stockholders Agreement).  Pursuant to the Waiver and Consent, (a) each of Mr. Wynn and Ms. Wynn consented to the transfer by Aruze of up to 1,445,805 shares (the Aruze Released Shares) of common stock, par value $0.01, of the Registrant (Common Stock) from the Stockholders Agreement, and (b) each of Mr. Wynn, Ms. Wynn and Aruze consented to the transfer by each of Mr. Wynn and Ms. Wynn of up to 1,000,000 shares (collectively, the Wynn Released Shares) of Common Stock from the Stockholders Agreement.  The parties agreed that the Aruze Released Shares and the Wynn Released Shares shall be released from all terms and restrictions set forth in the Stockholders Agreement upon the transfer of such shares.  The parties further agreed that until any such transfer, the Aruze Released Shares and the Wynn Released Shares shall remain subject to all terms and restrictions set forth in the Stockholders Agreement.
The foregoing description of the Waiver and Consent does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Waiver and Consent which is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by this reference.
Item 9.01        
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
             (d)          Exhibits:
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:    November 24, 2010

 
Exhibit 10.1
 
This Waiver and Consent is made as of the 24 day of November, 2010 by and among Aruze USA, Inc. (Aruze), Stephen A. Wynn (SW) and Elaine P. Wynn (EW).
Now therefore, in consideration of the foregoing and the agreements set forth below, the parties hereto agree as follows:
In witness whereof, the parties have set their hand to this Agreement on the day and year first written above.
 


