FILE:WYNN/WYNN-8K-20110520163544.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.07.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
 
On May 17, 2011, Wynn Resorts, Limited (WRL) held its Annual Meeting of Stockholders.  The following matters were presented at the meeting and received the votes indicated:
Proposal No. 1  Election of Directors (Class III)
To elect the following four Class III directors, each to serve until the 2014 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and until his successor is elected and qualified, or until such directors earlier death, resignation or removal:
The following Class I directors remain in office with their term expiring in 2012  Linda Chen, John A. Moran, Marc D. Schorr and Elaine P. Wynn.  The following Class II directors remain in office with their term expiring in 2013  Stephen A. Wynn, Ray R. Irani, Alvin V. Shoemaker and D. Boone Wayson.
Proposal No. 2  Advisory Resolution on Executive Compensation
To approve an advisory resolution on WRLs executive compensation as reported in WRLs proxy statement for the 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders:
Proposal No. 3  Advisory Vote on the Frequency of Future Advisory Votes on Executive Compensation
To vote on an advisory basis on whether future advisory votes on executive compensation should occur every year, every two years or every three years:
 
 
 
 
Proposal No. 4
 Amendment to WRLs 2002 Stock Incentive Plan
To approve an amendment to WRLs 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (the 2002 Plan) to remove the provision from section 4(b)(ii) of the 2002 Plan that states the Administrator shall have no authority to grant an Option or Stock Award to any Employee, Consultant or Director who owns more than five percent of the issued and outstanding Common Stock:
 
Proposal No. 5  Ratification of Appointment of Independent Public Accountants
To ratify the Audit Committees selection of Ernst & Young LLP as the independent auditors for WRL and its subsidiaries for 2011:
 
Proposal No. 6  was not presented at the meeting.
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:   May 17, 2011


