FILE:WYNN/WYNN-8K-20120224160539.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): February 18, 2012
 
WYNN RESORTS, LIMITED
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01.       Other Events.
On February 24, 2012, Wynn Macau, Limited issued a press release announcing that its board of directors had removed Mr. Kazuo Okada from the board.  Wynn Macau, Limited is a majority owned subsidiary of Wynn Resorts, Limited (the Company).  A copy of the press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
Mr. Okada also was removed from the board of directors of Wynn Las Vegas Capital Corp., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, on February 18, 2012.
Item 9.01.       Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:  February 24, 2012
WYNN RESORTS, LIMITED
By:       
/s/ Marc D. Schorr
          
            Marc D. Schorr
            Chief Operating Officer                      
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
  
 
 
           
News Release
             
           
For Immediate Release
 
 
Macau, February 24, 2012 Wynn Macau, Limited, a subsidiary of Wynn Resorts, Limited, today announced that its Board of Directors met today to review Mr. Kazuo Okadas status as a Director of the Company.  All of the other Directors voted unanimously to remove Mr. Okada from the Board and the removal is effective immediately.
 
The Board of Directors issued the following joint statement:
 
The Board considered the information disclosed by Wynn Resorts, Limited concerning the independent report (as further described in the 20 February Announcement) commissioned by the Compliance Committee of Wynn Resorts, Limited. After due consideration of the independent report, taking into account the Companys high ethical standards, the Board determined that it was obligated to remove Mr. Okada as a non-executive Director given the unacceptable conduct by Mr. Okada, his employees and associates detailed in the independent report. Accordingly, the Board resolved to remove Mr. Okada as a non-executive Director of the Company.
 
About Wynn Resorts
Wynn Resorts, Limited is traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the ticker symbol WYNN and is part of the S&P 500 and NASDAQ-100 Indexes.
Our Las Vegas operations (Wynn Las Vegas and Encore) feature two luxury hotel towers with a total of 4,750 spacious hotel rooms, suites and villas, an approximately 186,000 square feet of casino space, 35 food and beverage outlets featuring signature chefs, an on-site 18-hole golf course, meeting space, a Ferrari and Maserati dealership, approximately 97,000 square feet of retail space as well as two showrooms; four nightclubs and a beach club.
 
Our Macau resort is a resort destination casino located in the Macau Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China with two luxury hotel towers (Wynn Macau and Encore) with a total of 1,008 spacious rooms and suites, approximately 265,000 square feet of casino space, casual and fine dining in eight restaurants, approximately 54,200 square feet of retail space, recreation and leisure facilities, including two health clubs and spas, a pool.
 
For media enquiries, please contact:
Wynn Macau
Katharine Liu, Director  Communications Tel: (853) 8986 5521 / Email:
katharine.liu@wynnmacau.com


