FILE:WYNN/WYNN-8K-20120412170535.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As disclosed in prior filings of Wynn Resorts, Limited ("WRL") and Wynn Las Vegas, LLC ("WLV") with the Securities and Exchange Commission, pursuant to that certain Amended and Restated Agreement of Lease, dated as of March 18, 2010 (the "SW Lease"), by and between Stephen A. Wynn ("Mr. Wynn"), Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of WRL, and WLV, Mr. Wynn leases two fairway villas (the "Villas") as Mr. Wynn's personal residence. Pursuant to the SW Lease, the rental value of the Villas is redetermined every two years during the term of the SW Lease based upon an independent third-party appraisal. On April 9, 2012, Mr. Wynn and WLV entered into the First Amendment to Amended and Restated Agreement of Lease (the "Amendment"), (a) to reflect that the rental value of the Villas for the two-year period commencing March 1, 2012 will be $440,000 per year, as determined in accordance with the terms of the SW Lease, and (b) to provide that the lease includes Mr. Wynn's use of warehouse space owned by WLV. The Amendment was approved by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of WRL. This description of the Amendment is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amendment, a copy of which is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 11, 2012
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 11, 2012
 

Exhibit 10.1
THIS FIRST AMENDMENT TO AMENDED AND RESTATED AGREEMENT OF LEASE (this "") is made as the 9
Amendment
th
day of April, 2012, by and between Wynn Las Vegas, LLC ("") and Stephen A. Wynn ("" and, together with Lessor, the ""). Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Lease (as defined below).
Lessor
Lessee
Parties
A. The Parties have entered into that certain Amended and Restated Agreement of Lease, dated as of March 18, 2010 (the ""), under which Lessee leases Villas in the Resort.
Lease
B. Pursuant to Section 3(c) of the Lease, the Parties have determined the Rental Value for the two (2) year period commencing on March 1, 2012.
NOW, THEREFORE, the Parties agree as follows:
1. . The Parties agree that Section 1 of the Lease is amended to include Lessee's use of warehouse space owned by Lessor.
Amendment to Section 1
2. . The Parties agree that for the two (2) year period commencing on March 1, 2012, the Rental Value for the Villas shall be Four Hundred Forty Thousand and No/100ths Dollars ($440,000.00) per year as established by the Opinion of Value, dated February 14, 2012, by John J. Knott II of CB Richard Ellis.
Rental Value
3. . The Parties acknowledge that the Lease is being modified only as stated herein, and agree that nothing else in the Lease shall be affected by this Amendment.
Other Provisions of the Lease
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Amendment as of the day and year first written above.
 


