FILE:WYNN/WYNN-8K-20121107160603.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 2, 2012, Wynn Resorts, Limited (the "Company") held its 2012 Annual Meeting (the "Annual Meeting") of Stockholders. The Company's stockholders elected each of the director nominees named in the Company's proxy statement and approved each of the other two proposals presented. The proposals voted upon at the Annual Meeting and the final results of the stockholder vote on each proposal were as follows:
Proposal 1: Election of Directors
To elect the following Class I directors, each to serve until the 2015 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and until his or her successor is elected and qualified, or until such director's earlier death, resignation or removal:
 
The following Class II directors remain in office with their term expiring in 2013: Stephen A. Wynn, Ray R. Irani, Alvin V. Shoemaker and D. Boone Wayson. The following Class III directors remain in office with their term expiring in 2014: Russell Goldsmith, Robert J. Miller, Kazuo Okada and Allen Zeman.
Proposal 2: Approval of the Company's Amended and Restated Annual Performance Based Incentive Plan for Executive Officers
To approve the Company's Amended and Restated Annual Performance Based Incentive Plan:
 
Proposal 3: Ratification of Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To ratify the Audit Committee's appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the independent public accountants for the Company and all of its subsidiaries for 2012:
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


