FILE:WYNN/WYNN-8K-20120221083146.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): February 18, 2012
 
WYNN RESORTS, LIMITED
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 1.01.       Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On February 18, 2012, the Board of Directors of Wynn Resorts, Limited (the Company) determined that Aruze USA, Inc. (Aruze), Universal Entertainment Corporation and Mr. Kazuo Okada, a member of the Board of Directors of the Company, are unsuitable under the provisions of the Companys Articles of Incorporation.  As a result of the finding of unsuitability, the Company issued to Aruze on that date a promissory note (the Note) in redemption of Aruzes
24,549,222
shares of the Company.
The Note has a principal amount of $
1,936,442,631.36
, matures on February 18, 2022 and bears interest at the rate of 2% per annum, payable annually in arrears on each anniversary of the date of the Note. 
The Company may, in its sole and absolute discretion, at any time and from time to time, and without penalty or premium, prepay the whole or any portion of the principal or interest due under the Note.  In no instance shall any payment obligation under the Note be accelerated except in the sole and absolute discretion of the Company or as specifically mandated by law.  The indebtedness evidenced by the Note is and shall be subordinated in right of payment, to the extent and in the manner provided in the Note, to the prior payment in full of all existing and future obligations of the Company or any of its affiliates in respect of indebtedness for borrowed money of any kind or nature. 
The foregoing summary of the Note does not purport to be a complete description of all of its terms and is qualified in its entirety by the full text of the Note, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 2.03.       Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
The information set forth in Item 1.01 is incorporated into this Item 2.03 by reference.
Item 8.01.       Other Events.
On February 19, 2012, the Company issued a press release stating that, among other things, the Companys Board of Directors had concluded a year-long investigation of Mr. Okada after receiving a report from Freeh, Sporkin and Sullivan, LLP detailing numerous apparent violations of U.S. anti-corruption laws; that, based on the report, the Board of Directors determined that Aruze, Universal Entertainment Corporation and Mr. Okada are unsuitable under the provisions of the Companys Articles of Incorporation; and that, pursuant to the finding of unsuitability, the Company had issued to Aruze a promissory note in redemption of Aruzes shares of the Company.  A copy of the press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.       Financial Statements and Exhibits.
  
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:  February 21, 2012
WYNN RESORTS, LIMITED
By:      
/s/ Matt Maddox                                                    
            Matt Maddox
            Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer                                              
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
REDEMPTION PRICE PROMISSORY NOTE
U.S.$1,936,442,631.36                                                                                                                                      February 18, 2012
WYNN RESORTS, LIMITED, a Nevada corporation (
Maker
), whose address is 3131 Las Vegas Boulevard South, Las Vegas, Nevada 89109, for value received, hereby promises to pay to the order of ARUZE USA, INC, a Nevada corporation (
Aruze
), whose address is 745 Grier Drive, Las Vegas, Nevada 89119, the principal amount of ONE BILLION NINE HUNDRED THIRTY-SIX MILLION FOUR HUNDRED FORTY-TWO THOUSAND SIX HUNDRED THIRTY-ONE AND 36/100 DOLLARS (U.S.$1,936,442,631.36), together with accrued interest thereon as hereinafter provided, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this promissory note (this 
Note
). 
1.
                 
Maturity Date
.  Notwithstanding
Section 5
hereof, the entire outstanding principal balance of this Note, together with all accrued and unpaid interest thereon as provided herein, shall be due and payable in full on the tenth (10th) anniversary of the date of this Note (the 
Maturity Date
). 
2.
                 
Interest
.  The balance of principal outstanding from time to time under this Note shall bear interest at the rate of two percent (2%) per annum (the 
Interest Rate
),
provided 
that no interest shall accrue on any principal amount of this Note in respect of the day on which such principal amount is paid.  All computations of interest shall be made on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and the actual number of days elapsed.  Interest shall be payable annually in arrears on each anniversary of the date of this Note, and, with respect to any principal amount, on the date of payment of such principal amount, including, as applicable, the Maturity Date.
3.
                 
Optional Prepayment
.  Maker may, in its sole and absolute discretion, at any time and from time to time, and without penalty or premium, prepay the whole or any portion of the principal or interest due under this Note. In no instance shall any payment obligation hereunder be accelerated except in the sole and absolute discretion of Maker or as specifically mandated by law.
4.
                 
Payments
.  All payments, including optional prepayments, shall be applied first to the payment of accrued and unpaid interest and then to the reduction of principal.  Whenever any payment to be made under this Note shall be due on a Saturday, Sunday or any other day on which commercial banks in Las Vegas, Nevada, are authorized or required by law to close (any other day being a 
Business Day
), such payment may be made on the next succeeding Business Day.  Payments shall be made in the lawful money of the United States of America, and shall be payable by wire transfer and in immediately available funds.
5.
                 
Subordination
. 
(a)
               
The indebtedness evidenced by this Note is and shall be subordinated in right of payment, to the extent and in the manner provided in this
Section 5
, to the prior payment in full of all existing and future obligations of Maker or any of its affiliates in respect of indebtedness for borrowed money of any kind or nature (collectively, 
Senior Indebtedness
).  The provisions of this
Section 5
are made for the benefit of the holders of any Senior Indebtedness, each of which is made a beneficiary of this
Section 5
and any one or more of which may enforce such provisions.
(b)
              
Upon any distribution to creditors of the Maker in any bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation or similar proceeding relating to the Maker or its property:
 
 
 
 
(i)
                
holders of Senior Indebtedness shall be entitled to receive payment in full of all obligations due in respect of such Senior Indebtedness (including interest after the commencement of any such proceeding at the rate (if any) specified in the applicable Senior Indebtedness) before Aruze shall be entitled to receive any payment with respect to this Note; and
(ii)
              
until all obligations with respect to Senior Indebtedness (as provided in clause (i) above) are paid in full, any distribution to which Aruze would be entitled but for this
Section 5
shall be made ratably to holders of Senior Indebtedness.
(c)
               
Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any default or event of default under any Senior Indebtedness (or combination thereof) with an original aggregate principal amount in excess of $25,000,000, Maker shall not make any payment, whether of interest, principal or otherwise, in respect of this Note.
(d)
              
In the event that Aruze receives any payment of any obligations in contravention of this
Section 5
with respect to this Note, such payment shall be held by Aruze, in trust for the benefit of, and shall be paid forthwith over and delivered, upon written request, ratably to, the holders of Senior Indebtedness or their representative under the indenture or other agreement (if any) pursuant to which Senior Indebtedness may have been issued, for application to the payment of all obligations with respect to Senior Indebtedness remaining unpaid to the extent necessary to pay such obligations in full and in cash in accordance with their terms, after giving effect to any concurrent payment or distribution to or for the holders of Senior Indebtedness.
(e)
               
The terms of this Note shall be deemed automatically and immediately modified to the extent necessary to comply with any law or regulation (including, without limitation, gaming laws, rules and regulations) from time to time applicable to Maker or any of its affiliates or to prevent a default under, breach of, event of default under or acceleration of any Senior Indebtedness.  Any payment of principal and interest under this Note shall be made only if and to the extent that (a) payment of a distribution (as defined in Nevada Revised Statutes 78.191) to Makers stockholders could immediately thereafter be made in accordance with Nevada Revised Statutes 78.288 and (b) such payment would not violate or contravene any law or regulation (including, without limitation, gaming laws, rules and regulations) then applicable to Maker or any of its affiliates.
6.
                 
Restrictions on Transfer
.  Without the prior written consent of Maker in each instance, Aruze shall not assign, transfer, pledge, hypothecate or otherwise cause or permit any person or entity to possess or control any right, interest or participation in this Note (each, a 
Transfer
).  Notwithstanding any such consent by Maker, no Transfer shall be effected except in strict compliance with all applicable securities and gaming laws, rules and regulations.  Any Transfer in violation or contravention of this
Section 6
shall be void and of no effect whatsoever.
7.
                 
Right to Set-Off
.  Maker shall have the right, at any time and from time to time (and without notice or demand), to withhold, retain and set off against any amounts otherwise payable under this Note, any unpaid amount, obligation or liability of Aruze from time to time owing or payable to Maker.
8.
                 
Usury Savings Clause
.  If at any time the Interest Rate exceeds the maximum rate of interest permitted to be charged under applicable law, then the portion of any payment attributable to interest charged in excess of such maximum rate shall be deemed to be a prepayment of principal.
9.
                 
Reservation of Rights
.  Maker has entered into this Note without waiver of or prejudice to any and all rights and remedies (including, without limitation, indemnification and injunctive relief)
 
available to Maker under its articles of incorporation or applicable law (including, without limitation, gaming laws, rules and regulations), all of which are hereby expressly reserved.
10.
             
Maker Not Liable for Taxes
.  Aruze (and not Maker) shall be solely responsible for reporting all interest due under this Note (whether such interest is paid or imputed under applicable law) and shall be obligated to pay any associated tax obligation arising therefrom.
11.
             
Waivers
.  No term or provision of this Note (including, without limitation, the rights of Maker hereunder) shall be waived except by an instrument in writing signed by the party waiving the same and then only to the extent set forth in such writing.
12.
             
Amendments
.  Except as otherwise provided in
Section 5(e)
, no term or provision of this Note may be modified or amended except by an instrument in writing signed by Maker and Aruze.
13.
             
Governing Law
.  This Note shall be governed by and construed and enforced in accordance with the internal laws of the State of Nevada without regard to any choice of law or conflicts of law provisions thereof.  Any action, suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Note shall be brought and maintained exclusively in the courts of the State of Nevada sitting in Clark County, Nevada.
14.
             
Severability
.  Except as otherwise provided in
Section 8
, if any term or provision of this Note is invalid, illegal or unenforceable, then such term or provision shall be enforceable to the maximum extent permitted by law and in a manner so as to preserve, to the greatest extent possible, the original intent of such term or provision. The invalidity, illegality or unenforceability of any term or provision of this Note shall not affect any other term or provision hereof.
[
Signature appears on the following page
.] [
Remainder of this page intentionally left blank
.] 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Maker has duly executed this Redemption Price Promissory Note as of the date first written above.
WYNN RESORTS, LIMITED
 
 
 
By:      
/s/ Stephen A. Wynn                                        
            Name:  Stephen A. Wynn
            Title:    Chief Executive Officer

Exhibit 99.1
Press Release
Wynn Resorts Board Concludes Year-Long Investigation of Kazuo Okada after Receiving Freeh Report Detailing Numerous Apparent Violations of U.S. Anti-Corruption Laws
LAS VEGAS--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Feb. 19, 2012-- Wynn Resorts, Limited (NASDAQ: WYNN) today announced that its Compliance Committee has concluded a year-long investigation after receiving an independent report detailing numerous apparent violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) by Aruze USA, Inc., its parent company Universal Entertainment Corporation (JASDAQ Code: 6425) and its principal shareholder, Kazuo Okada. Mr. Okada is a Director of Wynn Resorts, Limited, and of Wynn Macau, Limited, a majority-owned subsidiary of the Company.
The Compliance Committee, chaired by former Nevada Governor Robert Miller, engaged several investigators, including Freeh, Sporkin and Sullivan, LLP, led by Louis J. Freeh, the former Director of the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation, which conducted a thorough independent investigation. Freehs investigators uncovered and documented more than three dozen instances over a three-year period in which Mr. Okada and his associates engaged in improper activities for their own benefit in apparent violation of U.S. anti-corruption laws and gross disregard for the Companys Code of Conduct. These troubling discoveries include cash payments and gifts totaling approximately $110,000 to foreign gaming regulators.
Mr. Okada and his associates and companies appear to have engaged in a longstanding practice of making payments and gifts to his two chief gaming regulators at the Philippines Amusement and Gaming Corporation (PAGCOR), who directly oversee and regulated Mr. Okadas Provisional Licensing Agreement to operate in that country, according to the Freeh Report. The report further stated that Mr. Okada and his associates have consciously taken active measures to conceal both the nature and amount of these payments.
Based on the Freeh Report, presented to the Wynn Resorts Board of Directors on February 18, 2012, the Board determined that Aruze USA, Inc., Universal Entertainment Corporation and Mr. Okada are unsuitable under the provisions of the Companys Articles of Incorporation. The Board was unanimous (other than Mr. Okada) in its determination. The Board has requested that Mr. Okada resign as a Director of Wynn Resorts. The Company will immediately inform the Board of Directors of its Hong Kong listed subsidiary, Wynn Macau, Limited, of its actions and will recommend that Mr. Okada be removed from the Wynn Macau Board.
Pursuant to the finding of unsuitability, the Board has redeemed Aruze USA, Inc.s 24 million Wynn Resorts shares. The terms of redemption are outlined in Wynn Resorts Articles of Incorporation, which have been in place since the Companys inception. Following a finding of unsuitability, the Articles provide for redemption at fair value of the shares held by unsuitable persons to protect the Companys gaming licenses. The Company engaged an independent financial advisor to assist in the fair value calculation and concluded that a discount to the current trading price was appropriate because of restrictions on most of the shares which are subject to the terms of an existing stockholder agreement. Pursuant to the Articles, the Company has issued a 10-year $1.9 billion promissory note in redemption of the shares. The note matures on February 18, 2022 and bears interest at the rate of 2% per annum.
 
 
 
The Compliance Committee and the entire Board are deeply disturbed by the behavior of Mr. Okada, and we have fulfilled our obligations to our stockholders, the State of Nevada and the Wynn community, said former Governor Miller. As Directors of a gaming company privileged to hold licenses, we have a duty to uphold the highest ethical standards and comply with the laws and the terms of the licenses upon which our business depends. Unfortunately, it is very clear from the Freeh Report that Mr. Okada repeatedly flouted these requirements.
The Freeh Report is the culmination of a year-long investigation by the Compliance Committee based on increasing concerns the Board had relating to the activities of Mr. Okada and Aruze USA, Inc. in the Philippines and statements made by Mr. Okada to Wynn Resorts Directors that gifts to regulators are permissible in Asia. Mr. Okada is the only Director of Wynn Resorts who has continued to refuse to sign the Companys Code of Conduct or participate in mandatory Foreign Corrupt Practices Act training for Directors.
Wynn Resorts today filed a lawsuit against Mr. Okada, Aruze USA, Inc. and Universal Entertainment Corporation in Nevada District Court, Clark County for breach of fiduciary duty and related offenses.
The Company intends to communicate with the appropriate regulatory agencies and government authorities on these matters.
The Company will hold a conference call to discuss this announcement on February 21, 2012 at 6:00 a.m. Pacific Time (10:00 p.m. Hong Kong time). Interested parties are invited to join the call by dialing (800) 794-8478, or if outside North America, by dialing (706) 643-0974. The conference call ID is 54978500. A live audio webcast of the event will be available by visiting
http://www.wynnresorts.com
.
Source: Wynn Resorts
Investors:
Wynn Resorts
Samanta Stewart,
702-770-7555
investorrelations@wynnresorts.com 
or
Media: 
Sard Verbinnen & Co.
George Sard / Paul Kranhold / Charles Sipkins 212-687-8080 / 415-618-8750 / 310-201-2040
 


