Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS General During 2002, the Company accomplished several initiatives directly related to the implementation of the Companys strategic plan as well as expanding its national platform in routine testing. This plan continues to provide growth opportunities for the Company by building a leadership position in genomic and other advanced testing technologies primarily through internal development efforts, acquisitions and technology licensing activities. The Companys Center for Molecular Biology and Pathology, located in Research Triangle Park, NC is a leader in the development and application of molecular diagnostics and polymerase chain reaction, or PCR, technologies in the areas of diagnostic genetics, oncology and infectious disease. The Company believes that these technologies may represent a significant savings to the healthcare system by increasing the detection of early stage (treatable) diseases. The Companys National Genetics Institute in Los Angeles, CA, develops novel, highly sensitive PCR methods used to test for hepatitis C and other infectious agents and is the only laboratory in the U.S. that is FDA approved to screen plasma for infectious diseases. Viro Med Laboratories, Inc., based in Minneapolis, MN, offers molecular microbial testing using real time PCR platforms and provides significant additional capacity to support the continued expansion of the Companys advanced testing business. These Centers of Excellence enable the Company to provide a broad menu of testing services for the infectious disease and cancer markets, which the Company believes represent two of the most significant areas of future growth in the clinical laboratory industry. On July 25, 2002, the Company completed its acquisition of Dynacare, a provider of clinical laboratory testing services in 21 states in the United States and two provinces in Canada. Dynacare had 2001 revenues of approximately $238.0 million and had approximately 6,300 employees at the closing date of the acquisition. This acquisition directly supports the Companys strategic objectives of strengthening its national presence by expanding the Companys geographic reach not only in various regions of the U.S., but also in Canada and allows the Company to further enhance service to its clients and their patients by offering more conveniently located patient service centers and on site testing facilities. It also allows the Company to broaden the array of testing services currently available to physicians, particularly in specialized fields such as molecular biology, genetics, oncology and infectious disease. The Company achieved $4.0 million in synergy savings relating to the integration of Dynacare by the end of 2002 and expects to realize total savings of $45.0 million by the end of 2004. The Company completed the acquisition of DIANON on January 17, 2003. DIANON had 2001 revenues of approximately $125.7 million and had approximately 1,100 employees at the closing date of the acquisition. This acquisition significantly enhances the Companys oncology testing capabilities. DIANON is recognized by physicians, managed care companies and other customers as a leading provider of a wide range of anatomic pathology testing services, which complement the Companys strengths in other areas of cancer testing, particularly cytology. The Company expects that DIANONs extremely effective specialized sales force, scientific expertise, efficient operating model and proprietary CarePath clinical reporting system will allow it to enhance its cancer testing business and will position it to more effectively market and distribute the advanced testing technologies that the Company has developed internally or has licensed from its technology partners, such as Myriad Genetics, Inc., EXACT Sciences Corporation, Celera Diagnostics and Correlogic Systems, Inc. The Company expects to achieve synergy savings relating to the integration of DIANON of $7.5 million in 2003 and total synergy savings of $35.0 million by 2005. In February 2003, the Company announced an agreement to pay $4.5 million in cash to purchase certain assets in Northern California from Quest Diagnostics Incorporated. The assets to be purchased include the assignment of four contracts with independent physician associations (IPAs), as well as the leases for 46 patient service centers, which are located throughout Northern California. Acquiring these assets provides the Company an immediate, competitive presence in Northern California for the first time. Quest Diagnostics has indicated that approximately $27.0 million in annual revenues is generated by capitated fees under the IPA contracts and associated fee for service testing for physicians whose patients use these patient service centers, as well as from specimens received directly from the IPA physicians. The IPAs have already consented to the assignment of the contracts. The asset sale to the Company has been approved by the Federal Trade Commission. The Company has announced a number of significant licensing and partnership agreements which provide it with access to new testing technologies that it expects will have an increasing impact on diagnostic testing. In December 2001, the Company entered into exclusive licensing and marketing relationships with EXACT Sciences and Myriad Genetics. In June 2002, the creation of an exclusive, long term strategic partnership with EXACT Sciences to commercialize PreGen Plus, EXACT Sciences proprietary, non invasive technology to aid in the early detection of colorectal cancer, was announced. The Company plans to launch this gene based test, which represents a significant new tool for the early detection of colorectal cancer, in the second half of 2003. As a result of the exclusive sales and distribution partnership with Myriad Genetics, physicians now have the convenience of sending patients to one of the Companys patient service centers for Myriad Genetics predisposition testing for breast, ovarian, colon, uterine and melanoma skin cancers, as well as hypertension. The Companys relationship with Myriad Genetics makes it one of the few clinical laboratories in the U.S. to provide the entire oncology care continuum from predisposition to surveillance testing, including screening, evaluation, diagnosis and monitoring options. In October 2002, the Company announced a collaboration with Celera to establish the clinical utility of laboratory tests based on novel diagnostic markers. The initial areas of collaboration include efforts to improve the diagnosing of Alzheimers patients and to identify metastatic prostate cancer. This exclusive relationship is a continuation of the Companys strategy to develop a broad genomics testing menu for cancer. In November 2002, the Company announced an agreement with Correlogic Systems to commercialize its ovarian cancer protein blood pattern test for the detection of ovarian cancer, which offers the prospect of accurate and early detection of ovarian cancer. This is a common disease, which if detected early enough, is readily treated and often curable. In addition to the acquisitions and relationships discussed above, the Company believes future performance will be positively affected by several factors: 1) The expansion of higher value genomic tests such as Cystic Fibrosis, HCV and HIV genotyping, along with the continued growth of HIV viral loads and HPV testing; 2) Continued conversion of traditional pap smears to the newer, high value monolayer technology; 3) Continued progress with existing licensing and business relationships (such as Myriad Genetics, EXACT Sciences, Correlogic and Celera); 4) The Companys ongoing business acquisition strategy; 5) Growing demand for genomic testing is creating a positive shift in test mix toward higher value testing; and 6) Improving regulatory and reimbursement environment in Washington, such as the 1.19% CPI increase in the Medicare national median lab fee schedule and the recent reversal in the proposed cuts to the physician services fee schedule. As a result of the acquisitions of Dynacare and DIANON, coupled with expected internal growth, the Company expects that 2003 revenues will grow approximately 22% over revenue in 2002. The application of the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets", resulted in a decrease in amortization expense of approximately $26.0 million for 2002. On October 22, 2002, the Companys Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program under which the Company may purchase up to an aggregate of $150.0 million of its common stock from time to time. There were no Company purchases of its common stock during 2002. It is the Companys intention to fund future purchases of its common stock with cash flow from operations. Seasonality Volume of testing generally declines during the year end holiday periods and other major holidays. In addition, volume declines due to inclement weather may reduce net revenues and cash flows. Therefore, comparison of the results of successive quarters may not accurately reflect trends or results for the full year. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported periods. Significant estimates include the allowances for doubtful accounts, amortization lives for intangible assets, accruals for self insurance reserves and reserves for professional liability claims. The process for estimating the ultimate collection of receivables involves significant assumptions and judgments. Billings for services under third party payor programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, are recorded as revenues net of allowances for differences between amounts billed and the estimated receipts under such programs. Adjustments to the estimated receipts, based on final settlement with the third party payors, are recorded upon settlement as an adjustment to net revenues. In addition, the Company has implemented a process to estimate and review the collectibility of its receivables based on the period they have been outstanding. Historical collection and payor reimbursement experience is an integral part of the estimation process related to reserves for doubtful accounts. The Company also assesses the current state of its billing functions in order to identify any known collection or reimbursement issues in order to assess the impact, if any, on the reserve estimates, which involves judgment. The Company believes that the collectibility of its receivables is directly linked to the quality of its billing processes, most notably, those related to obtaining the correct information in order to bill effectively for the services provided. Revisions in reserve for doubtful accounts estimates are recorded as an adjustment to bad debt expense within selling, general and administrative expenses. The Company believes that its collection and reserves processes, along with the close monitoring of its billing processes, helps reduce the risk associated with material revisions to reserve estimates resulting from adverse changes in collection and reimbursement experience and billing operations. Effective January 1, 2002, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142 "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets". This Standard requires that goodwill and other intangibles that are acquired in business combinations and that have indefinite useful lives are not to be amortized and are to be reviewed for impairment annually based on an assessment of fair value. Other intangibles (patents and technology, customer lists and non compete agreements), are amortized on a straight line basis over the expected periods to be benefited, such as legal life for patents and technology, 10 to 25 years for customer lists and contractual lives for non compete agreements. The impact of adopting SFAS No. 142 is summarized in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Accruals for self insurance reserves (including workers compensation, auto and employee medical) are determined based on historical payment trends and claims history, along with current and estimated future economic conditions. Professional liability reserves incorporate actuarially determined losses based upon the Companys historical and projected loss experience. While management believes these estimates are reasonable and consistent, they are by their very nature, estimates of amounts that will depend on future events. Accordingly, actual results could differ from these estimates. See "Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements" for further discussion of significant accounting policies. Results of Operations Year ended December 31, 2002 compared with Year ended December 31, 2001. Net sales for 2002 were $2,507.7 million, an increase of 14.0% from $2,199.8 million reported in the comparable 2001 period. Testing volume, measured by accessions, increased 10.7% (primarily as a result of the Dynacare acquisition and esoteric volume growth) and price per accession increased 3.3% (due in part to the shift in test mix to higher value esoteric tests) compared to 2001. Cost of sales, which includes primarily laboratory and distribution costs, was $1,445.9 million for 2002 compared to $1,274.2 million in 2001, an increase of 13.5%. In the third quarter of 2002, the Company announced a slowdown in volume growth in the Carolinas. In order to reverse these declines in volume, the Company initiated a reinvestment program that included adding individuals and facilities to improve client service. Although this reinvestment moderately increased the fourth quarter expenses as expected, there was an improvement in the ratio of new to lost accounts in the affected region. Also, the Company incurred certain costs associated with the acquisition and integration of Dynacare such as additional overtime and temporary help and the payment of retention bonuses. Additional costs continue to be incurred due to growth in esoteric and genomic testing and higher volume of Pap tests being performed using more expensive monolayer technology. Cost of sales as a percentage of net sales was 57.7% for 2002 and 57.9% in 2001. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased to $585.5 million in 2002 from $516.5 million in 2001 representing an increase of $69.0 million or 13.4%. This increase resulted primarily from personnel and other costs as a result of the Dynacare acquisition. Selling, general and administrative expenses were 23.3% and 23.5% as a percentage of net sales in 2002 and 2001, respectively. The amortization of intangibles and other assets was $23.8 million and $41.5 million for 2002 and 2001, respectively. The decrease in the amortization expense is due to the adoption in 2002 of the non amortization provisions of SFAS No. 142 for goodwill offset partially by increases in identifiable intangibles amortization resulting from the acquisition of Dynacare. During the third quarter of 2002, the Company recorded restructuring and other special charges totaling $17.5 million. The $17.5 million was comprised of a special bad debt provision of approximately $15.0 million related to the acquired Dynacare accounts receivable balance and an additional $2.5 million relating to integration costs of actions that impact the Companys existing employees and operations. Interest expense was $19.2 million in 2002 compared to $27.0 million in 2001. The reduction in interest expense reflects the Companys lower cost of borrowings from its zero coupon subordinated notes as well as overall market rate declines in interest rates in 2002 compared to 2001. As a result of the Dynacare acquisition, the Company has investments in equity affiliates in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, Ontario, Canada and Alberta, Canada. These investments are accounted for under the equity method of accounting and resulted in other income of $13.4 million for 2002. Provision for income taxes was $177.7 million in 2002 compared to $149.6 million in 2001. The effective tax rate was 41.1% in 2002 and 45.0% in 2001. The decrease in the effective tax rate is primarily due to the elimination of amortization related to goodwill upon adoption of SFAS No. 142 and, to a smaller extent, the Companys reduction of $1.7 million of valuation allowance relating to its net deferred tax assets. Year ended December 31, 2001 compared with Year ended December 31, 2000. Net sales for 2001 were $2,199.8 million, an increase of 14.6% from $1,919.3 million reported in 2000. Sales increased approximately 8.2% due to an increase in volume and 5.9% due to an increase in price per accession (which reflects actual price increases and changes in the mix of tests performed). These increases occurred as a result of the Companys success in winning new business as well as retaining and increasing business from existing customers. Excluding acquisitions, revenues would have increased 10.6%. Cost of sales, which includes primarily laboratory and distribution costs, was $1,274.2 million for 2001 compared to $1,152.7 million in 2000, an increase of 10.5%. The majority of the increase in cost of sales is due to an increase in volume (approximately $95.0 million), with an additional increase of $13.0 million due to increases in the volume of Pap tests performed using monolayer technology. In addition, the Company incurred incremental costs of approximately $6.0 million as it implemented a self mandated safety needle program. Cost of sales as a percentage of net sales was 57.9% for 2001 and 60.0% in 2000. The decrease in the cost of sales as a percentage of net sales primarily resulted from higher margin test mix, continued cost reduction efforts and economies of scale achieved through volume growth. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased to $516.5 million in 2001 from $483.0 million in 2000 representing an increase of $33.5 million or 6.9%. Selling, general and administrative expenses were 23.5% and 25.2% as a percentage of net sales in 2001 and 2000, respectively. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses is primarily the result of the Companys acquisitions during the year combined with additional bad debt expense as a result of the increase in net sales. Interest expense was $27.0 million in 2001 compared to $38.5 million in 2000. During September 2001, the Company repaid its outstanding term loan balance of $412.5 million with the proceeds from the sale of zero coupon subordinated notes. During the third quarter of 2001, the Company recorded an $8.9 million loss relating to a payment made to terminate an interest rate swap agreement tied to the Companys term loan. In addition, the Company recorded a $3.2 million extraordinary loss, net of tax benefit, representing the write off of unamortized bank fees associated with the retired term debt. Provision for income taxes was $149.6 million in 2001 compared to $95.5 million in 2000. The effective tax rate was 45.0% in 2001 and 46.0% in 2000. The decrease in the effective rate reflects the increase in the Companys pre tax earnings relative to the amount of non deductible amortization of intangible assets. Liquidity and Capital Resources Net cash provided by operating activities was $444.9 million, $316.0 million and $246.7 million, in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The increase in cash flow from operations in both 2002 and 2001 primarily resulted from overall improved operating results and the expansion of the business through acquisitions, and the improvement of the Companys DSO to 54 days at the end of 2002 from 58 days at the end of 2001. Capital expenditures were $74.3 million, $88.1 million and $55.5 million for 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The Company expects capital expenditures of approximately $90.0 million in 2003. These expenditures are intended to continue to improve information systems and further automate laboratory processes. Such expenditures are expected to be funded by cash flow from operations as well as borrowings under the Companys new senior credit facilities. In connection with the acquisition of DIANON, on January 31, 2003, the Company completed a private placement of $350.0 million in senior notes, which was used to repay the $350.0 million bridge loan that was entered into to fund part of the DIANON purchase. The notes, in an aggregate principal amount of $350.0 million, will bear an interest rate of 5.5% and resulted in net proceeds of $345.1 million. In conjunction with the acquisition of DIANON, the Companys planned financing of the acquisition, and announced shared repurchase plan, Standard and Poors lowered its overall rating on the Company to BBB from BBB+ and Moodys issued a Baa3 rating to the Companys newly issued Senior Notes. The Companys DSO at the end of 2002 improved to 54 days as compared to 58 days at the end of 2001. This improvement was due to Company wide efforts to increase cash collections from all payors, as well as on going improvements to claim submission processes. In addition, the Company continued to take steps necessary to improve DSO and cash collections by: 1) Conversion of decentralized billing locations, including former Dynacare locations, to a centralized billing system. During 2002, billing activity in Denver, Phoenix and Seattle was converted to the centralized billing system. In 2003 and 2004, the Company will concentrate its conversion activities on the Dynacare locations as well as begin conversion of the DIANON locations. 2) Implementation of, beginning in the first quarter of 2000, an initiative to reduce the number of requisitions received that are missing certain billing information. This initiative involves measuring the number of clinical requisitions received from an ordering client, as well as what specific information was not provided. The Company then identifies root causes of why the information was missing and takes steps to ensure that information is provided in the future. These steps include re educating clients as to what information is needed in order for the Company to bill and collect for the test. As of December 31, 2002, the percentage of requisitions received which were missing billing information was 4.6% as compared to 6.0% at the end of 2001. During September 2001, the Company repaid its outstanding balance of $412.5 million on its term loan facility with the proceeds from the issuance of zero coupon subordinated notes. Interest expense on the zero coupon subordinated notes in the financial statements is computed based on the notes original issue discount amortization for an effective rate of 2% per year. This non cash interest expense totaled approximately $12.0 million in 2002 as compared to interest expense of $27.0 million in 2001 (primarily related to the Companys retired term debt). As the Company does not pay any interest on the zero coupon subordinated notes prior to their maturity on September 11, 2021 (unless certain contingencies are met), the replacement of the Companys long term debt with the zero coupon subordinated notes will result in increases to the Companys available cash. This reduction in cash interest expense and the resulting retention of operating cash flows in the business is expected to provide the Company increased flexibility in pursuing strategic investments through possible acquisitions, technology purchases and key business relationships. In February 2002, the Company entered into two senior credit facilities with Credit Suisse First Boston, acting as Administrative Agent, and a group of financial institutions totaling $300.0 million. The senior credit facilities consisted of a 364 day revolving credit facility in the principal amount of $100.0 million and a three year revolving credit facility in the principal amount of $200.0 million. On July 24, 2002, in conjunction with the acquisition of Dynacare, the Company borrowed $150.0 million under the Dynacare Bridge Loan Agreement, which had an original maturity date of July 23, 2003. On November 29, 2002, the Company repaid all outstanding balances under the Dynacare bridge loan and as a result, the loan has been terminated. On January 14, 2003, the Company entered into a new $150.0 million 364 day revolving credit facility with Credit Suisse First Boston, acting as Administrative Agent, and a group of financial institutions to replace the existing $100.0 million 364 day revolving credit facility, which had terminated. The $200.0 million three year revolving credit facility was amended on January 14, 2003 and expires on February 18, 2005. On January 17, 2003, in conjunction with the acquisition of DIANON, the Company borrowed $350.0 under the DIANON Bridge Loan Agreement with Credit Suisse First Boston, acting as Administrative Agent. On January 31, 2003, the Company sold $350.0 aggregate principal amount of its 5 1/2 % Senior Notes due February 1, 2013. Proceeds from the issuance of these Notes ($345.1), together with cash on hand was used to repay the $350.0 principal amount of the Companys bridge loan facility, and as a result, the loan was terminated. Pension Funding During 2000, 2001 and 2002, the Company made contributions to its defined pension plan in the amounts of $8.6, $10.2 and $18.3, respectively. The Company expects to contribute $18.0 to its defined pension plan during 2003. See "Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements" for a further discussion of the Companys pension and postretirement plans. New Accounting Pronouncements See "Note 25 to Consolidated Financial Statements" for a discussion of new accounting pronouncements. Contractual Cash Obligations Payments Due by Period 1 Yr 2 3 Yrs 4 5 Yrs > 5 Yrs Capital lease obligations $ 3.6 $ 5.4 $ 4.1 $ Operating leases 52.8 70.0 35.3 32.2 Contingent future acquisition payments 5.7 Restructuring obligations 2.8 1.8 1.8 7.3 Contingent future licensing payments 42.5 7.0 15.0 5 1/2 % Senior Notes 345.1 Zero Coupon Subordinated Notes 530.5(a) Total contractual cash obligations $107.4 $614.7 $ 56.2 $384.6 (a) Holders of the zero coupon subordinated notes may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their notes on September 11, 2004, 2006 and 2011 at prices ranging from $712.97 to $819.54 per note. The Company may choose to pay the purchase price in cash or common stock or a combination of cash and common stock. If the holders elect to require the Company to purchase their notes, it is the Companys current intention to retire the notes by a cash payment. However, future market conditions are subject to change. Should the holders put the notes to the Company on any of the dates above, the Company believes that it will be able to obtain alternate financing to satisfy this contingent obligation. Other Commercial Commitments At December 31, 2002, the Company provided letters of credit aggregating approximately $45.6 million, primarily in connection with certain insurance programs. These letters of credit are secured by the Companys senior credit facilities and are renewed annually, around mid year. Based on current and projected levels of operations, coupled with availability under its new senior credit facilities, the Company believes it has sufficient liquidity to meet both its short term and long term cash needs. For a discussion of the Companys zero coupon subordinated notes, see "Note 13 to Consolidated Financial Statements." For a discussion of the Companys new senior credit facilities, see "Note 14 to Consolidated Financial Statements." FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS The Company has made in this report, and from time to time may otherwise make in its public filings, press releases and discussions with Company management, forward looking statements concerning the Companys operations, performance and financial condition, as well as its strategic objectives. Some of these forward looking statements can be identified by the use of forward looking words such as "believes", "expects", "may", "will", "should", "seeks", "approximately", "intends", "plans", "estimates", or "anticipates" or the negative of those words or other comparable terminology. Such forward looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties and the Company claims the protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results could differ materially from those currently anticipated due to a number of factors in addition to those discussed elsewhere herein and in the Companys other public filings, press releases and discussions with Company management, including: 1. changes in federal, state, local and third party payor regulations or policies (or in the interpretation of current regulations) affecting governmental and third party reimbursement for clinical laboratory testing. 2. adverse results from investigations of clinical laboratories by the government, which may include significant monetary damages and or exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. 3. loss or suspension of a license or imposition of a fine or penalties under, or future changes in, the law or regulations of the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act of 1967, and the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988, or those of Medicare, Medicaid or other federal, state or local agencies. 4. failure to comply with the Federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration requirements and the Needlestick Safety and Prevention Act which may result in penalties and loss of licensure. 5. failure to comply with HIPAA, which could result in significant fines. 6. increased competition, including price competition. 7. changes in payor mix, including an increase in capitated managed cost health care. 8. failure to obtain and retain new customers and alliance partners, or a reduction in tests ordered or specimens submitted by existing customers. 9. failure to integrate newly acquired businesses and the cost related to such integration. 10.adverse results in litigation matters. 11.inability to attract and retain experienced and qualified personnel. 12.failure to maintain our days sales outstanding levels. 13.decrease in credit ratings by Standard & Poors and or Moodys. 14.failure to develop or acquire licenses for new or improved technologies, or if customers use new technologies to perform their own tests. 15.failure in the Companys information technology systems resulting in an increase in testing turn around time or billing processes. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK The Company addresses its exposure to market risks, principally the market risk associated with changes in interest rates, through a controlled program of risk management that has included in the past, the use of derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swap agreements. Dynacare has cross currency and interest rate swap agreements due January 15, 2006, whereby Dynacare has swapped $85.5 million Canadian dollar denominated receivables due from certain of its subsidiaries for $58.9 million. These same subsidiaries have swapped in aggregate $85.5 million Canadian dollar denominated debt due to Dynacare into $58.9 million. The Company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. The Company does not believe that its exposure to market risk is material to the Companys financial position or results of operations. The Companys zero coupon subordinated notes contain the following three features that are considered to be embedded derivative instruments under FAS No. 133: 1) The Company will pay contingent cash interest on the zero coupon subordinated notes after September 11, 2006, if the average market price of the notes equals 120% or more of the sum of the issue price, accrued original issue discount and contingent additional principal, if any, for a specified measurement period. 2) Contingent additional principal will accrue on the zero coupon subordinated notes during the two year period from September 11, 2004 to September 11, 2006, if the Companys stock price is at or below specified thresholds. 3) Holders may surrender zero coupon subordinated notes for conversion during any period in which the rating assigned to the zero coupon subordinated notes by Standard & Poors Ratings Services is BB or lower. Based upon independent appraisals, these embedded derivatives had no fair market value at December 31, 2002. 
 
