Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS General During 2003, the Company continued to strengthen its financial performance through the implementation of the Companys strategic plan as well as expanding its national platform in routine testing. This plan continues to provide growth opportunities for the Company by building a leadership position in genomic and other advanced testing technologies primarily through internal development efforts, acquisitions and technology licensing activities. The Companys Center for Molecular Biology and Pathology, located in Research Triangle Park, NC is a leader in the development and application of molecular diagnostics and polymerase chain reaction, or PCR, technologies in the areas of diagnostic genetics, oncology and infectious disease. The Company believes that these technologies may represent a significant savings to the healthcare system by increasing the detection of early stage (treatable) diseases. The Companys National Genetics Institute in Los Angeles, CA, develops novel, highly sensitive PCR methods used to test for hepatitis C and other infectious agents and is the only laboratory in the U.S. that is FDA approved to screen plasma for infectious diseases. Viro Med Laboratories, Inc., based in Minneapolis, MN, offers molecular microbial testing using real time PCR platforms and provides significant additional capacity to support the continued expansion of the Companys advanced testing business. These Centers of Excellence enable the Company to provide a broad menu of testing services for the infectious disease and cancer markets, which the Company believes represent two of the most significant areas of future growth in the clinical laboratory industry. The Company completed the acquisition of DIANON on January 17, 2003. This acquisition significantly enhances the Companys oncology testing capabilities and enables the Company to nationally offer one of the broadest menu of specialized anatomic pathology and gene based cancer testing in the U.S. At the end of 2003, the Company was ahead of schedule with the integration and had achieved the synergy savings of approximately $26.2 million. The Company expects to achieve additional synergy savings of approximately $5.5 million by the end of 2004, and a total net savings of approximately $32.4 million by 2005. The Company began applying DIANONs standardized anatomic pathology processes in early 2004. This "DIANIZATION" of the Company will take approximately three years. The Dynacare integration is substantially completed and is performing as expected, including the achievement of the planned total synergy savings of $45.0 million. Dynacare continues to strengthen the Companys national network of routine testing. In March 2003, the Company purchased certain assets in Northern California from Quest Diagnostics Incorporated (Quest) for $4.5 million in cash. The assets purchased included the assignment of four contracts with independent physician associations (IPAs), as well as the leases for 46 patient service centers, five of which also serve as rapid response laboratories, located throughout Northern California. Acquiring these assets provides the Company an immediate, competitive presence in Northern California for the first time. Quest has indicated that approximately $27.0 million in annual revenues is generated by capitated fees under the IPA contracts and associated fee for service testing for physicians whose patients use these patient service centers, as well as from specimens received directly from the IPA physicians. The Company began the customer conversion process in June and July of 2003, which has been ongoing through the end of the year. The Company expects that incremental revenues will be approximately $9 $10 million in 2004. The Company has announced a number of significant licensing and partnership agreements which provide it with access to new testing technologies that it expects will have an increasing impact on diagnostic testing. In July 2003, the Company announced a marketing and distribution relationship with Atherotech, a leading cardiodiagnostic company and specialty reference laboratory, to offer its proprietary Vertical Auto Profile (VAP"TM") Cholesterol Test. This multi year agreement includes a provision for the transfer of patented testing technology to the Company, after which, if certain conditions are met, the Company would become the first clinical laboratory licensed to perform the cardiovascular disease risk assessment assay within its own national laboratory system. In August of 2003, the Company announced that it had commercially launched PreGen Plus, EXACT Sciences proprietary, non invasive technology to aid in the early detection of colorectal cancer. Since then, the daily number of specimens received has increased at a moderate pace and the Company has expanded its production capacity to handle higher daily volumes. On October 21, 2003, the Company announced an exclusive agreement with BioPredictive, a French Diagnostics firm, that combines the Companys expertise in infectious disease testing with BioPredictives noninvasive, predictive testing technology to quantitatively determine the amount of liver fibrosis, and the rate of its progression, in hepatitis C (HCV) patients. HCV FIBROSURE"TM" is expected to be broadly available in the U.S., only through the Company, around the beginning of the second quarter of 2004. As a result of the exclusive sales and distribution agreement with Myriad Genetics, physicians now have the convenience of sending patients to one of the Companys patient service centers for Myriad Genetics predisposition testing for breast, ovarian, colon and uterine cancers. The Companys relationship with Myriad Genetics makes it one of the few clinical laboratories in the U.S. to provide the entire oncology care continuum from predisposition to surveillance testing, including screening, evaluation, diagnosis and monitoring options. In October 2002, the Company announced a collaboration with Celera to establish the clinical utility of laboratory tests based on novel diagnostic markers. The Company is continuing interactions with Celera to support the development of new gene based assays in a variety of disease areas. Through an agreement with Correlogic Systems, the Company plans to commercialize their protein pattern blood test for the detection of ovarian cancer, which offers the prospect of accurate and early detection of ovarian cancer. This is a common disease, which if detected early enough, is readily treated and often curable. The Company will initially plan to offer the test to those women at greater than average risk for ovarian cancer sometime during 2004. In addition to the acquisitions and relationships discussed above, the Company believes future performance will be positively affected by several factors: 1) The expansion of higher value genomic tests such as Cystic Fibrosis, HCV and HIV genotyping, along with the continued growth of HIV viral loads and HPV testing; 2) Continued conversion of traditional pap smears to the newer, high value monolayer technology; 3) Continued progress with existing licensing and business relationships (such as Myriad Genetics, EXACT Sciences, Correlogic and most recently, BioPredictive); 4) The Companys ongoing business acquisition strategy; and 5) Growing demand for genomic testing creating a positive shift in test mix toward higher value testing. On December 17, 2003, the Companys Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program under which the Company may purchase up to an aggregate of $250.0 million of its common stock from time to time. It is the Companys intention to fund future purchases of its common stock with cash flow from operations. Seasonality Volume of testing generally declines during the year end holiday periods and other major holidays. In addition, volume declines due to inclement weather may reduce net revenues and cash flows. Therefore, comparison of the results of successive quarters may not accurately reflect trends or results for the full year. Results of Operations Year ended December 31, 2003 compared with Year ended December 31, 2002. Net sales for 2003 were $2,939.4 million, an increase of 17.2% from $2,507.7 million reported in the comparable 2002 period. Testing volume growth, measured by accessions, increased approximately 11.7% and was affected by the acquisitions of Dynacare and DIANON as well as growth in the Companys esoteric test volumes (including HPV and cystic fibrosis). Price per accession increased approximately 5.5%, compared to 2002. The growth in price was affected by this same shift in test mix and from shifts in histology testing which is primarily DIANON related. These improvements were partially offset by the impact of severe winter weather during the first quarter of 2003 and physician strikes to protest rising malpractice insurance rates during the second quarter. Cost of sales, which includes primarily laboratory and distribution costs, was $1,714.8 million for 2003 compared to $1,445.9 million in 2002, an increase of 18.6%. The increase in cost of sales is primarily the result of increases in volume and supplies due to recent acquisitions, growth in the base business and growth in esoteric and genomic testing (with significant increases in cystic fibrosis and HPV testing). Cost of sales as a percentage of net sales was 58.3% for 2003 and 57.7% in 2002, reflecting the additional infrastructure costs (facilities and personnel) of Dynacare and DIANON acquisitions. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased to $651.8 million in 2003 from $585.5 million in 2002 representing an increase of $66.3 million or 11.3%. This increase resulted primarily from personnel and other costs as a result of the recent acquisitions. As a percentage of net sales, selling, general and administrative expenses were 22.2% and 23.3% for the year ended 2003 and 2002, respectively, reflecting the realization of synergies from the Dynacare and DIANON acquisitions, as well as the Companys reduction of its bad debt expense rate by approximately 130 basis points during 2003 as compared to 2002. The amortization of intangibles and other assets was $37.6 million and $23.8 million for 2003 and 2002, respectively. The increase in amortization expense is a result of the acquisitions of Dynacare and DIANON. The Company recorded pre tax restructuring charges of $3.3 million and $17.5 million during the third quarters of 2003 and 2002, respectively, in connection with the integrations of DIANON and Dynacare, Inc. During the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company recorded a charge of $3.1 million, relating to the continuing integration of its recent acquisitions. The Company also recorded certain adjustments in the fourth quarter of 2003 to previously recorded restructuring charges due to changes in estimates, resulting in a credit of approximately $4.8 million. Interest expense was $40.9 million in 2003 compared to $19.2 million in 2002. This increase was a direct result of the Companys financing of the DIANON acquisition. Income from equity investments was $43.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 compared to $13.4 million for the year end December 31, 2002. This income represents the Companys ownership share in equity affiliates acquired as part of the Dynacare acquisition on July 25, 2002. A significant portion of this income is derived from investments in Ontario and Alberta, Canada, and is earned in Canadian dollars. The strengthening of the Canadian dollar versus the U.S. dollar during the year ended December 31, 2003 has had a positive impact on this income as well as the cash generated from the Canadian investments. The provision for income taxes as a percentage of earnings before taxes was 40.6% in 2003 compared to 41.1% in 2002. The decrease in the effective tax rate for 2003 is due to a $2.1 million state tax recovery during the third quarter of 2003. Year ended December 31, 2002 compared with Year ended December 31, 2001. Net sales for 2002 were $2,507.7 million, an increase of 14.0% from $2,199.8 million reported in the comparable 2001 period. Testing volume, measured by accessions, increased 10.7% (primarily as a result of the Dynacare acquisition and esoteric volume growth) and price per accession increased 3.3% (due in part to the shift in test mix to higher value esoteric tests) compared to 2001. Cost of sales, which includes primarily laboratory and distribution costs, was $1,445.9 million for 2002 compared to $1,274.2 million in 2001, an increase of 13.5%. In the third quarter of 2002, the Company announced a slowdown in volume growth in the Carolinas. In order to reverse these declines in volume, the Company initiated a reinvestment program that included adding individuals and facilities to improve client service. Although this reinvestment moderately increased the fourth quarter expenses as expected, there was an improvement in the ratio of new to lost accounts in the affected region. Also, the Company incurred certain costs associated with the acquisition and integration of Dynacare such as additional overtime and temporary help and the payment of retention bonuses. Additional costs were incurred due to growth in esoteric and genomic testing and higher volume of Pap tests performed using more expensive monolayer technology. Cost of sales as a percentage of net sales was 57.7% for 2002 and 57.9% in 2001. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased to $585.5 million in 2002 from $516.5 million in 2001 representing an increase of $69.0 million or 13.4%. This increase resulted primarily from personnel and other costs as a result of the Dynacare acquisition. Selling, general and administrative expenses were 23.3% and 23.5% as a percentage of net sales in 2002 and 2001, respectively. The amortization of intangibles and other assets was $23.8 million and $41.5 million for 2002 and 2001, respectively. The decrease in the amortization expense is due to the adoption in 2002 of the non amortization provisions of SFAS No. 142 for goodwill offset partially by increases in identifiable intangibles amortization resulting from the acquisition of Dynacare. During the third quarter of 2002, the Company recorded restructuring and other special charges totaling $17.5 million. The $17.5 million was comprised of a special bad debt provision of approximately $15.0 million related to the acquired Dynacare accounts receivable balance and an additional $2.5 million relating to integration costs of actions that impact the Companys existing employees and operations. Interest expense was $19.2 million in 2002 compared to $27.0 million in 2001. The reduction in interest expense reflects the Companys lower cost of borrowings from its zero coupon subordinated notes as well as overall market rate declines in interest rates in 2002 compared to 2001. As a result of the Dynacare acquisition, the Company has investments in equity affiliates in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, Ontario, Canada and Alberta, Canada. These investments are accounted for under the equity method of accounting and resulted in other income of $13.4 million for 2002. Provision for income taxes was $177.7 million in 2002 compared to $149.6 million in 2001. The effective tax rate was 41.1% in 2002 and 45.0% in 2001. The decrease in the effective tax rate is primarily due to the elimination of amortization related to goodwill upon adoption of SFAS No. 142 and, to a smaller extent, the Companys reduction of $1.7 million of valuation allowance relating to its net deferred tax assets. Liquidity and Capital Resources Net cash provided by operating activities was $564.3 million, $444.9 million and $316.0 million, in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The increase in cash flow from operations in both 2003 and 2002 primarily resulted from improved earnings, the expansion of the business through acquisitions, and the improvement of the Companys accounts receivable days sales outstanding ("DSO") to 53 days at the end of 2003 from 54 days at the end of 2002. This improvement was due to Company wide efforts to increase cash collections from all payors, as well as on going improvements to claim submission processes. In addition, the Company continued to take steps necessary to improve DSO and cash collections by: 1) conversion of decentralized billing locations, including former Dynacare locations, to a centralized billing system. During 2003, billing activity in numerous Dynacare sites was converted to the centralized billing system. In 2004, the Company will concentrate its conversion activities on the remaining Dynacare locations as well as its Salt Lake City, Reno, San Diego and Viro Med facilities. 2) continuing initiative to reduce the number of requisitions received that are missing certain billing information. This initiative involves counting the number of clinical requisitions received from an ordering client, as well as determining what specific information was not provided. The Company then identifies root causes of why the information was missing and takes steps to ensure that information is provided in the future. These steps include re educating clients as to what information is needed in order for the Company to bill and collect for the test. As of December 31, 2003, the percentage of requisitions received which were missing billing information was 4.3% as compared to 4.6% at the end of 2002. 3) implementation of numerous initiatives related to self pay accounts receivable. These include: i) collecting payment at the time of service; ii) increased training for billing personnel related to improving collections during phone calls and iii) review of bill design and frequency. Capital expenditures were $83.6 million, $74.3 million and $88.1 million for 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The Company expects capital expenditures of approximately $90.0 to $100.0 million in 2004. These expenditures are intended to continue standardizing lab and billing information systems and further automate laboratory processes. The Company will continue to make important investments in information technology connectivity with its customers. Such expenditures are expected to be funded by cash flow from operations as well as borrowings under the Companys revolving credit facilities. On January 31, 2003,in connection with the acquisition of DIANON, the Company completed a private placement of $350.0 million in senior notes, which was used to repay the $350.0 million bridge loan that was entered into to fund part of the DIANON purchase. The notes, in an aggregate principal amount of $350.0 million, will bear an interest rate of 5.5% and resulted in net proceeds of $345.1 million. In conjunction with the acquisition of DIANON, the Companys planned financing of the acquisition, and announced share repurchase plan, Standard and Poors lowered its overall rating on the Company to BBB from BBB+ and Moodys issued a Baa3 rating to the Companys newly issued Senior Notes. On January 13, 2004, the Company entered into a new $150.0 million 364 day revolving credit facility with Credit Suisse First Boston, acting as Administrative Agent, and a group of financial institutions to replace the existing $150.0 million 364 day revolving credit facility, which had terminated. The $200.0 million three year revolving credit facility was amended on January 14, 2003 and expires on February 18, 2005. On January 17, 2003, in conjunction with the acquisition of DIANON, the Company borrowed $350.0 million under the DIANON Bridge Loan Agreement with Credit Suisse First Boston, acting as Administrative Agent. On January 31, 2003, the Company sold $350.0 million aggregate principal amount of its 5 1/2% Senior Notes due February 1, 2013. Proceeds from the issuance of these Notes ($345.1 million), together with cash on hand was used to repay the $350.0 million principal amount of the Companys bridge loan facility, and as a result, the loan was terminated. During the first quarter of 2003, the Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement with a major financial institution, solely to manage its interest rate exposure on $175.0 million of its 5 1/2% Senior Notes. This swap agreement was terminated during June 2003 and resulted in net proceeds to the Company of $5.3 million. Pension Funding During 2001, 2002 and 2003, the Company made contributions to its defined pension plan in the amounts of $18.0 million, $8.6 million and $10.2 million, respectively. The Company expects to contribute $34.6 million to its defined pension plan during 2004. See "Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements" for a further discussion of the Companys pension and postretirement plans. New Accounting Pronouncements On December 23, 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board released revised Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 132 "Employers Disclosures about Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits". This Standard is an amendment of SFAS No. 87,88, and 106 and a revision of SFAS No. 132. The provisions of this Statement do not change the measurement and recognition provisions of these previously issued Statements, but requires that additional disclosures are made. Some of the required disclosures include: 1) Plan assets by category, 2) Investment policies and strategies, 3) Target allocation percentages or target ranges for plan asset categories, 4) Projections of future benefit payments, 5) Estimates of future contributions to fund pension and other postretirement benefit plans, and 6) Interim disclosures of certain items. The requirements of the standard are effective for public companies for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2003. The Company adopted this statement for its 2003 Annual Report and Form 10 K and it does not effect the Companys financial position or results of operations. In January 2003, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 46 (FIN No. 46), "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No. 51." FIN No. 46 requires certain variable interest entities to be consolidated by the primary beneficiary of the entity if the equity investors in the entity do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties. FIN No. 46 and FIN No. 46R is effective for all new variable interest entities created or acquired after January 31, 2003. For variable interest entities created or acquired prior to February 1, 2003, the provisions of FIN No. 46 must be applied for the first interim or annual period beginning after December 15, 2003. The Company does not believe it has any unconsolidated variable interest entities, but has not fully completed its evaluation. In December 2002, Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 148, "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure an amendment of FASB Statement No. 123", was issued. This Statement amends SFAS No. 123 to provide alternative methods of transition for a voluntary change to the fair value based method of accounting for stock based employee compensation. In addition, SFAS No. 148 amends the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123 to require disclosure in interim financial statements about the method of accounting for stock based employee compensation and the effect of the method used on reported results. The Company has not adopted a fair value based method of accounting for stock based employee compensation and SFAS No. 148 has not had a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. In July 2002, SFAS No. 146, "Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities" was issued. This Statement addresses the recognition, measurement, and reporting of costs associated with exit or disposal activities, and supercedes Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 94 3, "Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring)" ("EITF 94 3"). The principal difference between SFAS No. 146 and EITF 94 3 relates to the requirements for recognition of a liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity. SFAS No. 146 requires that a liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity, including those related to employee termination benefits and obligations under operating leases and other contracts, be recognized when the liability is incurred, and not necessarily the date of an entitys commitment to an exit plan, as under EITF 94 3. SFAS No. 146 also establishes that the initial measurement of a liability recognized under SFAS No. 146 be based on fair value. The provisions of SFAS No. 146 are effective for exit or disposal activities that are initiated after December 31, 2002, with early application encouraged. The Company adopted this statement January 1, 2003 and it has not effected its financial position or results of operations. In May 2002, SFAS No. 145, "Rescission of FAS Nos. 4, 44, and 64, Amendment of FAS 13, and Technical Corrections as of April 2002" was issued. This Statement rescinds SFAS No. 4, Reporting Gains and Losses from Extinguishment of Debt, and an amendment of that Statement, SFAS No. 64, Extinguishments of Debt Made to Satisfy Sinking Fund Requirements. This Statement also rescinds SFAS No. 44, Accounting for Intangible Assets of Motor Carriers. This Statement amends SFAS No. 13, Accounting for Leases, to eliminate any inconsistency between the required accounting for sale leaseback transactions and the required accounting for certain lease modifications that have economic effects that are similar to sale leaseback transactions. This Statement also amends other existing authoritative pronouncements to make various technical corrections, clarify meanings, or describe their applicability under changed conditions. The Company adopted this statement January 1, 2003 and it has resulted in the reclassification of the 2001 extraordinary loss. Contractual Cash Obligations Payments Due by Period Less More than 1 Yr 1 3 Yrs 3 5 Yrs > 5 Yrs Capital lease obligations $ 3.5 $ 5.7 $ 1.2 $ Operating leases obligations 55.4 72.1 34.1 25.3 Restructuring obligations 5.0 6.7 6.2 6.8 Contingent future licensing payments 24.1(b) 13.5 18.7 Royalty payments 0.3 1.8 2.0 5 1/2% Senior Notes 350.0 Zero coupon subordinated notes 530.5(a) Total contractual cash obligations $618.8 $ 99.8 $ 62.2 $382.1 (a) Holders of the zero coupon subordinated notes may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their notes on September 11, 2004, 2006 and 2011 at prices ranging from $712.97 to $819.54 per note. The Company may choose to pay the purchase price in cash or common stock or a combination of cash and common stock. If the holders elect to require the Company to purchase their notes, it is the Companys current intention to retire the notes by a cash payment. However, future market conditions are subject to change. Should the holders put the notes to the Company on any of the dates above, the Company believes that it will be able to obtain alternate financing to satisfy this contingent obligation. (b) Contingent future licensing payments will be made in the event that certain events take place, such as the launch of a specific test, the transfer of certain technology, and when specified revenue milestones are met. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company does not have transactions or relationships with "special purpose" entities, and the Company does not have any off balance sheet financing other than normal operating leases. Other Commercial Commitments At December 31, 2003, the Company provided letters of credit aggregating approximately $57.1 million, primarily in connection with certain insurance programs. These letters of credit are secured by the Companys senior credit facilities and are renewed annually, around mid year. Based on current and projected levels of operations, coupled with availability under its new senior credit facilities, the Company believes it has sufficient liquidity to meet both its short term and long term cash needs. For a discussion of the Companys zero coupon subordinated notes, see "Note 13 to Consolidated Financial Statements." For a discussion of the Companys new senior credit facilities, see "Note 14 to Consolidated Financial Statements." Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported periods. Significant estimates include the allowances for doubtful accounts, amortization lives for intangible assets, accruals for self insurance reserves and reserves for professional liability claims. The process for estimating the ultimate collection of receivables involves significant assumptions and judgments. Billings for services under third party payor programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, are recorded as revenues net of allowances for differences between amounts billed and the estimated receipts under such programs. Adjustments to the estimated receipts, based on final settlement with the third party payors, are recorded upon settlement as an adjustment to net revenues. In addition, the Company has implemented a process to estimate and review the collectibility of its receivables based on the period they have been outstanding. Historical collection and payor reimbursement experience is an integral part of the estimation process related to reserves for doubtful accounts. The Company also assesses the current state of its billing functions in order to identify any known collection or reimbursement issues in order to assess the impact, if any, on the reserve estimates, which involves judgment. The Company believes that the collectibility of its receivables is directly linked to the quality of its billing processes, most notably, those related to obtaining the correct information in order to bill effectively for the services provided. Revisions in reserve for doubtful accounts estimates are recorded as an adjustment to bad debt expense within selling, general and administrative expenses. The Company believes that its collection and reserves processes, along with the close monitoring of its billing processes, helps reduce the risk associated with material revisions to reserve estimates resulting from adverse changes in collection and reimbursement experience and billing operations. The Companys pension expense is developed from actuarial valuations. Inherent in these valuations are key assumptions, including discount rates and expected return on plan assets, which are usually updated on an annual basis at the beginning of each year. The Company is required to consider current market conditions, including changes in interest rates, in making these assumptions. Changes in pension costs may occur in the future due to changes in these assumptions. The key assumptions used in accounting for the defined benefit plans were a 6.25% discount rate and an 8.5% expected return on plan assets. Compared with the prior year, net pension cost increased $5.3 million and is projected to decrease approximately $4.0 million in 2004, primarily as a result of the performance of plan assets in 2003, which should reduce 2004 plan expense by approximately $3.7 million; plan amendments, which should result in reduced 2004 plan expense by approximately $1.0 million; and offset by increased expense of approximately $0.6 million as a result of the reduction of the discount rate. In establishing its expected return on plan assets assumption, the Company reviews asset allocation considering plan maturity and develops return assumptions based on different asset classes adjusting for plan operating expenses. Actual asset over/under performance compared to expected returns will respectively decrease/increase unrecognized loss. The change in the unrecognized loss will change amortization cost in upcoming periods. A one percentage point change in the expected return assumption in the current year would have resulted in a change in pension expense of approximately $1.4 million. Effective December 31, 2003, the Company adopted the revised Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 132 "Employers Disclosures about Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits". This Standard is an amendment of SFAS No. 87,88, and 106 and a revision of SFAS No. 132. The provisions of this Statement do not change the measurement and recognition provisions of these previously issued Statements, but requires that additional disclosures are made. Some of the required disclosures include: 1) plan assets by category, 2) investment policies and strategies, 3) target allocation percentages or target ranges for plan asset categories, 4) projections of future benefit payments, 5) estimates of future contributions to fund pension and other postretirement benefit plans, and 6) interim disclosures of certain items. Effective January 1, 2002, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142 "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets". This Standard requires that goodwill and other intangibles that are acquired in business combinations and that have indefinite useful lives are not to be amortized and are to be reviewed for impairment annually based on an assessment of fair value. Other intangibles (patents and technology, customer lists and non compete agreements), are amortized on a straight line basis over the expected periods to be benefited, such as legal life for patents and technology, 10 to 25 years for customer lists and contractual lives for non compete agreements. The impact of adopting SFAS No. 142 is summarized in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Accruals for self insurance reserves (including workers compensation, auto and employee medical) are determined based on historical payment trends and claims history, along with current and estimated future economic conditions. The Company is self insured for professional liability claims arising in the normal course of business, generally related to the testing and reporting of laboratory test results. The Company records an accrual for such claims payable and claims incurred but not reported based on an actuarial assessment of the accrual, which is performed at least annually. While management believes these estimates are reasonable and consistent, they are by their very nature, estimates of amounts that will depend on future events. Accordingly, actual results could differ from these estimates. The Companys Audit Committee periodically reviews the Companys significant accounting policies. See "Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements" for further discussion of significant accounting policies. FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS The Company has made in this report, and from time to time may otherwise make in its public filings, press releases and discussions with Company management, forward looking statements concerning the Companys operations, performance and financial condition, as well as its strategic objectives. Some of these forward looking statements can be identified by the use of forward looking words such as "believes", "expects", "may", "will", "should", "seeks", "approximately", "intends", "plans", "estimates", or "anticipates" or the negative of those words or other comparable terminology. Such forward looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties and the Company claims the protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results could differ materially from those currently anticipated due to a number of factors in addition to those discussed elsewhere herein and in the Companys other public filings, press releases and discussions with Company management, including: 1. changes in federal, state, local and third party payor regulations or policies (or in the interpretation of current regulations) affecting governmental and third party reimbursement for clinical laboratory testing; 2. adverse results from investigations of clinical laboratories by the government, which may include significant monetary damages and or exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs; 3. loss or suspension of a license or imposition of a fine or penalties under, or future changes in, the law or regulations of the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act of 1967, and the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988, or those of Medicare, Medicaid or other federal, state or local agencies; 4. failure to comply with the Federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration requirements and the Needlestick Safety and Prevention Act which may result in penalties and loss of licensure; 5. failure to comply with HIPAA, which could result in significant fines; 6. failure of third party payors to complete testing with the Company, or accept or remit transactions in HIPAA required standard transaction and code set format, could result in an interruption in the Companys cash flow; 7. increased competition, including price competition; 8. changes in payor mix, including an increase in capitated managed cost health care; 9. failure to obtain and retain new customers and alliance partners, or a reduction in tests ordered or specimens submitted by existing customers; 10.failure to integrate newly acquired businesses and the cost related to such integration; 11.adverse results in litigation matters; 12.inability to attract and retain experienced and qualified personnel; 13.failure to maintain the Companys days sales outstanding levels; 14.decrease in credit ratings by Standard & Poors and or Moodys; 15.failure to develop or acquire licenses for new or improved technologies, or if customers use new technologies to perform their own tests; 16.inability to commercialize newly licensed tests or technologies or to obtain appropriate reimbursements for such tests, which could result in impairment in the value of certain capitalized licensing costs; 17.inability to obtain and maintain adequate patent and other proprietary rights protection of the Companys products and services and successfully enforce the Companys proprietary rights; 18.the scope, validity and enforceability of patents and other proprietary rights held by third parties which might impact on the Companys ability to develop, perform, or market the Companys tests or operate its business; 19.failure in the Companys information technology systems resulting in an increase in testing turnaround time or billing processes; 20.liabilities that result from the inability to comply with new Corporate governance requirements; and 21.compliance by the Company with the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, including Section 404 of that Act which requires management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to and report on, our internal controls, will require management to devote substantial time and attention, which could prove to be disruptive to product development and licensing, marketing and other business activities and will require additional legal, accounting and other expenses to implement the requirements of these new rules. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK The Company addresses its exposure to market risks, principally the market risk associated with changes in interest rates, through a controlled program of risk management that has included in the past, the use of derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swap agreements. The Company had an interest rate swap agreement with a major financial institution, solely to manage its interest rate exposure on $175.0 million of its 5 1/2% senior notes. This swap agreement was terminated during June 2003 and the Company received net proceeds of $5.3 million. Although, as set forth below, the Companys zero coupon subordinated notes contain features that are considered to be embedded derivative instruments, the Company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. The Company does not believe that its exposure to market risk is material to the Companys financial position or results of operations. The Companys zero coupon subordinated notes contain the following three features that are considered to be embedded derivative instruments under FAS No. 133: 1) The Company will pay contingent cash interest on the zero coupon subordinated notes after September 11, 2006, if the average market price of the notes equals 120% or more of the sum of the issue price, accrued original issue discount and contingent additional principal, if any, for a specified measurement period. 2) Contingent additional principal will accrue on the zero coupon subordinated notes during the two year period from September 11, 2004 to September 11, 2006, if the Companys stock price is at or below specified thresholds. 3) Holders may surrender zero coupon subordinated notes for conversion during any period in which the rating assigned to the zero coupon subordinated notes by Standard & Poors Ratings Services is BB or lower. Based upon independent appraisals, these embedded derivatives had no fair market value at December 31, 2003. Borrowings under the Companys revolving credit facility are subject to variable interest rates, unless fixed through interest rate swap or other agreements. Two of the Companys equity affiliates operate in Canada and remit the Companys share of partnership income in Canadian Dollars. Accordingly, the cash flow received from these affiliates is subject to a certain amount of foreign currency exchange risk. 
 
