FILE:BWA/BWA-8K-20031117172431.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report: November 17, 2003 BORGWARNER INC. (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 1-12162 13-3404508 (State of Incorporation) (Commission File No.) (IRS Employer Identification No.) 200 South Michigan Avenue, Chicago, Illinois 60604 (Address of principal executive offices) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (312) 322-8500 Item 5. Other Events. On November 17, 2003, BorgWarner Inc. issued a press release announcing that William C. Cline has been appointed acting chief financial officer to replace George E. Strickler. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. Exhibits (99.1) BorgWarner Inc. Press Release dated November 17, 2003. SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized. BORGWARNER INC. /s/ Vincent M. Lichtenberger By:---------------------------- Vincent M. Lichtenberger Assistant Secretary Dated: November 17, 2003

[BorgWarner logo] Immediate Release Contact Mary Brevard Phone: 312/322-8683 BORGWARNER NAMES WILLIAM C. CLINE ACTING CFO Chicago, Illinois, November 17, 2003 BorgWarner Inc. (NYSE:BWA) today announced that vice president and controller William (Skip) C. Cline, 54, has been appointed acting chief financial officer. Cline is replacing George E. Strickler, who is leaving BorgWarner to join Visteon Corporation. "A committee which includes two board members and me is in place to lead our fast-track search process for a permanent replacement," said Timothy M. Manganello, chairman and chief executive officer. "During this interim period, we are pleased that Skip and his team will provide the depth of financial expertise and continuity necessary to assure our continued progress and a seamless transition. Our entire management team continues to provide strong leadership as we pursue our aggressive growth goals." Mr. Cline has been with BorgWarner for 21 years and has served as vice president and controller since 1993. Prior to joining BorgWarner he was with Ernst & Young. He is a Certified Public Accountant, and holds a bachelors degree from Duke University and a masters in management from the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University. Manganello noted, "George has contributed significantly to BorgWarner's success over the past three years. On behalf of BorgWarner, I wish him all the best with what appears to be an exceptional career opportunity. BorgWarner Inc. (NYSE: BWA) is a product leader in highly engineered components and systems for vehicle powertrain applications worldwide. The company operates manufacturing and technical facilities in 43 locations in 14 countries. Customers include Ford, DaimlerChrysler, General Motors, Toyota, Honda, Hyundai/Kia, Caterpillar, Navistar International, Renault/Nissan, Peugeot and VW/Audi. The Internet address for BorgWarner is: http://www.bwauto.com. For further information contact BorgWarner Corporate Communications at 312-322-8500 # # # Statements contained in this news release may contain forward-looking statements as contemplated by the 1995 Private Securities Litigation Reform Act that are based on management's current expectations, estimates and projections. Words such as "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "estimates," variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected or implied in the forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include: fluctuations in domestic or foreign automotive production, the continued use of outside suppliers by original equipment manufacturers, fluctuations in demand for vehicles containing the Company's products, general economic conditions, as well as other risks detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Cautionary Statements filed as Exhibit 99.1 to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002.


