FILE:BWA/BWA-8K-20040723102840.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report: July 23, 2004 BORGWARNER INC. (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 1-12162 13-3404508 (State of Incorporation) (Commission File No.) (IRS Employer Identification No.) 200 South Michigan Avenue, Chicago, Illinois 60604 (Address of principal executive offices) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (312) 322-8500 Item 5. Other Events. On July 22, 2004, BorgWarner Inc. issued a press release announcing that Cynthia A. Niekamp has been named President and General Manager of BorgWarner TorqTransfer Systems, Drivetrain Group and Vice President of BorgWarner Inc. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. Exhibits (99.1) BorgWarner Inc. Press Release dated July 22, 2004. SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized. BORGWARNER INC. /s/ Laurene H. Horiszny By:---------------------------- Laurene H. Horiszny Vice President, General Counsel & Secretary Dated: July 23, 2004

[BORGWARNER Logo] Immediate Release Contact: Mary Brevard 312/322-8683 Beth Feikens 248/373-7962 BORGWARNER TAPS CYNTHIA NIEKAMP TO HEAD TORQUE TRANSFER BUSINESS Chicago, Illinois, July 22, 2004 BorgWarner Inc. (NYSE: BWA) today named Cynthia "Cindy" A. Niekamp President and General Manager of BorgWarner TorqTransfer Systems, Drivetrain Group, and Vice President of BorgWarner Inc. She succeeds John J. McGill who was appointed to the newly created position of Vice President, Global Supply Chain and Champion of Emerging Country Market Utilization. "We are very pleased to welcome Cindy to the BorgWarner organization to continue the growth of our torque transfer business," said Timothy M. Manganello, Chairman and CEO. "Her extensive operating and financial experience will enhance our company's leadership and broaden our management team as we seek growth that outpaces the auto industry." Cindy Niekamp, 45, joins BorgWarner from MeadWestvaco Corporation where she was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. She served in a variety of senior roles for the company and predecessor Mead Corporation from 1995 to 2002 in strategic planning and general management, including four years as President and General Manager of Mead Specialty Paper Division. She started her career at General Motors in operations and engineering, before moving to TRW to assume operational and business development responsibilities. She holds a master's degree in business administration from Harvard Business School and a bachelor's degree in industrial engineering from Purdue University. She currently serves on the board of directors of Delphi Corporation. BorgWarner Inc. (NYSE: BWA) is a product leader in highly engineered components and systems for vehicle powertrain applications worldwide. The company operates manufacturing and technical facilities in 43 locations in 14 countries. Customers include Ford, DaimlerChrysler, General Motors, Toyota, Honda, Hyundai/Kia, Caterpillar, Navistar International, Renault/Nissan, Peugeot and VW/Audi. The Internet address for BorgWarner is: http://www.bwauto.com. ### Statements contained in this news release may contain forward-looking statements as contemplated by the 1995 Private Securities Litigation Reform Act that are based on management's current expectations, estimates and projections. Words such as "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "estimates," variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected or implied in the forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include: fluctuations in domestic or foreign automotive production, the continued use of outside suppliers by original equipment manufacturers, fluctuations in demand for vehicles containing the Company's products, general economic conditions, as well as other risks detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Cautionary Statements filed as Exhibit 99.1 to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003.


