FILE:BWA/BWA-8K-20041130135358.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report: November 30, 2004 BORGWARNER INC. (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 1-12162 13-3404508 (State of Incorporation) (Commission File No.) (IRS Employer Identification No.) 5435 Corporate Drive, Suite 150, Troy MI 48098 (Address of principal executive offices) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (248) 373-5550 [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d- 2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2[b]) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e- 4[c] under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4[c]) Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement In order to comply with German regulatory requirements in connection with the tender offer in Germany to acquire the remaining shares of approximately 37% (or approximately 3.7 million shares) of the outstanding stock of Beru AG, BorgWarner Inc. and BorgWarner Germany GmbH entered into a Euro 700,000,000 Senior Bridge Term Credit Facility, dated as of November 23, 2004 with Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. as syndication agent, administrative agent, lender and lead arranger. Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. is an affiliate of Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated which served as financial advisor to BorgWarner on the Beru transaction. The Senior Bridge Term Credit Facility contains customary terms and conditions for a bridge financing transaction. Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits. [c] Exhibits (10.1) Credit Agreement dated November 23, 2004 among BorgWarner Inc., and BorgWarner Germany GmbH, as Borrowers, The Lenders Party Hereto Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as Administrative Agent and Syndication Agent, Euro 700,000,000 Senior Bridge Term Credit Facility, Morgan Stanley Senior Funding,Inc., as lead Arranger and Book Runner SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized. BORGWARNER INC. /s/ Vincent M. Lichtenberger By:---------------------------- Vincent M. Lichtenberger Assistant Secretary Dated: November 30, 2004

Execution Copy CREDIT AGREEMENT dated as of November 23, 2004 among BORGWARNER INC. and BORGWARNER GERMANY GMBH, as Borrowers The Lenders Party Hereto MORGAN STANLEY SENIOR FUNDING, INC., as Administrative Agent and Syndication Agent E700,000,000 SENIOR BRIDGE TERM CREDIT FACILITY ______________________________ MORGAN STANLEY SENIOR FUNDING, INC., as Lead Arranger and Book Runner TABLE OF CONTENTS Page ARTICLE 1 Definitions Section 1.01. Defined Terms 1 Section 1.02. Terms Generally 16 Section 1.03. Accounting Terms; GAAP 16 ARTICLE 2 The Credits Section 2.01. Commitments 17 Section 2.02. Requests For Borrowings 17 Section 2.03. Funding Of Borrowings 18 Section 2.04. Interest Elections 18 Section 2.05. Termination And Reduction Of Commitments 19 Section 2.06. Repayment Of Loans; Evidence Of Debt. 19 Section 2.07. Prepayment Of Loans 20 Section 2.08. Fees 21 Section 2.09. Interest 21 Section 2.10. Alternate Rate Of Interest. 22 Section 2.11. Increased Costs 22 Section 2.12. Break Funding Payments 23 Section 2.13. Taxes 24 Section 2.14. Payments Generally; Pro Rata Treatment; Sharing Of Set-offs 24 Section 2.15. Mitigation Obligations; Replacement Of Lenders 26 Section 2.16. Escrow Account 26 ARTICLE 3 Representations And Warranties Section 3.01. Organization; Powers 27 Section 3.02. Authorization; Enforceability 27 Section 3.03. Governmental Approvals; No Conflicts 27 Section 3.04. Financial Condition; No Material Adverse Effect 27 Section 3.05. Properties 28 Section 3.06. Litigation And Environmental Matters 28 Section 3.07. Compliance With Laws And Agreements 28 Section 3.08. Investment And Holding Company Status. 29 Section 3.09. Taxes 29 Section 3.10. ERISA 29 Section 3.11. Federal Regulations 29 Section 3.12. Disclosure 29 ARTICLE 4 Conditions Section 4.01. Effective Date 30 Section 4.02. Initial Borrowing 31 Section 4.03. Subsequent Borrowing 32 ARTICLE 5 Affirmative Covenants Section 5.01. Financial Statements And Other Information 32 Section 5.02. Notices Of Material Events 33 Section 5.03. Existence; Conduct Of Business 34 Section 5.04. Payment Of Obligations 34 Section 5.05. Maintenance Of Properties; Insurance 34 Section 5.06. Books And Records; Inspection Rights 34 Section 5.07. Compliance With Laws 35 Section 5.08. Use Of Proceeds 35 Section 5.09. Conduct Of Tender Offer 35 Section 5.10. Prepayment Of Loans 35 ARTICLE 6 Negative Covenants Section 6.01. Financial Covenants 35 Section 6.02. Liens. 36 Section 6.03. Fundamental Changes 37 Section 6.04. Indebtedness 37 Section 6.05. Acquisitions 38 Section 6.06. Restricted Payments 38 Section 6.07. Transactions With Affiliates 38 Section 6.08. Restrictive Agreements 39 Section 6.09. Tender Offer Documentation 39 ARTICLE 7 Events Of Default ARTICLE 8 The Administrative Agent ARTICLE 9 Guarantee Section 9.01. The Guarantee 44 Section 9.02. Guarantee Unconditional 44 Section 9.03. Discharge Only Upon Payment In Full; Reinstatement In Certain Circumstances 44 Section 9.04. Waiver By BorgWarner 45 Section 9.05. Subrogation 45 Section 9.06. Stay Of Acceleration 45 ARTICLE 10 Miscellaneous Section 10.01. Notices 45 Section 10.02. Waivers; Amendments 46 Section 10.03. Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver 46 Section 10.04. Successors And Assigns 47 Section 10.05. Survival 49 Section 10.06. Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness 50 Section 10.07. Severability 50 Section 10.08. Right Of Setoff 50 Section 10.09. Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Consent To Service Of Process 51 Section 10.10. WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL 51 Section 10.11. Headings 51 Section 10.12. Confidentiality 52 Section 10.13. Judgment Currency 52 Section 10.14. USA PATRIOT Act 53 SCHEDULES: Schedule 2.1 Commitments Schedule 3.6 Disclosed Matters Schedule 6.2 Existing Liens Schedule 6.4 Indebtedness Schedule 6.8 Restrictive Agreements EXHIBITS: Exhibit A Form of Assignment and Acceptance Exhibit B Form of Opinion of BorgWarner's Counsel CREDIT AGREEMENT, dated as of November 23, 2004, among BORGWARNER INC., a Delaware corporation ("BorgWarner"), and BorgWarner Germany GmbH, a German limited liability company ("BorgWarner Germany" and, together with BorgWarner, the "Borrowers"), the several banks and other financial institutions from time to time parties hereto (the "Lenders"), and MORGAN STANLEY SENIOR FUNDING, INC., as syndication agent (in such capacity, the "Syndication Agent") and as administrative agent for the Lenders (in such capacity, the "Administrative Agent"). The parties hereto agree as follows: ARTICLE 1 Definitions Section 1.01 Defined Terms. As used in this Agreement, the following terms have the meanings specified below: "ABR", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Alternate Base Rate. "Acquisition" means the acquisition by BorgWarner Germany of the outstanding capital shares of Target through the Private Sale and the Tender Offer. "Adjusted Eurocurrency Rate" means, with respect to any Borrowing for any Interest Period, an interest rate per annum (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/16 of 1%) equal to (a) the Eurocurrency Rate for such Interest Period multiplied by (b) the Statutory Reserve Rate. "Administrative Agent" has the meaning assigned to such term in the preamble. "Administrative Questionnaire" means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agent. "Affiliate" means, with respect to a specified Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified. "Agents" means the collective reference to the Administrative Agent, the Syndication Agent and the Documentation Agents. "Agreement" means this Credit Agreement, as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time. "Alternate Base Rate" means, for any day, a rate per annum equal to the higher of (a) the Prime Rate in effect on such day and (b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect on such day plus 1/2 of 1%. Any change in the Alternate Base Rate due to a change in the Prime Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate shall be effective from and including the effective date of such change in the Prime Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate, respectively. "Applicable Percentage" means, with respect to any Lender, the percentage of the total Commitments represented by such Lender's Commitment. If the Commitments have terminated or expired, the Applicable Percentages shall be determined based upon the Commitments most recently in effect, giving effect to any assignments. "Applicable Rate" means, for any day, with respect to any Eurocurrency Loan, or with respect to the facility fees payable hereunder, as the case may be, the applicable rate per annum set forth below under the caption "Eurocurrency Margin" or "Facility Fee Rate", as the case may be, based upon the ratings by Moody's and S&P, respectively, applicable on such date to the Index Debt: Index Debt Ratings: Eurocurrency Margin Facility Fee Rate Category 1 A/A2 or higher 0.295% 0.080% Category 2 A-/A3 0.385% 0.090% Category 3 BBB+/Baa1 0.515% 0.110% Category 4 BBB/Baa2 0.735% 0.140% Category 5 BBB-/Baa3 or lower 0.825% 0.175% For purposes of the foregoing, (i) if either Moody's or S&P shall not have in effect a rating for the Index Debt (other than by reason of the circumstances referred to in the last sentence of this definition), then such rating agency shall be deemed to have established a rating in Category 5; (ii) the rating of Index Debt on any day shall be deemed to be the rating in effect at the close of business on such day; (iii) if the ratings established or deemed to have been established by Moody's and S&P for the Index Debt shall fall within different Categories, the Applicable Rate shall be based on the higher of the two ratings (e.g., A-/Baa1 results in Category 2 status) unless one of the two ratings is two or more Categories lower than the other, in which case the Applicable Rate shall be determined by reference to the Category next below that of the higher of the two ratings (e.g., A-/Baa2 results in Category 3 status); and (iv) if the ratings established or deemed to have been established by Moody's and S&P for the Index Debt shall be changed (other than as a result of a change in the rating system of Moody's or S&P), such change shall be effective as of the date on which it is first announced by the applicable rating agency. Each change in the Applicable Rate shall apply during the period commencing on the effective date of such change and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change. If the rating system of Moody's or S&P shall change, or if either such rating agency shall cease to be in the business of rating corporate debt obligations, BorgWarner and the Lenders shall negotiate in good faith to amend this definition to reflect such changed rating system or the unavailability of ratings from such rating agency and, pending the effectiveness of any such amendment, the Applicable Rate shall be determined by reference to the rating most recently in effect prior to such change or cessation. "Assignment and Acceptance" means an assignment and acceptance entered into by a Lender and an assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by Section 10.04), and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in the form of Exhibit A or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent. "Availability Period" means the period from and including the Funding Date to but excluding the earlier of the date on which the Certain Funds Period ends and the date of termination of the Commitments. "Board" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States of America. "BorgWarner" has the meaning assigned to such term in the preamble. "BorgWarner Germany" has the meaning assigned to such term in the preamble. "Borrowers" has the meaning assigned to such term in the preamble and "Borrower" means either of the Borrowers, as the context may require. "Borrowing" means Loans made on the same date and as to which a single Interest Period is in effect. "Borrowing Request" means a request by a Borrower for a Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.03. "Business Day" means any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City are authorized or required by law to remain closed; provided that when used in connection with a Loan "Business Day" shall also exclude any day which is not a TARGET Day. "Capital Lease Obligations" of any Person means the obligations of such Person to pay rent or other amounts under any lease of (or other arrangement conveying the right to use) real or personal property, or a combination thereof, which obligations are required to be classified and accounted for as capital leases on a balance sheet of such Person under GAAP, and the amount of such obligations shall be the capitalized amount thereof determined in accordance with GAAP. "Capital Stock" means any and all shares, interests, participations or other equivalents (however designated) of capital stock of a corporation, any and all equivalent ownership interests in a Person (other than a corporation) and any and all warrants or options to purchase any of the foregoing. "Certain Funds Period" means the period beginning on the Publication Date and ending on the earliest of (i) the fifth Business Day following the date of expiry of the period for the Tender Offer pursuant to the German Takeover Act (including any extension of the Tender Offer permitted under applicable law and the subsequent offer period (weitere Annahmefrist)), (ii) the date of termination of the Commitments by BorgWarner, and (iii) the date that is 120 days after the Publication Date. "Change in Control" means (a) the acquisition of ownership, directly or indirectly, beneficially or of record, by any Person or group (within the meaning of the Exchange Act and the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission thereunder as in effect on the date hereof), of shares representing more than 30% of the aggregate ordinary voting power represented by the issued and outstanding capital stock of BorgWarner; (b) occupation of a majority of the seats (other than vacant seats) on the board of directors of BorgWarner by Persons who were neither (i) nominated by the board of directors of BorgWarner nor (ii) appointed by directors so nominated; or (c) the acquisition of direct or indirect Control of BorgWarner by any Person or group. "Change in Law" means (a) the adoption of any law, rule or regulation after the date of this Agreement, (b) any change in any law, rule or regulation or in the interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority after the date of this Agreement or (c) compliance by any Lender (or, for purposes of Section 2.11(b), by any lending office of such Lender or by such Lender's holding company, if any) with any request, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) of any Governmental Authority made or issued after the date of this Agreement. "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time. "Commitment" means, with respect to each Lender, the commitment of such Lender to make Loans, as such commitment may be (a) reduced from time to time pursuant to Section 2.05, or (b) reduced or increased from time to time pursuant to assignments by or to such Lender pursuant to Section 10.04. The initial amount of each Lender's Commitment is set forth on Schedule 2.1, or in the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which such Lender shall have assumed its Commitment, as applicable. The initial aggregate amount of the Commitments is E700,000,000. "Consolidated EBITDA" means, for any period, Consolidated Net Income for such period plus, without duplication and to the extent reflected as a charge in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income for such period, the sum of (a) income tax expense, (b) interest expense, amortization or writeoff of debt discount and debt issuance costs and commissions, discounts and other fees and charges associated with Indebtedness (including the Loans), (c) depreciation and amortization expense, (d) amortization of intangibles (including, but not limited to, goodwill) and organization costs, (e) any extraordinary, unusual or non-recurring non-cash expenses or losses (including, whether or not otherwise includable as a separate item in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income for such period, non-cash losses on sales of assets outside of the ordinary course of business), and (f) minority interest charges and any other non-cash charges, and minus, to the extent included in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income for such period, the sum of (a) interest income, (b) any extraordinary, unusual or non-recurring income or gains (including, whether or not otherwise includable as a separate item in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income for such period, gains on the sales of assets outside of the ordinary course of business) and (c) minority interest credits and any other non-cash income (except for all amounts that would, in conformity with GAAP, be set forth opposite the caption "equity in affiliate earnings and other income" (or any like caption) on a consolidated income statement of BorgWarner and its Subsidiaries), all as determined on a consolidated basis. For the purposes of calculating Consolidated EBITDA for any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters (each, a "Reference Period") pursuant to any determination of the Leverage Ratio, (i) if at any time during such Reference Period BorgWarner or any Subsidiary shall have made any Material Disposition, the Consolidated EBITDA for such Reference Period shall be reduced by an amount equal to the Consolidated EBITDA (if positive) attributable to the property that is the subject of such Material Disposition for such Reference Period or increased by an amount equal to the Consolidated EBITDA (if negative) attributable thereto for such Reference Period and (ii) if during such Reference Period BorgWarner or any Subsidiary shall have made a Material Acquisition, Consolidated EBITDA for such Reference Period shall be calculated after giving pro forma effect thereto as if such Material Acquisition occurred on the first day of such Reference Period. As used in this definition, "Material Acquisition" means any acquisition of property or series of related acquisitions of property that (a) constitutes assets comprising all or substantially all of an operating unit of a business or constitutes all or substantially all of the common stock of a Person and (b) involves the payment of consideration by BorgWarner and its Subsidiaries in excess of $50,000,000; and "Material Disposition" means any disposition of property or series of related dispositions of property that yields gross proceeds to BorgWarner or any of its Subsidiaries in excess of $50,000,000. "Consolidated Net Income" means, for any period, the consolidated net income (or loss) of BorgWarner and its Subsidiaries, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP. "Consolidated Net Worth" means, at any date, all amounts that would, in conformity with GAAP, be set forth opposite the captions "minority interest" (or any like caption) and "total stockholders' equity" (or any like caption) on a consolidated balance sheet of BorgWarner and its Subsidiaries at such date. "Consolidated Total Assets" means at any date, all amounts that would, in conformity with GAAP, be set forth opposite the caption "total assets" (or any like caption) on a consolidated balance sheet of BorgWarner and its Subsidiaries at such date. "Consolidated Total Debt" means, at any date, the aggregate principal amount of all Indebtedness of BorgWarner and its Subsidiaries at such date, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP. "Control" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise. "Controlling" and "Controlled" have meanings correlative thereto."Default" means any event or condition which constitutes an Event of Default or which upon notice, lapse of time or both would, unless cured or waived, become an Event of Default. "Disclosed Matters" means the actions, suits and proceedings and the environmental matters disclosed in Schedule 3.6. "Documentation Agents" has the meaning assigned to such term in the preamble. "Domestic Subsidiary" means any Subsidiary of BorgWarner organized under the laws of any jurisdiction within the United States. "Effective Date" means the date on which the conditions specified in Section 4.01 are satisfied (or waived in accordance with Section 10.02). "EMU" means the economic and monetary union in accordance with the Treaty of Rome 1957, as amended by the Single European Act 1986, the Maastricht Treaty of 1992 and the Amsterdam Treaty of 1998. "EMU Legislation" means the legislative measures of the European Council for the introduction of, changeover to or operation of a single or unified European currency. "Environmental Laws" means all laws, rules, regulations, codes, ordinances, orders, decrees, judgments, injunctions, notices or binding agreements issued, promulgated or entered into by any Governmental Authority, relating in any way to the environment, preservation or reclamation of natural resources, the management, release or threatened release of any Hazardous Material or to health and safety matters. "Environmental Liability" means any liability, contingent or otherwise (including any liability for damages, costs of environmental remediation, fines, penalties or indemnities), of BorgWarner or any Subsidiary directly or indirectly resulting from or based upon (a) violation of any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Materials, (c) exposure to any Hazardous Materials, (d) the release or threatened release of any Hazardous Materials into the environment or (e) any contract, agreement or other consensual arrangement pursuant to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing. "ERISA" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time. "ERISA Affiliate" means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) that, together with BorgWarner, is treated as a single employer under Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code or, solely for purposes of Section 302 of ERISA and Section 412 of the Code, is treated as a single employer under Section 414 of the Code. "ERISA Event" means (a) any "reportable event", as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA or the regulations issued thereunder with respect to a Plan (other than an event for which the 30-day notice period is waived); (b) the existence with respect to any Plan of an "accumulated funding deficiency" (as defined in Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA), whether or not waived; (c) the filing pursuant to Section 412(d) of the Code or Section 303(d) of ERISA of an application for a waiver of the minimum funding standard with respect to any Plan; (d) the incurrence by BorgWarner or any of its ERISA Affiliates of any liability under Title IV of ERISA with respect to the termination of any Plan; (e) the receipt by a BorgWarner or any ERISA Affiliate from the PBGC or a plan administrator of any notice relating to an intention to terminate any Plan or Plans or to appoint a trustee to administer any Plan; (f) the incurrence by BorgWarner or any of its ERISA Affiliates of any liability with respect to the withdrawal or partial withdrawal from any Plan or Multiemployer Plan; or (g) the receipt by BorgWarner or any ERISA Affiliate of any notice, or the receipt by any Multiemployer Plan from BorgWarner or any ERISA Affiliate of any notice, concerning the imposition of Withdrawal Liability or a determination that a Multiemployer Plan is, or is expected to be, insolvent or in reorganization, within the meaning of Title IV of ERISA. "Escrow Account" means an escrow account established on the books of the Administrative Agent or another financial institution satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and in the name of BorgWarner Germany, and subject to terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrative Agent. "Euro Equivalent" means, with respect to any amount not denominated in Euros (an "Other Currency"), such amount converted to Euros at the spot rate at which such Other Currency is offered for sale against Euros as shown on Reuters page FX, WRLD at a time determined by the Administrative Agent on the day on which any relevant action is to be taken. "Euro" and "EUR" means the lawful currency of the Participating Member States introduced in accordance with EMU Legislation. "Eurocurrency Rate" means, for any Interest Period with respect to any Loan: (a) the rate per annum equal to the rate determined by the Administrative Agent to be the offered rate that is quoted on the Reuters Telerate screen for deposits in Euro (for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period) with a term equivalent to such Interest Period, determined as of approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two (2) TARGET Days prior to the first day of such Interest Period, or (b) in the event that such rate does not appear on the Reuters Telerate screen (or otherwise on such screen), the "Eurocurrency Rate" shall be determined by reference to such other comparable publicly available service for displaying eurocurrency rates as may be selected by the Administrative Agent or, in the absence of such availability, by reference to the rate at which the Administrative Agent is offered deposits in the applicable currency at or about 11:00 a.m., London time, two TARGET Days prior to the beginning of such Interest Period in the interbank eurocurrency market where its eurocurrency and foreign currency and exchange operations are then being conducted for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period for the number of days comprised therein. "Event of Default" has the meaning assigned to such term in Article 7. "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time. "Exchange Rate" shall mean, with respect to any currency on a particular date, the rate at which such currency may be exchanged into Euro, as set forth on such date on the applicable Reuters currency page with respect to such currency. In the event that such rate does not appear on the applicable Reuters currency page, the Exchange Rate with respect to such currency shall be determined by reference to such other publicly available service for displaying exchange rates as may be agreed upon by the Administrative Agent and BorgWarner or, in the absence of such agreement, such Exchange Rate shall instead be JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.'s spot rate of exchange in the London interbank or other market where its foreign currency exchange operations in respect of such currency are then being conducted, at or about 10:00 a.m., local time, at such date for the purchase of Euro with such currency for delivery two Business Days later; provided, however, that if at the time of any such determination, for any reason, no such spot rate is being quoted, the Administrative Agent may use any reasonable method it deems appropriate to determine such rate, and such determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error. "Excluded Taxes" means, with respect to the Administrative Agent, any Lender, or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of a Borrower hereunder, (a) income or franchise taxes imposed on (or measured by) its net income by the United States of America, or by the jurisdiction under the laws of which such recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or, in the case of any Lender, in which its applicable lending office is located, (b) any branch profits taxes imposed by the United States of America or any similar tax imposed by any other jurisdiction in which such Borrower is located and (c) in the case of a Foreign Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by a Borrower under Section 2.15(b)), any withholding tax that is imposed on amounts payable to such Foreign Lender at the time such Foreign Lender becomes a party to this Agreement or is attributable to such Foreign Lender's failure to comply with Section 2.13(e), except to the extent that such Foreign Lender's assignor (if any) was entitled, at the time of assignment, to receive additional amounts from a Borrower with respect to such withholding tax pursuant to Section Section 2.13(a). "Federal Funds Effective Rate" means, for any day, the weighted average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published on the next succeeding Business Day by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a Business Day, the average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the quotations for such day for such transactions received by the Administrative Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it. "Financial Officer" means the chief financial officer, principal accounting officer, treasurer or assistant treasurer of BorgWarner. "Foreign Lender" means any Lender that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than that in which the applicable Borrower is located. For purposes of this definition, the United States of America, each State thereof and the District of Columbia shall be deemed to constitute a single jurisdiction. "Foreign Subsidiary" means any Subsidiary of BorgWarner that is not a Domestic Subsidiary. "Funding Date" means the date on which the conditions specified in Sections 4.01 and 4.02 are satisfied (or waived in accordance with Section 10.02). "GAAP" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America. "German FSA" means the German Federal Supervisory Authority for Financial Services. "German Takeover Act" means the German Securities Acquisition and Takeover Act (Wertpapiererwerbs-und UEbernahmegesetz) of December 20, 2001, as amended. "German Stock Corporation Act" means the German Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz) of September 16, 1965, as amended. "Governmental Authority" means any government or nation or any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government. "Guarantee" of or by any Person (the "guarantor") means any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of the guarantor guaranteeing or having the economic effect of guaranteeing any Indebtedness or other obligation of any other Person (the "primary obligor") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of the guarantor, direct or indirect, (a) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Indebtedness or other obligation or to purchase (or to advance or supply funds for the purchase of) any security for the payment thereof, (b) to purchase or lease property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the owner of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment thereof, (c) to maintain working capital, equity capital or any other financial statement condition or liquidity of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such Indebtedness or other obligation or (d) as an account party in respect of any letter of credit or letter of guaranty issued to support such Indebtedness or obligation; provided, that the term Guarantee shall not include endorsements for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business. "Hazardous Materials" means all explosive or radioactive substances or wastes and all hazardous or toxic substances, wastes or other pollutants, including petroleum or petroleum distillates, asbestos or asbestos containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls, radon gas, infectious or medical wastes and all other substances or wastes of any nature regulated pursuant to any Environmental Law. "Hedging Agreement" means any interest rate protection agreement, foreign currency exchange agreement, commodity price protection agreement or other interest or currency exchange rate or commodity price hedging arrangement. "Indebtedness" of any Person means, without duplication, (a) all obligations of such Person for borrowed money or with respect to deposits or advances of any kind, (b) all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar instruments, (c) all obligations of such Person upon which interest charges are customarily paid, (d) all obligations of such Person under conditional sale or other title retention agreements relating to property acquired by such Person, (e) all obligations of such Person in respect of the deferred purchase price of property or services (excluding current accounts payable incurred in the ordinary course of business), (f) all Indebtedness of others secured by (or for which the holder of such Indebtedness has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any Lien on property owned or acquired by such Person, whether or not the Indebtedness secured thereby has been assumed, (g) all Guarantees by such Person of Indebtedness of others, (h) all Capital Lease Obligations of such Person, (i) all obligations, contingent or otherwise, of such Person as an account party in respect of letters of credit and letters of guaranty and (j) all obligations, contingent or otherwise, of such Person in respect of bankers' acceptances. The Indebtedness of any Person shall include the Indebtedness of any other entity (including any partnership in which such Person is a general partner) to the extent such Person is liable therefor as a result of such Person's ownership interest in or other relationship with such entity, except to the extent the terms of such Indebtedness provide that such Person is not liable therefor. "Indemnified Taxes" means Taxes other than Excluded Taxes. "Index Debt" means (i) senior, unsecured, long-term indebtedness for borrowed money of BorgWarner that is not guaranteed by any other Person or subject to any other credit enhancement or (ii) if no indebtedness of the type described in clause (i) is outstanding, all senior, unsecured, long-term indebtedness of BorgWarner (that is not guaranteed by any other Person or subject to any other credit enhancement) registered under an effective shelf registration under Rule 415 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. "Interest Election Notice" means a notice by a Borrower specifying the duration of an Interest Period in accordance with Section 2.04. "Interest Payment Date" means the last day of the Interest Period applicable to the Borrowing of which such Loan is a part and, in the case of a Borrowing with an Interest Period of more than three months' duration, each day prior to the last day of such Interest Period that occurs at intervals of three months' duration after the first day of such Interest Period. "Interest Period" means (a) with respect to any Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Borrowing and ending on the numerically corresponding day in the calendar month that is one, two, three or six months thereafter, as the applicable Borrower may elect; provided, that (i) if any Interest Period would end on a day other than a Business Day, such Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless such next succeeding Business Day would fall in the next calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day and (ii) any Interest Period pertaining to a Borrowing that commences on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the last calendar month of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the last calendar month of such Interest Period. "July Credit Agreement" means the Credit Agreement dated as of July 22, 2004 among BorgWarner, as borrower, the lenders from time to time party thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, as administrative agent, and the other agents from time to time party thereto. "Lead Arranger" means Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as lead arranger and book runner for this Agreement. "Lenders" means the Persons listed on Schedule 2.1 and any other Person that shall have become a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Acceptance, other than any such Person that ceases to be a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Acceptance. "Leverage Ratio" means, as at the last day of any period, the ratio of (a) Consolidated Total Debt on such day to (b) Consolidated EBITDA for such period. "Lien" means, with respect to any asset, (a) any mortgage, deed of trust, lien, pledge, hypothecation, encumbrance, charge or security interest in, on or of such asset, (b) the interest of a vendor or a lessor under any conditional sale agreement, capital lease or title retention agreement (or any financing lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing) relating to such asset and (c) in the case of securities, any purchase option, call or similar right of a third party with respect to such securities. "Loans" means the loans made by the Lenders to the Borrowers pursuant to this Agreement. "Major Default" means (i) any of the Events of Default enumerated in clauses (a), (b) (without giving effect to any grace period that would otherwise apply), (f), (h) (i), and (j) of Article 7 (but, in the case of (h), (i), and (j), only with respect to either Borrower or any Subsidiary that would meet the definition of "significant subsidiary" contained as of the date hereof in Regulation S-X of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission), (ii) the invalidity, unlawfulness or repudiation of this Agreement and any Notes or other related documents, and (iii) BorgWarner's failure to observe or perform any covenant condition or agreement in Sections 6.02, 6.04, and 6.09. "Material Adverse Effect" means a material adverse effect on (a) the business, assets, operations, prospects or condition, financial or otherwise, of BorgWarner and the Subsidiaries taken as a whole, (b) the ability of a Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement or (c) the rights of or benefits available to the Lenders under this Agreement. "Material Indebtedness" means Indebtedness (other than the Loans and Letters of Credit), or obligations in respect of one or more Hedging Agreements, of any one or more of BorgWarner and the Subsidiaries in an aggregate principal amount exceeding $50,000,000. For purposes of determining Material Indebtedness, the "principal amount" of the obligations of BorgWarner or any Subsidiary in respect of any Hedging Agreement at any time shall be the maximum aggregate amount (giving effect to any netting agreements) that BorgWarner or such Subsidiary would be required to pay if such Hedging Agreement were terminated at such time. "Maturity Date" means the earlier of November 22, 2005 and the fifth Business Day following the date the Tender Offer lapses or terminates; provided that if the Tender Offer is consummated prior to the consummation of the Private Sale, then the Maturity Date shall be the Business Day following the date on which the Tender Offer is consummated. "Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. "Multiemployer Plan" means a multiemployer plan as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA. "Net Cash Proceeds" means, with respect to any Reduction Event, (a) an amount equal to the cash proceeds received by BorgWarner or any of its Subsidiaries in respect of such Reduction Event, including any cash received in respect of any non-cash proceeds, but only as and when received, in each case net of (b) the sum of (i) all reasonable fees and out-of-pocket expenses paid by such Person to third parties (other than Affiliates) in connection with such event, (ii) in the case of a Reduction Event arising from the disposition of property (an "Asset Sale"), the amount of all payments required to be made by such Person as a result of such event to repay or redeem (x) Indebtedness (other than Loans) secured by such asset or otherwise subject to mandatory prepayment as a result of such event and (y) minority interests in such asset, and (iii) in the case of an Asset Sale, the amount of all taxes paid (or reasonably estimated to be payable) by such Person, and the amount of any reserves established by such Person to fund contingent liabilities reasonably estimated to be payable, in each case during the year that such Reduction Event occurred or the next succeeding year and that are directly attributable to such Reduction Event (as determined reasonably and in good faith by a Financial Officer). "Notes" means promissory notes of a Borrower evidencing such Borrower's obligation to repay the Loans made to it, and "Note" means any one of such promissory notes issued hereunder. "Other Taxes" means any and all present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made hereunder or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement. "Overnight Rate" means, for any day, the rate of interest per annum at which overnight deposits in Euro, in an amount approximately equal to the amount with respect to which such rate is being determined, would be offered for such day by a branch or Affiliate of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. in the London interbank market or other market for such currency to major banks in such interbank market. "Participating Member State" means any member state of the EMU which has the Euro as its lawful currency. "PBGC" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation referred to and defined in ERISA and any successor entity performing similar functions. "Permitted Encumbrances" means: (a) Liens for taxes not yet due or which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings, provided that adequate reserves with respect thereto are maintained on the books of BorgWarner or its Subsidiaries, as the case may be, in conformity with GAAP (or, in the case of Foreign Subsidiaries, generally accepted accounting principles in effect from time to time in their respective jurisdictions of incorporation; (b) carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', materialmen's, repairmen's and other like Liens imposed by law, arising in the ordinary course of business and securing obligations that are not overdue by more than 60 days or are being contested in compliance with Section 5.04; (c) pledges and deposits made in the ordinary course of business in compliance with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security laws or regulations; (d) deposits to secure the performance of bids, trade contracts, leases, statutory obligations, surety and appeal bonds, performance bonds and other obligations of a like nature, in each case in the ordinary course of business; and (e) easements, zoning restrictions, rights-of-way and similar encumbrances on real property imposed by law or arising in the ordinary course of business that do not secure any monetary obligations and do not materially detract from the value of the affected property or interfere with the ordinary conduct of business of BorgWarner or any Subsidiary; provided that the term "Permitted Encumbrances" shall not include any Lien securing Indebtedness. "Person" means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity. "Plan" means any employee pension benefit plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan) subject to the provisions of Title IV of ERISA or Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA, and in respect of which BorgWarner or any ERISA Affiliate is (or, if such plan were terminated, would under Section 4069 of ERISA be deemed to be) an "employer" as defined in Section 3(5) of ERISA. "Prime Rate" means the rate of interest per annum publicly announced from time to time by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as its prime rate in effect at its principal office in New York City; each change in the Prime Rate shall be effective from and including the date such change is publicly announced as being effective. "Private Sale" means the acquisition by BorgWarner Germany of up to 63% of the capital shares of Target pursuant to the Sale and Purchase Documentation. "Publication Date" means the date on which the Tender Offer Documentation is published in accordance with the German Takeover Act. "Reduction Event" means any of the following occurring on or after the date hereof: (i) any sale, transfer or other disposition (including pursuant to a sale and leaseback transaction) of any property of BorgWarner or any Subsidiary, except dispositions of assets in the ordinary course resulting in aggregate Net Cash Proceeds not exceeding $2,500,000 for any disposition transaction or $50,000,000 for all qualifying dispositions; and (ii) the incurrence by BorgWarner or any Subsidiary of any Indebtedness, including without limitation pursuant to a public offering, a private placement or a syndicated bank financing, except (w) Indebtedness incurred under this Agreement, (x) Indebtedness incurred under the July Credit Agreement in an aggregate amount of up to $100,000,000; provided that such Indebtedness is not used directly or indirectly to finance the Acquisition, (y) Indebtedness incurred under any Receivables Facility in the ordinary course of business, and (z) bilateral lines of credit existing on the Effective Date and refinancings and renewals thereof in the ordinary course of business that do not materially increase the aggregate principal amount outstanding thereunder; and (iii) the issuance by BorgWarner or any Subsidiary of any equity security, including without limitation any equity-linked security, or the receipt by BorgWarner or any Subsidiary of any capital contribution, except (x) any such issuance of any equity security to, or receipt of any such capital contribution from, BorgWarner or any Subsidiary, and (y) any such issuance in connection with the exercise of employee stock options. "Receivables Facility" means receivables financings of BorgWarner and its Subsidiaries in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $200,000,000 at any one time outstanding for BorgWarner and its Domestic Subsidiaries, $200,000,000 at any one time outstanding for its Foreign Subsidiaries, or $300,000,000 at any one time outstanding for BorgWarner and its Subsidiaries, which receivables financings shall be upon terms and subject to conditions reasonably satisfactory to the Required Lenders, but in any event no less restrictive to BorgWarner and its Subsidiaries than those for any such receivables financings in effect on the date hereof. "Register" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.04. "Related Parties" means, with respect to any specified Person, such Person's Affiliates and the respective directors, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and such Person's Affiliates. With respect to each Lender (other than the Administrative Agent) and for the purpose of Section 10.03, it is hereby understood that such Lender's "agents" (as such term is used in the preceding sentence) shall not include the Administrative Agent or agents of the Administrative Agent. "Required Lenders" means, at any time, Lenders having Commitments and Loans outstanding representing more than 50% of the total Commitments and Loans outstanding at such time. "S&P" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of the McGraw Hill Companies, Inc. "Sale and Purchase Agreement" means the Sale and Purchase Agreement dated October 30, 2004 by and between BorgWarner Germany and the holders of shares of Target representing approximately 63% of the registered capital of Target. "Sale and Purchase Documentation" means the Sale and Purchase Agreement and any related agreements, instruments or documents. "Settlement Account" means account no. 636-0758, Bankleitzahl 512 209 00, BIC: MSFFDEFX, confirmed by Morgan Stanley Bank AG as being the account into which the payments relating to Target shares accepted in the Tender Offer are to be made. "Statutory Reserve Rate" means a fraction (expressed as a decimal), the numerator of which is the number one and the denominator of which is the number one minus the aggregate of the maximum reserve percentages (including any marginal, special, emergency or supplemental reserves) expressed as a decimal established by the Board to which the Administrative Agent is subject, for eurocurrency funding (currently referred to as "Eurocurrency Liabilities" in Regulation D of the Board). Such reserve percentages shall include those imposed pursuant to such Regulation D. The Loans shall be deemed to constitute eurocurrency funding and to be subject to such reserve requirements without benefit of or credit for proration, exemptions or offsets that may be available from time to time to any Lender under such Regulation D or any comparable regulation. The Statutory Reserve Rate shall be adjusted automatically on and as of the effective date of any change in any reserve percentage. "subsidiary" means, with respect to any Person (the "parent") at any date, any corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association or other entity the accounts of which would be consolidated with those of the parent in the parent's consolidated financial statements if such financial statements were prepared in accordance with GAAP as of such date, as well as any other corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association or other entity (a) of which securities or other ownership interests representing more than 50% of the equity or more than 50% of the ordinary voting power or, in the case of a partnership, more than 50% of the general partnership interests are, as of such date, owned, controlled or held, or (b) that is, as of such date, otherwise Controlled, by the parent or one or more subsidiaries of the parent or by the parent and one or more subsidiaries of the parent. "Subsidiary" means any subsidiary of BorgWarner. "Syndication Agent" has the meaning assigned to such term in the preamble. "Target" means Beru AG, an aktiengesellschaft organized under the laws of Germany. "TARGET Day" means any day on which the Trans-European Automated Real-time Gross Settlement Express Transfer (TARGET) payment system (or if such payment system ceases to be operative, such other payment system (if any) determined by the Administrative Agent to be a suitable replacement) is open for the settlement of payments in Euro. "Taxes" means any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, charges or withholdings imposed by any Governmental Authority. "Tender Offer" means a tender offer by BorgWarner Germany for those shares of Target that have not been purchased in the Private Sale; provided that the term "Tender Offer" shall not include any offer to the shareholders of the Target under Section 35 of the German Takeover Act. "Tender Offer Documentation" means the tender offer document (Angebotsunterlage) relating to the Tender Offer, substantially in the form filed with the German FSA on the Effective Date and as amended or modified thereafter from time to time until approved by the German FSA and published by BorgWarner Germany pursuant to section 14 of the German Takover Act on the Publication Date. "Transactions" means the execution, delivery and performance by the Borrowers of this Agreement, the borrowing of Loans, the use of the proceeds thereof and the consummation of the Acquisition. "Withdrawal Liability" means liability to a Multiemployer Plan as a result of a complete or partial withdrawal from such Multiemployer Plan, as such terms are defined in Part I of Subtitle E of Title IV of ERISA. Section 1.02 . Terms Generally. The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "include", "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation". The word "will" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "shall". Unless the context requires otherwise (a) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document herein shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein), (b) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns, (c) the words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder", and words of similar import, shall be construed to refer to this Agreement in its entirety and not to any particular provision hereof, (d) all references herein to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, this Agreement and (e) the words "asset" and "property" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights. Section 1.03 . Accounting Terms; GAAP. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all terms of an accounting or financial nature shall be construed in accordance with GAAP, as in effect from time to time; provided that, if BorgWarner notifies the Administrative Agent that BorgWarner requests an amendment to any provision hereof to eliminate the effect of any change occurring after the date hereof in GAAP or in the application thereof on the operation of such provision (or if the Administrative Agent notifies BorgWarner that the Required Lenders request an amendment to any provision hereof for such purpose), regardless of whether any such notice is given before or after such change in GAAP or in the application thereof, then such provision shall be interpreted on the basis of GAAP as in effect and applied immediately before such change shall have become effective until such notice shall have been withdrawn or such provision amended in accordance herewith. ARTICLE 2 The Credits Section 2.01 . Commitments. (a) Loans each Lender severally agrees, on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, to make one or more loans to the Borrowers pursuant to this subsection from time to time during the Availability Period, in an aggregate amount not to exceed such Lender's Commitment as in effect at such time. Each Borrowing shall be made from the several Lenders ratably in proportion to their respective Commitments. The Commitments are not revolving in nature, and Loans that are prepaid or repaid may not be reborrowed. Loans may be used for the purposes set forth in Section 5.08. (b) Currency and Amount of Each Borrowing. Each Borrowing shall be denominated in Euros. Each Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount of E5,000,000 or any larger integral multiple of E5,000,000; provided that any Borrowing may be in an aggregate amount equal to the maximum aggregate amount then available for borrowing under the Commitments. Section 2.02 . Requests For Borrowings. To request a Borrowing, the relevant Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such request by telephone not later than 12:00 noon New York City time, three Business Days before the date of the proposed Borrowing. Each such telephonic Borrowing Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy (or transmitted by electronic communication, if arrangements for doing so have been approved by the Administrative Agent) to the Administrative Agent of a written Borrowing Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and signed by the applicable Borrower. Each such telephonic and written Borrowing Request shall specify the following information: (i) the aggregate amount of the requested Borrowing; (ii) the date of such Borrowing, which shall be a Business Day; (iii) the initial Interest Period to be applicable thereto, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "Interest Period"; and (iv) unless the proceeds of such Borrowing are to be used to consummate the Tender Offer, the location and number of such Borrower's account to which funds are to be disbursed, which shall comply with the requirements of Section 2.03. If no Interest Period is specified with respect to any requested Borrowing, then the applicable Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration. Promptly following receipt of a Borrowing Request in accordance with this Section, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of the amount of such Lender's Loan to be made as part of the requested Borrowing. Section 2.03 . Funding Of Borrowings. (a) Each Lender shall make each Loan to be made by it hereunder on the proposed date thereof by wire transfer in same day funds by the time specified by the Administrative Agent, to the account of the Administrative Agent most recently designated by it for such purpose by notice to the Lenders. The Administrative Agent will make such Loans available to the applicable Borrower by promptly crediting the amounts so received, in like funds, to an account of such Borrower designated by such Borrower in the applicable Borrowing Request, provided that if the proceeds of the Loans are to be used to consummate the Tender Offer, the Administrative Agent shall wire such funds directly to the Settlement Account. (b) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed date of any Borrowing that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with paragraph [a] of this Section and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and the applicable Borrower severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to such Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (i) in the case of such Lender, the applicable Overnight Rate from time to time in effect and (ii) in the case of the Borrower, the interest rate on the applicable Borrowing. If such Lender pays such amount to the Administrative Agent, then such amount shall constitute such Lender's Loan included in such Borrowing. Section 2.04 . Interest Elections. (a) The initial Interest Period for each Borrowing shall be specified by the relevant Borrower in the applicable Borrowing Request. The relevant Borrower may specify the duration of each subsequent Interest Period applicable to such Borrowing by delivering to the Administrative Agent, not later that 12:00 noon New York City time on the third Business Day before the end of the immediately preceding Interest Period, a notice by telephone or electronic communication (if arrangements for doing so have been approved by the Administrative Agent) specifying the Borrowing to which such notice applies and the duration of such subsequent Interest Period (which shall comply with the provisions of the definition of Interest Period). Such notice may, if it so specifies, apply to only a portion of the aggregate principal amount of the affected Borrowing in which case each such portion shall be allocated ratably among the Lenders holding the Loans comprising such Borrowing, and the Loans comprising each such portion shall be considered a separate Borrowing. Each such telephonic Interest Election Notice shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy or by electronic communication (if arrangements for doing so have been approved by the Administrative Agent) to the Administrative Agent of a written Interest Election Notice in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and signed by the Borrower. (b) Promptly following receipt of an Interest Election Notice, the Administrative Agent shall advise each applicable Lender of the details thereof and of such Lender's portion of each resulting Borrowing. (c) If a Borrower fails to deliver a timely Interest Election Notice with respect to a Borrowing prior to the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto, then, unless such Borrowing is repaid as provided herein, at the end of such Interest Period the subsequent Interest Period for such Borrowing shall be deemed to have a duration of one month. Notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof, if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and the Administrative Agent, at the request of the Required Lenders, so notifies the Borrower, then, so long as an Event of Default is continuing, each subsequent Interest Period for each Borrowing shall be deemed to have a duration of one month. Section 2.05 . Termination And Reduction Of Commitments. (a) Unless previously terminated, the Commitments shall terminate on the earlier of the date on which the Certain Funds Period ends and the date the Tender Offer lapses or terminates. (b) BorgWarner may at any time terminate, or from time to time reduce, the unused Commitments; provided that (i) each reduction of the Commitments shall be in an amount that is an integral multiple of E5,000,000 and not less than E25,000,000 and (ii) BorgWarner may not reduce the Commitments on any date prior to or during the Certain Funds Period without the consent of Morgan Stanley Bank AG unless contemporaneously with any such reduction BorgWarner shall have deposited into the Escrow Account the Euro Equivalent (as reasonably determined by the Administrative Agent) of such reduction. (c) The Commitments shall be automatically reduced by the amount of cash and cash equivalents (other than the proceeds of Loans) used to consummate the Acquisition. (d) On any Business Day prior to or during the Certain Funds Period on which any Net Cash Proceeds are received by BorgWarner or any Subsidiary in respect of any Reduction Event, the Commitments shall be automatically reduced by an amount equal to the Euro Equivalent of such Net Cash Proceeds, and BorgWarner or such Subsidiary shall immediately deposit such Net Cash Proceeds in the Escrow Account in accordance with Section 2.16. (e) BorgWarner shall notify the Administrative Agent of any election to terminate or reduce the Commitments under paragraph of this Section at least three Business Days prior to the effective date of such termination or reduction, specifying such election and the effective date thereof. Promptly following receipt of any notice, the Administrative Agent shall advise the applicable Lenders of the contents thereof. Each notice delivered by BorgWarner pursuant to this Section shall be irrevocable; provided that a notice of termination of any Commitments delivered by BorgWarner may state that such notice is conditioned upon the effectiveness of other credit facilities, in which case such notice may be revoked by BorgWarner (by notice to the Administrative Agent on or prior to the specified effective date) if such condition is not satisfied. Any termination or reduction of the Commitments shall be permanent. Each reduction of any Commitments shall be made ratably among the applicable Lenders in accordance with their respective applicable Commitments. Section 2.06 . Repayment Of Loans; Evidence Of Debt. (a) Each Borrower hereby unconditionally promises to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Loan of such Borrower on the Maturity Date. (b) Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of each Borrower to such Lender resulting from each Loan made by such Lender, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder. (c) The Administrative Agent shall maintain accounts in which it shall record (i) the amount of each Loan made hereunder and the Interest Period applicable thereto, (ii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from each Borrower to each Lender hereunder and (iii) the amount of any sum received by the Administrative Agent hereunder for the account of the Lenders and each Lender's share thereof. (d) The entries made in the accounts maintained pursuant to paragraph (b) or [c] of this Section shall be prima facie evidence of the existence and amounts of the obligations recorded therein; provided that the failure of any Lender or the Administrative Agent to maintain such accounts or any error therein shall not in any manner affect the obligation of the Borrowers to repay the Loans in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. (e) Any Lender may request that Loans made by it be evidenced by a Note. In such event, each Borrower shall prepare, execute and deliver to such Lender a Note payable to the order of such Lender (or, if requested by such Lender, to such Lender and its registered assigns) and in a form approved by the Administrative Agent. Thereafter, the Loans evidenced by such Note and interest thereon shall at all times (including after assignment pursuant to Section 10.04) be represented by one or more Notes in such form payable to the order of the payee named therein (or, if such Note is a registered Note, to such payee and its registered assigns). Section 2.07 . Prepayment Of Loans. (a) A Borrower shall have the right at any time and from time to time to prepay any Borrowing in whole or in part, subject to prior notice in accordance with paragraph [b] of this Section. (b) The Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent by telephone (confirmed by telecopy or by electronic communication (if arrangements for doing so have been approved by the Administrative Agent) of any prepayment hereunder not later than 9:00 a.m., New York City time, three Business Days before the date of prepayment. Each such notice shall be irrevocable and shall specify the prepayment date and the principal amount of each Borrowing or portion thereof to be prepaid; provided that, if a notice of prepayment is given in connection with a conditional notice of termination of any Commitments as contemplated by Section 2.05, then such notice of prepayment may be revoked if such notice of termination is revoked in accordance with Section 2.05. Promptly following receipt of any such notice relating to a Borrowing, the Administrative Agent shall advise the applicable Lenders of the contents thereof. Each partial prepayment of any Borrowing shall be in a minimum amount of E25,000,000 or any larger integral multiple of E5,000,000. Each prepayment of a Borrowing shall be applied ratably to the Loans included in the prepaid Borrowing. Prepayments shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the extent required by Section 2.09. (c) On any date after the end of the Certain Funds Period on which any Net Cash Proceeds are received by or on behalf of BorgWarner or any of the Subsidiaries in respect of any Reduction Event, the Borrowers shall prepay Loans in an aggregate principal amount equal to the Euro Equivalent of the amount of such Net Cash Proceeds. Section 2.08 . Fees. (a) BorgWarner agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender a facility fee, which shall accrue at the Applicable Rate on the daily amount of the Commitment of such Lender (whether used or unused) during the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the date on which such Commitment terminates; provided that, if such Lender continues to have any Loans outstanding after its Commitment terminates, then such facility fee shall continue to accrue on the daily aggregate amount of such Lender's outstanding Loans from and including the date on which its Commitment terminates to but excluding the date on which such Loans cease to be outstanding. Accrued facility fees shall be payable in arrears on the last day of March, June, September and December of each year and on the date on which the Commitments terminate, commencing on the first such date to occur after the date hereof; provided that any facility fees accruing after the date on which the Commitments terminate shall be payable on demand. All facility fees shall be computed on the basis of a year of 365 days (or 366 days in a leap year) and shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). (b) BorgWarner agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, for its own account, fees payable in the amounts and at the times separately agreed upon between BorgWarner and the Administrative Agent. (c) All fees payable hereunder shall be paid on the dates due, in immediately available funds, to the Administrative Agent for distribution, in the case of facility fees, to the Lenders. Fees paid shall not be refundable under any circumstances. Section 2.09 . Interest. (a) The Loans shall bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the Adjusted Eurocurrency Rate for the Interest Period in effect for such Borrowing plus the Applicable Rate. (b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any principal of or interest on any Loan or any fee or other amount payable by a Borrower hereunder is not paid when due, whether at stated maturity, upon acceleration or otherwise, such overdue amount shall bear interest, after as well as before judgment, at a rate per annum equal to (i) in the case of overdue principal of any Loan, 2% plus the rate otherwise applicable to such Loan as provided above or (ii) in the case of any other amount, 2% plus the Alternate Base Rate. (c) Accrued interest on each Loan shall be payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date for such Loan; provided that (i) in the event of any repayment or prepayment of any Loan, accrued interest on the principal amount repaid or prepaid shall be payable on the date of such repayment or prepayment and (ii) all accrued interest shall be payable upon termination of the Commitments. (d) All interest hereunder shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days, except that interest computed by reference to the Alternate Base Rate at times when the Alternate Base Rate is based on the Prime Rate and Overnight Rates (except the Federal Funds Effective Rate, which shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days) shall be computed on the basis of a year of 365 days (or 366 days in a leap year), and in each case shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). The applicable Alternate Base Rate, Adjusted Eurocurrency Rate, Eurocurrency Rate and Overnight Rate shall be determined by the Administrative Agent, and such determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error. Section 2.10 . Alternate Rate Of Interest. If prior to the commencement of any Interest Period for a Borrowing: (a) the Administrative Agent determines (which determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error) that adequate and reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining the Adjusted Eurocurrency Rate or the Eurocurrency Rate, as applicable, for the relevant currency for such Interest Period; or (b) the Administrative Agent is advised by the Required Lenders or by the holders of at least a majority of the Commitments that the Adjusted Eurocurrency Rate or the Eurocurrency Rate, as applicable, for such Interest Period will not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders of making or maintaining their Loans included in such Borrowing for such Interest Period; then the Administrative Agent shall give notice thereof to BorgWarner and the Lenders by telephone or telecopy as promptly as practicable thereafter and, until the Administrative Agent notifies BorgWarner and the Lenders that the circumstances giving rise to such notice no longer exist, each Borrowing shall bear interest at an interest rate reasonably determined by the Administrative Agent, after consultation with BorgWarner and the applicable Lenders, to compensate the applicable Lenders for such Borrowing for the applicable period. Section 2.11 . Increased Costs. (a) If any Change in Law shall: (i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended by, any Lender (except any such reserve requirement reflected in the Adjusted Eurocurrency Rate); or (ii) impose on any Lender or the London interbank market any other condition affecting this Agreement or Loans made by such Lender; and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Loan (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan) or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender hereunder (whether of principal, interest or otherwise), then the Borrowers will pay (without duplication) to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered. (b) If any Lender determines that any Change in Law regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's capital or on the capital of such Lender's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement or the Loans made by such Lender, to a level below that which such Lender or such Lender's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's policies and the policies of such Lender's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time the Borrowers will pay (without duplication) to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or such Lender's holding company for any such reduction suffered. (c) A certificate of a Lender setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in paragraph [a] or[b] of this Section shall be delivered to BorgWarner and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Borrowers shall pay such Lender in total the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof. (d) Failure or delay on the part of any Lender to demand compensation pursuant to this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's right to demand such compensation; provided that the Borrowers shall not be required to compensate a Lender pursuant to this Section for any increased costs or reductions incurred more than six months prior to the date that such Lender notifies the Borrowers of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's intention to claim compensation therefor; provided further that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the six-month period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof. Section 2.12 . Break Funding Payments. In the event of (a) the payment of any principal of any Loan other than on the last day of an Interest Period applicable thereto (including as a result of an Event of Default), (b) the failure to borrow or prepay any Loan on the date specified in any notice delivered pursuant hereto (regardless of whether such notice is permitted to be revocable under Section 2.07(b) and is revoked in accordance herewith), or (c) the assignment of any Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto as a result of a request by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.15, then, in any such event, the applicable Borrower shall compensate each Lender for the loss, cost and expense attributable to such event. The loss to any Lender attributable to any such event shall be deemed to include an amount determined by such Lender to be equal to the excess, if any, of (i) the amount of interest that such Lender would pay for a deposit equal to the principal amount of such Loan for the period from the date of such payment, failure or assignment to the last day of the then current Interest Period for such Loan (or, in the case of a failure to borrow, the duration of the Interest Period that would have resulted from such borrowing) if the interest rate payable on such deposit were equal to the Adjusted Eurocurrency Rate for such Interest Period, over (ii) the amount of interest that such Lender would earn on such principal amount for such period if such Lender were to invest such principal amount for such period at the interest rate that would be bid by such Lender (or an affiliate of such Lender) for dollar deposits from other banks in the Eurocurrency market at the commencement of such period. A certificate of any Lender setting forth (i) any amount or amounts that such Lender is entitled to receive pursuant to this Section and (ii) the calculations used to arrive at such amount shall be delivered to the applicable Borrower and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof. Section 2.13 . Taxes. (a) Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of either Borrower hereunder shall be made free and clear of and without deduction for any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes; provided that if such Borrower shall be required to deduct any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes from such payments, then (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the Administrative Agent or Lender (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) such Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) such Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law. (b) In addition, such Borrower shall pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law. (c) Each Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent and each Lender within 10 days after written demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) paid by the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto in relation to such Borrower, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to a Borrower by a Lender, or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender, shall be conclusive absent manifest error. (d) As soon as practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes by either Borrower to a Governmental Authority, such Borrower shall deliver (or cause to be delivered) to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent. (e) Any Foreign Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of withholding tax under the law of the jurisdiction in which either Borrower is located, or any treaty to which such jurisdiction is a party, with respect to payments under this Agreement shall deliver to such Borrower (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at the time or times prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by such Borrower, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable law as will permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate. Section 2.14 . Payments Generally; Pro Rata Treatment; Sharing Of Set-offs. (a) Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, each Borrower shall make each payment required to be made by it hereunder (whether of principal, interest, or fees, or under Section 2.11, 2.12, or 2.13, or otherwise) on the dates specified herein for the account of the respective Lenders to which such payment is owed, in same day funds not later than 9:00 a.m., New York City time. All payments received by the Administrative Agent after such time may, in the discretion of the Administrative Agent, be deemed to have been received on the next succeeding Business Day for purposes of calculating interest thereon. All such payments shall be made to the Administrative Agent at its offices at 1585 Broadway, New York, New York and except that payments pursuant to Sections 2.11, 2.12, or 2.13 and 10.03 shall be made directly to the Persons entitled thereto. The Administrative Agent shall distribute any such payments received by it for the account of any other Person to the appropriate recipient promptly following receipt thereof. If any payment hereunder shall be due on a day that is not a Business Day, the date for payment shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day, and, in the case of any payment accruing interest, interest thereon shall be payable for the period of such extension. (b) If at any time insufficient funds are received by and available to the Administrative Agent to pay fully all amounts of principal, interest and fees then due hereunder, such funds shall be applied (i) first, to pay interest and fees then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of interest and fees then due to such parties, and (ii) second, to pay principal then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of principal then due to such parties. (c) Except to the extent that this Agreement provides for payments to be allocated to a particular Lender, if any Lender shall, by exercising any right of set-off or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of its Loans resulting in such Lender receiving payment of a greater proportion of the aggregate amount of its Loans and accrued interest thereon than the proportion received by any other Lender, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Loans of other Lenders to the extent necessary so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Loans; provided that (i) if any such participations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest, and (ii) the provisions of this paragraph shall not be construed to apply to any payment made by either Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Loans to any assignee or participant, other than to either Borrower or any subsidiary or Affiliate thereof (as to which the provisions of this paragraph shall apply). Each Borrower consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against such Borrower rights of set-off and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of such Borrower in the amount of such participation. (d) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the applicable Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders hereunder that such Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the applicable Lenders the amount due. In such event, if the relevant Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the applicable Lenders severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the applicable Overnight Rate from time to time in effect. (e) If any Lender shall fail to make any payment required to be made by it pursuant to Section 2.03(b) or 2.14(d), then the Administrative Agent may, in its discretion (notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof), apply any amounts thereafter received by the Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender to satisfy such Lender's obligations under such Sections until all such unsatisfied obligations are fully paid. Section 2.15 . Mitigation Obligations; Replacement Of Lenders. (a) If any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.11, or if either Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.13, then such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to designate a different lending office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to Section 2.11 or 2.13, asthe case may be, in the future and (ii) would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender. The Borrowers hereby agree to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment. (b) If any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.11, or if either Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section Section 2.13, or if any Lender defaults in its obligation to fund Loans hereunder, then BorgWarner may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in Section 10.04), all its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment); provided that (i) BorgWarner shall have received the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent, which consent shall not unreasonably be withheld, (ii) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder, from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the applicable Borrower (in the case of all other amounts) and (iii) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under Section 2.11 or payments required to be made pursuant to Section 2.13, such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments. A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment and delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling BorgWarner to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply. Section 2.16 . Escrow Account. The following amounts shall be deposited in the Escrow Account from time to time: (i) the Euro Equivalent (as reasonably determined by the Administrative Agent) of the Net Proceeds of any Reduction Event consummated prior to or during the Certain Funds Period and (ii) any amount to be deposited therein pursuant to clause [ii] of the proviso to Section 2.05(b). The Administrative Agent will invest any amounts on deposit from time to time in the Escrow Account for the account of the Borrowers and at the direction of BorgWarner (subject to the consent of the Administrative Agent, not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed). The Borrowers shall have the right to withdraw amounts on deposit in the Escrow Account from time to time, so long as (x) the Borrowers shall have provided the Administrative Agent with at least three prior Business Days' notice and (y) the Borrowers shall apply such amounts immediately upon receipt thereof solely for the purchase of securities of Target in the Acquisition. After consummation of the Acquisition, all amounts on deposit in the Escrow Account will be applied by the Administrative Agent first, to the prepayment of any outstanding Loans pursuant to Section 2.07, and second, as instructed by BorgWarner. ARTICLE 3 Representations And Warranties BorgWarner represents and warrants to the Lenders that: Section 3.01 . Organization; Powers. Each of BorgWarner and its Subsidiaries is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization, has all requisite power and authority to carry on its business as now conducted and, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, is qualified to do business in, and is in good standing in, every jurisdiction where such qualification is required. Section 3.02 . Authorization; Enforceability. The Transactions are within each Borrower's corporate powers and have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate and, if required, stockholder action. This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by each Borrower and constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of each Borrower, enforceable in accordance with its terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally and subject to general principles of equity, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law. Section 3.03 . Governmental Approvals; No Conflicts. The Transactions (a) do not require any consent or approval of, registration or filing with, or any other action by, any Governmental Authority, except such as have been obtained or made and are in full force and effect, (b)) will not violate any applicable law or regulation or the charter, by-laws or other organizational documents of BorgWarner or any of its Subsidiaries or any order of any Governmental Authority, (c) will not violate or result in a default under any indenture, agreement or other instrument binding upon BorgWarner or any of its Subsidiaries or its assets, or give rise to a right thereunder to require any payment to be made by such Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, and (d) will not result in the creation or imposition of any Lien on any asset of BorgWarner or any of its Subsidiaries. Section 3.04 . Financial Condition; No Material Adverse Effect. (a) BorgWarner has heretofore furnished to the Lenders its consolidated balance sheet and statements of income, stockholders equity and cash flows (i) as of and for the year ended December 31, 2003, reported on by Deloitte & Touche LLP, independent public accountants, and (ii) as of and for the quarters ended March 31, 2004, June 30, 2004 and September 30, 2004, certified by its principal accounting officer. Such financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position and results of operations and cash flows of BorgWarner and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of such dates and for such periods in accordance with GAAP, subject to year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes in the case of the statements referred to in clause [ii] above. (b) Since September 30, 2004, there has been no development or event which has had or could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect except as disclosed on or prior to the Effective Date (i) in writing to the Lenders, or (ii) in any public filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Section 3.05 . Properties. (a) Each of BorgWarner and its Subsidiaries has good title to, or valid leasehold interests in, all its real and personal property material to its business, except for minor defects in title that do not interfere with its ability to conduct its business as currently conducted or to utilize such properties for their intended purposes. (b) Each of BorgWarner and its Subsidiaries owns, or is licensed to use, all trademarks, tradenames, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property material to its business, and the use thereof by BorgWarner and its Subsidiaries does not infringe upon the rights of any other Person, except for any such infringements that, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. Section 3.06 . Litigation And Environmental Matters. (a) There are no actions, suits, investigations or proceedings by or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority pending against or, to the knowledge of BorgWarner, threatened against or affecting BorgWarner or any of its Subsidiaries (i) as to which there is a reasonable possibility of an adverse determination and that, if adversely determined, could reasonably be expected, individually or in the aggregate, to result in a Material Adverse Effect (other than the Disclosed Matters) or (ii) that involve this Agreement or the Transactions. (b) Except for the Disclosed Matters and except with respect to any other matters that, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, neither BorgWarner nor any of its Subsidiaries (i) has failed to comply with any Environmental Law or to obtain, maintain or comply with any permit, license or other approval required under any Environmental Law, (ii) has become subject to any Environmental Liability, (iii) has received notice of any claim with respect to any Environmental Liability or (iv) knows of any basis for any Environmental Liability. (c) Since the date of this Agreement, there has been no change in the status of the Disclosed Matters that, individually or in the aggregate, has resulted in, or materially increased the likelihood of, a Material Adverse Effect. Section 3.07 . Compliance With Laws And Agreements. Each of BorgWarner and its Subsidiaries is in compliance with all laws, regulations and orders of any Governmental Authority applicable to it or its property and all indentures, agreements and other instruments binding upon it or its property, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. No Default has occurred and is continuing. Section 3.08 . Investment And Holding Company Status. Neither BorgWarner nor any of its Subsidiaries is (a) an "investment company" as defined in, or subject to regulation under, the Investment Company Act of 1940 or (b) a "holding company" as defined in, or subject to regulation under, the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935. Section 3.09 . Taxes. Each of BorgWarner and its Subsidiaries has timely filed or caused to be filed all Tax returns and reports required to have been filed and has paid or caused to be paid all Taxes required to have been paid by it, except (a) Taxes that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which BorgWarner or such Subsidiary, as applicable, has set aside on its books adequate reserves or (b) to the extent that the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. Section 3.10 . ERISA. No ERISA Event has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur that, when taken together with all other such ERISA Events for which liability is reasonably expected to occur, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. The present value of all accumulated benefit obligations under each Plan (based on the assumptions used for purposes of Statements of Financial Accounting Standards No. 87 and No. 132) did not, as of the date of the most recent financial statements reflecting such amounts, exceed by more than $90,000,000 the fair market value of the assets of such Plan, and the present value of all accumulated benefit obligations of all underfunded Plans (based on the assumptions used for purposes of Statements of Financial Accounting Standards No. 87 and No. 132) did not, as of the date of the most recent financial statements reflecting such amounts, exceed by more than $90,000,000 the fair market value of the assets of all such underfunded Plans. Section 3.11 . Federal Regulations. No part of the proceeds of any Loans hereunder will be used, directly or indirectly, for "buying" or "carrying" any "margin stock" within the respective meanings of each of the quoted terms under Regulation U of the Board as now and from time to time hereafter in effect which violates, or which would be inconsistent with, the provisions of the Regulations of such Board. Section 3.12 . Disclosure. BorgWarner has disclosed to the Lenders all agreements, instruments and corporate or other restrictions to which it or any of its Subsidiaries is subject, and all other matters known to it, that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. None of the reports, financial statements, certificates or other information furnished by or on behalf of BorgWarner to the Administrative Agent or any Lender in connection with the negotiation of this Agreement or delivered hereunder (as modified or supplemented by other information so furnished) contains any material misstatement of fact or omits to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; provided that, with respect to projected financial information, BorgWarner represents only that such information was prepared in good faith based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time. ARTICLE 4 Conditions Section 4.01 . Effective Date. The obligations of the Lenders to make Loans hereunder shall not become effective until the date on which each of the following conditions is satisfied (or waived in accordance with Section 10.02): (a) The Administrative Agent (or its counsel) shall have received from each party hereto either (i) a counterpart of this Agreement signed on behalf of such party or (ii) written evidence satisfactory to the Administrative Agent (which may include telecopy transmission of a signed signature page of this Agreement) that such party has signed a counterpart of this Agreement. (b) The Administrative Agent shall have received a favorable written opinion (addressed to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders and dated the Effective Date) of the general counsel for BorgWarner, substantially in the form of Exhibit B, and covering such other matters relating to BorgWarner, this Agreement or the Transactions as the Required Lenders shall reasonably request. BorgWarner hereby requests such counsel to deliver such opinion. (c) The Administrative Agent shall have received such documents and certificates as the Administrative Agent or its counsel may reasonably request relating to the organization, existence and good standing of each Borrower, the authorization of the Transactions and any other legal matters relating to each Borrower, this Agreement or the Transactions, all in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel. (d) The Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate, dated the Effective Date and signed by the President, a Vice President or a Financial Officer of BorgWarner, confirming compliance with the conditions set forth in paragraphs [a] and [b] of Section 4.03. (e) The Lenders, the Administrative Agent and the Lead Arranger shall have received all fees and other amounts due and payable on or prior to the Effective Date, including, to the extent invoiced, reimbursement or payment of all out-of-pocket expenses required to be reimbursed or paid by the Borrowers hereunder. (f) The structure of the Acquisition (including without limitation the corporate, capital, organizational and tax structure thereof, and the plans and sources of funds for the refinancing of certain existing indebtedness of the Target and its subsidiaries that (i) could become due and payable as a result of the consummation of the Private Sale or the Tender Offer, or (ii) is otherwise not on terms and conditions acceptable to the Lead Arranger) and all the definitive documentation related thereto (including the Sale and Purchase Documentation and the Tender Offer Documentation) will be in full force and effect and in form and substance satisfactory to the Lead Arranger subject, in the case of the Tender Offer Documentation, to review by the German FSA. (g) The July Credit Agreement shall be available for borrowing in full. (h) There shall not have occurred or become known to the Lenders any material adverse condition or material adverse change in or affecting the business, operations, assets, condition (financial or otherwise) or prospects of BorgWarner and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, or of the Target and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole. (i) There shall be no pending or threatened litigation, proceeding or investigation which (i) could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the business, operations, assets, condition (financial or otherwise) or prospects of BorgWarner and its Subsidiaries (including the Target and its subsidiaries) or (ii) in any manner calls into question or challenges this Agreement or the making of the Loans. (j) The Administrative Agent shall have received evidence satisfactory to it that the initial filing of the Tender Offer Documentation with the German FSA shall occur on the Effective Date. The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrowers and the Lenders of the Effective Date, and such notice shall be conclusive and binding. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the obligations of the Lenders to make Loans hereunder shall not become effective unless each of the foregoing conditions is satisfied (or waived pursuant to Section 10.02) at or prior to 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on December 1, 2004 (and, in the event such conditions are not so satisfied or waived, the Commitments shall terminate at such time). Section 4.02 . Initial Borrowing. The obligation of each Lender to make a Loan on the occasion of the initial Borrowing hereunder is subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions: (a) Except as otherwise agreed by the Lenders, BorgWarner Germany shall have (i) obtained evidence reasonably satisfactory to the Lead Arranger that the Acquisition shall have been cleared by the European Commission, or, due to the expiry of the relevant time periods, shall have been deemed to be approved, (ii) obtained prior authorization of the Tender Offer Documentation from the German FSA, (iii) obtained all such other regulatory approvals required for the consummation of the Acquisition except such approvals the absence of which will not, in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the consummation of the Acquisition, and (iv) delivered to the Administrative Agent a certificate of an executive officer of BorgWarner certifying as to the matters set forth in clauses (i) through (iii). (b) In the case of a Borrowing for the purpose of financing the acquisition of shares in the Private Sale, the obligations of BorgWarner Germany to purchase shares of the Target pursuant to the Private Sale shall have become unconditional without any amendment or waiver to the Sale and Purchase Documentation not permitted hereunder. (c) In the case of a Borrowing for the purpose of financing the acquisition of shares in the Tender Offer, the obligations of BorgWarner Germany to purchase shares of the Target pursuant to the Tender Offer shall have become unconditional without any amendment or waiver to the Tender Offer Documentation not permitted hereunder. (d) The Administrative Agent will have received from the Borrowers such other certificates, agreements and documents usual and customary for transactions of this type as the Lead Arranger may have reasonably requested relating to matters relevant to the Acquisition and the transactions contemplated hereby, all in form and substance satisfactory to the Lead Arranger. Section 4.03 . Subsequent Borrowing. (a) The obligation of each Lender to make a Loan on the occasion of any Borrowing for the purpose of financing the acquisition of shares in the Private Sale is subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions: (i) The representations and warranties of BorgWarner set forth in this Agreement shall be true and correct on and as of the date of such Borrowing. (ii) At the time of and immediately after giving effect to such Borrowing, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing. Each Borrowing for the purpose of financing the acquisition of shares in the Private Sale shall be deemed to constitute a representation and warranty by BorgWarner on the date thereof as to the matters specified in subparagraphs [i] and [ii] of this clause [a]. (b) The obligation of each Lender to make a Loan on the occasion of any Borrowing for the purpose of financing the acquisition of shares in the Tender Offer is subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions: (i) the representations of BorgWarner set forth in Sections 3.01, 3.02, 3.03 and 3.11 herein shall be true and correct on and as of the date of such Borrowing. (ii) At the time of and immediately after giving effect to such Borrowing, no Major Default shall have occurred and be continuing. Each Borrowing for the purpose of financing the acquisition of shares in the Tender Offer shall be deemed to constitute a representation and warranty by BorgWarner on the date thereof as to the matters specified in subparagraphs [i] and [ii] of this clause [b]. ARTICLE 5 Affirmative Covenants Until the Commitments have expired or been terminated and the principal of and interest on each Loan and all fees payable hereunder shall have been paid in full, BorgWarner covenants and agrees with the Lenders that: Section 5.01 . Financial Statements And Other Information. BorgWarner will furnish to the Administrative Agent and each Lender: (a) within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year of BorgWarner, its audited consolidated balance sheet and related statements of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows as of the end of and for such year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, all reported on by Deloitte & Touche LLP or other independent public accountants of recognized national standing (without a "going concern" or like qualification or exception and without any qualification or exception as to the scope of such audit) to the effect that such consolidated financial statements present fairly in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of BorgWarner and its consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP consistently applied; (b) within 45 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of BorgWarner, its consolidated balance sheet and related statements of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows as of the end of and for such fiscal quarter and the then elapsed portion of the fiscal year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the corresponding period or periods of (or, in the case of the balance sheet, as of the end of) the previous fiscal year, all certified by one of its Financial Officers as presenting fairly in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of BorgWarner and its consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP consistently applied, subject to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes; (c) concurrently with any delivery of financial statements under clause [a] or [b] above, a certificate of a Financial Officer of BorgWarner (i) certifying as to whether a Default has occurred and, if a Default has occurred, specifying the details thereof and any action taken or proposed to be taken with respect thereto, (ii) setting forth reasonably detailed calculations demonstrating compliance with Section 6.01 and (iii) stating whether any change in GAAP or in the application thereof has occurred since the date of the audited financial statements referred to in Section 3.04 and, if any such change has occurred, specifying the effect of such change on the financial statements accompanying such certificate; (d) concurrently with any delivery of financial statements under [a] above, a certificate of the accounting firm that reported on such financial statements stating whether they obtained knowledge during the course of their examination of such financial statements of any Default (which certificate may be limited to the extent required by accounting rules or guidelines); (e) promptly after the same become publicly available, copies of all periodic and other financial reports, proxy statements and other financial materials filed by BorgWarner or any Subsidiary with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any or all of the functions of said Commission, or with any national securities exchange, or distributed by BorgWarner to its shareholders generally, as the case may be; and (f) promptly following any request therefor, such other information regarding the operations, business affairs and financial condition of BorgWarner or any Subsidiary, or compliance with the terms of this Agreement, as the Administrative Agent or any Lender may reasonably request. The requirements of Sections 5.01(a), [b] and [e] shall be deemed to be satisfied if BorgWarner shall have made such materials available to the Lenders and the Administrative Agent, including by electronic transmission, within the time periods specified therefor, in which case "delivery" of such statements for purposes of Section 5.01(c) and [d] shall mean making such statements available in such fashion. Section 5.02 . Notices Of Material Events. BorgWarner will furnish to the Administrative Agent and each Lender prompt written notice of the following: (a) the occurrence of any Default; (b) the filing or commencement of any action, suit or proceeding by or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority against or affecting BorgWarner or any Affiliate thereof that could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect; (c) the occurrence of any ERISA Event that, alone or together with any other ERISA Events that have occurred, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect; and (d) any other development that results in, or could reasonably be expected to result in, a Material Adverse Effect. Each notice delivered under this Section shall be accompanied by a statement of a Financial Officer or other executive officer of BorgWarner setting forth the details of the event or development requiring such notice and any action taken or proposed to be taken with respect thereto. Section 5.03 . Existence; Conduct Of Business. BorgWarner will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve, renew and keep in full force and effect its legal existence and the rights, licenses, permits, privileges and franchises material to the conduct of its business; provided that the foregoing shall not prohibit any merger, consolidation, liquidation or dissolution permitted under Section 6.04. Section 5.04 . Payment Of Obligations. BorgWarner will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, pay its obligations, including Tax liabilities, that, if not paid, could result in a Material Adverse Effect before the same shall become delinquent or in default, except where (a) the validity or amount thereof is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings, (b) BorgWarner or such Subsidiary has set aside on its books adequate reserves with respect thereto in accordance with GAAP and (c) the failure to make payment pending such contest could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. Section 5.05 . Maintenance Of Properties; Insurance. BorgWarner will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, (a) keep and maintain all property material to the conduct of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted, and (b) maintain, with financially sound and reputable insurance companies, insurance in such amounts and against such risks as are customarily maintained by companies engaged in the same or similar businesses operating in the same or similar locations. Section 5.06 . Books And Records; Inspection Rights. BorgWarner will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, keep proper books of record and account in which full, true and correct entries are made of all dealings and transactions in relation to its business and activities. BorgWarner will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, permit any representatives designated by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, upon reasonable prior notice, to visit and inspect its properties, to examine and make extracts from its books and records, and to discuss its affairs, finances and condition with its officers and independent accountants, all at such reasonable times and as often as reasonably requested. Section 5.07 . Compliance With Laws. BorgWarner will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, comply with all laws, rules, regulations and orders of any Governmental Authority applicable to it or its property, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. Section 5.08 . Use Of Proceeds. The proceeds of the Loans will be used to purchase the outstanding capital shares of Target in the Acquisition. No part of the proceeds of any Loan will be used, whether directly or indirectly, for any purpose that entails a violation of any of the Regulations of the Board, including Regulations U and X. Section 5.09 . Conduct Of Tender Offer. (a) BorgWarner will, and will cause BorgWarner Germany to, take all action necessary to ensure that both the conduct of the Tender Offer and the Tender Offer Documentation are in accordance with, and at all times conform to and satisfy in all material respects, the applicable requirements of, all material consents, laws, rules, regulations and orders of any Governmental Authority applicable thereto (including, without limitation, the German Takeover Act and the ordinances enacted thereunder (except to the extent any provisions of such Act and ordinances are waived by the German FSA), the German Stock Corporation Act, the Exchange Act, and other applicable securities laws). (b) BorgWarner will furnish to the Administrative Agent periodic reports on the then current status and progress of all material matters relating to the Tender Offer. (c) BorgWarner will deliver notice to the Administrative Agent of any event or circumstance that would entitle BorgWarner Germany to withdraw the Tender Offer. Such notice shall be given promptly upon the occurrence of such event or circumstance and shall specify the nature of such event or circumstance and the action (if any) proposed to be taken with respect thereto. Section 5.10 . Prepayment Of Loans. BorgWarner will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, use all reasonable efforts to effect one or more transactions in the capital markets as promptly as practicable after the Funding Date in order to prepay the Loans hereunder. ARTICLE 6 Negative Covenants Until the Commitments have expired or terminated and the principal of and interest on each Loan and all fees payable hereunder have been paid in full, BorgWarner covenants and agrees with the Lenders that: Section 6.01 . Financial Covenants. (a) Leverage Ratio. BorgWarner will not permit its Leverage Ratio as at the last day of any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters of BorgWarner to exceed 3.25 to 1.00. (b) Consolidated Net Worth. BorgWarner will not permit its Consolidated Net Worth at any time to be less than the sum of (i) $800,000,000, (ii) 25% of its cumulative Consolidated Net Income for each fiscal quarter of BorgWarner (beginning with the fiscal quarter ending September 30, 2004) for which its Consolidated Net Income is positive and (iii) 100% of the Net Cash Proceeds of any common equity issued by BorgWarner after the Effective Date. For the purposes of this Section 6.01(b) only, the term "Net Cash Proceeds" means the cash proceeds received from any issuance of common equity by BorgWarner, net of attorneys' fees, investment banking fees, accountants' fees, underwriting discounts and commissions and other customary fees and expenses actually incurred in connection therewith. Section 6.02 . Liens. BorgWarner will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Lien on any property or asset now owned or hereafter acquired by it, or assign or sell any income or revenues (including accounts receivable) or rights in respect of any thereof, except: (a) Permitted Encumbrances; (b) any Lien on any property or asset of BorgWarner or any Subsidiary existing on the date hereof and set forth in Schedule 6.2; provided that (i) such Lien shall not apply to any other property or asset of BorgWarner or any Subsidiary and (ii) such Lien shall secure only those obligations which it secures on the date hereof and extensions, renewals and replacements thereof that do not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof; (c) any Lien existing on any property or asset prior to the acquisition thereof by BorgWarner or any Subsidiary or existing on any property or asset of any Person that becomes a Subsidiary after the date hereof prior to the time such Person becomes a Subsidiary; provided that (i) such Lien is not created in contemplation of or in connection with such acquisition or such Person becoming a Subsidiary, as the case may be, (ii) such Lien shall not apply to any other property or assets of BorgWarner or any Subsidiary and (iii) such Lien shall secure only those obligations which it secures on the date of such acquisition or the date such Person becomes a Subsidiary, as the case may be and extensions, renewals and replacements thereof that do not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof; (d) Liens on fixed or capital assets acquired, constructed or improved by BorgWarner or any Subsidiary; provided that (i) such security interests secure Indebtedness having an aggregate principal amount not exceeding $50,000,000 at any time outstanding, (ii) such security interests and the Indebtedness secured thereby are incurred prior to or within 90 days after such acquisition or the completion of such construction or improvement, (iii) the Indebtedness secured thereby does not exceed 100% of the cost of acquiring, constructing or improving such fixed or capital assets and (iv) such security interests shall not apply to any other property or assets of BorgWarner or any Subsidiary; (e) Liens (not otherwise permitted hereunder) which secure Indebtedness of BorgWarner; provided that the aggregate outstanding principal amount of Indebtedness secured by such Liens shall not exceed 10% of Consolidated Total Assets as reflected in the most recent annual audited or quarterly consolidated financial statements of BorgWarner delivered pursuant to Section 5.01 at the time of the creation of such Liens; (f) Liens on assets of Foreign Subsidiaries (not otherwise permitted hereunder) which secure Indebtedness of Foreign Subsidiaries which is not guaranteed by BorgWarner; and (g) Liens which may arise in connection with the Receivables Facility. Section 6.03 . Fundamental Changes. BorgWarner will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, merge into or consolidate with any other Person, or permit any other Person to merge into or consolidate with it, or sell, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of (in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or substantially all of its assets, or all or substantially all of the stock of any of its Subsidiaries (in each case, whether now owned or hereafter acquired), or liquidate or dissolve, except that, if at the time thereof and immediately after giving effect thereto no Default shall have occurred and be continuing (a) any Subsidiary may merge into BorgWarner in a transaction in which BorgWarner is the surviving corporation, (b) any Subsidiary may merge into any wholly-owned Subsidiary in a transaction in which the surviving entity is a Subsidiary, (c) any Subsidiary may sell, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of its assets to BorgWarner or to another wholly-owned Subsidiary and (d) any Subsidiary may liquidate or dissolve if BorgWarner determines in good faith that such liquidation or dissolution is in the best interests of BorgWarner and is not materially disadvantageous to the Lenders. Section 6.04 . Indebtedness. BorgWarner will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Indebtedness, except: (a) Indebtedness created hereunder; (b) Indebtedness under the July Credit Agreement or the Receivables Facility or as otherwise set forth in Schedule 6.4, and extensions, renewals and replacements of any such Indebtedness that do not increase the maximum principal amount available thereunder; (c) Indebtedness of BorgWarner to any Subsidiary and of any Subsidiary to BorgWarner or any other Subsidiary; (d) Guarantees by BorgWarner of Indebtedness of any Subsidiary and by any Subsidiary of Indebtedness of BorgWarner or any other Subsidiary; (e) Indebtedness of BorgWarner or any Subsidiary incurred to finance the acquisition, construction or improvement of any fixed or capital assets, including Capital Lease Obligations and any Indebtedness assumed in connection with the acquisition of any such assets or secured by a Lien on any such assets prior to the acquisition thereof, and extensions, renewals and replacements of any such Indebtedness that do not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof; provided that such Indebtedness is incurred prior to or within 180 days after such acquisition or the completion of such construction or improvement and the aggregate principal amount of Indebtedness permitted by this clause (e) shall not exceed $50,000,000 at any time outstanding; (f) Indebtedness of any Person that becomes a Subsidiary after the date hereof; provided that (i) such Indebtedness exists at the time such Person becomes a Subsidiary and is not created in contemplation of or in connection with such Person becoming a Subsidiary and (ii) the aggregate principal amount of Indebtedness permitted by this clause [f] shall not exceed $10,000,000 at any time outstanding; (g) Indebtedness of BorgWarner or any Subsidiary as an account party in respect of trade letters of credit; (h) unsecured Indebtedness, the incurrence of which constitutes a Reduction Event; (i) other unsecured Indebtedness in an aggregate principal amount not exceeding $50,000,000 at any time outstanding; provided that the aggregate principal amount of Indebtedness of the Subsidiaries permitted by this clause [i] and not guaranteed by BorgWarner shall not exceed $25,000,000 at any time outstanding; and (j) Guarantees in respect of obligations of unconsolidated joint ventures and other Persons not constituting Subsidiaries in an aggregate amount not exceeding $50,000,000 at any time. Section 6.05 . Acquisitions. BorgWarner will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, purchase, hold or acquire (including pursuant to any merger with any Person that was not a wholly owned Subsidiary prior to such merger) any capital stock or other securities (including any option, warrant or other right to acquire any of the foregoing) of, or purchase or otherwise acquire (in one transaction or series of transactions) any assets of any other person constituting a business unit, except in connection with the Acquisition. Section 6.06 . Restricted Payments. BorgWarner will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, declare or make, or agree to pay or make, directly or indirectly, any Restricted Payment, except (a) BorgWarner may declare and pay dividends with respect to its Equity Interests in amounts per share that are consistent with its dividend policy in effect on the Effective Date or that are payable solely in additional shares of its common stock, (b) Subsidiaries may declare and pay dividends ratably with respect to their Equity Interests, and (c) BorgWarner may make Restricted Payments pursuant to and in accordance with stock option plans or other benefit plans for management or employees of BorgWarner and its Subsidiaries. For purposes of this Section 6.06, "Equity Interests" means shares of capital stock, partnership interests, membership interests in a limited liability company, beneficial interests in a trust or other equity ownership interests in a Person, and any warrants, options or other rights entitling the holder thereof to purchase or acquire any such equity interest; and "Restricted Payment" means any dividend or other distribution (whether in cash, securities or other property) with respect to any Equity Interests in BorgWarner or any Subsidiary, or any payment (whether in cash, securities or other property), including any sinking fund or similar deposit, on account of the purchase, redemption, retirement, acquisition, cancellation or termination of any such Equity Interests in BorgWarner or any option, warrant or other right to acquire any such Equity Interests in BorgWarner. Section 6.07 . Transactions With Affiliates. BorgWarner will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, sell, lease or otherwise transfer any property or assets to, or purchase, lease or otherwise acquire any property or assets from, or otherwise engage in any other transactions with, any of its Affiliates, except (a) in the ordinary course of business at prices and on terms and conditions not less favorable to BorgWarner or such Subsidiary than could be obtained on an arm's-length basis from unrelated third parties, (b) transactions between or among BorgWarner and its wholly owned Subsidiaries not involving any other Affiliate and (c) any Restricted Payment permitted by Section 6.06.. Section 6.08 . Restrictive Agreements. BorgWarner will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly, enter into, incur or permit to exist any agreement or other arrangement that prohibits, restricts or imposes any condition upon (a) the ability of BorgWarner or any Subsidiary to create, incur or permit to exist any Lien upon any of its property or assets, or (b) the ability of any Subsidiary to pay dividends or other distributions with respect to any shares of its capital stock or to make or repay loans or advances to BorgWarner or any other Subsidiary or to Guarantee Indebtedness of BorgWarner or any other Subsidiary; provided that (i) the foregoing shall not apply to restrictions and conditions imposed by law or by this Agreement, (ii) the foregoing shall not apply to restrictions and conditions existing on the date hereof under the July Credit Agreement or the Receivables Facility or otherwise identified on Schedule 6.8 (but shall apply to any amendment or modification expanding the scope of, any such restriction or condition), (iii) the foregoing shall not apply to customary restrictions and conditions contained in agreements relating to the sale of a Subsidiary pending such sale, provided such restrictions and conditions apply only to the Subsidiary that is to be sold and such sale is permitted hereunder, (iv) clause [a] of the foregoing shall not apply to restrictions or conditions imposed by any agreement relating to secured Indebtedness permitted by this Agreement if such restrictions or conditions apply only to the property or assets securing such Indebtedness and (v) clause [a] of the foregoing shall not apply to customary provisions in leases and other contracts restricting the assignment thereof. Section 6.09 . Tender Offer Documentation. BorgWarner shall not without the consent of the Lead Arranger (acting on the instructions of the Required Lenders): (i) increase (and shall ensure that nothing is done or omitted by or on behalf of it or any of its Subsidiaries that would require an increase in) the total cash consideration payable for the capital shares of Target above the level set forth in the Tender Offer Documentation as filed with the German FSA on the Effective Date; (ii) extend the Tender Offer (other than as required under the German Takeover Act) or waive, amend, revise or agree or decide not to enforce, in whole or in part, any other material term of the Tender Offer set forth in the Tender Offer Documentation filed with the German FSA on the Effective Date, except that either Borrower may waive the Public Offer MAC, as that term is defined in Section 4.1.3 of the Sale and Purchase Agreement, without prior consent of the Lead Arranger or the Lenders, at any time after the closing of the Private Sale; or (iii) except for the description thereof contained in the Tender Offer Documentation on the Effective Date, issue or allow to be issued on its behalf or on behalf of any of its Subsidiaries any press release or other publicity which refers to this Agreement, the Commitments, the Loans, any of the Agents or any Lender without the consent of the Lead Arranger, unless the publicity is required by law, the German FSA, or any stock exchange, in which case, BorgWarner shall, to the extent possible in the circumstances, notify the Lead Arranger as soon as is practicable upon becoming aware of the requirement, shall consult with the Lead Arranger on the terms of the reference and shall have regard to any timely comments of the Lead Arranger. ARTICLE 7 Events Of Default If any of the following events ("Events of Default") shall occur: (a) a Borrower shall fail to pay any principal of any Loan when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the due date thereof or at a date fixed for prepayment thereof or otherwise; (b) a Borrower shall fail to pay any interest on any Loan or any fee or any other amount (other than an amount referred to in clause [a] of this Article) payable under this Agreement, when and as the same shall become due and payable, and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of five days; (c) any representation or warranty made or deemed made by or on behalf of BorgWarner or any Subsidiary in or in connection with this Agreement or any amendment or modification hereof, or in any report, certificate, financial statement or other document furnished pursuant to or in connection with this Agreement or any amendment or modification hereof, shall prove to have been incorrect when made or deemed made; (d) BorgWarner shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, condition or agreement contained in Section 5.02, 5.03 (with respect to a Borrower's existence) or 5.08 or in Article 6; (e) a Borrower shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, condition or agreement contained in this Agreement (other than those specified in clause [a] , [b] or [d] of this Article), and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of 30 days after notice thereof from the Administrative Agent (given at the request of any Lender) to such Borrower; (f) BorgWarner or any Subsidiary shall fail to make any payment (whether of principal or interest and regardless of amount) in respect of any Material Indebtedness, when and as the same shall become due and payable; (g) any event or condition occurs that results in any Material Indebtedness becoming due prior to its scheduled maturity or that enables or permits (with or without the giving of notice, the lapse of time or both) the holder or holders of any Material Indebtedness or any trustee or agent on its or their behalf to cause any Material Indebtedness to become due, or to require the prepayment, repurchase, redemption or defeasance thereof, prior to its scheduled maturity; provided that this clause [g] shall not apply to secured Indebtedness that becomes due as a result of the voluntary sale or transfer of the property or assets securing such Indebtedness; (h) an involuntary proceeding shall be commenced or an involuntary petition shall be filed seeking (i) liquidation, reorganization or other relief in respect of a Borrower or any Subsidiary or its debts, or of a substantial part of its assets, under any Federal, state or foreign bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law now or hereafter in effect or ((ii) the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for a Borrower or any Subsidiary or for a substantial part of its assets, and, in any such case, such proceeding or petition shall continue undismissed for 60 days or an order or decree approving or ordering any of the foregoing shall be entered; (i) a Borrower or any Subsidiary shall (i) voluntarily commence any proceeding or file any petition seeking liquidation, reorganization or other relief under any Federal, state or foreign bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law now or hereafter in effect, (ii) consent to the institution of, or fail to contest in a timely and appropriate manner, any proceeding or petition described in clause [h] of this Article, (iii) apply for or consent to the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for a Borrower or any Subsidiary or for a substantial part of its assets, (iv) file an answer admitting the material allegations of a petition filed against it in any such proceeding, (v) make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors or (vi) take any action for the purpose of effecting any of the foregoing; (j) a Borrower or any Subsidiary shall become unable, admit in writing or fail generally to pay its debts as they become due; (k) one or more judgments for the payment of money in an aggregate amount in excess of $50,000,000 shall be rendered against a Borrower, any Subsidiary or any combination thereof and the same shall remain undischarged for a period of 30 consecutive days during which execution shall not be effectively stayed, or any action shall be legally taken by a judgment creditor to attach or levy upon any assets of a Borrower or any Subsidiary to enforce any such judgment; (l) an ERISA Event shall have occurred that, in the opinion of the Required Lenders, when taken together with all other ERISA Events that have occurred, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect; or (m) a Change in Control shall occur; then, and in every such event (other than an event with respect to a Borrower described in clause [h] or[i] of this Article), and at any time thereafter during the continuance of such event, the Administrative Agent may, and at the request of the Required Lenders shall, by notice to BorgWarner, take either or both of the following actions, at the same or different times: (i)terminate the Commitments, and thereupon the Commitments shall terminate immediately, and (ii) declare the Loans then outstanding to be due and payable in whole (or in part, in which case any principal not so declared to be due and payable may thereafter be declared to be due and payable), and thereupon the principal of the Loans so declared to be due and payable, together with accrued interest thereon and all fees and other obligations of each Borrower accrued hereunder, shall become due and payable immediately, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by each Borrower; and in case of any event with respect to a Borrower described in clause [h] or[i] of this Article, the Commitments shall automatically terminate and the principal of the Loans then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon and all fees and other obligations of each Borrower accrued hereunder, shall automatically become due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by each Borrower; provided that the Administrative Agent shall not have the right or obligation to take any of the actions set forth in clause [i] or [ii], and no Lender shall have the right to request the Administrative Agent to do so, at any time prior to the end of the Certain Funds Period. ARTICLE 8 The Administrative Agent Each of the Lenders hereby irrevocably appoints the Administrative Agent as its agent and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. The bank serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent, and such bank and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to and generally engage in any kind of business with BorgWarner or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if it were not the Administrative Agent hereunder. The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, (a) the Administrative Agent shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing, (b) the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise in writing by the Required Lenders, and (c) except as expressly set forth herein, the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to BorgWarner or any of its Subsidiaries that is communicated to or obtained by the bank serving as Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity. The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders or in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until written notice thereof is given to the Administrative Agent by a Borrower or a Lender, and the Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or in connection herewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement or any other agreement, instrument or document, or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in Article 6 or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or sent by the proper Person. The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to be made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for a Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts. The Administrative Agent may perform any and all its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all its duties and exercise its rights and powers through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of the preceding paragraphs shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent. Subject to the appointment and acceptance of a successor Administrative Agent as provided in this paragraph, the Administrative Agent may resign at any time by notifying the Lenders, and BorgWarner. Upon any such resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, in consultation with BorgWarner, to appoint a successor. If no successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may, on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Administrative Agent which shall be a bank with an office in New York, New York, or an Affiliate of any such bank. Upon the acceptance of its appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder by a successor, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder. The fees payable by each Borrower to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between BorgWarner and such successor. After the Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder, the provisions of this Article and Section 10.03 shall continue in effect for its benefit in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was acting as Administrative Agent. Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder. The Syndication Agent shall have no rights, liabilities or obligations in its capacity as such. ARTICLE 9 Guarantee Section 9.01 . The Guarantee. BorgWarner hereby unconditionally guarantees the full and punctual payment (whether at stated maturity, upon acceleration or otherwise) of the principal of and interest on each Loan made to BorgWarner Germany pursuant to this Agreement, and the full and punctual payment of all other amounts payable by BorgWarner Germany under this Agreement and its Notes. Upon failure by BorgWarner Germany to pay punctually any such amount, BorgWarner shall forthwith on demand pay the amount not so paid at the place and in the manner specified in this Agreement. Section 9.02 . Guarantee Unconditional. The obligations of BorgWarner under this Article 9 shall be unconditional and absolute and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, shall not be released, discharged or otherwise affected by: (a) any extension, renewal, settlement, compromise, waiver or release in respect of any obligation of BorgWarner Germany under this Agreement or any of its Notes, by operation of law or otherwise; (b) any modification or amendment of or supplement to this Agreement or any Note; (c) any release, impairment, non-perfection or invalidity of any direct or indirect security for any obligation of BorgWarner Germany under this Agreement or any of its Notes; (d) any change in the corporate existence, structure or ownership of BorgWarner Germany, or any bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar proceeding affecting BorgWarner Germany or its assets or any resulting release or discharge of any obligation of BorgWarner Germany contained in this Agreement or any of its Notes; (e) the existence of any claim, set-off or other rights which BorgWarner may have at any time against BorgWarner Germany, the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any other Person, whether in connection with this Agreement or any unrelated transactions, provided that nothing herein shall prevent the assertion of any such claim by separate suit or compulsory counterclaim; (f) any invalidity or unenforceability relating to or against BorgWarner Germany for any reason of this Agreement or any of its Notes, or any provision of applicable law or regulation purporting to prohibit the payment by BorgWarner Germany of the principal of or interest on any of its Notes or any other amount payable by it under this Agreement; or (g) any other act or omission to act or delay of any kind by BorgWarner Germany, the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any other Person or any other circumstance whatsoever which might, but for the provisions of this Section, constitute a legal or equitable discharge of BorgWarner's obligations hereunder. Section 9.03 . Discharge Only Upon Payment In Full; Reinstatement In Certain Circumstances. BorgWarner's obligations under this Article 9 shall remain in full force and effect until the Commitments shall have terminated and the principal of and interest on the Loans made to BorgWarner Germany and all other amounts payable by BorgWarner Germany under this Agreement shall have been paid in full. If at any time any payment of the principal of or interest on any Loan made to BorgWarner Germany or any other amount payable by BorgWarner Germany under this Agreement is rescinded or must be otherwise restored or returned upon the bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization of BorgWarner Germany or otherwise, BorgWarner's obligations hereunder with respect to such payment shall be reinstated at such time as though such payment had been due but not made at such time. Section 9.04 . Waiver By BorgWarner. BorgWarner irrevocably waives acceptance hereof, presentment, demand, protest and any notice not provided for herein, as well as any requirement that at any time any action be taken by any Person against BorgWarner Germany or any other Person. Section 9.05 . Subrogation. Upon making full payment with respect to any obligation of BorgWarner Germany under this Article 9, BorgWarner shall be subrogated to the rights of the payee against BorgWarner Germany with respect to such obligation; provided that BorgWarner shall not enforce any payment by way of subrogation against BorgWarner Germany so long as (i) any Lender has any Commitment hereunder or (ii) any amount payable by BorgWarner Germany hereunder remains unpaid after giving effect to any payments by BorgWarner under this Article 9. Section 9.06 . Stay Of Acceleration. If acceleration of the time for payment of any amount payable by BorgWarner Germany under this Agreement or its Notes is stayed upon any bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization of BorgWarner Germany or otherwise, all such amounts otherwise subject to acceleration under the terms of this Agreement shall nonetheless be payable by BorgWarner Germany hereunder for the purposes of this Article 9 forthwith on demand by the Administrative Agent made at the request of the Required Lenders. ARTICLE 10 Miscellaneous Section 10.01 . Notices. Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone or electronic communication, all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopy, as follows: (a) if to a Borrower, to it at BorgWarner Inc., 200 South Michigan Avenue, Chicago, Illinois, 60604, Attention of Vice President and Treasurer (Telecopy No. 312-322-8712) (Treasurycash@bwauto.com); (b) if to the Administrative Agent, to it at 1585 Broadway, New York, New York, 10036, Attention of Erma Dell'Aquila (Telecopy No. 212-761-0322); (c) if to any other Lender, to it at its address (or telecopy number) set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire. Any party hereto may change its address or telecopy number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto (or, in the case of any Lender, by notice to the Administrative Agent and BorgWarner). All notices and other communications given to any party hereto in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed to have been given on the date of receipt. Section 10.02 . Waivers; Amendments. (a) No failure or delay by the Administrative Agent or any Lender in exercising any right or power hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right or power, or any abandonment or discontinuance of steps to enforce such a right or power, preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right or power. The rights and remedies of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders hereunder are cumulative and are not exclusive of any rights or remedies that they would otherwise have. No waiver of any provision of this Agreement or consent to any departure by a Borrower therefrom shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be permitted by paragraph [b] of this Section, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the purpose for which given. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the making of a Loan shall not be construed as a waiver of any Default, regardless of whether the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of such Default at the time. (b) Neither this Agreement nor any provision hereof may be waived, amended or modified except pursuant to an agreement or agreements in writing entered into by each Borrower and the Required Lenders or by each Borrower and the Administrative Agent with the consent of the Required Lenders; provided that no such agreement shall (i) increase the Commitment of any Lender without the written consent of each Lender directly and adversely affected thereby, (ii) reduce the principal amount of any Loan or reduce the rate of interest thereon, or reduce any fees payable hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender directly and adversely affected thereby, (iii) postpone the scheduled date of payment of the principal amount of any Loan or any interest thereon, or any fees payable hereunder, or reduce the amount of, waive or excuse any such payment, or postpone the scheduled date of expiration of any Commitment, without the written consent of each Lender affected thereby, (iv) change Section 2.14(b) or 2.14(c) in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby, without the written consent of each Lender directly and adversely affected thereby, or (v) change any of the provisions of this Section or any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to waive, amend or modify any rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender; provided further that no such agreement shall amend, modify or otherwise affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent. Section 10.03 . Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver. (a) BorgWarner shall pay (i) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent, the Lead Arranger and their Affiliates, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel for the Administrative Agent and the Lead Arranger, in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein, the preparation and administration of this Agreement or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated) and (ii) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, including the fees, charges and disbursements of one counsel for the Administrative Agent and the Lenders (unless using such counsel would present a conflict of interest, in which case BorgWarner shall pay the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of one additional counsel), in connection with the enforcement or protection of their rights in connection with this Agreement, including their rights under this Section, or in connection with the Loans made hereunder, including in connection with any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect thereof. (b) BorgWarner shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, the Lead Arranger and each Lender, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "Indemnitee") against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee (notwithstanding any limitation in Section 10.03(a)(ii)), incurred by or asserted against any Indemnitee arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or the consummation of the Transactions or any other transactions contemplated hereby, (ii) any Loan or the use of the proceeds therefrom, (iii) any actual or alleged presence or release of Hazardous Materials on or from any property owned or operated by BorgWarner or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Environmental Liability related in any way to BorgWarner or any of its Subsidiaries, or (iv) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto; provided that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee or its Related Parties, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee or its Related Parties. (c) To the extent that a Borrower fails to pay any amount required to be paid by it to the Administrative Agent or Lead Arranger under paragraph [a] or [b] of this Section, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent or the Lead Arranger, as the case may be, such Lender's Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount; provided that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent or the Lead Arranger in its capacity as such. (d) To the extent permitted by applicable law, BorgWarner shall not assert, and hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the Transactions, any Loan or the use of the proceeds thereof. Section 10.04 . Successors And Assigns. (a) The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, except that a Borrower may not assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of each Lender (and any attempted assignment or transfer by a Borrower without such consent shall be null and void). Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement. (b) Any Lender may assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitments and the Loans at the time owing to it); provided that (i) each of BorgWarner (except in the case of an assignment to a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender) and the Administrative Agent must give their prior written consent to such assignment (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld), (ii) except in the case of an assignment to a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender or an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment, the amount of any Commitment of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment (determined as of the date the Assignment and Acceptance with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent) shall not be less than _5,000,000 (except in the case of an assignment to the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment), unless each of BorgWarner and the Administrative Agent otherwise consent, (iii) each partial assignment of a Commitment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under the assigned Commitment, (iv) the parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Acceptance, together with a processing and recordation fee of $3,500, and (v) the assignee, if it shall not be a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire; provided further that any consent of BorgWarner otherwise required under this paragraph shall not be required if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing. Upon acceptance and recording pursuant to paragraph [d] of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Acceptance, the assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Acceptance, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Acceptance, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Acceptance covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.11, 2.12, 2.13 and 10.03). Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this paragraph shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with paragraph (e) of this Section. (c) The Administrative Agent, acting for this purpose as an agent of the applicable Borrower, shall maintain at one of its offices in The City of New York a copy of each Assignment and Acceptance delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitments of, and principal amount of the Loans owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the "Register"). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, and the applicable Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. The Register shall be available for inspection by either Borrower and any Lender at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice. (d) Upon its receipt of a duly completed Assignment and Acceptance executed by an assigning Lender and an assignee, the assignee's completed Administrative Questionnaire (unless the assignee shall already be a Lender hereunder), the processing and recordation fee referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and any written consent to such assignment required by paragraph (b) of this Section, the Administrative Agent shall accept such Assignment and Acceptance and record the information contained therein in the Register. No assignment shall be effective for purposes of this Agreement unless it has been recorded in the Register as provided in this paragraph. (e) Any Lender may, without the consent of either Borrower or the Administrative Agent, sell participations to one or more banks or other entities (a "Participant") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans owing to it); provided that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (iii) each Borrower, the Administrative Agent, and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement. Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; provided that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, modification or waiver described in the first proviso to Section 10.02(b) that affects such Participant. Subject to paragraph [f] of this Section, the Borrowers agree that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.11, 2.12, and 2.13 to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to paragraph [b] of this Section. (f) A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under Section 2.11 or 2.13 than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with BorgWarner's prior written consent. A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of Section 2.13 unless BorgWarner is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrowers, to comply with Section 2.13(e) as though it were a Lender. (g) Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement to secure obligations of such Lender, including any such pledge or assignment to a Federal Reserve Bank, and this Section shall not apply to any such pledge or assignment of a security interest; provided that no such pledge or assignment of a security interest shall release a Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such assignee for such Lender as a party hereto. Section 10.05 . Survival. All covenants, agreements, representations and warranties made by each Borrower herein and in the certificates or other instruments delivered in connection with or pursuant to this Agreement shall be considered to have been relied upon by the other parties hereto and shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the making of any Loans, regardless of any investigation made by any such other party or on its behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default or incorrect representation or warranty at the time any credit is extended hereunder, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as the principal of or any accrued interest on any Loan or any fee or any other amount payable under this Agreement is outstanding and unpaid and so long as the Commitments have not expired or terminated. The provisions of Sections 2.11 2.12, 2.13 and Section 10.03 and Article 8 shall survive and remain in full force and effect regardless of the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, the repayment of the Loans, the expiration or termination of the Commitments or the termination of this Agreement or any provision hereof. Section 10.06 . Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto on different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement and any separate letter agreements with respect to fees payable to the Administrative Agent constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in Section 4.01, this Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof which, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto, and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement. Section 10.07 . Severability. Any provision of this Agreement held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability without affecting the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof; and the invalidity of a particular provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate such provision in any other jurisdiction. Section 10.08 . Right Of Setoff. If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held and other indebtedness at any time owing by such Lender to or for the credit or the account of either Borrower against any of and all the obligations of such Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement held by such Lender, irrespective of whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement and although such obligations may be unmatured. In the event that amounts set off in one currency are applied to obligations in a different currency, the rate of exchange shall be the Exchange Rate as in effect at the time of application. The rights of each Lender under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) which such Lender may have. Section 10.09 . Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Consent To Service Of Process. (a) This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the law of the State of New York. (b) Each Borrower hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits, for itself and its property, to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the State of New York sitting in New York County and of the United States District Court of the Southern District of New York, and any appellate court from any thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard and determined in such New York State or, to the extent permitted by law, in such Federal court. Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law. Nothing in this Agreement shall affect any right that the Administrative Agent or any Lender may otherwise have to bring any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement against each Borrower or its properties in the courts of any jurisdiction. (c) Each Borrower hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement in any court referred to in paragraph [b] of this Section. Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court. (d) Each party to this Agreement irrevocably consents to service of process in the manner provided for notices in Section 10.01. Nothing in this Agreement will affect the right of any party to this Agreement to serve process in any other manner permitted by law. Section 10.10 . WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL. EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION. Section 10.11 . Headings. Article and Section headings and the Table of Contents used herein are for convenience of reference only, are not part of this Agreement and shall not affect the construction of, or be taken into consideration in interpreting, this Agreement. Section 10.12 . Confidentiality. Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its and its Affiliates' directors, officers, employees and agents, including accountants, legal counsel and other advisors (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority, (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party to this Agreement, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or any suit, action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or the enforcement of rights hereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to (i) any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or (ii) any actual or prospective counterparty (or its advisors) to any swap or derivative transaction relating to each Borrower and its obligations, (g) with the consent of such Borrower or (h) to the extent such Information (i) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (ii) becomes available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than a Borrower, provided that, if Information is disclosed pursuant to clause [b] or [c] above, the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, shall use its best efforts to promptly notify BorgWarner prior to such disclosure unless it is legally prohibited from doing so or unless such disclosure is in connection with customary reviews by bank examiners. For the purposes of this Section, "Information" means all information received from a Borrower relating to such Borrower or its business, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by such Borrower; provided that, in the case of information received from a Borrower after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information. Section 10.13 . Judgment Currency. If, for the purposes of obtaining judgment or filing a claim in any court, it is necessary to convert a sum due hereunder or claim in one currency into another currency, the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Administrative Agent could purchase the first currency with such other currency on the Business Day preceding that on which final judgment is given. The obligation of each Borrower in respect of any such sum due from it to the Administrative Agent or the Lenders hereunder shall, notwithstanding any judgment in a currency (the "Judgment Currency") other than that in which such sum is denominated in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Agreement (the "Agreement Currency"), be discharged only to the extent that on the Business Day following receipt by the Administrative Agent of any sum adjudged to be so due in the Judgment Currency, the Administrative Agent may in accordance with normal banking procedures purchase the Agreement Currency with the Judgment Currency. If the amount of the Agreement Currency so purchased is less than the sum originally due to the Administrative Agent from a Borrower in the Agreement Currency, such Borrower agrees, as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such judgment, to indemnify the Administrative Agent or the Person to whom such obligation was owing against such loss. If the amount of the Agreement Currency so purchased is greater than the sum originally due to the Administrative Agent in such currency, the Administrative Agent agrees to return the amount of any excess to the applicable Borrower (or to any other Person who may be entitled thereto under applicable law). Section 10.14 . USA PATRIOT Act. Each Lender hereby notifies each Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the "Act"), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies such Borrower, which information includes the name and address of such Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender to identify such Borrower in accordance with the Act. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written. BORGWARNER INC., By _________________________ Name: Title: BORGWARNER GERMANY GMBH, By _________________________ Name: Title: MORGAN STANLEY SENIOR FUNDING, INC., individually and as Administrative Agent and Syndication Agent, By _________________________ Name: Title: SCHEDULE 2.1 COMMITMENTS Lender Commitments Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. E700,000,000 Exhibit A FORM OF ASSIGNMENT AND ACCEPTANCE Reference is made to the Credit Agreement, dated as of November 23, 2004 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the "Credit Agreement"), among BorgWarner Inc. (the "BorgWarner"), BorgWarner Germany GmbH, the Lenders party thereto, and Morgan Stanely Senior Funding, Inc., as administrative agent for the Lenders (in such capacity, the "Administrative Agent") and as syndication agent for the Lenders (in such capacity, the "Syndication Agent"). Unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Credit Agreement and used herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement. The Assignor identified on Schedule l hereto (the "Assignor") and the Assignee identified on Schedule l hereto (the "Assignee") agree as follows: 1. The Assignor hereby irrevocably sells and assigns to the Assignee without recourse to the Assignor, and the Assignee hereby irrevocably purchases and assumes from the Assignor without recourse to the Assignor, as of the Effective Date (as defined below), the interest described in Schedule 1 hereto (the "Assigned Interest") in and to the Assignor's rights and obligations under the Credit Agreement to the extent related to the principal amount and percentage interest set forth on Schedule 1 hereto. 2. The Assignor (a) makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with the Credit Agreement or with respect to the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of the Credit Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant thereto, other than that the Assignor has not created any adverse claim upon the interest being assigned by it hereunder and that such interest is free and clear of any such adverse claim and (b) makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to the financial condition of either Borrower, any of their Affiliates or any other obligor or the performance or observance by either Borrower, any of their Affiliates or any other obligor of any of their respective obligations under the Credit Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto or thereto. 3. The Assignee (a) represents and warrants that it is legally authorized to enter into this Assignment and Assumption; (b) confirms that it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement, together with copies of the financial statements delivered pursuant to Sections 3.04 and 5.01 thereof and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Acceptance; (c) agrees that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Assignor, the Syndication Agent, the Administrative Agent or any Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Credit Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto or thereto; (d) appoints and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such action as agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers and discretion under the Credit Agreement, or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto or thereto as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms thereof, together with such powers as are incidental thereto; and (e) agrees that it will be bound by the provisions of the Credit Agreement and will perform in accordance with its terms all the obligations which by the terms of the Credit Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Lender including, if it is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction outside the United States, its obligation pursuant to Section 2.13(e) of the Credit Agreement. 4. The effective date of this Assignment and Acceptance shall be the Effective Date of Assignment described in Schedule 1 hereto (the "Effective Date"). Following the execution of this Assignment and Acceptance, it will be delivered to the Administrative Agent for acceptance by it and recording by the Administrative Agent pursuant to the Credit Agreement, effective as of the Effective Date (which shall not, unless otherwise agreed to by the Administrative Agent, be earlier than five Business Days after the date of such acceptance and recording by the Administrative Agent). 5. Upon such acceptance and recording, from and after the Effective Date, the Administrative Agent shall make all payments in respect of the Assigned Interest (including payments of principal, interest, fees and other amounts) to the Assignor for amounts which have accrued to the Effective Date and to the Assignee for amounts which have accrued subsequent to the Effective Date. 6. From and after the Effective Date, (a) the Assignee shall be a party to the Credit Agreement and, to the extent provided in this Assignment and Acceptance, have the rights and obligations of a Lender thereunder and shall be bound by the provisions thereof and (b) the Assignor shall, to the extent provided in this Assignment and Acceptance, relinquish its rights and be released from its obligations under the Credit Agreement. 7. This Assignment and Acceptance shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Assignment and Acceptance to be executed as of the date first above written by their respective duly authorized officers on Schedule 1 hereto. Schedule 1 to Assignment and Acceptance with respect to the Credit Agreement, dated as of November 23, 2004, among BorgWarner Inc., BorgWarner Germany GmbH, the Lenders party thereto, and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as Administrative Agent and Syndication Agent Name of Assignor: _______________________ Name of Assignee: _______________________ Effective Date of Assignment: _________________ Commitment/Loan Amount Assigned Commitment/Loan Percentage Assigned $_______ ___ .______ % [Name of Assignee] [Name of Assignor] By:______________________________ Title: By:______________________________ Title: Accepted for Recordation in the Register: Required Consents (if any): _________________________________, as Administrative Agent BorgWarner Inc. By:______________________________ Title: By:______________________________ Title: Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as Administrative Agent By:______________________________ Title: Exhibit B November 23, 2004 Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as Administrative Agent under the Credit Agreement, as hereinafter defined (the "Agent") and The Lenders under the Credit Agreement as of the date hereof Re: Credit Agreement dated as of November 23, 2004 (the "Credit Agreement") among BorgWarner Inc. (the "Company"), BorgWarner Germany GmbH, the lending institutions identified in the Credit Agreement (the "Lenders"), the Agent, and the Syndication Agent party thereto. Ladies and Gentlemen: I am the Vice President and General Counsel of the Company and, as such, have acted as counsel to the Company in connection with the preparation, execution and delivery of the Credit Agreement. Unless otherwise indicated, capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the respective meanings set forth in the Credit Agreement. This opinion is furnished to you pursuant to Section 4.01(b) of the Credit Agreement. In connection with this opinion, I, or attorneys acting under my supervision and control, have examined the Credit Agreement, signed by the parties thereto, and also have examined the originals, or duplicates or certified or conformed copies, of such records, agreements, instruments and other documents and have made such other investigations as we have deemed relevant and necessary in connection with the opinions expressed herein. As to questions of fact material to this opinion, I have relied upon certificates of public officials and of officers and representatives of the Company. In addition, I have examined, and have relied as to matters of fact upon, the representations made in the Credit Agreement. In rendering the opinions set forth below, I have assumed the genuineness of all signatures, the legal capacity of natural persons, the authenticity of all documents submitted to me as originals, the conformity to original documents of all documents submitted to me as duplicates or certified or conformed copies, and the authenticity of the originals of such latter documents. Based upon and subject to the foregoing, and subject to the qualifications and limitations set forth herein, I am of the opinion that: 1. The Company (a) has been duly incorporated and is validly existing and in good standing as a corporation under the laws of the State of Delaware, (b) has the corporate power and authority to execute and deliver the Credit Agreement and to borrow and perform its obligations thereunder, including, without limitation, its Guarantee and (c) has duly authorized, executed and delivered the Credit Agreement. 2. The execution and delivery by the Company of the Credit Agreement, its borrowings in accordance with the terms thereof and performance of its obligations thereunder including, without limitation, its Guarantee (a) will not result in any violation of (1) the Certificate of Incorporation or By-Laws of the Company or (2) assuming that proceeds of borrowings will be used in accordance with the terms of the Credit Agreement, any Federal or New York statute or the Delaware General Corporation Law or any rule or regulation issued pursuant to any New York or Federal statute or the Delaware General Corporation Law or any existing order applicable to the Company or any Subsidiary issued by any court or governmental agency or body having jurisdiction over the Company, any Subsidiary or any of their respective properties and (b) will not (1) result in the creation of any lien upon or security interest in the Company's properties pursuant to, or (2) to the best of my knowledge, breach or result in a default under, the terms of any material agreement or instrument to which the Company or any Subsidiary is a party or by which they or any of their respective properties is bound. 3. No consent, approval, authorization, order, filing, registration or qualification of or with any Federal or New York governmental agency or body or any Delaware governmental agency or body acting pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law is required for the execution and delivery by the Company of the Credit Agreement, the borrowings by the Company in accordance with the terms of the Credit Agreement or the performance by the Company of its obligations under the Credit Agreement including, without limitation, its Guarantee. 4. The Credit Agreement constitutes the valid and legally binding obligation of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms. 5. To my knowledge and other than as identified in the Credit Agreement there is no action, suit or proceeding before or by any court, arbitrator or governmental agency, body or official, now pending, to which the Company is a party or to which the business, assets or property of the Company is subject and, to the best of my knowledge, no such action, suit or proceeding is threatened to which the Company or the business, assets or property of the Company would be subject that in either case (a) questions the validity of the Credit Agreement or (b) could reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. 6. The Company is not is an "investment company" within the meaning of and subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or a "holding company," or a "subsidiary company" of a "holding company," within the meaning of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, as amended. 7. Assuming that the Company will comply with the provisions of the Credit Agreement relating to the use of proceeds, the making of the Loans under the Credit Agreement will not violate Regulation U or X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. My opinion in paragraph 4 above is subject to (i) the effects of bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance, reorganization, moratorium and other similar laws relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally, (ii) general equitable principles (whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law) and (iii) an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. The opinions expressed herein are subject to the following further qualifications: (a) I express no opinion as to the validity, binding effect or enforceability of cumulative remedies to the extent such cumulative remedies purport to or would have the effect of compensating the party entitled to the benefits thereof in amounts in excess of the actual loss suffered by such party. (b) Requirements in the Credit Agreement specifying that provisions thereof may only be waived in writing may not be valid, binding or enforceable to the extent that an oral agreement or an implied agreement by trade practice or course of conduct has been created modifying any provision thereof. (c) I express no opinion as to the purported right under Section 10.08 of the Credit Agreement to set off against deposits made by the Company with any of you acting in a fiduciary capacity. (d) I express no opinion as to the validity, binding effect or enforceability of Sections 10.03(d) and 10.10 of the Credit Agreement. (e) I express no opinion with respect to indemnification or contribution obligations which contravene public policy. This opinion is limited to the specific issues addressed and is limited in all respects to laws and facts existing on the date hereof. By rendering this opinion, I do not undertake to advise you of any changes in such laws or facts which may occur after the date hereof. As used in this opinion, references "to the best of my knowledge" mean to my actual knowledge, or the actual knowledge of the attorneys working under my supervision and control. I am a member of the Bars of the States of Illinois and Michigan, and I do not express any opinion herein concerning any law other than the law of the State of New York (which for purposes of this opinion I have assumed to be identical to the law of the State of Illinois), the Federal law of the United States and the Delaware General Corporation Law. This opinion letter is rendered to you in connection with the above described transactions. This opinion letter may not be relied upon by you for any other purpose, or relied upon by, or furnished to, any other person, firm or corporation without my prior written consent. Very truly yours,


