FILE:BWA/BWA-8K-20041104133851.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report: November 4, 2004 BORGWARNER INC. (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 1-12162 13-3404508 (State of Incorporation)(Commission File No.)(IRS Employer Identification No.) 5435 Corporate Drive, Suite 150 Troy, MI 48098 (Address of principal executive offices) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (248) 373-5550 [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d- 2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2[b]) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e- 4[c] under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4[c]) Item 1.01 Entry Into A Material Definitive Agreement On November 1, 2004, BorgWarner Inc. ("BorgWarner") announced that its wholly-owned German subsidiary, BorgWarner Germany GmbH ("BorgWarner Germany"), entered into a Sale and Purchase Agreement dated October 30, 2004 (the "Sale and Purchase Agreement") with CEP BE 00 Beteiligungs GmbH, Frau Ingelore Ruprecht, Wolfram Birkel, Elsa Birkel, Annegret Birkel, Christoph Birkel, Catharina Birkel, Klosterfeld Beteiligungen GmbH + Co. KG, and Meier-Birkel GmbH & Co. KG to purchase an aggregate of 6,221,170 shares or 62.21% of the outstanding shares of Beru AG, a German publicly-traded company ("Beru"), for Euro 59 per share. BorgWarner Germany also entered into an option agreement (the "Option Agreement") to acquire an additional 81,500 shares of Beru for Euro 59 per share from Annegret Birkel at any time after January 3, 2005 and prior to March 31, 2005. The completion of the transactions contemplated by the agreements is conditioned on obtaining regulatory approval and other customary conditions. On November 1, 2004, BorgWarner also announced that BorgWarner Germany intends to commence a tender offer in Germany ( the "Tender Offer") to acquire the remaining shares of approximately 37% (or approximately 3.7 million shares) of the outstanding stock of Beru at a price of Euro 67.50 per share. The Tender Offer will not be made directly or indirectly in or into the United States, or by use of the mails of, or by any means or instrumentality (including, without limitation, the mail, facsimile transmission, telex or telephone) of interstate or foreign commerce or any facilities of any national securities exchange of the United States. The Tender Offer will not, and should not, be accepted by any such use, means, instrumentality or facility involving or from within the United States, and United States persons will not have the Tender Offer available to them, directly or indirectly, within the United States. In order to comply with German regulatory requirements, BorgWarner has received a commitment letter from Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. for a Euro 700,000,000 Senior Bridge Term Credit Facility (the "Commitment Letter"). The Commitment Letter contains customary terms and conditions for a bridge financing transaction. The foregoing descriptions of the Sale and Purchase Agreement, the Option Agreement and the Commitment Letter are qualified by reference to the Purchase Agreement, the Option Agreement, and Commitment Letter, which are filed herewith as Exhibits 2.1, 2.2, and 10.1, respectively, and incorporated herein in their entirety by reference. The press release issued by BorgWarner on November 1, 2004 announcing the execution of the Sale and Purchase Agreement and the planned Tender Offer is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1, and is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference. Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits [c] Exhibits 2.1 Sale and Purchase Agreement dated October 30, 2004 by and between CEP BE 00 Beteiligungs + GmbH, Frau Ingelore Ruprecht, Wolfram Birkel Elsa Birkel, Annegret Birkel, Christoph Birkel, Catharina Birkel, Klosterfeld Beteiligungen GmbH Co. KG and Meier-Birkel GmbH & Co. KG and BorgWarner Germany GmbH 2.2 Buyer's Call Option Agreement dated October 30, 2004 by and between Annegret Birkel and BorgWarner Germany GmbH 10.1 Commitment Letter 99.1 Press Release, dated November 1, 2004, announcing the execution of the Sales and Purchase Agreement and planned Tender Offer for Beru SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized. BORGWARNER INC. By:/s/ Vincent M. Lichtenberger -------------------------------- Vincent M. Lichtenberger Assistant Secretary Dated: November 4, 2004

------------------------------------------ SALE AND PURCHASE AGREEMENT ------------------------------------------- regarding the Sale and Purchase of Shares in BERU Aktiengesellschaft Sale and Purchase Agreement 2|32 SALE AND PURCHASE AGREEMENT by and between 1. CEP BE 00 BETEILIGUNGS GMBH, a limited liability company with its registered seat at Promenadeplatz 8, 80333 Munchen, and registered with the commercial register of the local court of Munich under HRB 145898, represented by Dr. Norbert Rieger on the basis of a power of attorney dated October 28, 2004 issued by the managing directors Heinrich N. Rutt and Gregor Bohm, a copy of which is attached hereto; - "SELLER C" - 2. FRAU INGELORE RUPRECHT Friedrichstrasse 46, 71638 Ludwigsburg, represented by Dr. Norbert Rieger on the basis of a sub-power of attorney dated October 30, 2004 issued by Dr. Gotz Grub on the basis of a certified power of attorney dated October 29, 2004, copies of which are attached hereto; - "SELLER R" - 3. WOLFRAM BIRKEL, Klosterfeldstrasse 14, 21614 Buxtehude, represented by Dr. Jorgen Tielmann on the basis of a power of attorney dated October 30, 2004, a copy of which is attached hereto; - "SELLER 3" - 4. ELSA BIRKEL, Hohe Berge 19, 21614 Buxtehude, represented by Dr. Jorgen Tielmann on the basis of a delegated power of attorney dated October 30, 2004 issued by Seller 3 on the basis of a notarial general power of attorney dated August 13, 2001, copies of which are attached hereto; - "SELLER 4" - 5. ANNEGRET BIRKEL, Klosterfeldstrasse 14, 21614 Buxtehude, represented by Dr. Jorgen Tielmann on the basis of a delegated power of attorney dated October 30, 2004 issued by Seller 3 on the basis of a certified power of attorney dated October 25, 2004, copies of which are attached hereto; - "SELLER 5" -
Sale and Purchase Agreement 3|32 6. CHRISTOPH BIRKEL, Klosterfeldstrasse 14, 21614 Buxtehude, represented by Dr. Jorgen Tielmann on the basis of delegated power of attorney dated October 30, 2004 issued by Seller 3 on the basis of power of attorney dated October 24, 2004, copies of which are attached hereto; - "SELLER 6" - 7. CATHARINA BIRKEL, Klosterfeldstrasse 14, 21614 Buxtehude, represented by Dr. Jorgen Tielmann on the basis of a delegated power of attorney dated October 30, 2004 issued by Seller 3 on the basis of power of attorney dated October 22, 2004, copies of which are attached hereto; - "SELLER 7" - 8. KLOSTERFELD BETEILIGUNGEN GMBH + CO. KG, a limited partnership with its seat at Klosterfeldstrasse 14, D-21614 Buxtehude, and registered with the commercial register of the local court of Buxtehude under HRA 3118, represented by its general partner Verwaltungsgesellschaft Klosterfeld Klosterfeld Beteiligungen mbH with its seat in Buxtehude, a limited liability company registered with the commercial register of the local court of Buxtehude under HRB 3652, which is itself represented by Dr. Jorgen Tielmann on the basis of power of attorney dated October 30, 2004 issued by its managing director Mr. Wolfram Birkel; a company of which is attached hereto; - "SELLER 8" - 9. MEIER-BIRKEL GMBH & CO. KG, a limited partnership with its seat at Mittlerer Pfad 15, D-70499 Stuttgart, and registered with the commercial register of the local court of Stuttgart under HRA 13096, represented by its general partner Meier-Birkel Verwaltungs-Gmbh, a limited liability company registered with the commercial register of the local court of Stuttgart under HRB 18360, which is itself represented by Dr. Jorgen Tielmann on the basis of a delegated power of attorney dated October 30, 2004 issued by Seller 3 on the basis of a power of attorney dated October 25, 2004 issued by its managing director Dr. Diether Laudan, copies of which are attached hereto; - "SELLER 9" - - Seller 3 to Seller 9 collectively the "FAMILY SELLERS" and individually a "FAMILY SELLER" - - Seller C, Seller R and the Family Seller collectively: the "SELLERS" and individually: a "SELLER" -
Sale and Purchase Agreement 4|32 and 10. BORGWARNER GERMANY GMBH, a company with limited liability with its registered seat at Im Fuchsloch 16, 69123 Heidelberg, and registered with the commercial register of the local court of Heidelberg under HRB 5929, represented by Anthony D. Hensel on the basis of a power of attorney dated October 21, 2004, issued by the managing director Christof Geiger, a copy of which is attached hereto; - "BUYER" - - Sellers and Buyer each a "PARTY" and collectively the "PARTIES" -
Sale and Purchase Agreement 5/32 TABLE OF CONTENTS INDEX OF DEFINED TERMS....................................................... 6 PREAMBLE..................................................................... 8 1. CURRENT STATUS.......................................................... 8 2. SIGNING DATE; CLOSING DATE; C CLOSING DATE; SALE AND TRANSFER........... 11 3. PURCHASE PRICE.......................................................... 13 4. CLOSING CONDITIONS; CLOSING EVENTS; C CLOSING EVENTS; CLOSING CONFIRMATION............................................................ 14 5. SELLERS' LIABILITY...................................................... 19 6. BUYER'S GUARANTEES...................................................... 22 7. REMEDIES................................................................ 23 8. CONFIDENTIALITY; ANNOUNCEMENTS.......................................... 27 9. NOTICES................................................................. 28 10. COSTS................................................................... 29 11. MISCELLANEOUS........................................................... 30
Sale and Purchase Agreement 6/32 INDEX OF DEFINED TERMS Banking Days as defined in Sec. 11.6 BERU Group as defined in the Preamble A Buyer as defined in the recitals Buyer's Deposit Account as defined in Sec. 1.4(a) C Closing Date as defined in Sec. 2.2 C Closing Events as defined in Sec. 4.3 C Purchase Price as defined in Sec. 3.1 C Shares as defined in Sec. 1.3 Change of Control Clause as defined in Sec. 5.1.4(e) Closing Conditions as defined in Sec. 4.1 Closing Confirmation as defined in Sec. 4.4 Closing Date as defined in Sec. 2.1.2 Closing Events as defined in Sec. 4.2 Company as defined in Sec. 1.1 DreBa Loan as defined in Sec. 2.3 DreBa Pledge as defined in Sec. 2.3 Excluded Shares as defined in Sec. 1.3 Family Purchase Price as defined in Sec. 3.1 Family Seller(s) as defined in the recitals Family Shares as defined in Sec. 1.3 Global Share Certificates as defined in Sec. 1.2 Intellectual Property Rights as defined in Sec. 5.1.4(d) Independent Auditor as defined in Sec. 4.1.3(c) Knowledge as defined in Sec. 7.6.1 Material Adverse Change as defined in Sec. 4.1.3 Party/Parties as defined in the recitals Public Offer MAC as defined in Sec. 4.1.3(a) R Purchase Price as defined in Sec. 3.1 R Shares as defined in Sec. 1.3 Seller(s), Seller C, Seller R, as defined in the recitals Seller 3-9 Share Deposit Bank as defined in Sec. 1.4 Shareholder Representatives as defined in Sec. 1.1 Shares as defined in Sec. 1.3 Signing Date as defined in Sec. 2.1.1 Tax Proceedings as defined in Sec. 7.5 Total Purchase Price as defined in Sec. 3.1 Transfer Agreement as defined in Sec. 2.5
Sale and Purchase Agreement 7/32 List of Exhibits Exhibit 1.4 (a) Confirmation of Share Deposit Bank (Seller C) Exhibit 1.4.(b) Confirmation of Share Deposit Bank (Seller R) Exhibit 1.4 (c) Confirmation of Share Deposit Bank (Family Sellers) Exhibit 2.5 Transfer Agreement Exhibit 4.1.3 Company's letter confirming cooperation with auditor Exhibit 5.1.4 (b) Chart of structure of the BERU Group and the shareholdings Exhibit 5.1.4 (f) List of Environmental Reports
Sale and Purchase Agreement 8/32 PREAMBLE A. The Sellers are shareholders in BERU Aktiengesellschaft, which is the parent company of a group of companies which are active in the automotive supply industry ("BERU GROUP"). B. The Sellers intend to sell all their shares in BERU Aktiengesellschaft (except for the Excluded Shares as defined in Sec. 1.3). C. The Buyer intends to purchase the shares held by Sellers. NOW, THEREFORE, the Parties agree as follows: 1. CURRENT STATUS 1.1 The Company. BERU Aktiengesellschaft is a stock corporation existing under German law with its corporate office in Ludwigsburg and registered with the commercial register of the local court of Ludwigsburg under HRB 5087 (the "COMPANY"). The registered capital of the Company amounts to Euro 26,000,000 (in words: Euro twenty-six million) and consists of 10,000,000 (in words: ten million) non par value bearer shares (nennwertlose, auf den Inhaber Iautende Stuckaktien) with a proportionate participation in the registered capital of Euro 2.60 each. The shares of the Company are admitted to the official market of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange and the Stuttgart Stock Exchange and traded in the over-the-counter markets (Freiverkehr) of the Dusseldorf Stock Exchange, the Munich Stock Exchange, the Hamburg Stock Exchange and the Berlin-Bremen Stock Exchange. The current shareholder representatives (Anteilseignervertrater) on the Supervisory Board are Mr. Heinriich Rutt, Mr. Wolfram Birkel, Mr. Gregor Bohm and Dr. Volker Grub (the "SHAREHOLDER REPRESENTATIVES"). 1.2 Global Share Certificate. All shares of the Company are issued in two global share certificate (the "GLOBAL SHARE CERTIFICATES") which are owned in fractional co-ownership by all shareholders of the Company, deposited with Clearstream Banking AG. 1.3 The Shares. The shares in the Company held by all Sellers represent a total amount of 6,221,170 shares (in words: Six million two hundred twenty-one thousand one hundred and seventy), equivalent to approximately 62.21% of the registered capital of the Company (collectively the "SHARES"). The Shares are held by the individual Sellers as follows:
Sale and Purchase Agreement 9132
Seller C 3,705,875 shares (the "C SHARES") Seller R 511,605 shares (the "R SHARES") Seller 3 999,430 shares Seller 4 80,960 shares Seller 5 17,600 shares Seller 6 58,750 shares Seller 7 58,750 shares Seller 8 3,200 shares Seller 9 785,000 shares
(the shares held by Seller 3 to Seller 9 add up to 2,003,690 (in words: two million three thousand six hundred ninety) shares and are collectively referred to as the "Family SHARES"). In addition to her portion of the Family Shares, Seller 5 holds additional 81,500 shares in the Company which are not subject to this agreement ("EXCLUDED SHARES"). 1.4 The Share Deposit Bank. Sellers have deposited the shares in the following share deposits account with Dresdner Bank AG (the "SHARE DEPOSIT BANK"), Deutsche Bank AG, M.M. Warburg & Co. and Landesbank Banden-Wurttemberg:
Sale and Purchase Agreement 10|32 In order to safeguard performance under this Agreement, within three weeks after the Signing Date (as defined in Section 2.1.1 below), (a) Seller C shall present to Buyer a letter of the Share Deposit Bank substantially in the form of Exhibit 1.4. (a) confirming (i) that the share deposit account of Seller C has been turned into a blocked account (Sperrkonto) to the effect that until the earlier of the date referred to in Section 4.1.5 below and the Closing Date, or the C Closing Date, as the case may be, the C Shares cannot, without the consent of Buyer, be transferred to any party other than Buyer, and (ii) that the Share Deposit Bank has been unconditionally and irrevocably instructed to book the C Shares to the following share deposit account of Buyer with the Share Deposit Bank immediately upon receipt of the C Purchase Price and that, except for the restrictions set forth in Sec. 2.3, the Share Deposit Bank will carry out such booking without any right of retention, pledge right or similar right of the Share Deposit Bank being raised: Account No.: 931 275 00 (or any other account number notified to the Sellers within two weeks after the Signing Date). ("BUYER'S DEPOSIT ACCOUNT") (b) Seller R shall present to Buyer a letter of the Share Deposit Bank substantially in the form of Exhibit 1.4.(b) confirming (i) that the share deposit account of Seller R has been turned into a blocked account (Sperrkonto) to the effect that until the earlier of the date referred to in Section 4.1.5 below and the Closing Date the R Shares cannot, without the consent of Buyer, be transferred to any party other than Buyer, and (ii) that the Share Deposit Bank has been unconditionally and irrevocably instructed to book the R Shares to Buyer's Deposit Account immediately upon receipt of the R Purchase Price and that the Share Deposit Bank will carry out such booking without any right of retention, pledge right or similar right of the Share Deposit Bank being raised: (c) the Family Shares shall be deposited with the Share Deposit Bank on one and the same share deposit account and the Family Sellers shall present a letter of the Share Deposit Bank substantially in the form of Exhibit 1.4.(c) confirming (i) that the share deposit account of the Family Sellers has been turned into a blocked account (Sperrkonto) to the effect that until the earlier of the date referred to in Section 4.1.5 below and the Closing Date the Family Shares cannot, without the consent of Buyer, be transferred to any party other than Buyer, and (ii) that the Share Deposit Bank has been unconditionally and irrevocably instructed to book the Family Shares to Buyer's Deposit Account immediately upon receipt of the Family Purchase Price and that it will carry out
Sale and Purchase Agreement 11/32 such booking without any right of retention, pledge right or similar right of the Share Deposit Bank being raised. 2. SIGNING DATE; CLOSING DATE; C CLOSING DATE; SALE AND TRANSFER 2.1 Signing Date, Closing Date. Signing Date and Closing Date shall each have the following meaning within this Agreement: 2.1.1 "SIGNING DATE" shall mean the day on which this Agreement is executed by all Parties. 2.1.2 "CLOSING DATE" shall be the third Banking Day after all Closing Conditions (as defined in Sec. 4.1 below) have been fulfilled or waived, or any other date the Parties shall mutually agree, in any event, however, not earlier than January 04, 2005. 2.2 C Closing Date. Seller C shall have the right to determine, by notification to Buyer pursuant to Sec. 9 below, a Closing Date for the C Shares after all Closing Conditions have been fulfilled, but before January 01, 2005 (the "C CLOSING DATE"). In no event shall the C Closing Date be earlier than December 27, 2004. 2.3 Buyer's Protection. In the event that the C Shares will be transferred to Buyer on the C Closing Date but the R Shares and the Family Shares will not be transferred to Buyer on the Closing Date, Buyer shall have the right to request repayment of the C Purchase Price to the Buyer against simultaneous (zum um Zug gegen) re-transfer of the C Shares to Seller C. The aforementioned right can only be exercised by Buyer within a time period of two weeks after the Closing Date. As security for re-payment of the C Purchase Price to Buyer under this Sec. 2.3, before the C Closing Date, Seller C shall have pledged Seller C's bank account to which payment is made to Buyer. As a security for Dresdner Bank AG for the repayment of the loan owed by Seller C to Dresdner Bank AG and IKB Deutsche Industriebank AG under the loan agreement dated May 17/29, 2000 as subsequently amended the "DREBA LOAN"), before the C Closing Date, Buyer shall have pledged Buyer's Deposit Account to Dresdner Bank AG (the "DreBa Pledge"). Furthermore, as security for the re-transfer for the C Shares to Seller C under this Sec. 2.3, before the C Closing Date, Buyer shall have pledged Buyer's Deposit Account to Seller C with a second rank pledge (aweitrangiges Pfandrecht) to Seller C. In the event that Dresdner Bank AG enforces its pledge right under the DreBa Pledge prior to or on the Closing Date, Buyer's right to request repayment of the C Purchase Price under this Sec. 2.3 shall become immediately exercisable and Buyer's obligation to effect the simultaneous re-transfer of the C Shares to the Seller shall be limited to those C Shares which are not effected by the enforcement of its pledge right under the
Sale and Purchase Agreement 12/32 DreBa Pledge; in such event, Buyer shall further be fully released from the obligations to close the transaction contemplated in this Agreement on the Closing Date. 2.4 Sale of the Shares. The Shares are sold as follows: 2.4.1 Seller C hereby sells (verkauft) the C Shares to the Buyer. Buyer hereby accepts such sale. The sale shall include all ancillary rights appertaining thereto (Nebenrechte), including without limitation the dividend rights (Gewinnbezugsrecht) to all profits not yet distributed to Seller C by the Closing Date or by the C Closing Date, as the case may be. For the avoidance of doubt, Seller C shall be entitled to all dividends for the business year 2004/05 of the Company to the extent that such dividends will have been distributed by the Company prior to the Closing Date or prior to the C Closing Date, as the case may be. 2.4.2 Seller R hereby sells (verkauft) the R Shares to the Buyer. Buyer hereby accepts such sale. The sale shall include all ancillary rights appertaining thereto (Nebenrechte), including without limitation the dividend rights (Gewinnbezugsrecht) to all profits not yet distributed to Seller R by the Closing Date. For the avoidance of doubt, Seller R shall be entitled to all dividends for the business year 2004/05 of the Company to the extent that such dividends will have been distributed by the Company prior to the Closing Date. 2.4.3 Each Family Seller hereby sells (verkauft) its portion of the Family Shares as set out in Sec. 1.3 to Buyer and Buyer hereby accepts such sale. The sale of the Family Shares shall include all ancillary rights appertaining thereto (Nebenrechte), including without limitation the dividend rights (Gewinnbezugsrecht) to all profits not yet distributed to the Family Sellers by the Closing Date. For the avoidance of doubt, the Family Sellers shall be entitled to all dividends for the business year 2004/05 of the Company to the extent that such dividends will have been distributed by the Company prior to the Closing Date. 2.5 Transfer of the Shares. The Parties agree that the transfer of the Shares is not effected by the execution of this Agreement, but shall be effected on the Closing Date or, with respect to the C Shares, on the C Closing Date, as the case may be, by separate transfer agreement substantially in accordance with the draft form of transfer agreement which is attached hereto as Exhibit 2.5 (the "TRANSFER AGREEMENT"). According to the Transfer Agreement, the transfer of the Shares will be conditional upon payment of the purchase price.
Sale and Purchase Agreement 13/32 2.6 No Restrictions. Each of the Sellers 3 to 7 confirms that he or she is (i) not a minor (Minderjahriger) and (ii) not restricted by matrimonial law to lawfully conclude or consummate this Agreement. 3. PURCHASE PRICE 3.1 Total Purchase Price. The purchase price for the Shares amounts to EUR 59 (in words: Euro fifty-nine) per share, i.e. a total amount of EUR 367,049,030 (in words: Euro three hundred sixty-seven million forty-nine thousand thirty) for all Share (the "TOTAL PURCHASE PRICE"). Out of the Total Purchase Price each of the Sellers shall be entitled to the following purchase price: Seller C = Euro 218,646,625 (the "C PURCHASE PRICE") Seller R = Euro 30,184,695 (the "R PURCHASE PRICE") Seller 3 = Euro 58,966,370 Seller 4 = Euro 4,776,640 Seller 5 = Euro 1,038,400 Seller 6 = Euro 3,466,250 Seller 7 = Euro 3,466,250 Seller 8 = Euro 188,800 Seller 9 = Euro 46,315,000 The aggregate purchase price payable to Seller 3 to Seller 9 amounts to Euro 118,217,710 (the "FAMILY PURCHASE PRICE"). 3.2 Payment of the Total Purchase Price. In accordance with Sec. 4.2 below the Total Purchase Price shall be paid as follows: 3.2.1 On the Closing Date, or on the C Closing Date, as the case may be, the C Purchase Price shall be due and payable and shall be transferred to such bank account of Seller C with Dresdner Bank which Seller C shall have notified to Buyer no later than three weeks after the Signing Date. Seller C has instructed Dresdner Bank to confirm to Buyer by telefax receipt of payment of the C Purchase Price as set forth in Sec. 3.1 upon such receipt without undue delay (unverzuglich). 3.2.2 On the Closing Date, the R Purchase Price shall be due and payable and shall be transferred to such bank account of Seller R with Dresdner Bank which Seller R shall have notified to Buyer no later than three weeks after the Signing Date.
Sale and Purchase Agreement 14/32 Seller R has instructed Dresdner Bank to confirm to Buyer by telefax receipt of payment of the R Purchase Price as set forth in Sec. 3.1 upon such receipt without undue delay (unverzuglich). 3.2.3. On the Closing Date, the Family Purchase Price shall be due and payable and shall be transferred to such bank account of the Family Sellers with Dresdner Bank which the Family Sellers shall have notified to Buyer no later than three weeks after the Signing Date. The Family Sellers have instructed Dresdner Bank to confirm to Buyer by telefax receipt of payment of the Family Purchase Price upon such receipt without undue delay (unverzuglich). The Family Sellers will arrange with Dresdner Bank that, immediately upon receipt of the Family Purchase Price, Dresdner Bank will distribute the Family Purchase Price to Sellers 3 to 9 in accordance with the Euro-amounts stated in Section 3.1 for Sellers 3 to 9. 4. CLOSING CONDITIONS; CLOSING EVENTS; C CLOSING EVENTS; CLOSING CONFIRMATION 4.1 Closing Conditions. The closing of the transaction contemplated hereunder shall be conditional upon satisfaction of the following conditions set forth in Sec. 4.1.1, 4.1.3 and 4.1.4 ("CLOSING CONDITIONS"): 4.1.1 In so far as the transaction pursuant to the competition laws of Austria, France, Germany, Hungary, Spain or any other EU member state must not be consummated before clearance is obtained, completion of the transaction shall be conditional upon: 4.1.1.1 the competition authority(ies) of any relevant EU member state(s) (a) declining jurisdiction over the transaction; (b) granting clearance; (c) not issuing a decision within the required deadlines with the consequence that the transaction is being deemed approved according to applicable competition laws; or (d) requesting referral to the European Commission pursuant to Article 22(1) of the EC Merger
Sale and Purchase Agreement 15/32 Regulation to review the transaction, such a request being accepted and the European Commission clearing the transaction or not issuing a decision within the statutory deadlines with the consequence that the transaction is being deemed compatible with the Common Market; or 4.1.1.2 a party making a reasoned submission for referral to the European Commission pursuant to Article 4(5) of the EC Merger Regulation and no EU member state having expressed its disagreement, and either: (a) the European Commission clearing the transaction; or (b) the European Commission not issuing a decision within the statutory deadlines with the consequence that the transaction is being deemed compatible with the Common Market. 4.1.2 The Buyer shall notify the Sellers sufficiently in advance of any notification, which he proposes to make or submit to any competition authority and at the same time provide the Sellers with copies thereof and any supporting documentation reasonably requested by the Sellers and provide Sellers with copies of other material communication with the competition authority, provided that Buyer shall not be required to provide the Sellers with any confidential information or business secrets. The Buyer undertakes to take due consideration of any comments which the Sellers may have in relation to any such notification, prior to making the relevant notification. The Buyer further agrees to keep the Sellers fully informed as to the progress of any notification. The Buyer undertakes to use its best efforts to procure that the conditions set out under subsection 4.1.1 is fulfil as soon as reasonably practicable after the date hereof. The Buyer shall be obliged to submit all filings to competition authorities referred to under Sec. 4.1.1 without undue delay (unverzuglich). The Sellers shall contribute to the proceedings referred to in Sub-Sec. 4.1.1. as best as they can, in particular Sellers shall (i) promptly provide Buyer upon request with all information on the Sellers which are required for the preparation of the notification or in the course of the merger control proceedings, and (ii) to the extent legally possible, use their reasonable endeavours to cause the Company to provide the necessary information required for the
Sale and Purchase Agreement 16/32 preparation of notifications or in the course of the merger control proceedings. The Buyer is required to accept any conditions imposed by competition authorities only to the extent that compliance with such conditions would not result in a divestiture of assets which have contributed to the turnover (Umsatz) for the last twelve months ended on June 30, 2004 in an amount in excess of EUR 92.6 million. Otherwise Buyer is entitled to rescind this Agreement. 4.1.3 Since the Signing Date up until and including the day on which the condition set forth in Sec. 4.1.1 has been satisfied, no facts have occurred which (i) have caused an ad hoc announcement of the Company under S. 15 Securities Trading Act (Wertpapierhandelsgesetz) and (ii) individually or together would have an adverse effect that cannot be cured until the next balance sheet date on the BERU Group's EBITDA (as defined below) by more than (i) EUR 17.5 million, if such adverse effects would reasonably be expected to continue or recur, or (ii) EUR 40 million, if such adverse effects would not reasonably be expected to continue or recur and have not already been taken into account in the Company's consolidated financial statements for the business year 2003/2004 or disclosed to or otherwise become known to Buyer on or before the Signing Date (such occurrence hereinafter defined as a "MATERIAL ADVERSE CHANGE"). It shall be understood that (a) the foregoing condition shall apply only, if Buyer makes an announcement for a launch of a public offer pursuant to S. 10 (1) Securities Purchase and Takeover Act (Wertpapiererwerbs- und Ubernahmegesetz) on or within one week after the Signing Date and such public offer, if launched, contains a material adverse change clause (the "PUBLIC OFFER MAC"), (b) provided that the content of the Public Offer MAC will be substantially as set forth above, and to the extent that the determination of a material adverse change under the Public
Sale and Purchase Agreement 17/32 Offer MAC shall be made by an auditor, such determination shall also be decisive for the determination of the Material Adverse Change hereunder, provided that (i) the terms and conditions set forth in the public offer for the activities of the auditor shall not make the fulfillment of the condition set forth in this Sec. 4.1.3 more difficult, and (ii) the judgment of the auditor is made at the latest by the day on which the condition set forth in Sec. 4.1.1 has been satisfied, and (c) provided that the content of the Public Offer MAC will be as set forth above and the determination of the material adverse change under the Public Offer MAC shall not be made by an independent auditor, the determination of the Material Adverse Change under the Public Offer MAC hereunder shall -- to the extent the Parties hereto cannot mutually agree on the occurrence of a Material Adverse Change -- be made by an independent auditor (the "Independent Auditor"). If the Parties cannot mutually agree upon the Independent Auditor within two business days after the ad hoc announcement, such Independent Auditor shall be appointed, upon request of either Party, by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprufer in Duesseldort, Germany. The Independent Auditor shall act as an expert and not as an arbitrator, and his determination of a Material Adverse Change shall be delivered within 10 business days and shall be conclusive and binding upon the Parties and shall not be subject to any appeal. The Company has confirmed in a letter dated October 30, 2004, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.1.3, that it will reasonably cooperate with any auditor who is going to make the judgement on the occurrence of the Material Adverse Change. For purposes of the Sec. 4.1.3, EBITDA means the earnings of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation as used by the Company in its consolidated financial statements for the business year 2003/2004 and, for purposes of determining the EBITDA, the accounting and valuation principles and the valuation options used by the Company in its consolidated financial statements for the business year 2003/2004 shall be consistently applied and changes in the applicable accounting and valuation rules shall not be taken into account.
Sale and Purchase Agreement 18/32 The condition contained in this Sec. 4.1.3 may be waived by Buyer at any time. 4.1.4 The Sellers have timely presented the bank letters referred to in Sections 1.4 (a) and 1.4. (b)_. The condition contained in this Sec. 4.1.4 may be waived by Buyer at any time. 4.1.5 If the Closing Conditions have not been met or waived by March 15, 2005 at the latest or, in the event that filings to the competition authorities of any EU member state will become necessary as a result of one or more EU member states having objected to a referral to the European Commission in accordance with Sec. 4.1.1.2 above, by March 31, 2005 at the latest, any of the Parties may rescind this Agreement having the effect that none of the Parties is bound anymore by this Agreement. 4.2 Closing Events. On the Closing Date, the following shall take place in the following sequence: 4.2.1 The Parties shall enter into the Transfer Agreement. 4.2.2 The Sellers shall present resignation letters from each of the Shareholder Representatives (or any successors which have been appointed before the Closing Date) according to which the Shareholder Representatives resign (i) from the office with effect as of the Closing Date if legally possible, or (ii) as soon as legally possible immediately thereafter. 4.2.3 The Buyer shall pay the C Purchase Price, the R Purchase Price and the Family Purchase Price in accordance with Sec. 3.2; (the "CLOSING EVENTS"). 4.3 C Closing Events. In the event that Seller C has determined a C Closing Date pursuant to Sec. 2.3 above, Sec. 4.2 (except for Sec. 4.2.2 which will remain in full effect) shall not apply to Seller C, but only to Buyer, Seller R and the Family Sellers and the following shall take place in the following sequence: 4.3.1 On or before the C Closing Date Seller C and Buyer shall procure execution of the documentation contemplated under Sec. 2.3. 4.3.2 On the C Closing Date, Seller C and Buyer shall enter into a transfer agreement with respect to the C Shares which, except for the restrictions set forth in Sec. 2.3, shall be substantially the same as in Exhibit 2.5.
Sale and Purchase Agreement 19/32 4.3.3 On the C Closing Date, Buyer shall pay the C Purchase Price in accordance with Sec. 3.2.1. 4.3.4 On the Closing Date, (i) Seller C shall repay the outstanding loan amount under the DreBa Loan (including interest and charges) against release by Dresdner Bank AG of the pledge of Buyer's Deposit Account, and (ii) simultaneously, Buyer shall release Seller C of the pledge of his bank account to which payment of the C Purchase Price has been made, and (iii) simultaneously, Seller C shall release Buyer of the second rank pledge (zweitrangiges Pfandrecht) on Buyer's Deposit Account. (the "C CLOSING EVENTS"). 4.4 Closing Confirmation. On the Closing Date, Sellers and Buyer shall confirm in a written document to be jointly executed by Sellers and Buyer (the "CLOSING CONFIRMATION") that the Closing Conditions have been fulfilled or waived, all Closing Events and, if applicable, the C Closing Events, have been performed or waived and that payment of the C Purchase Price, the R Purchase Price and the Family Purchase Price as well as the transfer of the Shares have occurred. 5. SELLERS' LIABILITY 5.1 Sellers' Guarantees. Each Seller hereby represents and warrants subject to any limitations contained in this Agreement, in particular but not limited to, the remedies and limitations, set out in Sec. 5 and 7 below by way of an independent guarantee pursuant to Sec. 311(1) German Civil Code (BGB) that the statements set forth hereafter are true ad correct as of the Signing Date and the Closing Date, or the C Closing Date, as the case may be, unless it is specifically provided for that a representation shall be made as of one of these dates only or as a different date: 5.1.1 Enforceability; No Violation. This Agreement constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of the respective Seller, enforceable under German laws in accordance with its terms, subject only, if the case arises, to limitations on enforceability under generally applicable statutory laws. The execution and consummation of this Agreement and the performance of the transactions contemplated hereunder does not and will not violate any judicial or governmental order (gerichtliche oder behordliche Verfugung) by which the respective Seller is bound, or with respect to Seller C, 8 and 9 any provision of such Seller's Articles of Association or any legally effective resolution of such Seller's management (Geschaftsfuhrung) or shareholders' meeting.
Sale and Purchase Agreement 20/32 5.1.2 Status of the Company. The Company is a German stock corporation (Aktiengesellschaft) duly organized and validly existing under the laws of Germany. All information referred to under Sec. 1.1 to 1.3 is true and correct. 5.1.3 Ownership of the Shares: No Encumbrances and Rights of Third Parties. Except for pledge of the Seller C Shares to Dresdner Bank AG under the DreBa Loan or the DreBa Pledge which shall be released at the latest on the Closing Date, the respective Seller is the legal and beneficial owner of such number of the Shares as set forth in Sec. 1.3 with respect to such Seller and such shares are free of any encumbrances or any other rights of third parties. The respective Seller has the right and the power to freely dispose of such shares without the consent of any third party and such shares have been fully paid in, and the share capital has not been repaid. 5.1.4 Representing and Warranties qualified by Knowledge. To the Knowledge of the respective Seller. (a) the consolidated financial statements of the Company for the business years 2003/2004 and 2002/2003 have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in Germany and present a true and fair view of the net worth, financial position and results of the respective company as of the respective accounting date, and since April 1, 2004 no transactions outside the ordinary course of business have been approved by or have been brought to the attention of the Supervisory Board of the Company and executed or carried out; (b) the structural chart attached as Exhibit 5.1.4(b) correctly reflects the structure of the BERU Group and its minority shareholdings and except as disclosed in Exhibit 5.1.4 (b) the direct or indirect shareholdings of the Company shown in such chart are within the unrestricted ownership of the Company; (c) as of the Signing Date, none of the companies of the BERU Group is a party to any pending or threatened legal proceedings (including any arbitration, administrative or competition law proceedings) whether as a plaintiff or defendant or third party, with a value exceeding EUR 500,000; (d) there are no Intellectual Property Rights of third parties which are infringed by any company of the BERU Group resulting in a claim by a third party in the amount of at least EUR 500,000 and there are
Sale and Purchase Agreement 21/32 no Intellectual Property Rights owned or used by any company of the BERU Group which are infringed by any third party. "INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS" shall mean patents, utility patents, inventions, trademarks, trade names, trade dress, models, designs, copy rights, computer software, data bases, know-how and trade secrets; (e) as of the Signing Date, none of the companies of the BERU Group is a party to any contract containing a Change of Control Clause. "CHANGE OF CONTROL CLAUSE" shall mean any clause allowing the other party to terminate the contract or ask for an amendment of the contract in case the Buyer acquires the Shares, provided that such contract (i) must be a joint venture agreement or (ii) must provide for an annual volume of more than EUR 500,000 and (iii) does not fall under the scope of Sec. 5.1.4(g); (f) as of the Signing Date, except for the soil and groundwater contaminations specified in the Phase I Vendor Due Diligence Report prepared by ERM dated April 2004 or the reports listed in Exhibit 5.1.4 (f), there are not soil or groundwater contaminations of the real estate owned or used by any of the companies of the BERU Group which require remedial measures under applicable law at costs exceeding EUR 500,000 in the individual case; (g) except for the agreements with Mr. von Maltzan dated May 24/26, 2004 and March 31/April 01, 2004, the agreements with Mr. Podeswa dated May 04/19, 2004, and the agreement with Dr. Meschkat dated September 23/25, 2004, none of the companies of the BERU Group (as set forth in Exhibit 5.1.4 (b)) has entered into any agreements with a member of the management (Vorstand) which (i) grants a special bonus or other form of compensation in case the transaction provided for hereunder is executed, or (ii) grants a member of the management the right to terminate his employment in case the transaction provided for hereunder is executed. 5.1.5 Representations and Warranties not qualified by Knowledge. (a) No hidden profit distributions (verdeckte Gewinnausschuttungen) have been made since January 1, 1998 by any company of the BERU Group to any of the Sellers; (b) no agreements exist between any company of the BERU Group on the one hand and any of the Sellers on the other hand.
Sale and Purchase Agreement 22/32 5.2 Disclosure to Buyer. Buyer together with its advisors has conducted its own due diligence investigation concerning the legal and other relevant facts concerning the Company, the Company's direct and indirect subsidiaries and their businesses. The Sellers shall not be liable for, and Buyer shall not be entitled to bring any claim under Sec. 5 and 7 if and to the extent the matter giving rise to such claim was, before the Signing Date, known to Buyer or disclosed to Buyer. For the purpose of this Sec. 5.2 the term "Buyer" shall include Buyer's directors and officers as well as Buyer's employees and Buyer's advisors and consultants involved in connection with the acquisition of the Shares by Buyer. 6. BUYER'S GUARANTEES The Buyer represents and warrants, subject to any limitations contained in this Agreement, in particular, but not limited to, the remedies and limitations set out in Sec. 6 and 7, to the Sellers, in the form of an independent guarantee pursuant to Sec. 311(1) German Civil Code (BGB) that the statements set forth hereafter are true and correct as of the Signing Date and the Closing Date, unless it is specifically provided for that a representation shall be made as of one of these dates only or as of a different date: 6.1 Status of the Buyer. The Buyer (i) is duly incorporated and validly existing under the laws of Germany and (ii) has the unrestricted capacity to execute this Agreement and to perform its obligations thereunder. No bankruptcy proceedings or other proceedings under applicable law providing protection against enforcement by creditors have been opened over Buyer's assets, and no circumstances exist which would require Buyer or Buyer's management, board or shareholders to apply for the opening of such proceedings. 6.2 Enforceability of Agreement: No Violation. This Agreement constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of Buyer, enforceable under German laws in accordance with its terms, subject only, if the case arises, to limitations on enforceability under generally applicable statutory law. The execution and consummation of this Agreement and the performance of the transactions contemplated hereunder does not and will not violate any judicial or governmental order (gerichtliche oder behordliche Verfugung) to which the Buyer is bound, any provision of Buyer's Articles of Association or any legal effective resolution of Buyer's management (Geschaftsfuhrung) or shareholders' meeting. 6.3 Financial Capability. The Buyer will as of the Closing Date, or, if applicable, with respect to its payment obligations to Seller C, as of the C Closing Date, have the
Sale and Purchase Agreement 23/32 financial capacity and means to comply promptly with its payment and other obligations under this Agreement. 6.4 No Litigation. As of the Signing Date there is no action, suit, investigation or other proceedings pending against, or threatened in writing against or, to Buyer's best knowledge, affecting Buyer which in any manner challenges or seeks to prevent, enjoin, alter or materially delay the execution or consummation of this Agreement or the performance of the transactions contemplated hereunder. 7. REMEDIES 7.1 Remedies. In the event of a 7.1.1 liability of a Seller under Sec. 5, the Buyer shall only have the right to demand that the respective Seller within an appropriate period of time which in any event shall be no less than two months after receipt of such demand put Buyer into the same situation the Buyer would have been in, had the representation or warranty been correct (Naturalrestitution), or, at Buyer's choice, to pay damages. For the avoidance of doubt, (i) all statements of Sellers made in Sec. 5 are made with respect to its shareholdings as set out in Sec. 1.3 only, (ii) where statements of a Seller made in Sec. 5 relate to the Company, a Seller shall be held liable only to such percentage of damages or losses as reflects such Seller's percentage of pro-rated shareholding in the Company as set out in Sec. 1.3, (iii) each Seller shall be subject to several liability (teilschuldnerishe Haftung) exclusively and any joint and several liability (gesamtschuldnerische Haftung) of the Sellers shall be expressly excluded, and (iv) where representations and warranties are given subject to Knowledge as defined in Sec. 7.6.1 below, each Seller shall only be responsible for its own Knowledge exclusively. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, with respect to the warranty of the Family Sellers under Sec. 5.1.3 above solely, Seller 3 shall be jointly and severally liable with Sellers 4-9. For the avoidance of doubt, Sellers 4-9 shall not be jointly and severally liable among each other or together with Seller 3. 7.1.2 liability of Buyer under Sec. 6, each Seller shall only have the right to demand jointly together with the other Sellers that Buyer within an appropriate period of time, which in any event shall be no less than two months after receipt of such demand, puts each Seller into the same situation Sellers would have been, had the representation or warranty been correct (Naturalrestitution) or, at Sellers' unanimous choice, to pay damages.
Sale and Purchase Agreement 24/32 7.2 Time Limitations. Subject to sentences 2 and 3 hereof, any claims of the Buyer against any Seller under Sec. 5.1 and 7.1, as well as any claims of Sellers against Buyer under Sec. 6 and 7.1 shall become time-barred (verjahren) on February 28, 2006. Any claims of Buyer against Seller R and the Family Sellers in connection with a breach of Sec. 5.1.5 (a) shall become time-barred (verjahren) on February 28, 2007. Any claims of Buyer against any of the Sellers in connection with a breach of Sec. 5.1.3 shall become time-barred (verjahren) 2 (two) years after the Closing Date. Section 203 of the German Civil Code (BGB) shall be expressly excluded. 7.3 Exclusive Remedies. The Parties are in agreement that the remedies Buyer may have against any or all the Sellers and the remedies Sellers may have against Buyer for breach of obligations set forth in this Agreement are exclusively governed by this Agreement, and the remedies provided for by this Agreement shall be the exclusive remedies available to Buyer or the Sellers, as the case may be. Apart from the rights of Buyer or the Sellers under Sec. 7 or 4.1.6, (i) any right of the Parties to rescind (zurucktreten) this Agreement or to require the winding up of the transaction contemplated hereunder (e.g. by way of grosser Schadenersatz or Schadenersatz statt der ganzen Leistung), (ii) any claims for breach of pre-contractual obligations (culpa in contrahendo, including but not limited to claims arising under Sec. 241 (2), 311 (2) (3) German Civil Code) or ancillary obligations (positive Forderungsverletzung, including but not limited to claims arising under Sec. 280, 282 German Civil Code), (iii) frustration of contract pursuant to Sec. 313 German Civil Code (Storung der Geschaftsgrundlage), (iv) all remedies for defects under Sec. 437 through 441 German Civil Code (v) any and all other statutory rights and remedies, if any, are hereby expressly excluded and waived by the Parties, except claims for reason of wilful deceit (arglistige Tauschung) and other intentional breaches of contract (vorsatzliche Vertragsverletzungen). The Parties are in agreement that Sellers' and Buyers' Guarantees are only designed for the specific remedies and the restrictions set forth in Sec. 7 and that Sellers' and Buyers' statements under Sec. 5.1 or, as the case may be, 6., shall not serve to provide Buyer or the Sellers, as the case may, with any claims other than those set forth in this Agreement. The Parties are further in agreement that under no circumstances shall Sellers' and Buyers Guarantees be construed as representations with respect to the quality of the purchase object within the meaning of Sec. 276 (I), 443 German Civil Code (Garantie fur die Beschaffenheit der Sache) and therefore, the Parties explicitly waives the application of Sec. 444 German Civil Code. 7.4 Prompt Notification. Any claims based on Sec. 5 and Sec. 6 must be raised by Buyer against the Sellers or, as the case may be, by the Sellers against Buyer, within three (3) months after anyone of the Sellers or Buyer, as the case may be, having become aware of the underlying facts or circumstances giving rise to such
Sale and Purchase Agreement 25/32 claims, the nature of the respective claim as well as its financial volume, such notification to specify the underlying facts, the nature of the respective claim as well as its financial volume. 7.5 Buyer's Cooperation. If and to the extent any remedial action requires the cooperation of Buyer, Buyer shall, to the extent legally possible for Buyer, at the request and expense of the respective Seller, take all reasonable steps the respective Seller may request from Buyer. In particular, Buyer shall, to the extent legally possible for Buyer, be obliged to give any approval, to adopt any resolution or to exercise its rights as a shareholder of the Company in such way deemed necessary, by the respective Seller to remedy the defect in question. In case the competent tax authorities should take the view that a hidden profit distribution within the meaning of Sec. 5.1.5 (a) has been made to any of the Sellers, the respective Seller shall be entitled to take part in any tax audit, administrative or judicial tax proceeding which relate to the asserted hidden profit distribution and to fiscal years ending on or after January 1, 1998 (the "TAX PROCEEDINGS"), and Buyer shall procure that the Company allows the respective Seller to (i) fully participate in such Tax Proceedings and (ii) elect to direct on its own or through counsel of its choice and at its expense, any Tax Proceedings insofar as the Tax Proceeding relates to an asserted hidden profit distribution, it being understood that joint directions by the respective Seller and the Company shall be made where the Tax Proceedings also related to matters other than hidden profit distributions to such Seller. If the Seller elects a Tax Proceeding, then the Seller shall notify Buyer of its intent to do so, and Buyer shall cooperate and cause the Company or the respective successors to cooperate, at the Seller's expense in each phase of such Tax Proceeding insofar as the Tax Proceeding involves an asserted tax liability for which the Seller would be liable under this Section 7.5. 7.6 Further Limitations on Seller's Liability 7.6.1 In case of the representations and warranties qualified by Knowledge and referred to in Sec. 5.1.4 above, "Knowledge" shall mean (i) with respect to Seller C the actual knowledge (positive Kenntnis) of Seller C's current directors and the former directors Mr. Heinrich Rutt, Mr. Gregor Bohm and Dr. Dennis Schulze; and (ii) with respect to each of the Sellers R, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7 his or her respective actual knowledge (positive Kenntnis) and (iii) with respect to each of the Sellers 8 and 9 the actual knowledge (positive Kenntnis) of any of the respective managing directors of its general partners. For the avoidance of doubt, "Knowledge" shall comprise neither (i) the obligation of Sellers to perform or have performed a reasonable investigation nor (ii) facts that Sellers should have known (kennen mussen).
Sale and Purchase Agreement 26|32 7.6.2 In case of a breach of warranty under Sec. 5.1.4 above (i) each Seller shall only be liable to the extent that the damage (resulting from one or more breaches) exceeds a total of EUR 2.5 million, (ii) Seller C's total liability shall not exceed a total of EUR 16,4 million, (iii) Seller R's total liability shall not exceed a total of EUR 6 million and (iv) the total liability of each of the Family Sellers shall not exceed an amount equal to 20% of the amount set forth for each the Family Sellers in Sec. 3.1 as purchase price entitlement, respectively. 7A FURTHER UNDERTAKINGS 7A.1 Sellers' Undertakings 7A.1.1 Until the earlier of the date referred to in Sec. 4.1.6 above and the Closing date, Sellers shall not tender the Shares in any public offer and Sellers shall not sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of, the Shares to any party other than the Buyer or pledge the Shares for any purposes. 7A.1.2 Sellers will not support, directly or indirectly, a competing offer for the Shares of the Company. 7A.1.2 In case a shareholders meeting of the Company is held before the earlier of the date referred to in Section 4.1.6 above or the Closing Date, the Sellers shall (i) participate in such meeting and (ii) not vote in favour of any capital increase of the share capital of the Company, and (iii) not vote in favour of any sale of assets or any acquisition, unless previously approved by Buyer. This Sec. 7A.1.2 shall apply to Seller R and the Family Sellers only as from January 01, 2005. 7A.2 Waiver. Each of the Sellers hereby waives any rights of first refusal or other rights he or she may have with respect to any of the Shares or with respect to additional 81,500 shares still held by Seller 5 (which are not sold under this Agreement). 7A.3 Sarbanes-Oxley Act. With respect to the cooperation of the Company regarding the assessment of the Company's internal controls over financial reporting after the Closing Date as required under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Company's confirmation letter dated October 30, 2004 is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.1.3.
Sale and Purchase Agreement 27/32 8. CONFIDENTIALITY; ANNOUNCEMENTS 8.1 Confidentiality. Any information or documents relating to a Party to this Agreement, the Company, a company of the BERU Group, or their respective businesses and made available to another Party in the course of the preparation of the transaction contemplated hereunder shall not be disclosed to third parties or published unless required by applicable laws, rules or regulations (including takeover regulation). However, this obligation shall not apply to information that is proven (i) to have been (or have become) generally available (public domain) without breach of any obligation of any of the Parties, (ii) to have been known to the disclosing Party prior to the disclosure, (iii) to have been independently developed by the disclosing Party, or (iv) to have been received by the disclosing Party from a third party without any violation of any obligation of such third party vis-a-vis the disclosing Party. Neither Party shall, without the prior written consent of the respective other Party, disclose the contents of this Agreement to third parties or make any information relating thereto available to third parties. This shall not, however, apply to the extent a Party or any affiliate of a Party may be obliged to make any announcement or disclosure (including the disclosure of this Agreement), under applicable laws or regulations (including the rules of relevant stock exchanges or relevant Takeover Codes, including the German Securities Purchase and Takeover Act - Wertpapiererwerbs- und Ubernahmegesetz) and the German Securities Trading Act - Wertpapierhandelsgesetz ("WpHG"). The Buyer acknowledges that Sellers 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7 will immediately after satisfaction of the Closing Conditions, be obligated to file director's dealings notifications pursuant to Art. 15 a WpHG concerning the sale of their portion of the Family Shares contemplated under this Agreement. The right of the Parties to disclose matters to advisers who are bound by a professional duty of confidentiality shall remain unaffected. 8.2 Announcements. The Parties undertake that without the written consent of the other Parties neither Party shall make any public announcement regarding this Agreement, unless, in a reasonable judgment of a Party, required by, or appropriate under, applicable laws or regulations (including, without limitation, the rules of the relevant stock exchanges or takeover codes, in particular the German Securities Purchase and Takeover Act - Wertpapiererwerbs- und Ubernahmegesetz). Sufficiently prior to any permitted announcement the Party wishing to make the announcement shall, to the extent possible without violation of legal restrictions, notify the other Party thereof, provide to the other Party the proposed wording and take any requests of the other Parties into due consideration.
Sale and Purchase Agreement 28/32 9. NOTICES All notices and other communications hereunder shall be made in writing and shall be sent by registered mail or courier to the following addresses: If to Seller C, to Heinrich N. Rutt CEP BE 00 Beteiligungs GmbH Promenadeplatz 8 80333 Munchen in each case with a copy to: Dr. Norbert Rieger Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy Maximilianstrasse 15 D-80539 Munchen If to Seller R, to Ingelore Ruprecht Friedrichstrasse 46 71638 Ludwigsburg in each case with a copy to: Dr. Gotz Grub Friedrichstrasse 46 71638 Ludwigsburg If to the Sellers 3-9, to, Wolfram Birkel, Klosterfeldstrasse 14 D-21614 Buxtehude;
Sale and Purchase Agreement 29/32 provided that such authority of Mr. Wolfram Birkel shall be irrevocable, unless Sellers 3-9 jointly transfer such authority to one other person in each case with a copy to: Dr. Wilhelm Happ HAPP RECKE LUTHER Hermannstrasse 40 D-20095 Hamburg If to the Buyer, to: Borg Warner Inc. Attn.: General Counsel 5435 Corporate Drive Suite 150 Troy, Michigan 48098/USA in each case with a copy to: HENGELER MUELLER Attn.: Dr. Joachim Rosengarten Bockenheimer Landstr. 51 D-60325 Frankfurt am Main or to such other recipients or addresses which may be specified by any Party to the other Parties in the future in writing. 10. COSTS All costs, including expenses, fees and charges, in connection with the preparation, negotiation, execution and consummation of this Agreement or the performance of the transactions contemplated hereunder, including, without limitation, fees and expenses of professional advisors, shall be borne by the Party commissioning such costs. Stamp duties, locally applicable transfer taxes and similar fees necessary to transfer title to any Shares to Buyer as well as fees charged by any antitrust authorities in connection with any clearance under applicable antitrust laws shall be borne by Buyer.
Sale and Purchase Agreement 30/32 11. MISCELLANEOUS 11.1 Entire Agreement. This Agreement contains the entire agreement between the Parties concerning the subject matter hereof and shall supersede and replace all prior oral and written declarations of intention made by the Parties in respect thereof. 11.2 Amendments. Any amendments to this Agreement (including amendments to this Sec. 11.2) shall be valid only if made in writing, unless a stricter form (including notarial form) is required by mandatory law. 11.3 Headings. The headings in this Agreement are inserted for convenience only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Agreement. 11.4 German Terms. Where a German term has been inserted in quotation marks and/or italics, such term alone (and not the English term to which it relates) shall be authoritative for the interpretation of the respective provision. 11.5 Assignment. No Party shall be entitled to assign any rights or claims under this Agreement without the written consent of the other Party, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld. 11.6 Banking Days. "BANKING DAYS" referred to in this Agreement shall be any days other than Saturdays, Sunday or public holidays in Frankfurt am Main. 11.7 No Rights of Third Parties. This Agreement shall not grant any rights to, and is not intended to operate for, the benefit of any third parties. 11.8 Exclusion of Remedies. Except as provided otherwise herein, no Party shall be entitled (i) to set-off (aufrechnen) any rights and claims it may have against any rights or claims any other Party may have under this Agreement, or (ii) to refuse to perform any obligation it may have under this Agreement on the grounds of a right of retention (Zuruckbehaltungsrecht), unless the rights or claims of the relevant Party claiming a right of set-off (Aufrechnung) or retention (Zuruckbehaltung) have been acknowledged (anerkannt) in writing by the relevant other Party or have been confirmed by final decision of a competent court. 11.9 Governing Law: Place of Venue. This Agreement shall be governed by, and be construed in accordance with, the laws of the Federal Republic of Germany, without regard to principles of conflicts of laws. In the event of any dispute between the Parties arising under or in connection with this Agreement or its validity, the Parties agree on Stuttgart as the exclusive venue, if and to the extent this is permissible pursuant to Sec. 38 of the German Civil Procedure Ordinance
Sale and Purchase Agreement 31/32 (Zivilprozessordnung). 11.10 Partial Invalidity. In the event that one or more provisions of this Agreement shall, or shall be deemed to, be invalid or unenforceable, the validity and enforceablity of the other provisions of the Agreement shall not be affected thereby. In such case, the Parties agree to recognize and give effect to such valid and enforceable provision or provisions that correspond as closely as possible with the commercial intent of the Parties. The same shall apply in the event that this Agreement contains any gaps (Vertragslucken). Frankfurt am Main, Hamburg, Munich, October 30, 2004 /s/ Dr. Norbert Rieger - --------------------------------------------- Seller C, represented by Dr. Norbert Rieger /s/ Dr. Norbert Rieger - --------------------------------------------- Seller R, represented by Dr. Gotz Grub, who is represented by Dr. Norbert Rieger /s/ Dr. Jorgen Tielmann - --------------------------------------------- Seller 3, represented by Dr. Jorgen Tielmann /s/ Dr. Jorgen Tielmann - --------------------------------------------- Seller 4, represented by Seller 3, who is represented by Dr. Jorgen Tielmann /s/ Dr. Jorgen Tielmann - --------------------------------------------- Seller 5, represented by Seller 3, who is represented by Dr. Jorgen Tielmann /s/ Dr. Jorgen Tielmann - --------------------------------------------- Seller 6, represented by Seller 3, who is represented by Dr. Jorgen Tielmann
Sale and Purchase Agreement 32/32 /s/ Dr. Jorgen Tielmann - --------------------------------------------- Seller 7, represented by Seller 3, who is represented by Dr. Jorgen Tielmann /s/ Dr. Jorgen Tielmann - --------------------------------------------- Seller 8, represented by Dr. Jorgen Tielmann /s/ Dr. Jorgen Tielmann - --------------------------------------------- Seller 9, represented by Seller 3, who is represented by Dr. Jorgen Tielmann /s/ Anthony D. Hensel - --------------------------------------------- Buyer, represented by Anthony D. Hensel
-------------------------------- SALE AND PURCHASE AGREEMENT -------------------------------- regarding the Sale and Purchase of SHARES IN BERU AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT -------------------------------- EXHIBITS --------------------------------
LIST OF EXHIBITS Exhibit 1.4(a) Confirmation of Share Deposit Bank (Seller C) Exhibit 1.4(b) Confirmation of Share Deposit Bank (Seller R) Exhibit 1.4(c) Confirmation of Share Deposit Bank (Family Sellers) Exhibit 2.5 Transfer Agreement Exhibit 4.1.3 Company's letter confirming cooperation with auditor Exhibit 5.1.4(b) Chart of structure of the BERU Group and the shareholdings Exhibit 5.1.4(f) List of Environmental Reports
EXHIBIT 1.4(a) CONFIRMATION OF SHARE DEPOSIT BANK (SELLER C)
(Letterhead Dresdner Bank) To: BorgWarner Germany GmbH Im Fuchsloch 16 D-69123 Heidelberg Ladies and Gentlemen, We hereby confirm (i) that CEP BE 00 Beteiligungs GmbH, Munich ("Seller") holds a total of 3,705,875 no par value bearer shares (nennwertlose auf den Inhaber lautende Stuckaktien) of BERU Aktiengesellschaft in the share deposit account No. 451/506 185400 maintained with us and (ii) that the Seller has irrevocably instructed us to block such shares in the above mentioned share deposit account to the effect that until 31 March 2005(1) the aforementioned shares cannot, without your consent, be transferred to any party other than yourself. We further hereby confirm that we have been irrevocably instructed by Seller to transfer all of the aforementioned shares to your share deposit account with Dresdner Bank AG [(specify branch)] with the number [______________________], if, and as soon as, we shall have received without reservation the amount of EUR [______________] for credit to the bank account of the Seller with us with the number [______________________], on or before 31 March 2005(2). We further confirm to you acceptance of such instructions and that we will effect such transfer of shares in case of receipt of the above mentioned amount in accordance with - ---------- (1) Note: to be changed to 15 March 2005 in the event that, until the Bank Confirmation has to be executed, it has turned out that no filings to competition authorities of EU Member State will have become necessary. (2) Note: to be changed to 15 March 2005 in the event that, until the Bank Confirmation has to be executed, it has turned out that no filings to competition authorities of EU Member State will have become necessary.
these instructions, without raising any rights of retention, pledge rights or similar rights with respect to the above mentioned shares, unless we are legally bound (other than by agreements between us and the Seller or us and a third party for the benefit of the Seller) to refrain from doing so. Yours sincerely Dresdner Bank
EXHIBIT 1.4(b) CONFIRMATION OF SHARE DEPOSIT BANK (SELLER R)
[Letterhead Dresdner Bank] To: BorgWarner Germany GmbH Im Fuchsloch 16 D-69123 Heidelberg Ladies and Gentlemen, We hereby confirm (i) that Ms. Ingelore Ruprecht, Friedrichstrasse 46, 71638 Ludwigsburg, ("Seller R") holds a total of 511,605 no par value bearer shares (nennwertlose auf den Inhaber lautende Stuckaktien) of BERU Aktiengesellschaft in the share deposit account No. 020880109 maintained with us and (ii) that the Seller R has irrevocably instructed us to block such shares in the above mentioned share deposit account to the effect that until 31 March 2005(1) the aforementioned share cannot, without your consent, be transferred to any party other than yourself. We further hereby confirm that we have been irrevocably instructed by Seller R to transfer all of the aforementioned shares to your share deposit acount with Dresdner Bank AG [(specify branch)] with the number [______________________], if, and as soon as, we shall have received without reservation the amount of EUR [______________] for credit to the bank account of the Seller with us with the number [______________________], on or before 31 March 2005(2). - ---------- (1) Note: to be changed to 15 March 2005 in the event that, until the Bank Confirmation has to be executed, it has turned out that no filings to competition authorities of EU Member State will have become necessary. (2) Note: to be changed to 15 March 2005 in the event that, until the Bank Confirmation has to be executed, it has turned out that no filings to competition authorities of EU Member State will have become necessary.
We further confirm to you acceptance of such instructions and that we will effect such transfer of shares in case of receipt of the above mentioned amount in accordance with these instructions, without raising any rights of retention, pledge rights or similar rights with respect to the above mentioned shares, unless we are legally bound (other than by agreements between us and the Seller R or us and a third party for the benefit of the Seller R) to refrain from doing so. Yours sincerely Dresdner Bank AG
EXHIBIT 1.4(c) CONFIRMATION OF SHARE DEPOSIT BANK (FAMILY SELLERS)
(Letterhead Dresdner Bank) To: BorgWarner Germany GmbH Im Fuchsloch 16 D-69123 Heidelberg Ladies and Gentlemen, We hereby confirm (i) that - - Wolfram Birkel, Klosterfeldstrasse 14, 21614 Buxtehude; - - Elsa Birkel, Hohe Berge 19, 21614 Buxtehude; - - Annegret Birkel, Klosterfeldstrasse 14, 21614 Buxtehude; - - Christoph Birkel, Klosterfeldstrasse 14, 21614 Buxtehude; - - Catharina Birkel, Klosterfeldstrasse 14, 21614 Buxtehude; - - Klosterfeld GmbH & Co. KG, Klosterfeldstrasse 14, 21614 Buxtehude and - - Meier-Birkel GmbH & Co. KG, Mittlerer Pfad 15, 70499 Stuttgart ("Family Sellers") holds a total of 2,003,690 no par value bearer shares (nennwertlose auf den Inhaber lautende Stuckaktien) of BERU Aktiengesellschaft in the share deposit account No. [____] maintained with us and (ii) that the Family Sellers have irrevocably instructed us to block such shares in the above mentioned share deposit account to the effect that until 31 March 2005(1) the aforementioned shares cannot, without your consent, be transferred to any party other than yourself. We further hereby confirm that we have been irrevocably instructed by the Family Sellers to transfer all of the aforementioned shares to your share deposit account with Dresdner Bank AG [(specify branch)] with the number [______________________], - ---------- (1) Note: to be changed to 15 March 2005 in the event that, until the Bank Confirmation has to be executed, it has turned out that no filings to competition authorities of EU Member State will have become necessary.
if, and as soon as, we shall have received without reservation the amount of EUR [______________] for credit to the bank account of the Family Sellers with us with the number [______________________]. on or before 31 March 2005(2). We further confirm to you acceptance of such instructions and that we will effect such transfer of shares in case of receipt of the above mentioned amount in accordance with these instructions, without raising any rights of retention, pledge rights or similar rights with respect to the above mentioned shares, unless we are legally bound (other than by agreements between us and the Family Sellers or us and a third party for the benefit of the Family Sellers) to refrain from doing so. Yours sincerely Dresdner Bank AG - ---------- (2) Note: to be changed to 15 March 2005 in the event that, until the Bank Confirmation has to be executed, it has turned out that no filings to competition authorities of EU Member State will have become necessary.
EXHIBIT 2.5 TRANSFER AGREEMENT
-------------------------------- TRANSFER AGREEMENT -------------------------------- regarding the Transfer of SHARES IN BERU AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT
TRANSFER AGREEMENT by and between on the one hand 1. CEP BE 00 BETEILIGUNGS GMBH, a limited liability company with its registered seat at Promenadeplatz 8, 80333 Munchen, and registered with the commercial register of the local court of Munich under HRB 145898, represented by [_______________] -"SELLER C"- 2. FRAU INGELORE RUPRECHT Friedrichstrasse 46, 71638 Ludwigsburg, represented by [_______________] -"SELLER R"- 3. WOLFRAM BIRKEL, Klosterfeldstrasse 14, 21614 Buxtehude; -"SELLER 3"- 4. ELSA BIRKEL, Hohe Berge 19, 21614 Buxtehude, represented by [_______________] -"SELLER 4"- 5. ANNEGRET BIRKEL, Klosterfeldstrasse 14, 21614 Buxtehude, represented by [_______________] -"SELLER 5"- 6. CHRISTOPH BIRKEL, Klosterfeldstrasse 14, 21614 Buxtehude, represented by [_______________] -"SELLER 6"-
7. CATHARINA BIRKEL, Klosterfeldstrasse 14, 21614 Buxtehude, represented by [_______________] -"SELLER 7"- 8. KLOSTERFELD BETEILIGUNGEN GMBH + Co. KG, a limited partnership with its seat at Klosterfeldstrasse 14, D-21614 Buxtehude, and registered with the commercial register of the local court of Buxtehude under HRA 3118, represented by its general partner Verwaltungsgesellschaft Klosterfeld Beteiligungen mbH with its seat in Buxtehude, a limited liability company registered the commercial register of the local court of Buxtehude under HRB 3652, which is itself represented by [________________] -"SELLER 8"- 9. MEIER-BIRKEL GMBH & Co. KG, a limited partnership with its seat at Mittlerer Pfad 15, D-70499 Stuttgart, and registered with the commercial register of the local court of Stuttgart under HRA 13096, represented by its general partner Meier-Birkel Verwaltungs-GmbH, a limited liability company registered the commercial register of the local court of Stuttgart under HRB 18360, which is itself represented by [________________] -"SELLER 9"- -Seller 3 to Seller 9 collectively the "FAMILY SELLERS" and individually a "FAMILY SELLER"- -Seller C, Seller R and the Family Sellers collectively: the "SELLERS" and individually; a "SELLER"- and 10. BORGWARNER GERMANY GMBH, a company with limited liability with its registered seat at Im Fuchsloch 16, 69123 Heidelberg, and registered with the
commercial register of the local court of Heidelberg under HRB 5929, represented by [________________] -"BUYER"- -Sellers and Buyer each a "PARTY" and collectively the "PARTIES"-
PREAMBLE A. On October 30, 2004 the Parties have entered into a sale and purchase agreement relating to the sale of shares in BERU Aktiengesellschaft, Ludwigsburg, registered with the commercial register of the local court Ludwigsburg under HRB 5087 (the "COMPANY") by the Sellers to the Buyer (the "SALE AND PURCHASE AGREEMENT"). B. Under the Sale and Purchase Agreement Seller C has sold to Buyer 3,705,875 non par value bearer shares (nennwertlose, auf den Inhaber lautende Stuckaktien) in the Company as described in more detail in the Sale and Purchase Agreement (collectively the "C SHARES"), Seller R has sold to Buyer 511,605 non par value bearer shares in the Company as described in more detail in the Sale and Purchase Agreement (collectively the "R SHARES"), and the Family Sellers have sold 2,003,690 non par value bearer shares in the Company as described in more detail in the Sale and Purchase Agreement (collectively the "FAMILY SHARES"). C. Terms with initial capital letters which are not defined herein shall have the meaning as defined in the Sale and Purchase Agreement. D. As provided for in Sec. 4.2.1 of the Sale and Purchase Agreement, on the Closing Date the Parties shall execute this Transfer Agreement. Now, therefore, the Parties agree as follows: SECTION 1 CONFIRMATIONS BY THE SHARE DEPOSIT BANK 1.1 Seller C has presented a confirmation from Dresdner Bank AG (the "SHARE DEPOSIT BANK") according to which the Share Deposit Bank holds the C Shares on behalf of Seller C in a blocked account (Sperrkonto) and, subject to payment of the C Purchase Price, has been unconditionally and irrevocably instructed to book the C Shares to the following share deposit account of Buyer with the Share Deposit Bank without any right of retention, pledge right or similar right of the Share Deposit Bank being raised:
Swift Code: Account No.: ("BUYER'S DEPOSIT ACCOUNT") The confirmation of the Share Deposit Bank is attached hereto as Exhibit 1.1. 1.2 Seller R has presented a confirmation of the Share Deposit Bank according to which the Share Deposit Bank holds the R Shares in a blocked account (Sperrkonto) and, subject to payment of the R Purchase Price, has been unconditionally and irrevocably instructed to transfer the R Shares to Buyer's Deposit Account without any right of retention, pledge right or similar rights of the Share Deposit Bank being raised. A copy of the confirmation is attached hereto as Exhibit 1.2. 1.3 The Family Sellers have presented a confirmation of the Share Deposit Bank according to which the Share Deposit Bank holds the Family Shares in a blocked account (Sperrkonto) and, subject to payment of the Family Purchase Price, has been unconditionally and irrevocably instructed to transfer the Family Shares to Buyer's Deposit Account without any right of retention, pledge right or similar rights of the Share Deposit Bank being raised. A copy of the confirmation is attached hereto as Exhibit 1.3. SECTION 2 TRANSFER OF SHARES 2.1 Subject to the condition precedent of receipt of payment of the C Purchase Price at Seller C's Bank Account, Seller C hereby transfers (ubereignet) the C Shares (including the assignment of his fractional co-ownership of the Global Share Certificate) to Buyer and also assigns to the Buyer his claims against Clearstream Banking AG and the Share Deposit Bank as to the delivery (Herausgabe- und Auslieferungsanpruche) with respect to the C Shares. Buyer hereby accepts such transfer and assignment. The transfer of the C Shares shall include all ancillary rights appertaining thereto (Nebenrechte), including without limitation the dividend rights (Gewinnbezugsrecht) to all profits not yet distributed to Seller C by the Closing Date. 2.2 Subject to the condition precedent of receipt of payment of the R Purchase Price at Seller R's Bank Account, Seller R hereby transfers (ubereignet) the R Shares (including the assignment of his fractional co-ownership of the Global Share Certificate) to Buyer and also assigns to the Buyer his claims against Clearstream
Banking AG and the Share Deposit Bank as to the delivery (Herausgabe- und Auslieferungsanspruche) with respect to the R Shares. Buyer hereby accepts such transfer and assignment. The transfer of the R Shares shall include all ancillary rights appertaining thereto (Nebenrechte), including without limitation the dividend rights (Gewinnbezugrecht) to all profits not yet distributed to Seller R by the Closing Date. 2.3 Subject to the condition precedent of the receipt of payment of the Family Purchase Price at the Family Sellers' Bank Account, the Family Sellers hereby transfer (ubereignen) the Family Shares (including the assignment of their fractional co-ownership of the Global Share Certificate) to Buyer and also assign to the Buyer their claims against Clearstream Banking AG and the Share Deposit Bank as to the delivery (Herausgabe-und Auslieferungsanspruche) with respect to the Family Shares. Buyer hereby accepts such transfer and assignment. The transfer of the Family Shares shall include all ancillary rights appertaining thereto (Nebenrechte), including without limitation the dividend rights (Gewinnbezugsrecht) to all profits not yet distributed to the Family Sellers by the Closing Date. SECTION 3 MISCELLANEOUS Sections 9-11 of the Sale and Purchase Agreement shall be applicable to this Transfer Agreement mutatis mutandis. - ------------------------------ Place, Date - ------------------------------ Seller C, represented by [___] - ------------------------------ [_________________] Seller R, represented by [___]
- ------------------------------ [_________________] Seller 3, - ------------------------------ [_________________] Seller 4, represented by [___] - ------------------------------ [_________________] Seller 5, represented by [___] - ------------------------------ [_________________] Seller 6, represented by [___] - ------------------------------ [_________________] Seller 7, represented by [___] - ------------------------------ Seller 8, represented by [___] - ------------------------------ Seller 9, represented by [___] - ------------------------------ Buyer, represented by [___] Exhibit 1.1: Confirmation from the Share Deposit Bank relating to C Shares Exhibit 1.2: Confirmation from the Share Deposit Bank relating to R Shares Exhibit 1.3: Confirmation from the Share Deposit Bank relating to Family Shares
EXHIBIT 4.1.3 COMPANY'S LETTER CONFIRMING COOPERATION WITH AUDITOR
[COMPANY LOGO] Borg Warner Germany GmbH Im Fuchsloch 16 69123 Heidelberg Ludwigsburg, 30. Oktober 2004 MEHRHEITSUBERNAHME Sehr geehrte Damen und Herren, Unsere Gesellschaft ("Gesellschaft") wurde heute daruber informiert, dass Sie beabsichtigen, ein Share Purchase Agreement ("SPA") uber den Erwerb einer Aktienmehrheit in unserer Gesellschaft abzuschliessen und anschliessend ein freiwilliges offentliches Ubernahmeangebot an unsere ubrigen Aktionare zu unterbreiten. Sie baten uns, zur ordnungsgemassen Durchfuhrung nachfolgende Bestatigungen abzugeben: 1. Die Gesellschaft bestatigt, dass sie den Wirtschaftsprufern PriceWaterhouseCoopers ("WP") zwischen dem Signing Date und dem Closing Date des SPA angemessenen Zugang zur Gesellschaft und - soweit erforderlich und soweit rechtlich moglich - zur BERU-Gruppe geben wird und in angemessenem Umfang mit dem WP zusammenarbeiten wird, soweit dies erforderlich ist, um mit den Vorbereitungen fur die Prufungsverfahren nach dem Closing Date betreffend das interne Kontrollsystem uber das Finanzwesen zu beginnen, soweit dies nach dem Sarbanes Oxley Act erforderlich ist. Die Zusammenarbeit steht unter der Massgabe, dass (i) die geschaftlichen Interessen und Geschaftsgeheimnisse der Gesellschaft zu wahren sind, (ii) ein fuer die Gesellschaft angemessenes Verfahren fuer diese Arbeiten noch zu vereinbaren ist, (iii) der WP eng mit dem Wirtschaftsprufer der Gesellschaft zusammenarbeiten wird und (iv) der WP seine Arbeiten in einer Weise ausfuhrt, dass diese so wenig storend als moglich fur die Gesellschaft und ihren Geschaftsbetrieb sind. Vor dem Beginn seiner Arbeiten hat der WP schriftlich zu bestatigen, dass er samtliche bei seiner Tatigkeit erlangten Informationen streng vertraulich behandeln wird und ohne schriftliche Zustimmung der Gesellschaft diese Infomationen keinem Dritten (einschliesslich Ihnen) zuganglich machen wird. Die Gesellschaft bestatigt, dass - soweit nach deutschem Recht zulassig - der WP berechtigt ist, Ihnen solche Informationen unmittelbar nach dem Closing Date zuganglich zu machen, soweit dies nach dem Sarbanes Oxley Act erforderlich ist. Soweit der WP auch im Zusammenhang mit der in diesem SPA vorgesehenen Transaktion tatig wird, durfen die Mitarbeiter des WP, die bei den vorstehend genannten Arbeiten tatig werden, nicht mit den Personen identisch sein, die Sie im Zusammenhang mit der Transaktion beraten. Sie werden sich nach besten Kraften bemuhen, diese entsprechenden [LETTERHEAD BASELINE ILLEGIBLE]
2 Arbeiten innerhalb von zwei Wochen durchfuhren zu lassen, nachdem die Gesellschaft dem WP Zugang gewahrt hat. 2. Fur den Fall, dass Sie ein freiwilliges offentliches Ubernahmeangebot fur die Aktien unserer Gesellschaft abgeben werden, und (i) dieses Ubernahmeangebot eine Bedingung uber eine wesentliche nachteilige Anderung (,,MAC Bedingung") enthalt und (ii) die Feststellung, ob eine wesentliche nachteilige Anderung eingetreten ist, auf Ihre Kosten durch einen Wirtschaftsprufer erfolgt, werden wir innerhalb der gesetzlichen Beschrankungen wahrend der Angebotsfrist dem Wirtschaftsprufer angemessenen Zugang gewahren und mit ihm zusammenarbeiten. Diese MAC Bedingung soll nach unserem Verstandnis sinngemass so aussehen, dass eine wesentliche nachteilige Anderung vorliegt, wenn eine Tatsache nach Paragraph 15 WpHG bei uns eingetreten und veroffentlicht ist und diese Tatsache folgende Auswirkungen hat: Entweder - - EUR 40,0 Mio. EBITDA-Veranderung der BERU-Gruppe, wenn vernunftigerweise zu erwarten ist, dass diese Tatsache einen einmaligen negativen Effekt auf den EBITDA hat, oder - - EUR 17,5 Mio. EBITDA-Veranderung der BERU-Gruppe, wenn vernunftigerweise zu erwarten ist, dass diese Tatsache einen nachhaltigen bzw. wiederkehrenden negativen Effekt auf den EBITDA hat. Vor dem Beginn seiner Arbeiten muss der Wirtschaftsprufer schriftlich bestatigen, dass er samtliche bei seiner Tatigkeit erlangten Informationen streng vertraulich behandeln wird und diese Informationen ohne schriftliche Zustimmung der Gesellschaft keinem Dritten zuganglich machen wird. Der WP ist jedoch berechtigt, Ihnen das Ergebnis seiner Prufung mitzuteilen. Der WP wird seine Arbeiten in einer Weise ausfuhren, dass diese so wenig storend als moglich fur die Gesellschaft und ihren Geschaftsbetrieb sind. Das Vorstehende gilt auch, wenn der SPA eine MAC Bedingung enthalt und die Feststellung, ob eine wesentliche nachteilige Anderung eingetreten ist, durch einen Wirtschaftsprufer erfolgt. Dieses Schreiben unterliegt deutschem Recht. Mit freundlichen Grussen BERU AG - -s- Marco von Maltzan -s- Rainer Podeswa Marco von Maltzan Dr. Rainer Podeswa
EXHIBIT 5.1.4(b) CHART OF STRUCTURE OF THE BERU GROUP AND THE SHAREHOLDINGS
BETEILIGUNGSVERHALTNISSE BERU-KONZERN (CHART)
BETEILIGUNGSVERHALTNISSE (A) NR. MUTTER TOCHTER M --> (1) AG BERU Corp. Japan M --> (2) AG BERU Eyquem S.A.S. M --> (5) AG Eyquem S.N.C. (2) --> (3) BERU Eyquem S.A.S. BERU TDA S.A.S. (2) --> (4) BERU Eyquem S.A.S. BERU S.A.S. (2) --> (5) BERU Eyquem S.A.S. Eyquem S.N.C. M --> (6) AG ZICA Holding (6) --> (7) ZICA Holding BERU F1 Systems M --> (8) AG REMIX Group M --> (9) AG BERU Automotive
BETEILIGUNGSVERHALTNISSE (B) NR. MUTTER BET.-UNTERNEHMEN M --> (10) AG B 80 M --> (11) AG BERU Korea M --> (12) AG BERU Mexiko M --> (13) AG BERU Elec. GmbH (13) --> (14) BERU Elec. GmbH Betriebsstatte Trallee M --> (15) AG BERU Italia (13) --> (15) BERU Elec. GmbH BERU Italia M --> (16) AG BERU S.p.r.l. (13) --> (16) BERU Elec. GmbH BERU S.p.r.l. M --> (17) AG BERU Diesel Start Systems
BETEILIGUNGSVERHALTNISSE (C) NR. MUTTER BET.-UNTERNEHMEN M --> (18) AG BERU Bichenauer M --> (19) AG IMPCO BERU M --> (20) AG BERU Corp. US M --> (21) AG Hakatherm M --> (22) AG BERU Microelectronica (22) --> (23) BERU Microelectronica SIMESA Brasil
5.1.4(f) ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTS
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Environmental Assessment Program Portfolio Summary Report Liste: ERM-reference to Phase I Environmental Assessment Phase I Report BERU AG Environmental Assessment Phase I Report BERU-Eichenauer GmbH Environmental Assessment Phase I Report BERU AG Neuhaus Schierschnitz Environmental Assessment Phase I Report BERU AG Wjesenttal-Muggendorf Environmental Assessment Phase I Report BERU Electronics GmbH, Bretten Environmental Assessment Phase I Report BERU Electronics GmbH, Tralee Environmental Assessment Phase I Report BERU TDA SAS Environmental Assessment Phase I Report BERU SAS Environmental Assessment Phase I Report REMIX Group Electronics Environmental Assessment Phase I Report B80 S.r.l. Environmental Assessment Phase I Report BERU F1 Systems Ltd. Environmental Assessment Phase I Report BERU Microlectronica S.A. Environmental Assessment Phase I Report BERU Korea Co. Ltd. Environmental Assessment Phase I Report BERU Automotive Co. Ltd. Environmental Assessment Phase I Report BERU S.A. de C.V. - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 4.Sachstandsbericht zur Bodenluftabsaugung u. BERU AG Werk III Grundwasseruberwachung-01.12.2003 3.Sachstandsbericht zur Bodenluftabsaugung u. BERU AG Werk III Grundwasseruberwachung-30.06.2003 2.Sachstandsbericht zur Bodenluftabsaugung u. BERU AG Werk III Grundwasseruberwachung-30.11.2002 Sachstandsbericht zur Bodenluftabsaugung u. Grundwasseruberwachung-17.06.2002 Bericht zu den erganzenden BERU AG Werk III Grundwasseraufschlussbohrungen-28.05.2001 Bericht zur Grundwasseruberwachung-21.11.2000 BERU AG Werk III Bericht zu den erganzenden Bohrungen-06.11.2000 BERU AG Werk III Bericht zu den Bodenluftabsaugversuchen an den BERU AG Werk III Absaugpegeln B 16-B19-10.04.2000 Bericht zu den Bodenluftabsaugversuchen an den BERU AG Werk III Pegeln-27.07.1999 Bericht zu den erganzenden Bohrungen-27.01.1999 BERU AG Werk III Bericht zu den Bodenuntersuchungen im ehem. BERU AG Werk III Galvanikkeller-25.01.1999 Bericht zu den Bodenluftabsaugungen an den Pegeln BERU AG Werk III B1 und B4-20.10.1998 Bericht zu den Bodenluftabsaugungen an de Pegeln BERU AG Werk III B1 und B4-25.04.1997 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- DD Report for Environmental and Health and F1 Systems Safety Issues Phase I Environmental Audit F1 Systems E&Y: Due DiligenceBericht Projekt JCAE-Juni 2003 - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------------------------- SALE AND PURCHASE AGREEMENT -------------------------------- regarding the Sale and Purchase of Shares in BERU Aktiengesellschaft -------------------------------- POWERS OF ATTORNEY --------------------------------
-------------------------------- SALE AND PURCHASE AGREEMENT -------------------------------- regarding the Sale and Purchase of Shares in BERU Aktiengesellschaft -------------------------------- POWER OF ATTORNEY SELLER C --------------------------------
VOLLMACHT POWER OF ATTORNEY Die Unterzeichnete The undersigned
CRP BE 00 Beteiligungs GmbH Promenadeplatz 8 80333 Munchen
bevollmachtigt hiermit die Rechtsanwalte hereby authorizes the attorneys-at-law
Dr. Norbert Rieger Dr. Rolf Fuger Dr. Martin Erhardt Dr. Thomas [illegible] geschaftsansassig/with business address at Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy L.L.P. Maximilianstrasse 15 80538 Munchen (die ,,Bevollmachtigten"/the "Representatives")
jede von ihnen einzeln und unabhangig each of them individually and independent voneinander, im Namen und fur Rech- from each other, to do in the name and for nung der CEP BE 00 Beteiligungs GmbH the account of CEP BE 00 Beteilingungs (nachfolgend ,,die Gesellschaft"), die GmbH (hereinafter the "Company") the nachstehenden Handlungen vorzunehmen: following acts: 1. Abschluss eines Vertrages uber den 1. The execution of an agreement relat- Verkauf der von der Gesellschaft ge- ing to the sale and purchase of the haltenen Aktien an der BERU Akti- shares held by the Company in BERU engesellschaft mit Sitz in Ludwigs- Aktiengesellschaft with registered burg und eingetragen im Handelsre- sent in Ludwigsburg and registered gister des Amtsgerichts Ludwigsburg with the commercial register of the unter HRB 5087 (nachfolgend ,,die lower court of Ludwigsburg (herein- BERU-Aktien") mit der Borg War- after "the BERU Shares") under
1/3
ner Germany GmbH oder einem mit HRB 5087 to Borg Warner Germany dieser verbundenen Unternehmen GmbH or any of its affiliates (nachfolgend ,,der Kaufer"): (hereinafter "the Purchaser"); 2. Abschluss eines Vertrages uber die 2. The execution of an agreement Ubertragung der BERU-Aktien von der relating to the transfer of the Gesellschaft auf den Kaufer. BERU Shares from the Company to the Purchaser. Die Bevollmachtigten sind auch befugt, The Representatives are also alle weiteren Vereinbarungen authorized to enter into any abzuschliessen und Rechtshandlungen agreement and do any legal act vorzunehmen, die ihnen im Zusammenhang they may consider necessary in mit dem Vorstehenden erforderlich connection with the above, in erscheinen, insbesondere eine particular to execute a closing Ubertragungsbestatigung an den Kaufer confirmation to the Purchaser. zu unterzeichnen. Die Bevollmachtigten werden hiermit Dispensation is hereby granted to von den Beschrankungen des Paragraph 181 the Representatives from the BGB befreit. restrictions of Sec. 181 of the German Civil Code (BGB). Die Bevollmachtigten haben das Recht, The Representatives shall be zu den oben aufgefuhrten Zwecken Unter- entitled to subdelegate for the vollmacht zu erteilen und die Unterbe- aforementioned purposes the rights vollmachtigten ebenfalls von den Be- granted to them by this Power of schrankungen des Paragraph 181 BGB zu Attorney and to grant dispensation befreien. from the restrictions of Sec. 181 German Civil Code (BGB) to the sub-Representatives as well. Diese Vollmacht unterliegt dem Recht der This power of attorney shall be Bundesrepublik Deutschland. Im Zweifel governed by German law. In case of ist die deutsche Fassung massgeblich. doubt, the German version shall prevail. 2/3
CEP BE 00 Beteiligungs GrubH Munchen, 28.10.04 Munchen, 28.10.04 - ------------------------------------ ------------------------------------ (Ort/Place, Datum/Date) (Ort/Place, Datum/Date) /s/ Heinrich N. Rutz /s/ Gregor Bohm - ------------------------------------ ------------------------------------ Heinrich N. Rutt Gregor Bohm Geschaftsfuhrer/Managing Director Geschaftsfuhrer/Managing Director 3/3
------------------------------------------------------------------- SALE AND PURCHASE AGREEMENT ------------------------------------------------------------------- regarding the Sale and Purchase of Shares in BERU Aktiengesellschaft ------------------------------------------------------------------- POWER OF ATTORNEY AND SUB-POWER OF ATTORNEY SELLER R -------------------------------------------------------------------
VOLLMACHT POWER OF ATTORNEY Die Unterzeichnete The undersigned bevollmachtigt hiermit die Rechtsanwalte hereby authorizes the attorneys-at-law Rechtsanwalte u. Notare Gotz Grub, Dr. Wolfgang Frank, Gerhard Bahmann, Christoph Schickhardt, Georg Englert, Dr. Peter Grosse, Jurgen Gabriel, Dr. Siegfried Breitling, Dr. Ralf Kitzberger L.L.M., Dr. Joachim Rain, Dr. Holger Thomma, Jochem Beckert. geschaftsansassig/ with business address at Solitudestrasse 20 71638 Ludwigsburg (die ,,Bevollmachtigten"/the "Representatives") jeden von ihnen einzeln und unabhangig each of them individually and indepen- voneinander, im Namen und fur Rech- dent from each other, to do in the name nung der Frau Ingelore Ruprecht and for the account of Mrs. Ingelore (nachfolgend ,,Ingelore Ruprecht") Ruprecht (hereinafter "Ingelore Rup- die nachstehenden Handlungen recht") the following acts: vorzunehmen: 1. Abschluss eines Vertrages uber 1. The extention of an agreement re- den Verkauf der von Frau Inge- lating to the sale and purchase of lore Ruprecht gehaltenen the shares held by Mrs. Ingelore Aktien an der BERU Aktien- Ruprecht in BERU Aktiengesellschaft gesellschaft mit Sitz in Lud- with registered seat in Ludwigs- wigsburg und eingetragen im burg and registered with the com- Handelsregister des Amts- mercial register of the lower court gerichts Ludwigsburg unter HRB of 5087 (nachfol- 1/3
gend ,,die BERU-Aktien") mit der Ludwigsburg (hereinafter "the Borg Warner Germany GmbH oder BERU Shares") under HRB 5087 to einem mit dieser verbundenen Borg Warner Germany GmbH or any Unternehmen (nachfolgend ,,der of its affiliates (hereinafter "the Kaufer"); Purchaser"); 2. Abschluss eines Vertrages uber 2. The execution of an agreement die Ubertragung der BERU-Aktien relating to the transfer of the von Frau Ingelore Ruprecht auf BERU Shares from Mrs. Ingelore den Kaufer. Ruprecht to the Purchaser. Die Bevollmachtigten sind auch The Representatives are also authorized befugt,alle weiteren Vereinbarungen to enter into any agreement and do any abzuschliessen und Rechtshandlugen legal act they may consider necessary in vorzunehmen, die ihnen im Zusammenhang connection with the above, in particular mit dem Vorstehenden erforderlich to execute a closing confirmation to the erscheinen, insbesondere eine Purchaser. Ubertragungsbestatigung an den Kaufer zu unterzeichnen. Die Bevollmachtigten werden hiermit Dispensation is hereby granted to the von den Beschrankungen des Paragraphs Representatives from the restrictions of 181 BGB befreit. Sec. 181 of the German Civil Code (BGB). Die Bevollmachtigten haben das Recht, The Representatives shall be entitled to zu den oben aufgefuhrten Zwecken subdelegate for the aforementioned Untervollmacht zu erteilen und die purposes the rights granted to them by Unterbevollmachtigten ebenfalls von this Power of Attorney and to grant den Beschrankungen des Paragraphs 181 dispensation from the restrictions of BGB zu befreien. Sec. 181 German Civil Code (BGB) in the sub-Representatives as well. Diese Vollmacht unterliegt dem Recht This power of attorney shall be der Bundesrepublik Deutschland. Im governed by German law. In case of Zweifel ist die deutsche Fassung doubt, the German version shall prevail. massgeblich. 2/3
/s/ Ingelore Ruprecht /s/ Ingelore Ruprecht Mrs. Ingelore Ruprecht Ludwigsburg, den 29.10.2004 Ludwigsburg, October 29, 2004 - ------------------------------ ------------------------------ (Ort/Place, Datum/Date) (Ort/Place, Datum/Date) Urkundenrolle Nr. 3116/2004 Unterschriftsbeglaubigung Vorstehende, vor mir vollzogene Unterschift von Frau Ingelore Helene Ruprecht, geb. Vetter; geborem am 24. Juni 1924, wohnhaft 71638 Ludwigsburg, Friedrichstr. 46, beglaubige ich. Frau Ruprecht ist mir personlich bekannt. Ludwigsburg, den 29. Oktober, 2004 /s/ Rosi ------------------------ Rosi Notar [Round Seal] 3/3
UNTERVOLLMACHT SUB-POWER OF ATTORNEY Der Unterzeichnende The undersigned Rechtsanwalt und Notar a.D./attorney-at-law and retired notary Gotz Grub geschaftansassig/with business address at Solitudestr. 20 71638 Ludwigsburg bevollmachtigt hiermit die hereby authorizes the Rechtsanwalte attorneys-at-law Dr. Norbort Rieger Dr. Martin Erhardt geschaftsansassig/with business address at Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy LLP Maximilianstrabe 15 80539 Munchen (die ,,Bevollmachtigten"/the "Representatives") jeden von ihnen einzeln und unabhangig each of them individually and voneinander, Frau Ingelore Ruprecht im independent from each other, to Umfang der als Anlage zu dieser Unter- represent Ms. Ingelore Ruprecht vollmacht beigefugten Vollmacht der within the scope of the power of Frau Ingelore Ruprecht zu vertreten. attorney of Ms. Ingelore Ruprecht as enclosed in the Appendix. Die Bevollmachtigten werden hiermit Dispensation is hereby granted to von den Beschrankungen des Paragraph 181 the Representatives from the BGB befreit. restrictions of Sec. 181 of the German Civil Code (BGB). 1/3
Die Bevollmachtigten haben das Recht, zu The Representatives shall be den oben aufgefurten Zwecken Unter- entitled to subdelegate for the vollmacht zu erteilen und die Unterbe- aforementioned purposes the rights vollmachtigten ebenfalls von den Be- granted to them by this Power of schrankungen des Paragraph 181 BGB zu Attorney and to grant dispensation befreien. from the restrictions of Sec. 181 German Civil Code (BGB) to the Sub-Representatives as well. Diese Vollmacht unterliegt dem Recht This power of attorney shall be Bundersrepublik Deutschland. Im Zweifel governed by German law. In case of ist die deutsche Fassung massgeblich. doubt, the German version shall prevail. ---------------------------------- Ludwigsburg, 30 October, 2004 /s/ Goz Grub ---------------------------------- Goz Grub 2/3
VOLLMACHT POWER OF ATTORNEY Die Unterzeichnete The undersigned bevollmachtigt hiermit die Rechtsanwalte hereby authorizes the attorneys-at-law Rechtsanwalte u. Notare Gotz Grub, Dr. Wolfgang Frank, Gerhard Bahmann, Christoph Schickhardt, Georg Englert, Dr. Peter Grosse, Jurgen Gabriel, Dr. Siegfried Breiding, Dr. Ralf Kitzberer LL.M, Dr. Joachim Rain, Dr. Holger Thomma, Jochen Beckert geschaftsansassig/with business address at Solitudestrasse 20 71638 Ludwigsburg (die ,,Bevollmachtigten"/the "Representatives")
jeden von ihnen einzeln und unabhangig each of them individually and independent voneinander, im Namen und fur Rech- from each other, to do in the name and for nung der Frau Ingelore Ruprecht (nach- the account of Mrs. Ingelore Ruprecht folgend ,,Ingelore Ruprecht") die nachste- (hereinafter "Ingelore Ruprecht") the henden Handlungen vorzunehmen: following acts: 1. Abschluss eines Vertrages uber den 1. The execution of an agreement relat- Verkauf der von Frau Ingelore Rup- ing to the sale and purchase of the recht gehaltenen Aktien an der BERU shares held by Mrs. Ingelore Ru- Aktiengesellschaft mit Sitz in Lud- precht in BERU Aktiengesellschaft wigsburg und eingetragen im Han- with registered seat in Ludwigsburg delsregister des Amtsgerichts Lud- and registered with the commercial wigsburg unter HRB 5087 (nachfol- register of the lower court of
1/3
gend ,,dle BERU-Aktien") mit der Ludwigsburg (hereinafter "the Borg Warner Germany GmbH oder BERU Shares") under HRB 5087 to einem mit dieser verbundenen Borg Warner Germany GmbH or any Unternehmen (nachfolgend ,,der of its affiliates (hereinafter Kaufer"); "the Purchaser"); 2. Abschluss eines Vertrages uber 2. The execution of an agreement die Ubertragung der BERU-Aktien relating to the transfer of the von Frau Ingelore Ruprecht auf BERU Shares from Mrs. Ingelore den Kaufer. Ruprecht to the Purchasor. Die Bevollmachtigten sind auch The Representatives are also befugt, alle weiteren Vereinbarungen authorized to enter into any abzuschliessen und Rechtshandlungen agreement and do any legal act they vorzunehmen, die ihnen im may consider necessary in connection Zussmmenhang mit dem Vorstehenden with the above, in particular to erforderlich erscheinen, insbesondere execute a closing confirmation to the eine Ubertragungsbestatigung an den Purchaser. Kaufer zu unterzeichnen. Die Bevollmachtigten werden hiermit Dispensation is hereby granted to the von den Beschrankungen des S181 Representatives from the restrictions Befreit. of Sec. 181 of the German Civil Code (BGB). Die Bevollmachtigten haben das Recht, The Representatives shall be entitled zu den oben aufgefuhrten Zwecken to subdelegate for the aforementioned Untervollmacht zu erteilen und die purposes the rights granted to them Unterbevollmachtigten ebenfalls von by this Power of Attorney and to den Beschrankungen des S181 BGB zu grant dispensation from the befreien. restrictions of Sec. 181 German Civil Code (BGB) to the sub-Representatives as well. Diese Vollmacht unterliegt dem Recht This power of attorney shall be der Bundesrepublik Deutschland. Im governed by German law. In case of Zweifel ist die deutsche Fassung doubt, the German version shall massgeblich. prevail. 2/3
/s/ Ingelore Ruprecht /s/ Ingelore Ruprecht Mrs. Ingelore Ruprecht Ludwigsburg, den 29.10.2004 Ludwigsburg, October 29, 2004 - ------------------------------ ------------------------------ (Ort/Place, Datum/Date) (Ort/Place, Datum/Date) Urkundenrolle Nr. 3116/2004 Unterschriftsbeglaubigung Vorstehende, vor mir vollzogene Unterschrift von Frau Ingelore Helene Ruprecht, geb. Vetter; geboren am 24. Juni 1924, wohnhaft 71638 Ludwigsburg, Friedrichstr. 46, beglaubige ich. Frau Ruprecht ist mir personlich bekannt. Ludwigsburg, den 29. Oktober, 2004 /s/ Rosi ------------------------ Rosi Notar [Round Seal] 3/3
-------------------------------- SALE AND PURCHASE AGREEMENT -------------------------------- regarding the Sale and Purchase of Shares in BERU Aktiengesellschaft -------------------------------- POWER OF ATTORNEY SELLER 3 --------------------------------
VOLLMACHT POWER OF ATTORNEY Ich, I, Wolfram Birkel Klosterfeldstrasse 14 D-21614 Buxtehude bevollmachtige in eigenem Namen und herewith authorize on my own behalf als Geschaftsfuhrer der Verwaltung- and in my capacity as a managing sellschaft Klosterfeld Beteilgungen director of Verwaltungsellschaft mbH, die ihrerseits Komplementarin Klosterfeld Beteiligungen mbH, which der Klosterfeld Beteiligungen GmbH is the general partner of Klosterfeld & Co. KG ist, hiermit Beteiligungen GmbH & Co. KG. Herrn Dr. Jorgen Tielmann geschaffsansassig in Hermannstr. 40, D-20095 Hamburg fur mich selbst und fur die Kloster- to represent me and to take any and feld Beteiligungen GmbH + Co. KG, all action in my name and on my behalf Buxtehude, alle Erklarungen abzugeben of Klosterfeld Beteiligungen GmbH + Co. und alle Handlungen vorzunehmen, die KS, Buxtehude, in all matters and nach Auffassung des Bevollmachtigten affairs which in the judgment of the notwendig oder erforderlich sind zum attorney-in-fact is necessary or re- Abschluss eines Kaufvertrages uber quired in connection with the exe- Akatien an der BERU Aktiengesell- cution of a sale and purchase agree- schaft (HRB 5087 AG Ludwigsburg) ment regarding shares in BERU Aktien- mit der BorgWarner Germany GmbH oder gesellschaft (HRB 5087 AG Ludwigsburg) einem mit ihr verbundenen Unterneh- to BorgWarner Germany GmbH or any of men. its affiliates. Der Bevollmachtigte ist von den Bes- The attorney-in-fact is released from chrankungen des S 181 BGB befreit und the restrictions on self-dealing under berechtigt. Untervollmachten zu Section 181 of the German Civil Code erteilen. Diese Vollmacht ist jeder- and may delegate this Power of Attor- zeit widerruflich. Sie unterliegt ney. This Power of Attorney can be deutschem Recht. Die deutsche terminated at any time. It is governed Fassung ist Massgeblich. by German law. The German version shall prevail. Hamburg, 30. Oktober 2004 durch/by: Wolfram Birkel -s- Wolfram Birkel ==================
-------------------------------- SALE AND PURCHASE AGREEMENT -------------------------------- regarding the Sale and Purchase of Shares in BERU Aktiengesellschaft -------------------------------- POWER OF ATTORNEY AND DELEGATED POWER OF ATTORNEY SELLER 4 --------------------------------
-------------------------------- SALE AND PURCHASE AGREEMENT -------------------------------- regarding the Sale and Purchase of Shares in BERU Aktiengesellschaft
Ausfertigung Beglaubigte Abschrift Nr. 1503/2001 der Urkundenrolle KN Verhandelt In Hamburg-Harburg am 13. August 2001 Vor mir, dem Notar Dr. Klaus Nesemann mit dem Amtssitz in Hamburg-Harburg, Bremeer Strasse 4, erschien heute: Frau Elsa BIRKEL geborene Ruprecht, geboren am 14. Januar 1913, wohnhoft in 21614 Buxehude, Hohe Berge 19, -ausgewiesen durch Bundespersonalausweis-. Die Erschienene ersuchte mich um die Beurkundung folgender GENERAL- UND VORSORGEVOLLMACHT und erklarte: 1. Hiermit bevollmachtige ich meinen Sohn, Herrn Wolfram Ruprecht Birkel. geboren am 13. Juni 1944, wohnhaft Klosterfeldstrabe 14, 21614 Buxtehude, mich in allen meinen Angelegenheiten gerichtlich und aussergerichtlich zu vertreten. Die Vertretungsmacht des Bevollmachtigten soll sich ohne je- de Ausnahme auf alle Rechtsgeschafte und Rechtshandlungen erstrek- M.M. Warkurg & CO Kommanditgesellchaft auf Aktien M.M. Warkurg Bank . 20029 Harsburg . Godsfetgrope/Office; Farpopunfroodle 75 . 20095 Harlsburg . Telefon 0 40 - 32.82 - , U - Telefon 0 40 - 36.18 unitelligible . BIC (SWIFT); UNITELLIGIBLE . unitelligible 201. 201 00 . Unitelligible Hamburg HRB Nr. 84168
ken, die von mir und mir gegenuber vorgenommen werden konnen, soweit eine Vertretung gesetzlich zulassig ist. betr: 2. pp. 3. Diese Vollmacht erlischt nicht durch meinen Tod oder meine Geschaftsunfahigkeit. 4. Der Bevollmachtigte ist auch befugt, Rechtsgeschafte mit sich im eigenen Namen oder als Vertreter eines Dritten vorzunehmen. Ich bin von dem Notar uber die Risiken einer damit moglicherweise verbundenen Interessenkollision eingehend belehrt worden. 5. Der Bevollmachtigte kann Untervollmacht erteilen und dabei diese Vollmacht ganz oder teilweise auf Dritte ubertragen. 6. Der Notar wird angewiesen, dem Bevollmachtigten jederzeit Ausfertigungen dieser Vollmacht zu erteilen, bis ich diese Anweisung dem Notar gegenuber schriftlich widerrufen habe. 7. Die Vollmacht wird mit Abschluss dieser Urkunde wirksam. Sie gilt zeitlich unbeschrankt, ich behalte mir jedoch jederzeit den Widerruf vor. Die Vertretungsmacht des Bevollmachtigten soll in weitestmoglichem Umfang Bestand haben, und zwar ohne Rucksicht auf mogliche Veranderungen der bestenhenden Rechtsgrundlagen und der tatsachlichen Verhaltnisse. Sollte eine der vorbezeichneten Bestimmungen unwirksam sein oder werden, so bleiben die ubrigen Bestimmungen wirksam. Ich bin von dem Notar auf den weitgenhenden Umfang vorstehender Vollmacht und den damit verbundenen Vertrauenscharakter hingewiesen worden.
Der Notar hat sich aufgrund des personlichen Eindrucks und der mit der Erschienenen gefuhrten Unternaltung von lhrer vollen Geschaftsfahigkeit uberzeugt. Die vorstehende Niederschrift wurde der Erschienenen von dem Notar vorgelesen, von ihr genehmigt und wie folgt unterschrieben: /s/ Elsa Birkel -------------------------- [seal]
UNTERVOLLMACHT DELEGATED POWER OF ATTORNEY Ich, I, Wolfram Birkel Klosterfeldstrasse 14 D-21614 Buxtehude bevollmachtige aufgrund der mir herewith authorize on the basis of the von Frau Elsa Birkel erteilten general power of attorney issued by Generalvollmacht vom 13. August Ms. Elsa Birkel dated 13 August 2001 2001 (UR-Nr. 1503/2001 des Notars (notarial deed no. 1503/2001 of the Dr. Klaus Nesemann, Hamburg) Hamburg notary Dr. Klaus Nesemann), sowie der mir von Frau Annegret as well as the powers of attorney issued Birkel am 25. Oktober 2004 by Ms. Annegret Birkel on 25 October 2004 (UR-Nr. 1901/2004 des Notars Ulf (notarial deed no. 1901/2004 of the Nesemann, Hamburg), von Herrn Hamburg notary Dr. Ulf Nesemann), by Christoph Birkel am 24. Oktober Mr. Christoph Birkel on 24 October 2004, 2004, von Frau Catharina Birkel by Ms. Catharina Birkel on 22 October am 22. Oktober 2004 sowie von der 2004 and by Meier-Birkel GmbH & Co. KG on Meier-Birkel GmbH & Co. KG am 25. 25 October 2004 (the above mentioned Oktober 2004 erteilten Vollmachten principals will hereinafter be jointly (die vorstehend genannten referred to as "Principals") Vollmachtgeber werden nachfolgend insgesamt ,,Vollmachtgeber'' genannt) Herrn Dr. Jorgen Tielmann geschaftsansassig in Hermannstr. 40, D-20095 Hamburg fur die Vollmachtgeber to represent the Principals on the basis in Untervollmacht alle of this delegated power of attorney and Erklarungen abzugeben und alle to take any and all action in their Handlungen vorzunehmen, die nach respective names and on my behalf in all Auffassung des Bevollmachtigten matters and affairs which in the notwendig oder erforderlich judgment of the attorney-in-fact is sind zum Abschluss eines necessary or required in connection with Kaufvertrages uber Aktien the execution of a sale and purchase an der BERU Aktiengesellschaft agreement regarding shares in BERU (HRB 5087 AG Ludwigsburg) mit Aktiengesellschaft (HRB 5087 AG der BorgWarner Germany GmbH Ludwigsburg) to BorgWarner Germany GmbH oder einem mit ihr verbundenen or any of its affiliates. Unternehmen. Der Bevollmachtigte ist von den The attorney-in-fact is released from the Beschrankungen des Paragraphs 181 restrictions on self-dealing under BGB befreit und berechtigt, Section 181 of the German Civil Code and Untervollmachten zu erteilen. may delegate this Power of Attorney. This Diese Vollmacht ist jederzeit widerruflich. Sie
unterliegt deutschem Recht. Die Power of Attorney can be terminated deutsche Fassung ist massgeblich. at any time. It is governed by German law. The German version shall prevail. Hamburg, 30. Oktober 2004 durch/by: Wolfram Birkel /s/ Wolfram Birkel ---------------------------
---------------------------------------------- SALE AND PURCHASE AGREEMENT ---------------------------------------------- regarding the Sale and Purchase of SHARES IN BERU AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT ---------------------------------------------- POWER OF ATTORNEY AND DELEGATED POWER OF ATTORNEY SELLER 5 ----------------------------------------------
Nr. 1901 /2004 der Urkundenrolle UN ----------------------------------- VOLLMACHT POWER OF ATTORNEY --------- ----------------- Ich, I, Annegret Birkel geb. am 7.11.1938 Klosterfeldstrasse 14 21614 Buxtehude bevollmachtige hiermit herewith authorize HERRN WOLFRAM BIRKEL KLOSTERFELDSTRASSE 14 21614 BUXTEHUDE
fur mich alle Erklarungen abzugeben und alle to represent me and to take any and all Handlungen vorzunehmen, die nach action in my name and on my behalf in Auffassung des Bevollmachtigten notwendig all matters and affairs which in the oder erforderlich sind zum Abschluss eines judgment of the attorney-in-fact is Kaufvartrages uber Aktien an der BERU necessary or required in connection with Aktiengesellschaft (HRB 5087 AG the transfer of shares in BERU Ludwigsburg) mit der BorgWarner Germany Aktiengesellschaft (HRB 5087 AG GmbH oder einem mit ihr verbundenen Ludwigsburg) to BorgWarner Germany Unternehmen. GmbH or any of its affiliates. Der Bevollmachtigte ist von den The attorney-in-fact is released from the Beschrankungen des Paragraph 181 BGB befreit restrictions on self-dealing under Section und berechtigt, Untervollmacht zu erteilen. 181 of the German Civil Code and may Diese Vollmacht ist jederzeit widerruflich. delegate this Power of Attorney. This Sie unterliegt deutschem Recht. Die deutsche Power of Attorney can be terminated at Fassung ist massgeblich. any time. It is governed by German law. The German version shall prevail.
Ort/Place: Hamburg ---------- Datum/Date 25.10.2004 ------------- durch/by: /s/ Annegret Birkel ----------------------- -----------------------
Beglaubigungsvermerk/Notarial Certificate Ich, der unterzeichnende Notar I, the undersigned notary Dr. Ulf Nesemann mit Amtssitz in officiating in 21073 Hamburg, Bremer Str. 4 Deutschland, Germany, bestatige und bescheinige hiermit, dass herewith confirm and certify that Frau Annegret Birkel, geb. am 7.11.1938 wohnhaft in 21614 Buxtehude, Klosterfeldstr. 14 - von Person bekannt - heute vor mir erschienen ist, sich today appeared before me, identified ausgewiesen und vor mir die vorstehende herself to my satisfaction and in my Vollmacht unterzeichnet hat. presence signed the above Power of Attorney. [NOTARY /s/"Ulf Nesemann" PUBLIC Notar/Notary Public STAMP]
UNTERVOLLMACHT DELEGATED POWER OF ATTORNEY Ich, I, Wolfram Birkel Klosterfeldstrasse 14 D-21614 Buxtehude bevollmachtige aufgrund der mir von Frau herewith autorize on the basis of the Elsa Birkel erteilten Generalvollmacht vom 13. general power of attorney issued by Ms. August 2001 (UR-Nr. 1503/2001 des Notars Elsa Birkel dated 13 August 2001 (notarial Dr. Klaus Nesemann, Hamburg) sowie der mir deed no. 1503/2001 of the Hamburg von Frau Annegret Birkel am 25. Oktober notary Dr. Klaus Nesemann), as well as 2004 (UR-Nr. 1901/2004 des Notars Ulf the powers of attorney issued by Ms. Nesemann, Hamburg), von Herrn Christoph Annegret Birkel on 25 October 2004 Birkel am 24. Oktober 2004, von Frau (notarial deed no. 1901/2004 of the Catharina Birkel am 22. Oktober 2004 sowie Hamburg notary Dr. Ulf Nesemann), by von der Meier-Birkel GmbH & Co. KG am 25. Mr. Christoph Birkel on 24 October 2004, Oktober 2004 erteilten Vollmachten (die by Ms. Catharina Birkel on 22 October vorstehend genannten Vollmachtgeber 2004 and by Meier-Birkel GmbH & Co. KG werden nachfolgend insgesamt on 25 October 2004 (the above mentioned ,,Vollmachtgeber'' genannt) principals will hereinafter be jointly referred to as "Principals") Herrn Dr. Jorgen Tielmann geschaftsansassig in Hermannstr. 40, D-20095 Hamburg fur die Vollmachtgeber in Untervollmacht alle to represent the Principals on the basis of Erklarungen abzugeben und alle Handlungen this delegated power of attorney and to vorzunehmen, die nach Auffassung des take any and all action in their respective Bevollmachtigten notwendig oder erforderlich names and on my behalf in all matters sind zum Abschluss eines Kaufvertrages oder and affairs which in the judgment of the Aktien an der BERU Aktiengesellschaft (HRB attorney-in-fact is necessary or required in 5087 AG Ludwigsburg) mit der BorgWarner connection with the execution of a sale Germany GmbH oder einem mit ihr and purchase agreement regarding verbundenen Unternehmen. shares in BERU Aktiengesellschaft (HRB 5087 AG Ludwigsburg) to BorgWarner Germany GmbH or any of its affiliates. Der Bevollmachtigte ist von den The attorney-in-fact is released from the Beschrankungen des Paragraphen 181 BGB befreit und restrictions on self-dealing under Section berechtigt, Untervollmachten zu erteilen. Diese 181 of the German Civil Code and may Vollmacht ist jederzeit widerruflich. Sie delegate this Power of Attorney. This
2 unterliegt deutschem Recht. Die deutsche Power of Attorney can be Fassung ist massgeblich. terminated at any time. It is governed by German law. The German version shall prevail. Hamburg, 30. Oktober 2004 durch/by: Wolfram Birkel /s/ Wolfram Birkel ---------------------------------- ----------------------------------
------------------------------------------- SALE AND PURCHASE AGREEMENT ------------------------------------------- regarding the Sale and Purchase of Shares in BERU Aktiengesellschaft ------------------------------------------- POWER OF ATTORNEY AND DELEGATED POWER OF ATTORNEY SELLER 6 -------------------------------------------
1 VOLLMACHT POWER OF ATTORNEY - --------- ----------------- Ich, I, Christoph Birkel geb. am 18.01.1972 Klosterfeldstrasse 14 21614 Buxtehude bevollmachtige hiermit herewith authorize Herrn Wolfram Birkel Klosterfeldstrasse 14 21614 Buxtehude
fur mich alle Erklarungen abzugeben und alle to represent me and to take any and all Handlungen vorzunehmen, die nach action in my name and on my behalf in Auffassung des Bevollmachtigten notwendig all matters and affairs which in the oder erforderlich sind zum Abschluss eines judgment of the attorney-in-fact is Kaufvertrages uber Aktien an der BERU necessary or required in connection with Aktiengesellschaft (HRB 5087 AG the transfer of shares in BERU Ludwigsburg) mit der BorgWarner Germany Aktiengesellschaft (HRB 5087 AG GmbH oder einem mit ihr verbundenen Ludwigsburg) to BorgWarner Germany Unternehmen. GmbH or any of its affiliates. Der Bevollmachtigte ist von den The attorney-in-fact is released from the Beschrankungen des Paragraph 181 BGB befreit restrictions on self-dealing under Section und berechtigt, Untervollmacht zu erteilen. 181 of the German Civil Code and may Diese Vollmacht ist jederzeit widerruflich. delegate this Power of Attorney. This Sie unterliegt deutschem Recht. Die deutsche Power of Attorney can be terminated at Fassung ist massgeblich. any time. It is governed by German law. The German version shall prevail.
Ort/Place: Buxtehude ---------- Datum/Date 24.10.2004 ---------- durch/by: /s/ Christoph Birkel --------------------- ---------------------
UNTERVOLLMACHT DELEGATED POWER OF ATTORNEY Ich, I, Wolfram Birkel Klosterfeldstrade 14 D-21614 Buxtehude bevollmachtige aufgrund der mir von Frau herewith autorize on the basis of the Elsa Birkel erteilten Generalvollmacht vom 13. general power of attorney issued by Ms. August 2001 (UR-Nr. 1503/2001 des Notars Elsa Birkel dated 13 August 2001 (notarial Dr. Klaus Nesemann, Hamburg) sowie der mir deed no. 1503/2001 of the Hamburg von Frau Annegret Birkel am 25. Oktober notary Dr. Klaus Nesemann), as well as 2004 (UR-Nr. 1901/2004 des Notars Ulf the powers of attorney issued by Ms. Nesemann, Hamburg), von Herrn Christoph Annegret Birkel on 25 October 2004 Birkel am 24. Oktober 2004, von Frau (notarial deed no. 1901/2004 of the Catharina Birkel am 22. Oktober 2004 sowie Hamburg notary Dr. Ulf Nesemann), by von der Meier-Birkel GmbH & Co. KG am 25. Mr. Christoph Birkel on 24 October 2004, Oktober 2004 erteilten Vollmachten (die by Ms. Catharina Birkel on 22 October vorstehend genannten Vollmachtgeber 2004 and by Meier-Birkel GmbH & Co. KG werden nachfolgend insgesamt on 25 October 2004 (the above mentioned ,,Vollmachtgeber'' genannt) principals will hereinafter be jointly referred to as "Principals") Herrn Dr. Jorgen Tielmann geschaftsansassig in Hermannstr. 40, D-20095 Hamburg fur die Vollmachtgeber in Untervollmacht alle to represent the Principals on the basis of Erklarungen abzugeben und alle Handlungen this delegated power of attorney and to verzunehmen, die nach Auffassung des take any and all action in their respective Bevollmachtigten notwendig oder erforderlich names and on my behalf in all matters sind zum Abschluss eines Kaufvertrages uber and affairs which in the judgment of the Aktien an der BERU Aktiengesellschaft (HRB attorney-in-fact is necessary or required in 5087 AG Ludwigsburg) mit der BorgWarner connection with the execution of a sale Germany GmbH oder einem mit ihr and purchase agreement regarding verbundenen Unternehmen. shares in BERU Aktiengesellschaft (HRB 5087 AG Ludwigsburg) to BorgWarner Germany GmbH or any of its affiliates. Der Bevollmachtigte ist von den The attorney-in-fact is released from the Beschrankungen des Paragraph 181 BGB befreit und restrictions on self-dealing under Section berechtigt, Untervollmachten zu erteilen. Diese 181 of the German Civil Code and may Vollmacht ist jederzeit widerruflich. Sie delegate this Power of Attorney. This
2
unterliegt deutschem Recht die deutsche Power of Attorney can be terminated at Fassung ist massgeblich. any time. It is governed by German law. The German version shall prevail.
Hamburg, 30. Oktober 2004 durch/by: Wolfram Birkel /s/ Wolfram Birkel ----------------------------------- -----------------------------------
----------------------------------- SALE AND PURCHASE AGREEMENT ----------------------------------- regarding the Sale and Purchase of Shares in BERU Aktiengesellschaft ----------------------------------- POWER OF ATTORNEY AND DELEGATED POWER OF ATTORNEY SELLER 7 --------------------------------------
VOLLMACHT Ich, POWER OF ATTORNEY I, Catharina Birkel geb. [ILLEGIBLE] 1974 Klosterfeldstrasse 14 21614 Buxtehude bevollmachtige hiermit/herewith authorize Herrn Wolfram Birkel Klosterfeldstrasse 14 21614 Buxtehude fur mich alle Erklarungen abzugeben und alle Handlungen vorzunehmen, die nach Auffassung des Bevollmachtigten notwendig oder erforderlich sind zum Abschluss eines Kaufvertrages uber Aktien an der BERU Aktiengesellschaft (HRB 5087 AG Ludwigsburg) mit der BorgWarner Germany GmbH oder einem mit ihr verbundenen Unternehmen to represent me and to take any and all action in my name and on my behalf in all matters and affairs which in the judgment of the attorney-in-fact is necessary or required in connection with the transfer of shares in BERU Aktiengesellschaft (HRB 5087 AG Ludwigsburg) to BorgWarner Germany GmbH or any of its affiliates. Der Bevollmachtigte ist von den Beschrankungen des Paragraph 181 BGB befreit und berechtigt, Untervollmacht zu erteilen. Diese Vollmacht ist jederzeit widerruflich. eSie unterliegt deutschem Recht. Die deutsche type]" Fassung ist massgeblich. The attorney-in-fact is released from the restrictions on self-dealing under Section 181 of the German Civil Code and may delegate this Power of Attorney. This Power of Attorney can be terminated at any time. It is governed by German law. The German version shall prevail. Ort/Place: Rom Datum/Date 22.10.04 durch/by: /s/ Catharina Birkel --------------------- ---------------------
UNTERVOLLMACHT DELEGATED POWER OF ATTORNEY Ich, I, Wolfram Birkel Klosterfeldstrasse 14 D-21614 Buxtehude bevollmachtige aufgrund der mir von Frau herewith authorize on the basis of the Elsa Birkel erteilten Generalvollmacht vom 13. general power of attorney issued by Ms. August 2001 (UR-Nr. 1503/2001 des Notars Elsa Birkel dated 13 August 2001 (notarial Dr. Klaus Nesemann, Hamburg) sowie der mir deed no. 1503/2001 of the Hamburg von Frau Annegret Birkel am 25. Oktober notary Dr. Klaus Nesemann), as well as 2004 (UR-Nr. 1901/2004 des Notars Ulf the powers of attorney issued by Ms. Nesemann, Hamburg), von Herrn Christoph Annegret Birkel on 25 October 2004 Birkel am 24. Oktober 2004, von Frau (notarial deed no. 1901/2004 of the Catharina Birkel am 22. Oktober 2004 sowie Hamburg notary Dr. Ulf Nesemann), by von der Meier-Birkel GmbH & Co. KG am 25. Mr. Christoph Birkel on 24 October 2004, Oktober 2004 erteilten Vollmachten (die by Ms. Catharina Birkel on 22 October vorstehend genannten Vollmachtgeber 2004 and by Meier-Birkel GmbH & Co. KG werden nachfolgend insgesamt on 25 October 2004 (the above mentioned ,,Vollmachtgeber'' genannt) principals will hereinafter be jointly referred to as "Principals") Herrn Dr. Jorgen Tielmann geschaftsansassig in Hermannstr. 40, D-20095 Hamburg fur die Vollmachtgeber in Untervollmacht alle to represent the Principals on the basis of Erklarungen abzugeben und alle Handlungen this delegated power of attorney and to vorzunehmen, die nach Auffassung des take any and all action in their respective Bevollmachtigten notwendig oder erforderlich names and on my behalf in all matters sind zum Abschluss eines Kaufvertrages uber and affairs which in the judgment of the Aktien an der BERU Aktiengesellschaft (HRB attorney-in-fact is necessary or required in 5087 AG Ludwigsburg) mit der BorgWarner connection with the execution of a sale Germany GmbH oder einem mit ihr and purchase agreement regarding verbundenen Unternehmen. shares in BERU Aktiengesellschaft (HRB 5087 AG Ludwigsburg) to BorgWarner Germany GmbH or any of its affiliates. The attorney-in-fact is Der Bevollmachtigte ist von den released from the restrictions on self-dealing Beschrankungen des Paragraphs 181 BGB befreit und under Section 181 of the German Civil Code and may berechtigt, Untervollmachten zu erteilen. Diese delegate this Power of Attorney. This Vollmacht ist jederzeit widerruflich. Sie
2
unterliegt deutschem Recht. Die deutsche Power of Attorney can be terminated at Fassung ist massgeblich. any time. It is governed by German law. The German version shall prevail.
Hamburg, 30. Oktober 2004 durch/by: Wolfram Birkel /s/ Wolfram Birkel ------------------------------ ------------------------------
---------------------------- SALE AND PURCHASE AGREEMENT ---------------------------- regarding the Sale and Purchase of Shares in BERU Aktiengesellschaft ---------------------------- POWER OF ATTORNEY SELLER 8 ----------------------------
VOLLMACHT POWER OF ATTORNEY Ich, I, Wolfram Birkel Klosterfeldstrasse 14 D-21614 Buxtehude bevollmachtige in eigenem Namen und herewith authorize on my own behalf als Geschaftsfuhrer der and in my capacity as a managing Verwaltungsgesellschaft Klosterfeld director of Verwaltungsgesellschaft Beteiligungen mbH, die ihrerseits Klosterfeld Beteiligungen mbH, which is Komplementarin der Klosterfeld the general partner of Klosterfeld Beteiligungen GmbH & Co. KG ist, Beteiligungen GmbH & Co. KG, hiermit. Herrn Dr. Jorgen Tielmann geschaftsansassig in Hermmannstr. 40, D-20095 Hamburg fur mich selbst und fur die to represent me and to take any and Klosterfeld Beteiligungen GmbH & Co. all action in my name and on my behalf KG, Buxtehude, alle Erklarungen of Klosterfeld Beteiligungen GmbH & abzugeben und alle Handlungen Co. KG, Buxtehude, in all matters and vorzunehmen, die nach Auffassung des affairs which in the judgment of the Bevollmachtigten notwendig oder attorney-in-fact is necessary or erforderlich sind zum Abschluss eines required in connection with the Kaufvertrages ober Aktien an der BERU execution of a sale and purchase Aktiengesellschaft (HRB 5087 AG agreement regarding shares in BERU Ludwigsburg) mit der BorgWarner Aktiengesellschaft (HRB 5087 AG Germany GmbH oder einem mit ihr Ludwigsburg) to BorgWarner Germany verbundenen Unternehmen. GmbH or any of its affiliates. Der Bevollmachtigte ist von den The attorney-in-fact is released from Baschrankungen des Paragraph 181 BGB the restrictions on self-dealing under befreit und berechtigt, Section 181 of the German Civil Code Untervollmachten zu erteilen. Diese and may delegate this Power of Vollmacht ist jederzeit widerruflich. Attorney. This Power of Attorney can Sie unterliegt deutschem Recht. Die be terminated at any time. It is deutsche Fassung ist massgeblich. governed by German law. The German version shall prevail. Hamburg, 30. Oktober 2004 durch/by: Wolfram Birkel /s/ Wolfram Birkel ----------------------------- -----------------------------
-------------------------------- SALE AND PURCHASE AGREEMENT -------------------------------- regarding the Sale and Purchase of Shares in BERU Aktiengesellschaft -------------------------------- POWER OF ATTORNEY AND DELEGATED POWER OF ATTORNEY SELLER 9 --------------------------------
VOLLMACHT POWER OF ATTORNEY --------- ----------------- Wir, We, Meier-Birkel GmbH & Co. KG eine Gesellschaft nach a corporation organized under the deutschem Recht mit Sitz in laws of Germany having its registered offices in Mittlerer Pfad 15 70499 Stuttgart bevollmachtigen hiermit herewith authorize vertreten durch die Komplimentar- represented by its general partner gesellschaft die Meier-Birkel Meier-Birkel Verwaltungsgesellschaft Verwaltungs-GmbH, diese wiederrum mbH, a limited liability company, vertreten durch ihren Geschaftsfuhrer which itself is represented by its Dr. Diether Laudan managing director Dr. Diether Laudan Herrn Wolfram Birkel Klosterfeldstrasse 14 21614 Buxtehude fur uns alle Erkarungen abzugeben to represent us and to take any and und alle Handlungen vorzunehmen, die all action in our name and on our nach Auffassung des Bevollmachtigten behalf in all matters and affairs notwendig oder erforderlich sind zum which in the judgment of the Abschluss eines Kaufvertrages oder attorney-in-fact, is necessary or Aktien an der BERU Aktiengesellschaft required in connection with the (HRB 5087 AG Ludwigsburg) mit der transfer of shares in BERU BorgWarner Germany GmbH. Aktiengesellschaft (HRB 5087 AG Ludwigsburg) to BorgWarner Germany GmbH. Der Bevollmachtigte ist von den The attorney-in-fact is released from Beschrankungen des Paragraphs 181 BGB the restrictions on self-dealing befreit und berechtigt, Untervollmacht under Section 181 of the German Civil zu erteilen. Diese Vollmacht ist Code and may delegate the Power of jederzeit widerruflich. Sie unterliegt Attorney. The Power of Attorney, can deutschem Recht. Die deutsche Fassung be terminated at any time. It is ist massgeblich. governed by German law. The German version shall prevail.
2 [ILLEGIBLE TYPE] Datum/Date 25. Oktober 2006 durch/by /s/ Diether Laudan -------------------------------- Dr. Diether Laudan
UNTERVOLLMACHT Delegated Power of Attorney -------------- --------------------------- Ich, I, WOLFRAM BIRKEL Klosterfeldstrasse 14 D-21614 Buxtehude
bevollmachtige aufgrund der mir von Frau herewith authorize on the basis of the Elsa Birkel erstellten Generalvollmacht von general power of attorney issued by Ms. 13. August 2001 (UR-Nr. 1503/2001 des Notars Elsa Birkel dated 13 August 2001 (notarial Dr. Klaus Nesemann, Hamburg) sowie der mir deed no. 1503/2001 of the Hamburg von Frau Annagret Birkel am 25. Oktober notary Dr. Klaus Nesemann), as well as 2004 (UR-Nr, 1901/2004 des Notars Ulf the powers of attorney issued by Ms. Nasemann, Hamburg), von Herrn Christoph Annagret Birkel on 25 October 2004 Birkel am 24. Oktober 2004, von Frau (notarial deed no. 1901/2004 of the Catharina Birkel am 22. Oktober 2004 sowie Hamburg notary Dr. Ulf Nesemann), by von der Meier-Birkel GmbH & Co. KG am 25. Mr. Christoph Birkel on 24 October 2004, Oktober 2004 erteilten Vollmachten (des by Ms. Catharina Birkel on 22 October vorstehend genannten) Vollmachtgeber 2004 and by Meier-Birkel GmbH & Co. KG werden nachfolgend insgesamt on 25 October 2004 (the above mentioned ,,Vollmachtgeber" genannt) principals will hereinafter be jointly referred to as .Principals")
HERRN DR. JORGEN TIELMANN GESCHAFTSANSASSIG IN HERMANNSTR, 40, D-20095 HAMBURG
fur die Vollmachtgeber in Untervollmacht alle to represent the Principals on the basis of Erklarungen abzugeben und alle Handlungen this delegated power of attorney and to vorzunehmen, die nach Auffassung des take any and all action in their respective Bevollmachtigten notwendig oder erforderlich names and on my behalf in all matters sind zum Abschluss eines Kaufvertrages uber and affairs which in the judgment of the Aktien and der BERU Aktiangesellschaft, (HRB attorney-in-fact is necessary or required in 5087 AG Ludwigsburg) mit der BorgWarner connection with the execution of a sale Germany GmbH oder einem mit ihr and purchase agreement regarding verbundenen Untemehmen. shares in BERU Aktiengesellschaft (HRB 5087 AG Ludwigsburg) to BorgWarner Germany GmbH or any of its affiliates. Der Bevollmachtigte ist von den The attorney-in-fact is released from the Beschrankungen des Paragraphs 181 BGB befreit restrictions on self-dealing under Section und berechtigt, Untervollmachten zu erteilen, 181 of the German Civil Code and may Diese Vollmacht ist jederzeit widerruflich. Sie delegate this Power of Attorney. This
2 unterliegt deutschem Recht. Die deutsche Power of Attorney can be terminated Fassung ist massgeblich. at any time. It is governed by German law. The German version shall prevail. Hamburg, 30. Oktober 2004 durch/by: Wolfram Birkel /s/ Wolfram Birkel --------------------
--------------------------------------- SALE AND PURCHASE AGREEMENT --------------------------------------- regarding the Sale and Purchase of Shares in BERU Aktiengesellschaft --------------------------------------- POWER OF ATTORNEY BUYER ---------------------------------------
POWER OF ATTORNEY We, the undersigned BorgWarner Germany GmbH, Heidelberg, registered with the commercial register of the local Heidelberg under HRB 5929, hereby authorize 1. Anthony D. Hensel, 2. Vincent M. Lichtenberger, each having his business address: 5435 Corporate Drive, Suite 150, Troy, Michigan 48098, USA; 3. Dr. Joachim Rosengarten, 4. Dr. Frank Burmeister, each having his business address at Bockenheimer Landstrasse 51, D-60325 Frankfurt/Main; each acting alone, to represent us in connection with the signing, execution or closing of one or more agreements by which we acquire (or partly receive a call option for the purchase of) up to 65% of the shares in BERU Aktiengesellschaft, Ludwigsburg, Germany. Each of our proxies is authorized to sign all agreements or documents which he deems necessary or appropriate in connection with the transaction described above. Each of our proxies is authorized to grant sub-power of attorney. This power of attorney shall expire on April 30, 2005. Heidelberg, October 21, 2004 Borg Warner Germany GmbH by: /s/ Christof Geiger - ------------------- Christof Geiger Managing Director (Geschaftsfuhrer) authorized to represent alone (alleinvertretungsberechtigt)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------- BUYER'S CALL OPTION AGREEMENT --------------------------------------------------------------------------- regarding the Purchase of Shares in BERU Aktiengesellschaft BUYER'S CALL OPTION AGREEMENT by and between 1. Annegret Birkel, Klosterfeldstrabe 14, 21614 Buxtehude, represented by Wolfram Birkel on the basis of a power of attorney dated October 28, 2004, a copy of which is attached hereto, - "Seller" - and 2. BorgWarner Germany GmbH, a company with limited liability with its registered seat at Im Fuchsloch 16, 69123 Heidelberg, and registered with the commercial register of the local court of Heidelberg under HRB 5929, represented by Anthony D. Hensel on the basis of a power of attorney dated October 21, 2004, issued by its managing director Christof M. Geiger, a copy of which is attached hereto, - "Buyer" - - Seller and Buyer each a "Party" and collectively the "Parties" -. The Parties agree as follows: 1. Preamble 1.1 Sale and Purchase Agreement. The Seller and various other shareholders of BERU Aktiengesellschaft, Ludwigsburg, registered with the commercial register of the local court of Ludwigsburg under HRB 5087 (the "Company") have entered into a Sale and Purchase Agreement (the "Sale and Purchase Agreement") dated October 30, 2004 pursuant to which 6,221,170 shares in the Company, representing approximately 62.21 % of the Company's share capital (the "Shares") have been sold to Buyer. 1.2 Call Option Shares. Seller holds additional shares in the Company of a total amount of 81,500 shares, equivalent to approximately 0.82 % of the registered capital of the Company (collectively the "Call Option Shares"). 1.3 The Call Option Shares are currently deposited with M.M. Warburg & Co. as follows: M.M. Warburg & Co. Account No.: Shares: 0800/323 438 81.000 0801/323 438 500 S.W.I.F.T.-Code: WBWC DE HH Bank Code: 201 201 00. 2. Call Option 2.1 Buyer's Call Option. The Seller hereby grants to the Buyer the option to acquire upon request the Call Option Shares (the "Buyer's Call Option") by bindingly and irrevocably offering to the Buyer to execute the sale and purchase agreement regarding the Call Option Shares enclosed hereto as Exhibit 2.1 (the "Call Option SPA") upon exercise of the Buyer's Call Option as provided in Sec. 2.2. 2.2 Call Option Exercise. Under the condition precedent that the Closing Events as defined in Sec. 4.2 of the Sale and Purchase Agreement have occurred, the Buyer is at any time after January 3, 2005 and prior to March 31, 2005 (the "Option Period") entitled to exercise the Buyer's Call Option by registered letter (Einschreiben) to Seller. Upon exercise of the Buyer's Call Option, the Call Option SPA will be deemed accepted and concluded. 3. Further Undertakings The Seller undertakes that as from the day of signing of this Buyer's Call Option Agreement until the end of the Option Period, Seller shall not tender the Call Option Shares in any public offer launched by the Buyer or any third party and Seller shall not sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of, the Call Option Shares to any party other than the Buyer or pledge the Call Option Shares for any purposes. 4 Notices and Notifications 4.1 Notices. All notices and other communications hereunder, in particular the exercise of the Buyer's Call Option, shall be made in writing and shall be sent by registered mail or courier to the following addresses: If to Seller, to: Annegret Birkel, Klosterfeldstrabe 14, D-21614 Buxtehude. Germany in each case with a copy to: Dr. Wilhelm Happ HAPP RECKE LUTHER Hermannstrasse 40 D-20095 Hamburg Germany If to Buyer, to: BorgWarner Inc. Attn.: General Counsel 5435 Corporate Drive Suite 150 Troy, Michigan 48098/USA in each case with a copy to: HENGELER MUELLER Attn.: Dr. Joachim Rosengarten Bockenheimer Landstr. 51 D-60325 Frankfurt am Main or to such other recipients or addresses which may be specified by any Party to the other Parties in the future in writing. 4.2 Director's Dealing. The Buyer acknowledges that Seller will immediately after satisfaction of the condition precedent pursuant to Art. 2.2 of this Agreement be obligated to file a director's dealings notification pursuant to Art. 15 a of the German Securities Trading Act Wertpapierhandelsgesetz (WpHG) - concerning the grant of the Buyer's Call Option. 5 Miscellaneous 5.1 Entire Agreement. This Agreement and its Exhibits contain the entire agreement between the Parties concerning the subject matter hereof and shall supersede and replace all prior oral and written declarations of intention made by the Parties in respect thereof. 5.2 Amendments. Any amendments to this Agreement (including amendments to this Sec. 5.2) shall be valid only if made in writing, unless a stricter form (including notarial form) is required by mandatory law. 5.3 Headings. The headings in this Agreement are inserted for convenience only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Agreement. 5.4 German Terms. Where a German term has been inserted in quotation marks and/or italics, such term alone (and not the English term to which it relates) shall be authoritative for the interpretation of the respective provision. 5.5 Assignment. No Party shall be entitled to assign any rights or claims under this Agreement without the written consent of the other Party, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld. 5.6 No Rights of Third Parties. This Agreement shall not grant any rights to, and is not intended to operate for, the benefit of any third parties. 5.7 Governing Law; Place of Venue. This Agreement shall be governed by, and be construed in accordance with, the laws of the Federal Republic of Germany, without regard to principles of conflicts of laws. 5.8 Partial Invalidity. In the event that one or more provisions of this Agreement shall, or shall be deemed to, be invalid or unenforceable, the validity and enforceability of the other provisions of this Agreement shall not be affected thereby. In such case, the Parties agree to recognize and give effect to such valid and enforceable provision or provisions that correspond as closely as possible with the commercial intent of the Parties. The same shall apply in the event that this Agreement contains any gaps (Vertragslucken). ______________________ Place, Date ________________________ Seller, represented by Wolfram Birkel ______________________ Place, Date ________________________ Buyer, represented by Anthony D. Hensel
SALE AND PURCHASE AGREEMENT _______________________________________________ regarding the Sale and Purchase of Shares in BERU Aktiengesellschaft SALE AND PURCHASE AGREEMENT by and between 1. Annegret Birkel, Klosterfeldstrabe 14, 21614 Buxtehude, - "Seller" - and 2. BorgWarner Germany GmbH, a company with limited liability with its registered seat at Im Fuchsloch 16, 69123 Heidelberg, and registered with the commercial register of the local court of Heidelberg under HRB 5929, - "Buyer" - - Seller and Buyer each a "Party" and collectively the "Parties"- TABLE OF CONTENTS Index of Defined Terms 4 Preamble 5 1. Current Status 5 2. Closing Date; Sale and Transfer 6 3. Purchase Price 7 4. Closing Event; Closing Confirmation 7 5. Seller's and Buyer's Liability and Remedies 7 6. Confidentiality; Announcements 7 7. Notices 8 8. Costs 9 9. Miscellaneous 9 Index of Defined Terms Banking Days as defined in Sec. 9.6 BERU Group as defined in the Preamble A Buyer as defined in the recitals Buyer`s Call Option as defined in Sec. 1.3 Closing Confirmation as defined in Sec. 4.2 Closing Date as defined in Sec. 2.1 Closing Event as defined in Sec. 4.1 Company as defined in Sec. 1.1 Global Share Certificate as defined in Sec. 1.2 Party/Parties as defined in the recitals Sale and Purchase Agreement as defined in the Preamble D Seller as defined in the recitals Share Deposit Bank as defined in Sec. 1.4 Shares as defined in Sec. 1.3 Purchase Price as defined in Sec. 3.1 Preamble A. The Seller is a shareholder in BERU Aktiengesellschaft, which is the parent company of a group of companies which are directly or indirectly majority-owned by BERU Aktiengesellschaft and which are active in the automotive supply industry (the "BERU Group"). B. The Seller intends to sell all its shares in BERU Aktiengesellschaft. C. The Buyer intends to purchase the shares held by Seller. D. The Seller and various other shareholders of BERU Aktiengesellschaft have entered into a Sale and Purchase Agreement dated October 30, 2004, pursuant to which 6,221,170 shares in BERU Aktiengesellschaft have been sold to the Buyer (the "Sale and Purchase Agreement"). NOW, THEREFORE, the Parties agree as follows: 1. Current Status 1.1 The Company. BERU Aktiengesellschaft is a stock corporation existing under German law with its corporate office in Ludwigsburg and registered with the commercial register of the local court of Ludwigsburg under HRB 5087 (the "Company"). The registered capital of the Company amounts to E26,000,000 (in words: Euro twenty-six million) and consists of 10,000,000 (in words: ten million) non par value bearer shares (nennwertlose, auf den Inhaber lautende Stockaktien) with a proportionate participation in the registered capital of E 2,60 each. The shares of the Company are admitted to the official market of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange and the Stuttgart Stock Exchange and traded in the over-the-counter markets (Freiverkehr) of the Dusseldorf Stock Exchange, the Munich Stock Exchange, the Hamburg Stock Exchange and the Berlin-Bremen Stock Exchange. .2 Global Share Certificate. All shares of the Company are issued in two global share certificates (the "Global Share Certificate") which are owned in fractional co-ownership by all shareholders of the Company, deposited with Clearstream Banking AG. 1.3 The Shares. The shares in the Company held by the Seller represent a total amount of 81,500 shares (in words: eighty one thousand five hundred), equivalent to approximately 0.82% of the registered capital of the Company (the "Shares"). On October 30, 2004, the Seller has granted to the Buyer an option (the "Buyer`s Call Option") to acquire the Shares from the Seller upon the terms and conditions of this Agreement, which shall be deemed concluded upon the exercise of the Buyer`s Call Option. 1.4 The Share Deposit Bank. Seller has deposited the Shares in the following share deposit accounts with M.M.Warburg & Co. (the "Share Deposit Bank"): M.M. Warburg & Co. Account No.: Shares: 0800/323 438 81.000 0801/323 438 500 S.W.I.F.T.-Code: WBWC DE HH Bank Code: 201 201 00. 2. Closing Date; Sale and Transfer 2.1 Closing Date. Closing date shall be the third Banking Day following the exercise of the Buyer`s Call Option, or any date the Parties shall mutually agree (the "Closing Date"). 2.2 Sale and Transfer of the Shares. The Seller hereby (i) sells (verkauft) and, subject to the condition precedent of the receipt of payment of the Purchase Price in accordance with Sec. 3, transfers (ubereignet) the Shares (including the assignment of his fractional co-ownership of the Global Share Certificate) to the Buyer; subject to the same condition precedent, the Seller hereby also assigns her claims against Clearstream Banking AG and the Share Deposit Bank as to the delivery (Herausgabe- und Auslieferungsanspruche) with respect to the Shares. Buyer hereby accepts such sale, transfer and assignment. The sale and transfer of the Shares shall include all ancillary rights appertaining thereto (Nebenrechte), including without limitation the dividend rights (Gewinnbezugsrecht) to all profits not yet distributed to the Seller on the Closing Date. For the avoidance of doubt, Seller shall be entitled to all dividends for the business year 2004/05 of the Company to the extent that such dividends will have been distributed by the Company prior to the Closing Date. 3. Purchase Price 3.1 Purchase Price. The purchase price for the Shares amounts to EUR 59 (in words: Euro fifty-nine) per share, i.e. a total amount of EUR 4,808,500 (in words: Euro four million eight hundred eight thousand fivehundred) for all Shares (the "Purchase Price"). 3.2 Payment of the Purchase Price. The Purchase Price shall be due and payable on the Closing Date and shall be transferred to the following bank account with the Share Deposit Bank: Account No. : 101 53 23 438 Bank Code: 201 201 00 S.W.I.F.T.-Code: WBWC DE HH IBAN DE 912012010001015323438 The Seller has instructed the bank maintaining its bank account to confirm to Buyer by telefax receipt of payment of the Purchase Price upon such receipt without undue delay (unverzuglich). 4. Closing Event; Closing Confirmation 4.1 Closing. On the Closing Date, the Buyer shall pay the Purchase Price in accordance with Sec. 3.2 (the "Closing Event"). 4.2 Closing Confirmation. After the Closing Event has been performed, the Seller and the Buyer shall confirm in a written document to be jointly executed by the Seller and the Buyer (the "Closing Confirmation") that the payment of the Purchase Price as well as the transfer of the Shares has occurred. 5. Seller's and Buyer's Liability and Remedies In case of an exercise of the Buyer`s Call Option, Sec. 5 to 7 of the Sale and Purchase Agreement shall apply as if the Shares sold hereunder had been sold under the Sale and Purchase Agreement. 6. Confidentiality; Announcements 6.1 Confidentiality. Any information or documents relating to a Party to this Agreement, the Company, a company of the BERU Group, or their respective businesses and made available to another Party in the course of the preparation of the transaction contemplated hereunder shall not be disclosed to third parties or published unless required by applicable laws, rules or regulations (including take-over regulation). However, this obligation shall not apply to information that is proven (i) to have been (or have become) generally available (public domain) without breach of any obligation of any of the Parties, (ii) to have been known to the disclosing Party prior to the disclosure, (iii) to have been independently developed by the disclosing Party, or (iv) to have been received by the disclosing Party from a third party without any violation of any obligation of such third party vis- a-vis the disclosing Party. Neither Party shall, without the prior written consent of the respective other Party, disclose the contents of this Agreement to third parties or make any information relating thereto available to third parties. This shall not, however, apply to the extent a Party or any affiliate of a Party may be obliged to make any announcement or disclosure (including the disclosure of this Agreement) under applicable laws or regulations (including the rules of relevant stock exchanges or relevant Takeover Codes, including the German Securities Purchase and Takeover Act - Wertpapiererwerbs- und Ubernahmegesetz - and the Securities Trading Act - Wertpapierhandelsgesetz). The right of the Parties to disclose matters to advisers who are bound by a professional duty of confidentiality shall remain unaffected. 6.2 Announcements. The Parties undertake that without the written consent of the other Parties neither Party shall make any public announcement regarding this Agreement, unless, in a reasonable judgment of a party, required by, or appropriate under, applicable laws or regulations (including, without limitation, the rules of the relevant stock exchanges or takeover codes, in particular the German Securities Purchase and Takeover Act - Wertpapiererwerbs- und Ubernahmegesetz - and the German Securities Trading Act - Wertpapierhandelsgesetz. Sufficiently prior to any permitted announcement the Party wishing to make the announcement shall, to the extent possible without violation of legal restrictions, notify the other Party thereof, provide to the other Party the proposed wording and take any requests of the other Parties into due consideration. 7. Notices All notices and other communications hereunder shall be made in writing and shall be sent by registered mail or courier to the following addresses: If to the Seller, to: Annegret Birkel, Klosterfeldstrabe 14, D-21614 Buxtehude; in each case with a copy to: Dr. Wilhelm Happ HAPP RECKE LUTHER Hermannstrasse 40 D-20095 Hamburg If to the Buyer, to: BorgWarner Inc. Attn.: General Counsel 5435 Corporate Drive Suite 150 Troy, Michigan 48098/USA in each case with a copy to: HENGELER MUELLER Attn.: Dr. Joachim Rosengarten Bockenheimer Landstr. 51 D-60325 Frankfurt am Main or to such other recipients or addresses which may be specified by any Party to the other Parties in the future in writing. 8. Costs All costs, including expenses, fees and charges, in connection with the preparation, negotiation, execution and consummation of this Agreement or the performance of the transactions contemplated hereunder, including, without limitation, fees and expenses of professional advisors, shall be borne by the Party commissioning such costs. Stamp duties, locally applicable transfer taxes and similar fees necessary to transfer title to the Shares to the Buyer in connection with any clearance under applicable antitrust laws shall be borne by the Buyer. 9. Miscellaneous 9.1 Entire Agreement. This Agreement and its Exhibits contain the entire agreement between the Parties concerning the subject matter hereof and shall supersede and replace all prior oral and written declarations of intention made by the Parties in respect thereof. 9.2 Amendments. Any amendments to this Agreement (including amendments to this Sec. 9.2) shall be valid only if made in writing, unless a stricter form (including notarial form) is required by mandatory law. 9.3 Headings. The headings in this Agreement are inserted for convenience only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Agreement. 9.4 German Terms. Where a German term has been inserted in quotation marks and/or italics, such term alone (and not the English term to which it relates) shall be authoritative for the interpretation of the respective provision. 9.5 Assignment. No Party shall be entitled to assign any rights or claims under this Agreement without the written consent of the other Party, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld. 9.6 Banking Days. "Banking Days" referred to in this Agreement shall be any days other than Saturdays, Sunday or public holidays in Frankfurt am Main. 9.7 No Rights of Third Parties. This Agreement shall not grant any rights to, and is not intended to operate for, the benefit of any third parties. 9.8 Exclusion of Remedies. Except as provided otherwise herein, no Party shall be entitled (i) to set-off (aufrechnen) any rights and claims it may have against any rights or claims any other Party may have under this Agreement, or (ii) to refuse to perform any obligation it may have under this Agreement on the grounds of a right of retention (Zuruckbehaltungsrecht), unless the rights or claims of the relevant Party claiming a right of set-off (Aufrechnung) or retention (Zuruckbehaltung) have been acknowledged (anerkannt) in writing by the relevant other Party or have been confirmed by final decision of a competent court. 9.9 Governing Law; Place of Venue. This Agreement shall be governed by, and be construed in accordance with, the laws of the Federal Republic of Germany, without regard to principles of conflicts of laws. 9.10 Partial Invalidity. In the event that one or more provisions of this Agreement shall, or shall be deemed to, be invalid or unenforceable, the validity and enforceability of the other provisions of this Agreement shall not be affected thereby. In such case, the Parties agree to recognize and give effect to such valid and enforceable provision or provisions that correspond as closely as possible with the commercial intent of the Parties. The same shall apply in the event that this Agreement contains any gaps (Vertragslucken).

October 29, 2004 BorgWarner Inc. Senior Bridge Term Credit Facility Commitment Letter BorgWarner Inc. 200 South Michigan Chicago, Illinois 60604 Attention: Jeffrey Obermayer Vice President and Treasurer Ladies and Gentlemen: You (the "Company") have requested that Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. ("MSSF") agree to structure, arrange and syndicate a 364-day bridge term facility in an aggregate amount of E700,000,000 (the "Facility") for the Company and a certain wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (together with the Company, the "Borrowers"), that MSSF commit to provide the Facility, and that MSSF agree to serve as syndication agent for the Facility. You have advised MSSF that the Borrowers will acquire approximately 63% of the outstanding capital shares of a company known to you and MSSF as Ignite (the "Target") pursuant to a sale and purchase agreement with certain major shareholders (the "Private Sale"), and will commence a tender offer (the "Tender Offer") for the remaining outstanding capital shares of Ignite, in each case at a price to be determined and, in the case of the Tender Offer, subject to the condition that the Private Sale is consummated prior to the consummation of the Tender Offer. You have also advised MSSF that the Facility will be used solely to finance the acquisition (the "Acquisition") of such securities of Target in the Private Sale and the Tender Offer. MSSF is pleased to advise you that it is willing to act as sole and exclusive lead arranger and bookrunner for the Facility. Furthermore, MSSF is pleased to advise you of its commitment to provide 100% of the Facility, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth or referred to in this commitment letter (the "Commitment Letter") and in the Summary of Terms and Conditions attached as Exhibit A hereto (the "Term Sheet"). It is agreed that MSSF will act as the Syndication Agent and as the sole and exclusive Lead Arranger and Bookrunner (in such capacity, the "Arranger"), for the Facility. You agree that no other agents, co-agents or arrangers will be appointed, no other titles will be awarded and no compensation (other that that expressly contemplated by the Term Sheet and the Fee Letter referred to below) will be paid in connection with the Facility unless you and we shall so agree, in which case MSSF will be listed first (i.e., in the upper left position in any listing) in any information memoranda, tombstones or other similar publications used in connection with the Facility. While we do not currently expect to syndicate the Facility to more than one or two financial institutions, we reserve the right, in our sole discretion, to syndicate the Facility to a group of financial institutions (together with MSSF, the "Lenders") identified by us in consultation with you. MSSF's commitment hereunder will be reduced by the amount of commitments undertaken by other Lenders in such syndication. The Arranger intends to commence any syndication efforts in consultation with you promptly after your announcement of the Tender Offer, and if we do commence such efforts you agree actively to assist the Arranger in completing a syndication satisfactory to it. Such assistance shall include (a) your using commercially reasonable efforts to ensure that the syndication efforts benefit materially from your existing lending relationships and, to the extent practicable, those of the Target, (b) direct contact between senior management and advisors of the Borrowers, the Target (to the extent practicable) and the proposed Lenders, (c) assistance in the preparation of a Confidential Information Memorandum and other marketing materials to be used in connection with the syndication and (d) the hosting, with the Arranger, of one or more meetings of prospective Lenders. As the Arranger, MSSF, in consultation with you and subject to the provisions set forth in the immediately preceding paragraph, will manage all aspects of any syndication, including decisions as to the selection of institutions to be approached and when they will be approached, when their commitments will be accepted, which institutions will participate, the allocations of the commitments among the Lenders and the amount and distribution of fees among the Lenders. In acting as the Arranger, MSSF will have no responsibility other than to arrange the syndication as set forth herein and shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties. To assist the Arranger in any syndication efforts, you agree promptly to prepare and provide to MSSF all information with respect to the Borrowers and the transactions contemplated hereby, including all financial information and projections (the "Projections"), as we may reasonably request in connection with the arrangement and syndication of the Facility. You hereby represent and covenant that (a) taken as a whole, all information other than the Projections (the "Information") that has been or will be made available to the Arranger or the Lenders by you or any of your representatives is or will be (in the case of information relating to the Target and its subsidiaries, to the best of your knowledge), when furnished, complete and correct in all material respects and does not or will not, when furnished, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements contained therein not materially misleading in light of the circumstances under which such statements are made, and (b) the Projections that have been or will be made available to the Arranger or the Lenders by you or any of your representatives have been or will be prepared in good faith based upon reasonable assumptions. You agree to supplement the Information and the Projections from time to time until the Arranger notifies you that the syndication of the Facility has been completed so that the representation, warranty and covenant in the preceding sentence is correct on each of the Effective Date and the date of such notification. You understand that in arranging and syndicating the Facility we and our affiliates may use and rely on the Information and the Projections without independent verification thereof. As consideration for the commitments hereunder and the Arranger's agreement to perform the services described herein, you agree to pay or to cause the Borrowers to pay the nonrefundable fees set forth in the Term Sheet and in the Fee Letter dated the date hereof and delivered herewith (the "Fee Letter"). You agree that prior to and during the syndication of the Facility there shall be no competing offering, placement or arrangement of any debt securities, equity securities, equity-linked securities or bank financing by or on behalf of the Borrowers or any affiliate thereof (including without limitation, after the consummation of the Acquisition, the Target and its affiliates), unless the Arranger has consented thereto. The commitments of MSSF hereunder are subject to (a) MSSF having completed due diligence with respect to the Borrowers and the transactions contemplated hereby satisfactory to MSSF in all respects in its discretion, (b) MSSF not becoming aware after the date hereof of any information or other matter affecting the Borrowers or the transactions contemplated hereby which is inconsistent in a material and adverse manner with any such information or other matter disclosed to MSSF prior to the date hereof, (c) there not occurring or becoming known to us any material adverse condition or material adverse change in or affecting the business, operations, assets, condition (financial or otherwise) or prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, or of the Target and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, (d) there not having occurred any change or disruption in the U.S. or international financial, banking or capital market conditions or in the relevant economic environment that, in the Arranger's judgment, could have a material adverse effect on the ability to consummate the syndication of the Facilities, (e) the negotiation, execution and delivery, prior to the date of the initial filing relating to the Tender Offer with the German Federal Supervisory Authority for Financial Services, of definitive documentation with respect to the Facility (the "Credit Documentation"), in form and substance satisfactory to MSSF and its counsel and consistent with the Term Sheet, (f) MSSF being satisfied with the terms of and documentation relating to the Tender Offer (the "Tender Offer Documentation"), and (g) to the extent not reflected in the Credit Documentation, the conditions to effectiveness set forth in the Term Sheet. Prior to the execution of the Credit Documentation, the commitment of MSSF will be reduced upon the occurrence of any event, or the consummation of any transaction, described under the "Prepayments and Reductions" section of the Term Sheet. You agree (a) to indemnify and hold harmless MSSF and, its affiliates and each Related Party of any of the foregoing (each, an "indemnified person") from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and liabilities to which any such indemnified person may become subject arising out of or in connection with this Commitment Letter, the Acquisition, the Facility, the use of the proceeds thereof or any related transaction or any claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, regardless of whether any indemnified person is a party thereto, and to reimburse each indemnified person upon demand for any legal or other expenses incurred in connection with investigating or defending any of the foregoing, provided that the foregoing indemnity will not, as to any indemnified person or its Related Parties, apply to losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses to the extent they are found by a final, non- appealable judgment of a court to arise from the willful misconduct or gross negligence of such indemnified person or its Related Parties, and (b) to reimburse MSSF and its affiliates on demand for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses (including due diligence expenses, syndication expenses, travel expenses, and reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel) incurred in connection with the Facility and any related documentation (including this Commitment Letter, the Term Sheet, the Fee Letter and the definitive financing documentation), regardless of whether the Credit Documentation is executed, or the administration, amendment, modification or waiver thereof. No indemnified person shall be liable for any special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages in connection with its activities related to the Facility. No indemnified person shall be liable for any damages arising from the use by others of Information or other materials obtained through electronic, telecommunications or other information transmission systems in connection with the Facility. For purposes hereof, "Related Parties" with respect to a person means such person's affiliates and the respective officers, directors, employees, advisors, and agents of such person and such person's affiliates. This Commitment Letter shall not be assignable by you without the prior written consent of MSSF (and any purported assignment without such consent shall be null and void), is intended to be solely for the benefit of the parties hereto and is not intended to confer any benefits upon, or create any rights in favor of, any person other than the parties hereto. This Commitment Letter may not be amended or waived except by an instrument in writing signed by you and MSSF. This Commitment Letter may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all of which, when taken together, shall constitute one agreement. Delivery of an executed signature page of this Commitment Letter by facsimile transmission shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart hereof. This Commitment Letter and the Fee Letter are the only agreements that have been entered into between you and MSSF with respect to the Facility and set forth the entire understanding of the parties with respect thereto. This Commitment Letter shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York. This Commitment Letter is delivered to you on the understanding that neither this Commitment Letter, the Term Sheet or the Fee Letter nor any of their terms or substance shall be disclosed, directly or indirectly, to any other person except (a) to your officers, agents and advisors who are directly involved in the consideration of this matter or (b) as may be compelled in a judicial or administrative proceeding or as otherwise required by law (in which case you agree to inform us promptly thereof), including without limitation, as required by applicable law in connection with the filing of the Tender Offer Documentation, provided that the foregoing restrictions shall cease to apply (except in respect of the Fee Letter and its terms and substance) after this Commitment Letter has been accepted by you. You acknowledge that MSSF and its affiliates may be providing debt financing, equity capital or other services (including financial advisory services) to other companies in respect of which you may have conflicting interests regarding the transactions described herein and otherwise. MSSF will not use confidential information obtained from you by virtue of the transactions contemplated by this letter or its other relationships with you in connection with MSSF's performance of services for other companies, and MSSF will not furnish any such information to other companies. You also acknowledge that MSSF has no obligation to use in connection with the transactions contemplated by this letter, or to furnish to you, confidential information obtained from other companies. The compensation, reimbursement, indemnification and confidentiality provisions contained herein and all of the provisions set forth in the Fee Letter shall remain in full force and effect regardless of whether definitive financing documentation shall be executed and delivered and notwithstanding the termination of this Commitment Letter or the commitments hereunder; provided, that your obligations under this Commitment Letter, other than those arising under the provisions relating to (i) the appointment of other agents, co-agents and arrangers, (ii) the ability to syndicate and assistance in connection with the syndication, (iii) financial information and projections made available by you and (iv) confidentiality, shall automatically terminate and be superseded by the provisions of the Credit Documentation upon the effectiveness thereof, and you shall automatically be released from all liability in connection therewith at such time. If the foregoing correctly sets forth our agreement, please indicate your acceptance of the terms hereof and of the Term Sheet and the Fee Letter by returning to MSSF executed counterparts hereof and of the Fee Letter, together with the amounts agreed upon pursuant to the Fee Letter to be payable upon the acceptance hereof, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on November 1, 2004. The commitments and the Arranger's agreements herein will expire at such time in the event MSSF has not received such executed counterparts and such amounts in accordance with the immediately preceding sentence. MSSF is pleased to have been given the opportunity to assist you in connection with this important financing. Very truly yours, MORGAN STANLEY SENIOR FUNDING, INC. By: Name: Title: Accepted and agreed to as of the date first written above by: BORGWARNER INC. By: Name: Title: Exhibit A BORGWARNER INC. E700,000,000 SENIOR BRIDGE TERM CREDIT FACILITY Summary of Terms and Conditions October 29, 2004 Parties Borrowers: BorgWarner Inc. (BorgWarner") and BorgWarner Germany GmbH (the "Borrowers"). Guarantor: The obligations of BorgWarner Germany GmbH will be guaranteed by BorgWarner. Lead Arranger and Book Runner: Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. ("MSSF") (in such capacity, the "Lead Arranger"). Administrative Agent: A financial institution designated by MSSF in consultation with BorgWarner (in such capacity, the "Administrative Agent"). Syndication Agent: MSSF (in such capacity, the "Syndication Agent"). Documentation Agents: One or more financial institutions designated by MSSF in consultation with BorgWarner (together with the Administrative Agent and the Syndication Agent, the "Agents"). Lenders: A syndicate of banks, financial institutions and other entities, including MSSF or an affiliate, arranged by the Lead Arranger (collectively, the "Lenders"). Bridge Term Facility Type and Amount of Facility: 364-day bridge term credit facility (the "Facility") in the amount of E700,000,000 (the loans thereunder, the "Loans"). Purpose: The proceeds of the Loans shall be applied to acquire (the "Acquisition") outstanding capital shares of a company known to BorgWarner and the Lead Arranger as Ignite (the "Target"). Approximately 63% of such shares shall be acquired pursuant to a sale and purchase agreement with certain major shareholders (the "Private Sale"), and the Borrower will commence a tender offer (the "Tender Offer") for the remaining shares. Availability: The Facility shall be available in multiple draws from and after the date on which the conditions to initial funding have been satisfied (the "Funding Date") and during the Certain Funds Period. Loans repaid or prepaid may not be reborrowed. The commitments shall automatically expire on the earlier of the date on which the Certain Funds Period ends and the date the Tender Offer lapses or terminates. Certain Funds Period: The period beginning on the date on which the Tender Offer Documentation (as defined below) was published in accordance with the German takeover act (the "Publication Date") and ending on the earliest of (i) 5 business days following the date of the expiry of the Tender Offer period (including any extension of the Tender Offer permitted under applicable law and the subsequent offer period (weitere Annahmefrist) pursuant to the German takeover act), (ii) the date of any cancellation of the Credit Documentation or the commitments under the Facility and (iii) the date which is 120 days after the Publication Date. Maturity: The earlier of (i) 364 days after the Effective Date (as defined below) and (ii) 5 business days following the date the Tender Offer lapses or terminates. Certain Payment Provisions Fees and Interest Rates: As set forth on Annex I. Prepayments and Commitment Reductions: Loans may be prepaid and commitments may be reduced by the Borrowers in minimum amounts to be agreed upon. The commitments will be automatically reduced by the amount of cash and cash equivalents (other than proceeds of Loans under the Facility) used for the Acquisition. Loans shall be prepaid from 100% of the net cash proceeds received by BorgWarner or any of its subsidiaries from all sales of assets (subject to certain exceptions and thresholds to be determined), and 100% of the net cash proceeds received by BorgWarner or any of its subsidiaries from (1) all issuances or incurrences of debt (including without limitation, pursuant to a public offering, a private placement or a syndicated bank financing (other than up to $100,000,000 of borrowings under BorgWarner's $600,000,000 Credit Agreement dated as of July 22, 2004 (the "July Credit Agreement"), as long as such borrowings are not used, directly or indirectly, to finance the Acquisition) and (2) all issuances of equity securities or equity- linked securities and the receipt of all capital contributions (other than in connection with the exercise of employee stock options and intercompany transactions), provided that if such proceeds are received prior to the Funding Date, they shall be applied to reduce the commitments under the Facility, and such proceeds shall be held in escrow on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrative Agent. Certain Conditions Conditions to Effectiveness: The effectiveness of the Facility shall be conditioned upon satisfaction of, among other things (including, without limitation, such other conditions as German counsel to the Lead Arranger advises as usual and customary for transactions of this type), the following conditions precedent (the date upon which all such conditions precedent shall be satisfied, the "Effective Date") on or before December 1, 2004: The structure of the Acquisition (including without limitation the corporate, capital, organizational and tax structure thereof, and the plans and sources of funds for the refinancing of certain existing indebtedness of the Target and its subsidiaries that (x) could become due and payable as a result of the consummation of the Private Sale or the Tender Offer, or (y) is otherwise not on terms and conditions acceptable to the Lead Arranger, and all the definitive documentation related thereto (including documentation relating to the Private Sale (the "Sale and Purchase Documentation") and the Tender Offer (the "Tender Offer Documentation") (subject, in the case of the Tender Offer Documentation, to review by the German Federal Supervisory Authority for Financial Services)), will be in full force and effect and in form and substance satisfactory to the Lead Arranger. The July Credit Agreement shall be available for borrowing in full. The Borrowers shall have executed and delivered satisfactory definitive financing documentation (including, without limitation, such legal opinions, documents and other instruments as are customary for transactions of this type or as the Lead Arranger may reasonably request) with respect to the Facility (the "Credit Documentation") prior to the date (the "Submission Date") of the initial filing of the Tender Offer Documentation with the German Federal Supervisory Authority for Financial Services. There shall not have occurred or become known to the Lenders any material adverse condition or material adverse change in or affecting the business, operations, assets, condition (financial or otherwise) or prospects of BorgWarner and its subsidiaries, in each case taken as a whole, or of the Target and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole. There shall be no pending or threatened litigation, proceeding or investigation which (i) could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the business, operations, assets, condition (financial or otherwise) or prospects of BorgWarner and its subsidiaries (including the Target and its subsidiaries) or (ii) in any manner calls into question or challenges the Facility or the making of the Loans. The Lenders, the Administrative Agent and the Lead Arranger shall have received all fees required to be paid, and all expenses for which invoices have been presented, on or before the Effective Date. The Submission Date shall occur substantially simultaneously with the Effective Date. Conditions to Initial Borrowings: The initial borrowings under the Facility shall be conditioned upon satisfaction of the following conditions precedent (and such other conditions as German counsel to the Lead Arranger advises as usual and customary for transactions of this type): Except as otherwise agreed by the Lenders, all regulatory approvals required for the consummation of the Acquisition shall have been obtained and shall be in effect. In the case of the initial borrowing to finance the acquisition of shares in the Private Sale, the obligations of BorgWarner Germany GmbH to purchase shares of the Target pursuant to the Private Sale shall have become unconditional within such period without any amendment or waiver to the Sale and Purchase Documentation not permitted under the Credit Documentation. In the case of the initial borrowing to finance the acquisition of the shares in the Tender Offer, the obligations of BorgWarner Germany GmbH to purchase shares of the Target pursuant to the Tender Offer shall have become unconditional within such period without any amendment or waiver to the Tender Offer Documentation not permitted under the Credit Documentation and the Private Sale shall have been consummated. Receipt of a notice of borrowing designating the Funding Date as the date of the initial drawdown under the Facility. The Administrative Agent will have received from the Borrowers such other certificates, agreements and documents usual and customary for transactions of this type as the Lead Arranger may have reasonably requested relating to matters relevant to the Acquisition and the transactions contemplated hereby, all in form and substance satisfactory to the Lead Arranger. On-Going Conditions: The making of each Loan to finance the acquisition of shares in the Private Sale shall be conditioned upon (a) the accuracy of all representations and warranties in the Credit Documentation (including, without limitation, the material adverse change and litigation representations) and (b) there being no default or event of default in existence at the time of, or after giving effect to the making of, such extension of credit. The making of each Loan to finance the acquisition of shares in the Tender Offer (a "Tender Offer Loan") shall be conditioned upon (a) the accuracy of certain representations and warranties in the Credit Documentation (including valid existence and good standing, power to conduct business, power and authority to execute and deliver, and to perform obligations under, the Credit Documentation, due authorization and non-contravention of law or agreement and no engagement in extending credit for margin stock ) and (b) there being no Major Default in existence at the time of, or after giving effect to the making of, such extension of credit. As used herein and in the Credit Documentation, "Major Default" means non-payment of principal, interest, or other amounts owing under the Credit Documentation, insolvency of the Borrowers, and the breach of certain covenants by the Borrowers including limitations on indebtedness and liens and prohibition on amending terms of the Tender Offer and Tender Offer Documentation. For the avoidance of doubt, during the Certain Funds Period, as long as the conditions as referred to above have been satisfied, no Lender shall (a) exercise any right to terminate the obligation to make any Tender Offer Loan, (b) exercise any right of rescission in respect of the Credit Documentation or in respect of a Tender Offer Loan or (c) exercise any right of acceleration, termination, cancellation or set-off in respect of any Tender Offer Loan (other than set-off in respect of fees, costs and expenses as agreed in any funds flow document). Certain Documentation Matters The Credit Documentation shall contain representations, warranties, covenants and events of default, substantially identical to those contained in the July Credit Agreement, except as noted below or otherwise agreed by the Lead Arranger and BorgWarner, including, without limitation: Representations and Warranties: Financial statements; no material adverse change; corporate existence; compliance with law; corporate power and authority; enforceability of Credit Documentation; no conflict with law or contractual obligations; no material litigation; no default; ownership of property; intellectual property; taxes; Federal Reserve regulations; ERISA; Investment Company Act; environmental matters; and accuracy of disclosure. Affirmative Covenants: Delivery of financial statements, officers' certificates, publicly filed materials and other information reasonably requested by the Lenders; payment of other obligations; continuation of business and maintenance of existence and material rights and privileges; compliance with laws; maintenance of property and insurance; maintenance of books and records; right of the Lenders to inspect property and books and records; notices of defaults, litigation and other material event; use of proceeds limited to acquisition of outstanding capital shares of the Target; conduct of Tender Offer (Tender Offer and related documentation to be in accordance with applicable law including German Takeover Act and German Stock Corporation Act, progress reports to Administrative Agent, notice to Administrative Agent if BorgWarner Germany GmbH would be entitled to withdraw bid and undertaking to ensure BorgWarner Germany GmbH and affiliates not required to make offer to shareholders under Section 35 of German Takeover Act); and agreement to use all reasonable efforts to access capital markets as promptly as practicable after the Funding Date in order to prepay the Loans. Financial Covenants: (a) Leverage ratio (to be defined as consolidated debt on the last day of any fiscal quarter to EBITDA for the period of four consecutive quarters then ended) on the last day of any fiscal quarter not to be greater than 3.25 to 1.00. For purposes of this covenant, EBITDA will be calculated to give pro forma effect for permitted acquisitions and dispositions. (b) Consolidated net worth at any time not to be less than the sum of (i) $800,000,000, (ii) 25% of cumulative consolidated net income for each fiscal quarter of BorgWarner (beginning with the fiscal quarter ending September 30, 2004) for which consolidated net income is positive and (iii) 100% of the net cash proceeds of any offering by BorgWarner of common equity consummated after the Effective Date. Negative Covenants: Limitations on: liens; acquisitions; unconsolidated joint venture and third party guarantee obligations; mergers, consolidations, liquidations and dissolutions; sales of assets; restricted payments (other than dividends paid in accordance with BorgWarner's current dividend policy); transactions with affiliates; restrictive agreements; and amendments to Tender Offer and certain documents including Tender Offer Documentation. Events of Default: Nonpayment of principal when due; nonpayment of interest, fees or other amounts after a grace period to be agreed upon; material inaccuracy of representations and warranties; violation of covenants (subject, in the case of certain affirmative covenants, to a grace period to be agreed upon); cross-default to other indebtedness (with an aggregate threshold of $50,000,000); bankruptcy events; certain ERISA events; material judgments; and a change of control. Voting: Amendments and waivers with respect to the Credit Documentation shall require the approval of Lenders holding not less than a majority of the aggregate amount of the Loans, except that (a) the consent of each Lender directly and adversely affected thereby shall be required with respect to (i) reductions in the amount or extensions of the scheduled date of final maturity of any Loan, (ii) reductions in the rate of interest or any fee or extensions of any due date thereof, (iii) increases in the amount or extensions of the expiry date of any Lender's commitment and (iv) amendment of certain pro rata sharing provisions and (b) the consent of 100% of the Lenders shall be required with respect to modifications to any of the voting percentages. Assignments and Participations: The Lenders shall be permitted to assign and sell participations in their Loans and commitments, subject, in the case of assignments (other than to another Lender or to an affiliate of a Lender), to the consent of BorgWarner (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld and shall not be required during an Event of Default). All assignments will require the consent of the Administrative Agent (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld). In the case of partial assignments (other than to another Lender or to an affiliate of a Lender), the minimum assignment amount shall be $5,000,000, and, after giving effect thereto, the assigning Lender shall have commitments and Loans aggregating at least $5,000,000 (unless such assigning Lender is assigning all of its commitments under the Facility), in each case unless otherwise agreed by BorgWarner and the Administrative Agent. Participants shall have the same benefits as the Lenders with respect to yield protection and increased cost provisions but may not recover more than the respective selling Lenders unless BorgWarner shall have approved such participations. Voting rights of participants shall be limited to those matters with respect to which the affirmative vote of the Lender from which it purchased its participation would be required as described under "Voting" above. Pledges of Loans in accordance with applicable law shall be permitted without restriction. Promissory notes shall be issued under the Facility only upon request. Yield Protection: The Credit Documentation shall contain customary provisions (a) protecting the Lenders against increased costs or loss of yield resulting from changes in reserve, tax, capital adequacy and other requirements of law and from the imposition of or changes in withholding or other taxes and (b) indemnifying the Lenders for "breakage costs" incurred in connection with, among other things, any prepayment of a Eurocurrency Loan (as defined in Annex I) on a day other than the last day of an interest period with respect thereto. Expenses and Indemnification: BorgWarner shall pay (a) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses of the Administrative Agent and the Lead Arranger associated with the syndication of the Facility and the preparation, execution, delivery and administration of the Credit Documentation and any amendment or waiver with respect thereto (including the reasonable fees, disbursements and other charges of Counsel (as defined below)) and (b) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders (including the reasonable fees, disbursements and other charges of Counsel) in connection with the enforcement of the Credit Documentation. The Administrative Agent, the Lead Arranger and the Lenders (and their affiliates and their respective officers, directors, employees, advisors and agents) will have no liability for, and will be indemnified and held harmless against, any loss, liability, cost or expense incurred in respect of the financing contemplated hereby or the use or the proposed use of proceeds thereof (except to the extent resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such indemnified party or its related parties). Governing Law and Forum: State of New York. Counsel to the Administrative Agent and the Lead Arranger: Davis Polk & Wardwell ("Counsel"). Annex I Interest and Certain Fees Interest Rate Options: The Loans comprising each borrowing shall bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the applicable Adjusted Euro Rate plus the Applicable Margin. As used herein: "Euro Rate" means the rate for one, two, three or six months (as selected by the Borrower) quoted on the Telerate screen for Euros two TARGET days prior to the beginning of the selected interest period. In the event that such rate does not appear on the Telerate screen, the "Euro Rate" shall be determined by reference to such other comparable publicly available service for displaying Euro rates as may be selected by the Administrative Agent or, in the absence of such availability, by reference to the rate at which the Administrative Agent is offered deposits in Euros at or about 11:00 A.M., London time, two TARGET days prior to the beginning of such interest period in the interbank eurocurrency market where its eurocurrency and foreign currency and exchange operations for Euros are then being conducted for delivery on the first day of such interest period for the number of days comprised therein. "Adjusted Euro Rate" means the Euro Rate, as adjusted for applicable statutory reserve requirements for eurocurrency liabilities. "Applicable Margin" means a percentage per annum to be based on BorgWarner's senior unsecured long-term debt rating and determined in accordance with the pricing grid attached hereto as Annex I-A. Interest Payment Dates: On the last day of each relevant interest period and, in the case of any interest period longer than three months, on each successive date three months after the first day of such interest period. Facility Fees: The Borrowers shall pay a facility fee on the average daily amount of the Facility (whether used or unused), determined in accordance with the pricing grid attached hereto as Annex I-A, payable quarterly in arrears. Default Rate: At any time when a Borrower is in default in the payment of any amount of principal due under the Facility, such amount shall bear interest at 2% above the rate otherwise applicable thereto. Overdue interest, fees and other amounts shall bear interest at 2% above the higher of (i) the rate of interest publicly announced by JPMorgan Chase Bank as its prime rate in effect at its principal office in New York City and (ii) the federal funds effective rate from time to time plus 0.5%. Rate and Fee Basis: All per annum rates shall be calculated on the basis of a year of 360 days for actual days elapsed. Annex I-A PRICING GRID For each type of Loan, the Facility Fee Rate and the Applicable Margin at any time shall be the respective rates set forth on the following pricing grid: Level Ratings Facility Fee Applicable Margin 1 (3)A/A2 0.080% 0.295% 2 A-/A3 0.090% 0.385% 3 BBB+/Baa1 0.110 0.515% 4 BBB/Baa2 0.140% 0.735% 5 BBB-/Baa3 or lower 0.175% 0.825% October 29, 2004 BorgWarner Inc. Senior Bridge Term Credit Facility Fee Letter BorgWarner Inc. 200 South Michigan Chicago, Illinois 60604 Attention: Jeffrey Obermayer Vice President and Treasurer Ladies and Gentlemen: Reference is made to the letter of even date herewith from Morgan Stanley Senior Funding , Inc. ("MSSF") to you (the "Commitment Letter") with respect to a 364-day bridge term facility in an aggregate amount of E700,000,000 (the "Facility"). Terms used but not defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in the Commitment Letter or the Summary of Terms and Conditions attached thereto (the "Term Sheet"). You hereby agree to pay, or cause to be paid, the following non- refundable fees at the following times: Funding Fee. To MSSF, for its own account, a funding fee in an amount equal to 1.00% of the principal amount of each drawdown under the Facility, which will be due and payable in full on the date of such drawdown. 25% of the portion of each such fee which is not paid to other Lenders pursuant to the last sentence of this paragraph will be credited against the gross spread paid to MSSF or any of its affiliates in its capacity as one of no more than two lead arrangers and bookrunners on any Qualifying Capital Markets Financing. MSSF may in its discretion pay all or a portion of such funding fee to the other Lenders. A "Qualifying Capital Markets Financing" is a capital markets financing, the proceeds of which reduce the commitments or Loans under the Facility and which is completed within 60 days after the Funding Date Duration Fee. To MSSF, on (i) the 180th day after the Funding Date and (ii) each 180 day anniversary thereof until all Loans and other amounts payable under the Facility have been paid in fall and the Facility has been terminated (each, a "Duration Fee Date"), a fee (each, a "Duration Fee") equal to 0.25% of the total amount of the sum of the commitments and the Loans under the Facility at the opening of business on such date. Each Duration Fee shall be payable to MSSF, as Lead Arranger, for the account of the Lenders (including MSSF, as Lender), and such Duration Fee shall be distributed to the Lenders ratably in accordance with their exposure under the Facility at the opening of business on such Duration Fee Date. Agency Fee. To the Administrative Agent, an administration fee equal to $25,000 per annum, payable on the Funding Date and each anniversary thereof until all Loans and other amounts payable under the Facility have been paid in fall and the Facility has been terminated. All payments made by you hereunder shall be made free and clear of withholding taxes and you agree to pay all additional amounts in respect of such payments in the event that any such taxes shall apply. Unless otherwise agreed herein, once paid the fees paid hereunder shall not be refundable under any circumstances. The Lead Arranger shall be entitled, after consultation with you, to change the structure or terms or, if there has been a borrowing under the Facility, the pricing of the Facility if the syndication has not been completed and if the Lead Arranger determines that such changes are advisable in order to ensure a successful syndication of the Facility; provided that in no event shall the pricing of the Facility increase by more than 0.50% per annum without your consent. MSSF's commitment under the Commitment Letter is subject to the agreements in this paragraph. A successful syndication shall have occurred when the sum of MSSF's commitment and the outstanding principal amount of its Loans is equal to or less than E350,000,000. This letter agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York. MSSF is pleased to have been given the opportunity to assist you in connection with this important financing. Very truly yours, MORGAN STANLEY SENIOR FUNDING, INC. By: Name: Title: Accepted and agreed to as of the date first written above by: BORGWARNER INC. By: Name: Title:

Immediate Release Contact: Mary Brevard, 248-373-2406 A&B FD (PR for BorgWarner): Ivo Lingnau, +49 (0)69 92037 133 BORGWARNER TO ACQUIRE MAJORITY STAKE IN BERU AG FOR US$476 MILLION; DEAL WILL EXPAND COMPANY'S ENGINE TECHNOLOGY IN RAPIDLY GROWING DIESEL MARKET AND ELECTRONICS Chicago, Illinois, November 1, 2004 - BorgWarner Inc. (NYSE: BWA) announced today that, through one of its German legal subsidiaries, it has entered into a definitive agreement to purchase approximately 63% of the outstanding shares of German-based Beru AG from its major shareholders, The Carlyle Group and a group of family shareholders, for a price of E59 per share or E372 million (approximately US $476 million). The company also announced that it intends to launch, through one of its German legal subsidiaries, a voluntary public tender offer in Germany for all of Beru's remaining outstanding stock for an amount in cash equal to E67.50 per share which is greater than the price to be paid to Carlyle and the family shareholders. Commenting on the announcement, Timothy M. Manganello, Chairman and CEO of BorgWarner, said, "This strategic acquisition will significantly enhance our technology leadership in diesel engines, and strengthens our engine electronic control capabilities and sensor expertise at a critical point in the global automotive sector. Tightening emissions standards worldwide are expected to accelerate demand for diesel-powered light vehicles globally in the next few years. Beru's technology and product expertise will complement and strengthen our market presence with global automakers, while enhancing our ability to meet rapidly growing demand for technologies that address fuel efficiency, performance and air quality. The transaction is expected to be accretive to earnings beginning in 2005, and supports our strategy of driving profitable growth for our shareholders." The total transaction, assuming purchase of all the remaining outstanding shares of Beru, is valued at E621 million (approximately US $795 million). Completion of the transaction is subject to regulatory approval. BorgWarner intends to initially finance the transaction with cash and funds available under its existing revolving credit facility. BorgWarner ultimately intends to finance the transaction in a manner consistent with maintaining the company's current investment grade capital structure. Headquartered in Ludwigsburg, Germany, Beru is a leading system supplier of diesel cold start technology, ignition technology, electronics and sensors. Beru, which is a supplier to most auto manufacturers, combines its electromechanical products with electronic controls systems, focusing on markets that show the strongest future growth rates. On a trailing twelve- month basis ending June 30, 2004, Beru's net income was E37.2 million on sales of E371 million. " BorgWarner has been operating in Germany for more than 50 years and we are excited to team up with another technology leader like Beru," continued Manganello. " Beru produces excellent products, has an expanding business in one of the fastest growing sectors of the automotive market, and has a strong and well-respected senior management team. We intend to maintain Beru as a stand-alone business of BorgWarner and do not anticipate employment changes as a result of this transaction. By combining Beru's products with our geographic strength in North America and Asia, we expect to enhance our global prospects for growth." A spokesperson for the Carlyle Group commented, "Like all shareholders, Carlyle has benefited from the excellent work of Beru's management and employees. Their efforts have delivered consistent profitable growth. We believe BorgWarner is an ideal industrial partner with a very good strategic fit that will further develop the company in the interest of all stakeholders." Pending regulatory approval and the satisfaction of other conditions, the purchase of the approximately 63% share position in Beru by BorgWarner Germany GMBH, a wholly-owned legal subsidiary of BorgWarner Inc., is expected to be closed in January. Morgan Stanley served as the advisor to BorgWarner on the transaction. BorgWarner Inc. (NYSE: BWA) is a product leader in highly engineered components and systems for vehicle powertrain applications worldwide. The company operates manufacturing and technical facilities in 43 locations in 14 countries. Customers include Ford, DaimlerChrysler, General Motors, Toyota, Honda, Hyundai/Kia, Caterpillar, Navistar International, Renault/Nissan, Peugeot and VW/Audi. - more - Beru AG is a leading global automotive supplier and manufacturer of diesel cold starting technology (glow plugs and instant starting systems); gasoline ignition technology (spark plugs and ignition coils); and electronic and sensor technology (tire pressure sensors, diesel cabin heaters and selected sensors.) The company's major customers include, among others, BMW, DCX, GM/Fiat, VW/ Audi, Ford, Porsche, PSA, Renault, Isuzu, Siemens VDO, Valeo, Deutz, and MAN. The company employs approximately 2,700 employees and reported 2004 fiscal year (ended March 31) revenues of E354.5 million. Further Information The planned public tender offer (the "Tender Offer") by BorgWarner Germany GmbH, a wholly-owned subsidiary of BorgWarner Inc. (the " Company"), for all of Beru AG's remaining outstanding stock will not be made directly or indirectly in or into the United States, or by use of the mails of, or by any means or instrumentality (including, without limitation, the mail, facsimile transmission, telex or telephone) of interstate or foreign commerce or any facilities of any national securities exchange of the United States. The Tender Offer will not, and should not, be accepted by any such use, means, instrumentality or facility involving or from within the United States, and United States persons will not have the Tender Offer available to them, directly or indirectly, within the United States. Accordingly, this communication is not meant for publication or distribution in or into the United States nor does it represent an extension of a tender offer into the United States. This communication is for information purposes only. It shall not constitute an offer to purchase, sell or exchange or the solicitation of an offer to purchase, sell or exchange any securities of Beru. The distribution of this news release may, in some countries, be restricted by law or regulation. Accordingly, persons who come into possession of this document should inform themselves of and observe these restrictions. Forward-Looking Statements Statements contained in this news release may contain forward-looking statements as contemplated by the 1995 Private Securities Litigation Reform Act that are based on management's current expectations, estimates and projections. Words such as "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "estimates," variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the control of the Company, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed, projected or implied in or by the forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include: fluctuations in domestic or foreign automotive production, the continued use of outside suppliers by original equipment manufacturers, fluctuations in demand for vehicles containing the Company's products, general economic conditions, as well as other risks detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Cautionary Statements filed as Exhibit 99.1 to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statement. ###


