FILE:BWA/BWA-8K-20050105164016.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report: January 5, 2005 (Date of earliest event reported) BORGWARNER INC. (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 1-12162 13-3404508 (State of Incorporation)(Commission File No.) (IRS Employer Identification No.) 5435 Corporate Drive, Suite 150 Troy, MI 48098 (Address of principal executive offices) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (248) 373-5550 [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2[b]) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4[c] under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4[c]) Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets. On January 4, 2005, BorgWarner Germany GmbH ("BorgWarner Germany"), a wholly owned German subsidiary of BorgWarner Inc. ("BorgWarner"), acquired from CEP BE 00 Beteiligungs GmbH, Frau Ingelore Ruprecht, Wolfram Birkel, Elsa Birkel, Annegret Birkel, Christoph Birkel, Catharina Birkel, Klosterfeld Beteiligungen GmbH + Co. KG and Meier-Birkel GmbH & Co. KG an aggregate of 6,221,170 shares or 62.21% of the outstanding shares of common stock of Beru AG, a German publicly-traded company ("Beru"), for Euro 59 per share (or an aggregate purchase price of approximately Euro 367 million). Such acquisition was made pursuant to the Sale and Purchase Agreement dated October 30, 2004, a copy of which was filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 4, 2004 and is incorporated herein by reference. The press release issued by BorgWarner on January 4, 2005 announcing the completion of the acquisition is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1, and is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference. Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits [a] Financial Statements Financial statements of the business acquired along with any required pro forma financial information will be filed by amendment to this Current Report on Form 8-K not later than 71 calendar days after the date of the filing of this current report. [b] Pro Forma Financial Information See Paragraph (a) above. [c] Exhibits 99.1 Press Release dated January 4, 2005, announcing the completion of the acquisition of a majority stake in Beru. SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized. BORGWARNER INC. By:/s/ Vincent M. Lichtenberger -------------------------------- Vincent M. Lichtenberger Assistant Secretary Dated: January 5, 2005

Immediate Release Contact: Mary Brevard, 248-373-2406 A&B FD (PR for BorgWarner): Ivo Lingnau, +49 (0)69 92037 133 BORGWARNER BUYS MAJORITY STAKE IN BERU AG FOR EURO 367 MILLION; DEAL EXPANDS BORGWARNER'S ENGINE TECHNOLOGY IN RAPIDLY GROWING DIESEL MARKET AND ELECTRONICS Auburn Hills, Michigan, January 4, 2005 BorgWarner Inc. (NYSE: BWA) announced today that, through one of its wholly-owned German subsidiaries, it has completed the purchase of approximately 62% of the outstanding shares of German-based Beru AG from its major shareholders, The Carlyle Group and a group of family shareholders. The purchase was a cash transaction at a price of E59 per share or E367 million (approximately US $490 million at current exchange rate of 1.335). Of the E367 million in financing, E240 million was borrowed locally and the remainder was funded by available cash balances. "We are excited to team up with Beru, a technology leader much like BorgWarner," said Timothy M. Manganello, Chairman and CEO of BorgWarner. " Having a majority ownership in Beru gives us additional access to the fast-growing diesel market and enhances our sensor and engine electronics expertise. In addition,Beru's technology and product expertise complements and strengthens our market presence with global automakers. Beru produces excellent products, has an expanding business in one of the fastest growing sectors of the automotive market, and has a strong and well-respected senior management team. We intend to maintain Beru as a stand-alone business of BorgWarner within our Engine Group and do not anticipate employment changes as a result of this transaction." The transaction is expected to be accretive to earnings beginning in 2005. Beru results will be consolidated within the BorgWarner Engine Group beginning in the first quarter of 2005. Headquartered in Ludwigsburg, Germany, Beru AG is a leading global automotive supplier and manufacturer of diesel cold starting technology (glow plugs and instant starting systems); gasoline ignition technology (spark plugs and ignition coils); and electronic and sensor technology (tire pressure sensors, diesel cabin heaters and selected sensors.) Beru's major customers include, among others, BMW, DCX, GM/Fiat, VW/ Audi, Ford, Porsche, PSA, Renault, Isuzu, Siemens VDO, Valeo, Deutz, and MAN. Beru employs approximately 2,700 employees. On a trailing twelve-month basis ending September 30, 2004, Beru's net income was E36.8 million excluding exceptional items on sales of E379.9 million. BorgWarner Inc. (NYSE: BWA) is a product leader in highly engineered components and systems for vehicle powertrain applications worldwide. The company operates manufacturing and technical facilities in 43 locations in 14 countries. Customers include Ford, DaimlerChrysler, General Motors, Toyota, Honda, Hyundai/Kia, Caterpillar, Navistar International, Renault/Nissan, Peugeot and VW/Audi. Additional Information BorgWarner Germany GmbH, a wholly-owned subsidiary of BorgWarner Inc. (the "Company"), has commenced, in accordance with German law, a public tender offer (the "Tender Offer") for all of Beru AG's remaining outstanding stock. This Tender Offer is not being made directly or indirectly in or into the United States, or by use of the mails of, or by any means or instrumentality (including, without limitation, the mail, facsimile transmission, telex or telephone) of interstate or foreign commerce or any facilities of any national securities exchange of the United States. The Tender Offer will not, and should not, be accepted by any such use, means, instrumentality or facility involving or from within the United States, and United States persons will not have the Tender Offer available to them, directly or indirectly, within the United States. Accordingly, information regarding the Tender Offer is not meant for publication or distribution in or into the United States nor does it represent an extension of a tender offer into the United States. This communication is for information purposes only. It shall not constitute an offer to purchase, sell or exchange or the solicitation of an offer to purchase, sell or exchange any securities of Beru. The distribution of this news release may, in some countries, be restricted by law or regulation. Accordingly, persons who come into possession of this document should inform themselves of and observe these restrictions. Forward-Looking Statements Statements contained in this news release may contain forward-looking statements as contemplated by the 1995 Private Securities Litigation Reform Act that are based on management's current expectations, estimates and projections. Words such as "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "estimates," variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the control of the Company, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed, projected or implied in or by the forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include: fluctuations in domestic or foreign automotive production, the continued use of outside suppliers by original equipment manufacturers, fluctuations in demand for vehicles containing the Company's products, general economic conditions, as well as other risks detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Cautionary Statements filed as Exhibit 99.1 to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statement. ###


