FILE:BWA/BWA-8K-20050727163618.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
           
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))  
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
On July 27, 2005, BorgWarner Inc. (the "Company") announced that the Board of Directors increased the size of the Board to eleven members and appointed Richard O. Schaum as a member of the Company's board. Mr. Schaum was appointed to serve as a Class I director, continuing in office until the Company's 2006 annual stockholders' meeting. At this time, it has not been determined on which board committee Mr. Schaum will serve.
A copy of the press release accouncing Mr. Schaum's appointment as a director of the Company is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 Exhibit 99.1 Press Release dated July 27, 2005, announcing Mr. Schaum's appointment as a director of the Company.
 SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 Date: July 27, 2005 

                                                                                                                                    
Immediate Release
  Beth Feikens
                                                                                                                        Contact 
                                                                                                                                                        248/754-0883
BorgWarner Inc. (NYSE:  BWA) announced today that Richard O. Schaum has been appointed to its Board of Directors.  The appointment is an addition to the Board, which now numbers eleven.
Auburn Hills, Michigan, July 27, 2005 -
 Mr. Schaum, 59, was most recently vice president and general manager of vehicle systems for WaveCrest Laboratories, where he oversaw the development and commercialization of transportation applications.  He began his professional career at DaimlerChrysler in 1971 and held a variety of positions of increasing responsibility there, eventually rising to the position of executive vice president, product development for the Chrysler Group.  In this role, he was a key member of the "Turnaround Team" which restored the company to profitability by reducing costs, improving quality, and launching a new product offensive which was unprecedented in the company's history.  He retired from DaimlerChrysler in 2003. With nearly four decades of experience in automotive engineering, manufacturing, product planning, cost reduction and quality, Rich Schaum brings to BorgWarner a wealth of experience in several key areas of our business," said Timothy M. Manganello, BorgWarner Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.  "His broad experience will be an asset to our Board of Directors, and we are pleased to welcome him."
Mr. Schaum is active in the Society of Automotive Engineers.  He is currently serving as Vice President of Automotive and is a member of the SAE Board of Directors.  He served as General Chairman of the 2003 SAE World Congress.  Past professional activities include the Partnership for a New Generation of Vehicles; the National Research Council Workshop on Fuel Economy; and the Auto/Oil Air Quality Research Planning Task Force.
He holds a bachelor of science degree in mechanical engineering from Drexel University and a master of science degree in mechanical engineering from the University of Michigan.  He also completed the Executive Program at the University of California at Berkley.  He lives in Birmingham, Michigan. 
Auburn Hills, Michigan-based BorgWarner Inc. (NYSE: BWA) is a product leader in highly engineered components and systems for vehicle powertrain applications worldwide.  The company operates manufacturing and technical facilities in 62 locations in 17 countries.  Customers include Ford, DaimlerChrysler, General Motors, VW/Audi, Toyota, Hyundai/Kia, Renault/Nissan, Honda, Caterpillar, Navistar International, Peugeot, and BMW.  The Internet address for BorgWarner is: http://www.borgwarner.com.
# # #


