FILE:BWA/BWA-8K-20060208140411.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
[ ]         Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]         Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]         Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]         Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c)
 
Item 1.01
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On February 8, 2006, the Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of BorgWarner Inc. (the "Company") approved of the award of 132,200 performance shares ("Performance Shares") to its executive officers under the BorgWarner Inc. 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan") as part of its long-term incentive program.  The Plan has been previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission").  The following number of Performance Shares was awarded to the named executive officers:  45,000 to Mr. Manganello; 12,000 to Mr. Adams; 11,000 to Mr. Wood; and 4,600 to Mr. McGill.
The Performance Shares have a value equal to one share of common stock.  The number of Performance Shares actually earned will be based upon the Company's total shareholder return as compared to a peer group of companies during a three-year period ending on December 31, 2008.  Under the Performance Shares awards, the terms of which are the same for each recipient (except for the number of Performance Shares granted), a threshold level of performance relative to a peer group performance is required as a condition to payment.  A Performance Share Award Agreement, the form of which is attached as Exhibit 10.1, contains the terms and conditions of each award (in addition to those generally applicable under the terms of the Plan), including the payout levels, and a list of peer group companies.
In connection with Mr. John Rau's retirement from the Company's Board of Directors, the Board approved of the removal of stock restrictions on 536 shares granted on July 28, 2004 and 947 shares granted on July 27, 2005.
Item 5.02       
Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of  Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
On February 8, 2006, BorgWarner Inc. (the "Company") announced that the Board of Directors appointed Thomas T. Stallkamp as a member of the Company's board.  Mr. Stallkamp was appointed to serve as a Class I director, continuing in office until the Company's 2006 annual stockholders' meeting.  If elected at the annual stockholders' meeting, it is anticipated that Mr. Stallkamp will serve on the Company's Audit Committee.
 A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Stallkamp's appointment as a director of the Company is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01        Financial Statements and Exhibits
            (c)   Exhibits
            10.1    BorgWarner Inc. 2004 Stock Incentive Performance Share Award Agreement
            99.1    Press Release dated February 8, 2006, announcing Mr. Stallkamp's appointment as a director of the Company.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
BORGWARNER INC.
/s/ Vincent M. Lichtenberger
----------------------------------------
Vincent M. Lichtenberger
Assistant Secretary
Dated: February 8, 2006

           (b)  .  Payment for Performance Shares that have vested prior to the Change in Control as a result of the Committee's waiver of payment limitations prior to the date of the Change in Control shall be made in accordance with the following terms.  Payment shall be made in cash and Stock in the same form as provided under Section 4, above.  Payment shall be made (i) as soon as administratively practicable in the year following the year in which the Performance Period would otherwise have ended absent a Change in Control, or if earlier, (ii) as soon as administratively practicable on or after the date of the Participant's Termination of Employment.  Notwithstanding clause (ii) in the preceding sentence, if the Participant is a "Specified Employee" who becomes entitled to payment of Performance Shares under this Section 6(b) by reason of his or her Termination of Employment, payment shall be made on the first day of the seventh month following the month in which such Termination of Employment occurs, or, if earlier, as soon as administratively practicable on or after the date of the Participant's death.
You have been selected to receive a Performance Share Award under the BorgWarner Inc. 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), as specified below:
: _________________________________
    Participant
: ___________________________________________________________
    Address
: _________________________________
    Target Number of Performance Shares
: _____________, to ______________,
    Performance Period
2006
2008
: Relative Increase in Total Shareholder Return Versus Peer Group
Performance Measure
THIS AGREEMENT, effective ___________, , represents the grant of Performance Shares by BorgWarner Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), to the Participant named above, pursuant to the provisions of the Plan.  All capitalized terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Plan, unless specifically set forth otherwise herein. The parties hereto agree as follows:
2006
    1.        . The Performance Period commences on , and ends on .
Performance Period
January 1, 2006
December 31, 2008
    2.        . Each Performance Share shall represent and have a value equal to one share of common stock, par value $0.01, of the Company, subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4(e) of the Plan.
Value of Performance Shares
    3.        . The number of Performance Shares to be earned under this Agreement shall be based upon the Company's Total Shareholder Return as compared to the Total Shareholder Return of the Company's Peer Group (as identified in Exhibit A) during the Performance Period.
Performance Shares and Achievement of Performance Goal
For this purpose, "Total Shareholder Return" shall be determined as follows:
"Beginning Stock Price" shall mean the average closing price as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape of one (1) share of stock for the five (5) trading days immediately prior to the first day of the Performance Period. "Ending Stock Price" shall mean the average closing price as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape of one (1) share of stock for the five (5) trading days immediately prior to the last day of the Performance Period. "Change in Stock Price" shall mean the difference between the Ending Stock Price and the Beginning Stock Price. Finally, "Dividends Paid" shall mean the total of all dividends paid on one (1) share of stock during the Performance Period, provided that dividends shall be treated as though they are reinvested at the end of each calendar quarter.
Following the Total Shareholder Return determination, the Company's Percentile Rank shall be determined as follows:
Company Rank shall be determined by listing from highest Total Shareholder Return to lowest Total Shareholder Return each company in the Peer Group (including the Company) and counting up from the company with the lowest Total Shareholder Return.
The percent of Target Number of Performance Shares earned shall then be determined based on the following chart:
Interpolation shall be used to determine the percent of Target Number of Performance Shares earned in the event the Company's Percentile Rank does not fall directly on one of the ranks listed in the above chart.
    4.        .  Payment of the earned Performance Shares shall be made utilizing a combination of Stock and cash. The earned Performance Shares shall be paid out as follows: sixty percent (60%) in Stock and forty percent (40%) in cash.  Payment of earned Performance Shares shall be made as soon as administratively practicable in the year after the year in which the Performance Period ends, but, in any event, no later than March 15 of the year following the year in which the Performance Period ends.
Form and Timing of Payment of Performance Shares
    5..
        Termination Provisions
           (a)  .  Except as provided in Section 6 of this Agreement and in Subsection (b), below, a Participant shall be eligible for payment of earned Performance Shares, as specified in Section 3, only if the Participant's employment with the Company continues through the end of the Performance Period. 
General
           (b)  .  If a Participant suffers a Disability, dies, is terminated involuntarily without Cause during the Performance Period, or in the event of the Participant's Retirement, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may waive the requirement that the Participant be employed by the Company through the end of the Performance Period.  In such a case, the Participant (or in the event of the Participant's death, the Participant's beneficiary) shall be eligible for all or that proportion of the number of Performance Shares earned under Section 3 (determined at the end of the Performance Period and based on actual results) that his number of full months of participation during the Performance Period bears to the total number of months in the Performance Period.  If the Committee exercises its discretion to waive, in whole or in part, prior to the expiration of the Performance Period, any or all payment limitations with respect to the Performance Shares awarded under this Agreement, payment of the Performance Shares will be made in the year following the year in which Performance Period ends, at the same time as the Committee has provided for payment to all other recipients of awards under the Plan.
Termination for Death or Disability; Involuntary Termination without Cause; Retirement
           (c)  .  In the event of the Participant's Termination of Employment for Cause or voluntary Termination of Employment during the Performance Period, or if the Committee does not exercise its discretion to waive the requirement that the Participant be employed by the Company through the end of the Performance Period in the event of the Participant's Termination of Employment by reason of the Participant's death, Disability, involuntary termination without Cause, or Retirement prior to the close of the Performance Period, the Participant shall forfeit this entire award, with no payment to the Participant.  The Participant's transfer of employment to the Company or any Subsidiary from another Subsidiary or the Company during the Performance Period shall not constitute a Termination of Employment. 
Other Termination
    6.        . 
Change in Control Provisions
           (a)  .  Subject to Subsection (b), below, in the event of a Change in Control, the restrictions applicable to the Performance Shares granted under this Agreement shall lapse, the Performance Goal shall be deemed to have achieved at target level, and all other terms and conditions shall be deemed to have been satisfied, in accordance with Section 12(a)(iv) of the Plan.   In the event that the Performance Period is shortened due to a Change in Control, the amount of the Performance Shares deemed earned shall be prorated by multiplying the Target Number of Performance Shares by a fraction, the numerator of which is the actual number of whole months in the shortened Performance Period and the denominator of which is the number of whole months in the original Performance Period.  Subject to Section 11(g) of this Agreement, and except as provided in Subsection (b) below, payment shall be made in Stock or cash, at the discretion of the Committee, within thirty (30) days following the effective date of the Change in Control.
General
Waiver of Payment Limitations Prior to a Change in Control
    7.        . The Participant shall have no right to any dividends which may be paid with respect to shares of Stock until any such shares are delivered to the Participant following the completion of the Performance Period.
Dividends
    8.        . The Company shall have the power and the right to deduct or withhold, or require the Participant or beneficiary to remit to the Company, an amount sufficient to satisfy federal, state, and local taxes, domestic or foreign, required by law or regulation to be withheld with respect to any taxable event arising as a result of this Agreement.
Tax Withholding
    9.        . Performance Shares may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.
Nontransferability
    10.      . This Agreement and the rights of the Participant hereunder are subject to all the terms and conditions of the Plan, as the same may be amended from time to time, as well as to such rules and regulations as the Committee may adopt for administration of the Plan. It is expressly understood that the Committee is authorized to administer, construe, and make all determinations necessary or appropriate to the administration of the Plan and this Agreement, all of which shall be binding upon the Participant. Any inconsistency between the Agreement and the Plan shall be resolved in favor of the Plan.
Administration
    11.      .  The Participant hereby agrees with the Company as follows: 
Specific Restrictions Upon Shares
    (a)      The Participant shall acquire the shares of Stock issuable with respect to the Performance Shares granted hereunder for investment purposes only and not with a view to resale or other distribution thereof to the public in violation of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "1933 Act"), and shall not dispose of any such Stock in transactions which, in the opinion of counsel to the Company, violate the 1933 Act, or the rules and regulations thereunder, or any applicable state securities or "blue sky" laws.
    (b)      If any shares of Stock acquired with respect to the Performance Shares shall be registered under the 1933 Act, no public offering (otherwise than on a national securities exchange, as defined in the Exchange Act) of any such Stock shall be made by the Participant under such circumstances that he or she (or such other person) may be deemed an underwriter, as defined in the 1933 Act; and
    (c)      The Company shall have the authority to endorse upon the certificate or certificates representing the Shares acquired hereunder such legends referring to the foregoing restrictions.     
    12.      .
Miscellaneous
    (a)      . Subject to Plan Section 4(e), in the event of any merger, reorganization, recapitalization, stock dividend, stock split, extraordinary distribution with respect to the Stock or other change in corporate structure affecting the Stock, the Committee or Board if Directors of the Company may make such substitution or adjustments in the aggregate number and kind of shares of Stock subject to this Performance Share Award as it may determine, in its sole discretion, to prevent dilution or enlargement of rights. 
Adjustments to Shares
     (b)     .  Any written notice required or permitted under this Agreement shall be deemed given when delivered personally, as appropriate, either to the Participant or to the Executive Compensation Department of the Company, or when deposited in a United States Post Office as registered mail, postage prepaid, addressed, as appropriate, either to the Participant at his or her address set forth above or such other address as he or she may designate in writing to the Company, or to the Attention: Executive Compensation, BorgWarner Inc., at its headquarters office or such other address as the Company may designate in writing to the Participant.
Notices
    (c)      .  The failure of the Company to enforce at any time any provision of this Agreement shall in no way be construed to be a waiver of such provision or of any other provision hereof.
Failure To Enforce Not a Waiver
    (d)      .  All questions concerning the construction, validity and interpretation of this Agreement shall be governed by and construed according to the internal law, and not the law of conflicts, of the State of Delaware, except that questions concerning the relative rights of the Company and the Participant with respect to Shares, shall be governed by the corporate law of the State of Delaware.
Governing Law
    (e)      .  The Performance Shares provided for herein are granted pursuant to the Plan, and said Performance Shares and this Agreement are in all respects governed by the Plan and subject to all of the terms and provisions thereof, whether such terms and provisions are incorporated in this Agreement solely by reference or expressly cited herein.  If there is any inconsistency between the terms of this Agreement and the terms of the Plan, the Plan's terms shall completely supersede and replace the conflicting terms of this Agreement.   
Provisions of Plan
    (f)       .  It is intended that payments pursuant to this Agreement to a Participant who is a "covered officer" within the meaning of section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code constitute "qualified performance-based compensation" within the meaning of section 1.162.27(e) of the Income Tax Regulations.  To the maximum extent possible, this Agreement and the Plan shall be so interpreted and construed.  Except in the case of a Change in Control, no amounts in excess of the number of Performance Shares earned under Section 3 of this Agreement (determined at the end of the Performance Period and based on actual results) shall be paid to the Participant.  There shall be no waiver by the Committee of any payment limitations in the event of the Participant's Retirement pursuant to Section 11(b)(iii) of the Plan.      
Code section 162(m)
    (g)      .  If the Participant is subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act, except in the case of death or disability, at least six months must elapse from the date of acquisition of the Performance Shares granted hereunder to the date of the Participant's disposition of such Performance Shares or the underlying shares of Stock.  If payment of Performance Shares awarded under this Agreement is delayed to comply with applicable securities laws, then payment shall be made as soon as administratively practicable in the year in which the Committee reasonably determines that payment would not cause such securities laws to be violated.
Section 16 Compliance
    (h)      .  Except as provided in the next sentence, it is intended that the arrangement under which Participant has been awarded Performance Shares under this Agreement and the Plan does not provide for a "deferral of compensation" subject to the requirements of Code Section 409A.  To the extent that the Performance Shares awarded hereunder become vested as a result of the Committee's waiver of payment limitations prior to the end of the Performance Period, the Company and Participant agree that this Agreement shall be administered in accordance with, and, if necessary, amended in a timely manner to comply with, the requirements of paragraphs (2), (3), and (4) of Code Section 409A, as interpreted by guidance and regulations issued by the Internal Revenue Service.
Code Section 409A
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has executed this Agreement in duplicate on the day and year first above written. 
                                                                                                         BORGWARNER INC.
                       By: _______________________
The undersigned hereby accepts, and agrees to, all terms and provisions of the foregoing Agreement. 
                                                                                                         __________________________
Exhibit A
BorgWarner Inc. 2004 Stock Incentive Plan Performance Share Award Agreement
Peer Group Companies
 
ArvinMeritor, Inc.
American Axle
Autoliv, Inc.
Dana Corporation
Gentex
Johnson Controls, Inc.
Lear Corporation
Magna International, Inc.
Modine Manufacturing Co.
Tenneco Automotive, Inc.
TRW
Visteon Corporation

                                               
Immediate Release
Contact: Beth Feikens
248/754-0883
BorgWarner Inc. (NYSE:  BWA) announced today that Thomas T. Stallkamp, 59, has been appointed to its Board of Directors.
Auburn Hills, Michigan, February 8, 2006 -
Mr. Stallkamp is an Industrial Partner with Ripplewood Holdings, LLC, a private equity firm in New York, and the founder and Principal of Collaborative Management, LLC, a private business consulting firm.  From 2000 to 2004, he was Chief Executive Officer of MSX International, a business outsourcing firm.  Prior to becoming vice chairman of DaimlerChrysler Corporation in 1999, Mr. Stallkamp was its president and a member of its board of management.  During close to 20 years at Chrysler Corporation, he helped lead the company to new stability and growth in the uncommonly competitive automotive industry. 
            "Tom Stallkamp's broad experience in the automotive industry will be an asset to BorgWarner and to our Board of Directors, and we are pleased to welcome him as a member," said Timothy M. Manganello, BorgWarner Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. 
Mr. Stallkamp holds a bachelor of science degree in industrial management and economics and a master's degree in business administration from Miami University (Ohio). He currently serves on the boards of Baxter International, Inc., MSX International, and Honsel International Technologies.  He is also a member of the Board of Trustees at Babson College in Boston. He lives in Birmingham, Michigan.
Auburn Hills, Michigan-based BorgWarner Inc. (NYSE: BWA) is a product leader in highly engineered components and systems for vehicle powertrain applications worldwide.  The company operates manufacturing and technical facilities in 61 locations in 17 countries.  Customers include Ford, DaimlerChrysler, General Motors, VW/Audi, Toyota, Hyundai/Kia, Renault/Nissan, Honda, Caterpillar, Navistar International, Peugeot, and BMW. The Internet address for BorgWarner is: http://www.borgwarner.com.
Statements contained in this news release may contain forward-looking statements as contemplated by the 1995 Private Securities Litigation Reform Act that are based on management's current expectations, estimates and projections.  Words such as "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "estimates," variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements.  Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the control of the Company, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed, projected or implied in or by the forward-looking statements.  Such risks and uncertainties include:  fluctuations in domestic or foreign automotive production, the continued use of outside suppliers by original equipment manufacturers, fluctuations in demand for vehicles containing the Company's products, general economic conditions, as well as other risks detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Cautionary Statements filed as Exhibit 99.1 to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004.  The Company does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statement.


