FILE:BWA/BWA-8K-20081118151433.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.03. Amendment to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
     On November 12, 2008, the Board of Directors of BorgWarner Inc. approved certain amendments to the Company's bylaws effective November 12, 2008. Among other changes:
A copy of the Company's bylaws as amended and restated is filed as Exhibit 3.1 and is incorporated herein by this reference. The preceding summary is not intended to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to such amended and restated bylaws.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
     On November 12, 2008, BorgWarner Inc. issued a press release announcing a quarterly dividend on its common stock. A copy of BorgWarner Inc.'s press release regarding an increase to its quarterly dividend is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is hereby incorporated herein by this reference.
Table of Contents
In connection with the amendments to the Company's bylaws described in Item 5.03 of this Current Report on Form 8-K and recent changes to the New York Stock Exchange's rule regarding "director independence," the Company has amended its corporate governance guidelines to reflect such bylaw amendments and such rule changes. The Company's amended corporate governance guidelines can be found on the Company's website at .
http://www.borgwarner.com/invest/governance.shtml
     The information provided in this Item 7.01 and the accompanying Exhibit 99.1 are being furnished under Item 7.01 of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liability of such Section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation by reference language in any such filing, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibits are being furnished as part of this Report.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 3.1
     SECTION 1. REGISTERED OFFICE.The registered office of the Corporation shall be established and maintained at the office of The Corporation Trust Company, at 1209 West Orange Street in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, State of Delaware, and said corporation shall be the registered agent of this Corporation in charge thereof.
     SECTION 2. OTHER OFFICES.The Corporation may have other offices, either within or without the State of Delaware, at such place or places as the Board of Directors may from time to time appoint or the business of the Corporation may require.
     SECTION 1. ANNUAL MEETINGS.Annual meetings of stockholders for the election of directors, and for such other business as may be stated in the notice of the meeting, shall be held at such place, either within or without the State of Delaware, and at such time and date as the Board of Directors, by resolution, shall determine and as set forth in the notice of the meeting. If the date of the annual meeting shall fall upon a legal holiday, the meeting shall be held on the next succeeding business day. At each annual meeting, the stockholders entitled to vote shall elect a Board of Directors and they may transact such other corporate business as shall be stated in the notice of the meeting.
     SECTION 2. OTHER MEETINGS.Meetings of stockholders for any purpose other than the election of directors may be held at such time and place, within or without the State of Delaware, as shall be stated in the notice of the meeting.
     SECTION 3. SPECIAL MEETINGS.Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, special meetings of the stockholders for any purpose or purposes may be called only by the Chairman of the Board of Directors or the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution approved by a majority of the total number of directors or by any person or committee expressly so authorized by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution approved by a majority of the total number of directors.
 
     SECTION 4. VOTING.Each stockholder shall be entitled to vote in accordance with the terms of the Certificate of Incorporation and in accordance with the provisions of these By-Laws, in person or by proxy, but no proxy shall be voted after three years from its date unless such proxy provides for a longer period.
     A complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the ensuing election, arranged in alphabetical order, with the address of each, and the number of shares held by each, shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours for a period of at least ten days prior to the meeting, either at a place within the city where the meeting is to be held, which place shall be specified in the notice of the meeting, or, if not so specified, at the place where the meeting is to be held. The list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof, and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present.
     SECTION 5. QUORUM.Except as otherwise required by law, by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these By-Laws, the presence, in person or by proxy, of stockholders holding a majority of the stock of the Corporation entitled to vote shall constitute a quorum at all meetings of the stockholders. In case a quorum shall not be present at any meeting, a majority in interest of the stockholders entitled to vote thereat, present in person or by proxy, shall have power to adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until the requisite amount of stock entitled to vote shall be present.
     When a meeting is adjourned to another time or place, notice need not be given of the adjourned meeting if the time and place are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken; provided, however, that if the date of any adjourned meeting is more than thirty days after the date for which the meeting was originally noticed, or if a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, notice of the place, if any, date, and time of the adjourned meeting shall be given in conformity herewith. At any adjourned meeting, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the original meeting.
     SECTION 6. NOTICE OF MEETINGS.Written notice, stating the place, date and time of the meeting, and the nature of the business to be considered, shall be given to each stockholder entitled to vote thereat at his address as it appears on the records of the Corporation, not less than ten nor more than sixty days before the date of the meeting, except as otherwise provided herein or required by law. Without limiting the manner by which notice otherwise may be given effectively to stockholders, any notice to stockholders may be given by electronic transmission in the manner provided in Section 232 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. No business other than that stated in the notice shall be transacted at any meeting without the unanimous consent of all the stockholders entitled to vote thereat. Any previously scheduled annual meeting of the stockholders may be postponed, and any previously scheduled special meeting of the stockholders may be postponed or cancelled by resolution of the Board of Directors upon public notice given prior to the time previously scheduled for such meeting of stockholders.
     SECTION 7. NOTICE OF STOCKHOLDER BUSINESS AND NOMINATIONS.(A)  .   Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the Corporation and the proposal of other business to be
Annual Meetings of Stockholders
(1)
 
considered by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders (a) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting delivered pursuant to Section 6 of this Article II (b) by or at the direction of the Chairman or the Board of Directors or (c) by any stockholder of the Corporation who is entitled to vote at the meeting, who complied with the notice procedures set forth in clauses (2) and (3) of this paragraph (A) and this By-Law and who was a stockholder of record at the time such notice is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation, this clause (c) shall be the exclusive means for a stockholder to make nominations or submit other business (other than matters brought under Rule 14a-8 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") and included in the Corporation's notice of meeting) before an annual meeting of stockholders.
          (2) For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (c) of paragraph (A)(1) of this By-Law, the stockholder must have given timely notice in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation and such other business must otherwise be a proper matter for stockholder action. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not earlier than the close of business on the one hundred and twentieth day prior to nor later than the close of business on the ninetieth day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than thirty days before, or more than sixty days after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the one hundred and twentieth day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the ninetieth day prior to such annual meeting or, if the first public announcement of the date of such annual meeting is less than 100 days prior to the date of such annual meeting, the tenth day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made. In no event shall any adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting or the announcement thereof commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above. Such stockholder's notice shall set forth (a) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a director (i) all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, (ii) such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected, (iii) a description of all direct and indirect compensation and other material monetary agreements, arrangements and understandings during the past three years, and any other material relationships, between or among such stockholder and beneficial owner, if a proposal is being made on the behalf of such an owner, and their respective affiliates and associates, or others acting in concert therewith, on the one hand, and each proposed nominee, and his or her respective affiliates and associates, or others acting in concert therewith, on the other hand, including, without limitation all information that would be required to be disclosed pursuant to Rule 404 promulgated under Regulation S-K if the stockholder making the nomination and any beneficial owner on whose behalf the nomination is made, if any, or any affiliate or associate thereof or person acting in concert therewith, were the "registrant" for purposes of such rule and the nominee were a director or executive officer of such registrant; (iv) a statement whether such person, if elected, intends to tender, promptly following such person's election or re-election, an irrevocable resignation effective upon such person's failure to receive the required vote for re-election at the next meeting at which such person would face re-election and upon acceptance of
 
such resignation by the Board of Directors, in accordance with the Corporation's Corporate Governance Guideline on Director Elections and (v) with respect to each nominee for election or re-election to the Board of Directors, a completed and signed questionnaire; representation and agreement required by Article II, Section 8 of these By-Laws and any other information the Corporation may require to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as an independent director of the Corporation or that could be material to a reasonable stockholder's understanding of the independence, or lack thereof, of such nominee; (b) as to any other business that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, set forth (i) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting, any material interest in such business of such stockholder, the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made and (ii) a description of all agreements, arrangements and understandings between such stockholder and beneficial owner, if any and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with the proposal of such business by such stockholder ; and (c) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (i) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner, if any, (ii) (1) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are directly or indirectly owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner, (2) any option, warrant, convertible security, stock appreciation right, or similar right with an exercise or conversion privilege or a settlement payment or mechanism at a price related to any class or series of shares of the Corporation or with a value derived in whole or in part from the value of any class or series of shares of the Corporation, whether or not such instrument or right shall be subject to settlement in the underlying class or series of capital stock of the Corporation or otherwise (a "Derivative Instrument") directly or indirectly owned beneficially by such stockholder and any other direct or indirect opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the Corporation, (3) any proxy, contract, arrangement, understanding, or relationship pursuant to which such stockholder has a right to vote any shares of any security of the Corporation, (4) any short interest in any security of the Corporation (for purposes of this Bylaw a person shall be deemed to have a short interest in a security if such person directly or indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship or otherwise, has the opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any decrease in the value of the subject security), (5) any rights to dividends on the shares of the Corporation owned beneficially by such stockholder that are separated or separable from the underlying shares of the Corporation, (6) any proportionate interest in shares of the Corporation or Derivative Instruments held, directly or indirectly, by a general or limited partnership in which such stockholder is a general partner or, directly or indirectly, beneficially owns an interest in a general partner and (7) any performance-related fees (other than an asset-based fee) that such stockholder is entitled to based on any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the Corporation or Derivative Instruments, if any, as of the date of such notice, including without limitation any such interests held by members of such stockholder's immediate family sharing the same household (which information shall be supplemented by such stockholder and beneficial owner, if any, not later than 10 days after the record date for the meeting to disclose such ownership as of the record date), and (iii) any other information relating to such stockholder and beneficial owner, if any, that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for, as applicable, the proposal and/or for the election of directors pursuant to Section 14 of the
 
Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder; and (iv) whether either such stockholder or beneficial owner intends to deliver a proxy statement and form of proxy to holders of, in the case of a proposal, at least the percentage of the Corporation's voting shares required under applicable law to carry the proposal or, in the case of a nomination or nominations, a sufficient number of holders of the Corporation's voting shares to elect such nominee or nominees (an affirmative statement of such intent, a "Solicitation Notice").
          (3) Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of paragraph (A)(2) of this By-Law to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the Corporation is increased and there is no public announcement naming all of the nominees for director or specifying the size of the increased Board of Directors made by the Corporation at least 100 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a stockholder's notice required by this By-Law shall also be considered timely, but only, with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation.
     (B) . Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting pursuant to Section 7 of this Article II. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (a) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (b) by any stockholder of the Corporation who is entitled to vote at the meeting, who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this By-Law and who is a stockholder of record at the time such notice is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation. Nominations by stockholders of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at such a special meeting of stockholders if the stockholder's notice as required by paragraph (A) (2) of this By-Law shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not earlier than the close of business on the one hundred and twentieth day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth day prior to such special meeting or the tenth day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting. In no event shall any adjournment or postponement of a special meeting or the announcement thereof commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
Special Meetings of Stockholders
     (C) . (1)  Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this By-Law shall be eligible to serve as director and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this By-Law. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, the chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made in accordance with the procedures set forth in this By-Law and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with this By-Law, to declare that such defective proposal or nomination shall be disregarded.
General
 
          (2) For purposes of this By-Law, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
          (3) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this By-Law, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this By-Law. Nothing in this By-Law shall be deemed to affect any rights (i) of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act or (ii) of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock if and to the extent provided for under law, the Certificate of Incorporation or this Bylaw.
     SECTION 8. SUBMISSION OF QUESTIONNAIRE, REPRESENTATION AND AGREEMENT.To be eligible to be a nominee for election or reelection as a director of the Corporation, a person must deliver (in accordance with the time periods prescribed for delivery of notice under Section 7 of this Article II of these By-Laws) to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation a written questionnaire with respect to the background and qualification of such person and the background of any other person or entity on whose behalf the nomination is being made (which questionnaire shall be provided by the Secretary upon written request) and a written representation and agreement (in the form provided by the Secretary upon written request) that such person (A) is not and will not become a party to (1) any agreement, arrangement or understanding with, and has not given any commitment or assurance to, any person or entity as to how such person, if elected as a director of the Corporation, will act or vote on any issue or question (a "Voting Commitment") that has not been disclosed to the Corporation or (2) any Voting Commitment that could limit or interfere with such person's ability to comply, if elected as a director of the Corporation, with such person's fiduciary duties under applicable law, (B) is not and will not become a party to any agreement, arrangement or understanding with any person or entity other than the Corporation with respect to any direct or indirect compensation, reimbursement or indemnification in connection with service or action as a director that has not been disclosed therein, (C) beneficially owns, or agrees to purchase, if elected as a director of the Corporation, common shares of the Corporation in accordance with the Corporation's Corporate Governance Guidelines as they may be amended from time to time, and not dispose of such minimum number of shares so long as such person is a director, and has disclosed therein whether all or any portion of the shares were purchased with any financial assistance provided by any other person and whether any other person has any interest in the shares, and (D) in such person's individual capacity and on behalf of any person or entity on whose behalf the nomination is being made, would be in compliance, if elected as a director of the Corporation, and will comply with all applicable publicly disclosed corporate governance, conflict of interest, confidentiality and stock ownership and trading policies and guidelines of the Corporation.
     SECTION 9. PROCEDURE FOR ELECTION OF DIRECTORS; VOTE REQUIRED.Election of directors at all meetings of the stockholders at which directors are to be elected shall be by written ballot. Except as otherwise set forth in the Certificate of
 
Incorporation with respect to the right of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or any other series or class of stock to elect directors under specified circumstances, a nominee for director shall be elected to the Board of Directors if the votes cast "for" such nominee's election exceed the votes cast "against" such nominee's election; provided, however, that directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast at any meeting of stockholders for which (a) the Secretary of the Corporation receives a notice that a stockholder has nominated a person for election to the Board of Directors in compliance with the advance notice requirements for stockholder nominees for director set forth in Article II, Section 7(A) of these By-Laws and (b) such nomination has not been withdrawn by such stockholder on or prior to the tenth day before the date the Corporation first mails its notice of meeting for such meeting to the stockholders. If directors are to be elected by a plurality of the votes cast, stockholders shall not be permitted to vote "against" a nominee.
     Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, all matters other than the election of directors submitted to the stockholders at any meeting shall be decided by a majority of the votes cast affirmatively or negatively with respect thereto.
     SECTION 10. INSPECTORS OF ELECTIONS; OPENING AND CLOSING THE POLLS.(A)  The Board of Directors by resolution shall appoint one or more inspectors, which inspector or inspectors may include individuals who serve the Corporation in other capacities, including, without limitation, as officers, employees, agents or representatives of the Corporation, to act at the meetings of stockholders and make a written report thereof. One or more persons may be designated as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. If no inspector or alternate has been appointed to act, or if all inspectors or alternates who have been appointed are unable to act, at a meeting of stockholders, the chairman of the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before discharging his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. The inspectors shall have the duties prescribed by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
     (B) The chairman of the meeting shall fix and announce at the meeting the date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting.
     SECTION 11. NO STOCKHOLDER ACTION BY WRITTEN CONSENT.Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or any other series or class of stock as set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation to elect directors under specific circumstances, any action required or permitted to be taken by the stockholders of the Corporation must be effected at an annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation and may not be effected by any consent in writing by such stockholders.
 
     SECTION 1. GENERAL POWERS.The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of its Board of Directors. In addition to the powers and authorities by these By-Laws expressly conferred upon them, the Board of Directors may exercise all such powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these By-Laws required to be exercised or done by the stockholders.
     SECTION 2. NUMBER, TENURE AND QUALIFICATIONS.Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, or any other series or class of stock as set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation, to elect directors under specified circumstances, the number of directors shall be fixed from time to time exclusively pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the total number of directors, which the Corporation would have if there were no vacancies (the "Whole Board"), but shall consist of not more than seventeen nor less than three directors. The directors, other than those who may be elected by the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, or any other series or class of stock as set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation, shall be divided, with respect to the time for which they severally hold office, into three classes, as nearly equal in number as possible, with the term of office of the first class to expire at the 1994 annual meeting of stockholders, the term of office of the second class to expire at the 1995 annual meeting of stockholders and the term of office of the third class to expire at the 1996 annual meeting of stockholders. Each director shall hold office until his or her successor shall have been duly elected and qualified. At each annual meeting of stockholders, commencing with the 1994 annual meeting, (i) directors elected to succeed those directors whose terms then expire shall be elected for a term of office to expire at the third succeeding annual meeting of stockholders after their election, with each director to hold office until his or her successor shall have been duly elected and qualified, and (ii) if authorized by a resolution of the Board of Directors, directors may be elected to fill any vacancy on the Board of Directors, regardless of how such vacancy shall have been created.
     SECTION 3. REGULAR MEETINGS.A regular meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held without other notice than this By-Law as soon as practicable after each annual meeting of stockholders at such location as is convenient and established by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may, by resolution, provide the time and place for the holding of additional regular meetings without other notice than such resolution.
     Unless otherwise restricted by the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation or these By-Laws, members of the Board of Directors, or any committee designated by the Board of Directors, may participate in any meeting of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof by means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and such participation in a meeting shall constitute presence in person at the meeting.
     SECTION 4. SPECIAL MEETINGS.Special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be called at the request of the Chairman of the Board, the President or any three members of the Board of Directors. The person or persons authorized to call special meetings of the Board of Directors may fix the place and time of the meetings.
 
     SECTION 5. NOTICE.Notice of any special meeting shall be given to each director at his business or residence in writing or by telegram, facsimile or similar means of electronic communication or by telephone. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed adequately delivered when deposited in the United States mails so addressed, with postage thereon prepaid, at least five days before such meeting. If by telegram, such notice shall be deemed adequately delivered when the telegram is delivered to the telegraph company at least twenty-four hours before such meeting. If by facsimile transmission or similar means of electronic communication, such notice shall be transmitted at least twenty-four hours before such meeting. If by telephone, the notice shall be given at least twelve hours prior to the time set for the meeting. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors need be specified in the notice of such meeting, except for amendments to these By-Laws as provided under Article VII hereof. A meeting may be held at any time without notice if all the directors are present or if those not present waive notice of the meeting in writing, either before or after such meeting.
     SECTION 6. QUORUM.A majority of the directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. If at any meeting of the Board of Directors there shall be less than a quorum present, a majority of the directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum is obtained, and no further notice thereof need be given other than by announcement at the meeting which shall be so adjourned. The act of the majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors, unless the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws require the vote of a greater number.
     SECTION 7. VACANCIES.Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, or any other series or class of stock as set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation, to elect directors under specified circumstances, and unless the Board of Directors otherwise determines, vacancies resulting from death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or other cause, and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors, shall be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors, though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors, and any director so chosen shall hold office for a term expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders at which the term of office of the class to which he or she has been elected expires and until such director's successor shall have been duly elected and qualified. No decrease in the number of authorized directors constituting the Whole Board shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
     SECTION 8. REMOVAL.Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, or any other series or class of stock as set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation, to elect directors under specified circumstances, any director, or the entire Board of Directors, may be removed from office at any time, but only for cause and only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80 percent of the voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock, voting together as a single class, at an annual meeting or a special meeting called expressly for this purpose. For purposes of these By-Laws, "Voting Stock" shall mean the shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors.
     SECTION 9. RESIGNATIONS.Any director, member of a committee or other officer may resign at any time. Such resignation shall be made in writing, and shall take effect at
 
the time specified therein, and if no time be specified, at the time of its receipt by the President or Secretary. The acceptance of a resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
     SECTION 10. COMMITTEES.The Board of Directors may, by resolution or resolutions passed by a majority of the Whole Board, designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of two or more of the directors of the Corporation. The board may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. In the absence or disqualification of any member of such committee or committees, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he, she or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member.
     Any such committee, to the extent provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors, or in these By-Laws, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, and may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it; but no such committee shall have the power or authority in reference to amending the Certificate of Incorporation (except that a committee may, to the extent authorized in the resolution or resolutions providing for the issuance of shares of stock adopted by the Board of Directors as provided in subsection (a) of Section 151 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, fix the designation and any of the preferences and any of the rights of such shares relating to dividends, redemption, dissolution, any distribution of assets of the Corporation or fix the number of shares of any series of stock or authorize the increase or decrease of any shares of any series), adopting an agreement of merger or consolidation, recommending to the stockholders the sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the Corporation's property and assets, recommending to the stockholders a dissolution of the Corporation or a revocation of a dissolution, or amending the By-Laws of the Corporation; and, unless the resolution, these By-Laws or the Certificate of Incorporation expressly so provides, no such committee shall have the power or authority to declare a dividend or to authorize the issuance of stock.
     Each committee may determine the procedural rules for meeting and conducting its business and shall act in accordance therewith, except as otherwise provided herein or required by law. Adequate provision shall be made for notice to members of all meetings; one-third of the members shall constitute a quorum unless the committee shall consist of one or two members, in which event one member shall constitute a quorum; and all matters shall be determined by a majority vote of the members present. Action may be taken by any committee without a meeting if all members thereof consent thereto in writing or by electronic transmission, and the writing or writings or electronic transmission or transmissions are filed with the minutes of the proceedings of such committee. If as a result of a catastrophe or other emergency condition a quorum of any committee of the Board of Directors having power to act in the premises cannot readily be convened and a quorum of the Board of Directors cannot readily be convened, then all the powers and duties of the Board of Directors shall automatically vest and continue, until a quorum of the Board of Directors can be convened, in an Emergency Management Committee, which shall consist of all readily available members of the Board of Directors and two of whose members shall constitute a quorum. The Emergency Management Committee shall call a meeting of the Board of Directors as soon as circumstances permit for the
 
purpose of filling any vacancies on the Board of Directors and its committees and taking such other action as may be appropriate.
     SECTION 11. COMPENSATION.Directors shall not receive any stated salary for their services as directors or as members of committees, but by resolution of the board an annual retainer and a fixed fee and expenses of attendance may be allowed for attendance at each meeting. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to preclude any director from serving the Corporation in any other capacity as an officer, agent or otherwise, and receiving compensation therefor.
     SECTION 12. ACTION WITHOUT MEETING.Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors, or of any committee thereof, may be taken without a meeting, if prior to such action a written consent thereto is signed by all members of the board or of such committee, as the case may be, and such written consent is filed with the minutes of proceedings of the board or committee.
     SECTION 1. OFFICERS.The officers of the Corporation shall be a Chief Executive Officer, a Chairman of the Board of Directors, a President, a Treasurer, and a Secretary, all of whom shall be elected by the Board of Directors and who shall hold office until their successors are elected and qualified. In addition, the Board of Directors may elect one or more Vice-Presidents and such Assistant Secretaries and Assistant Treasurers as they may deem proper. None of the officers of the Corporation need be directors. More than two offices may be held by the same person.
     SECTION 2. OTHER OFFICERS AND AGENTS.The Board of Directors may appoint such other officers and agents as it may deem advisable, who shall hold their offices for such terms and shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as shall be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors.
     SECTION 3. CHAIRMAN.The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors and shall have and perform such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors.
     SECTION 4. CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER.The Chief Executive Officer shall be the head of the Corporation and shall have the general powers and duties of supervision and management usually vested in the office of Chief Executive Officer of a corporation. He or she shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders if present thereat, and in the absence or non-election of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, at all meetings of the Board of Directors, and shall have general supervision, direction and control of the business of the Corporation. Except as the Board of Directors shall authorize the execution thereof in some other manner, he or she shall execute bonds, mortgages and other contracts in behalf of the Corporation, and shall cause the seal to be affixed to any instrument requiring it and when so affixed the seal shall be attested
 
by the signature of the Secretary or the Treasurer or an Assistant Secretary or an Assistant Treasurer.
     SECTION 5. PRESIDENT.The President shall have such powers and shall perform such duties as shall be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer.
     SECTION 6. VICE-PRESIDENT.Each Vice-President shall have such powers and shall perform such duties as shall be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors.
     SECTION 7. TREASURER.The Treasurer shall have the custody of the corporate funds and securities and shall keep full and accurate account of receipts and disbursements in books belonging to the Corporation. He or she shall deposit all moneys and other valuables in the name and to the credit of the Corporation in such depositories as may be designated by the Board of Directors.
     The Treasurer shall disburse the funds of the Corporation as may be ordered by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the President, taking proper vouchers for such disbursements. He or she shall render to the Chief Executive Officer, the President and Board of Directors at the regular meetings of the Board of Directors, or whenever they may request it, an account of all his transactions as Treasurer and of the financial condition of the Corporation. If required by the Board of Directors, he or she shall give the Corporation a bond for the faithful discharge of his duties in such amount and with such surety as the Board shall prescribe.
     SECTION 8. SECRETARY.The Secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of stockholders and directors, and all other notices required by law or by these By-Laws, and in case of his absence or refusal or neglect so to do, any such notice may be given by any person thereunto directed by the Chief Executive Officer, the President, or by the directors, or stockholders, upon whose requisition the meeting is called as provided in these By-Laws. He or she shall record all the proceedings of the meetings of the Corporation and of the Board of Directors in a book to be kept for that purpose, and shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors or the President. He or she shall have custody of the seal of the Corporation and shall affix the same to all instruments requiring it, when authorized by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the President, and attest the same.
     SECTION 9. ASSISTANT TREASURERS AND ASSISTANT SECRETARIES.Assistant Treasurers and Assistant Secretaries, if any, shall be elected and shall have such powers and shall perform such duties as shall be assigned to them, respectively, by the Board of Directors.
     SECTION 10. REMOVAL.Any officer of the Corporation may be removed at any time, with or without cause, by the Board of Directors.
 
     SECTION 1. CERTIFICATES OF STOCK.A certificate of stock, signed by the Chief Executive Officer, or the President or a Vice-President, and the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, shall be issued to each stockholder certifying the number and class or series of shares owned by him or her in the Corporation. Any or all of the signatures may be facsimiles. Certificates of stock of the Corporation shall be of such form and device as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine.
     SECTION 2. LOST CERTIFICATES.A new certificate of stock may be issued in the place of any certificate theretofore issued by the Corporation, alleged to have been lost or destroyed, and the Board of Directors may, in its discretion, require the owner of the lost or destroyed certificate, or such owner's legal representatives, to give the Corporation a bond, in such sum as they may direct, not exceeding double the value of the stock, to indemnify the Corporation against any claim that may be made against it on account of the alleged loss of any such certificate, or the issuance of any such new certificate.
     SECTION 3. TRANSFER OF SHARES.The shares of Stock of the Corporation shall be transferable only upon its books by the holders thereof in person or by their duly authorized attorneys or legal representatives, and upon such transfer the old certificates shall be surrendered to the Corporation by the delivery thereof to the person in charge of the stock and transfer books and ledgers, or to such other person as the directors may designate, by whom they shall be cancelled, and new certificates shall thereupon be issued. A record shall be made of each transfer and whenever a transfer shall be made for collateral security, and not absolutely, it shall be so expressed in the entry of the transfer.
     SECTION 4. STOCKHOLDERS RECORD DATE.In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or to express consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not be more than sixty nor less than ten days before the date of such meeting, nor more than sixty days prior to any other action. If no record date is fixed, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held, and the record date for determining stockholders for any other purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment or postponement of the meeting; provided, however,  that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned or postponed meeting.
     SECTION 5. DIVIDENDS.Subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, the Board of Directors may, out of funds legally available therefor at any regular or special meeting, declare dividends upon the capital stock of the Corporation as and when they deem expedient. Before declaring any dividend there may be set apart, out of any funds of the Corporation available for dividends, such sum or sums as the directors from time to time in their
 
discretion deem proper for working capital or as a reserve fund to meet contingencies or for such other purposes as the directors shall deem conducive to the interests of the Corporation.
     SECTION 6. SEAL.The corporate seal shall be circular in form and shall contain the name of the Corporation, the year of its creation and the words "CORPORATE SEAL DELAWARE." Said seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or reproduced or otherwise.
     SECTION 7. FISCAL YEAR.The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be determined by resolution of the Board of Directors.
     SECTION 8. CHECKS.All checks, drafts or other orders for the payment of money, notes or other evidences of indebtedness issued in the name of the Corporation shall be signed by such officer or officers, agent or agents of the Corporation, and in such manner as shall be determined from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors.
     SECTION 9. NOTICE AND WAIVER OF NOTICE.Whenever any notice is required by these By-Laws to be given to the stockholders of the Corporation, personal notice is not meant unless expressly so stated, and any notice so required shall be deemed to be sufficient if given by depositing the same in the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the person entitled thereto at his address as it appears on the records of the Corporation, and such notice shall be deemed to have been given on the day of such mailing. Stockholders not entitled to vote shall not be entitled to receive notice of any meetings except as otherwise provided by law.
     Whenever any notice whatever is required to be given under the provisions of any law, or under the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation or these By-Laws, a waiver thereof in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to said notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent thereto.
     SECTION 10. VOTING OF SHARES IN OTHER CORPORATION.Shares in other corporations which are held by the Corporation may be represented and voted by the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, a Vice President or the Treasurer, by proxy or proxies appointed by one of then. The Board of Directors may, however, appoint some other person to vote the shares.
     SECTION 1. Each person who was or is made a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is involved in any action, suit, claim or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (hereinafter a "proceeding"), by reason of the fact that he or she or a person of whom he or she is the legal representative is or was, at any time during which these By-laws are in effect (whether or not such person continues to serve in such capacity at the time any indemnification or payment of expenses pursuant hereto is sought or at the time any proceeding relating thereto exists or is brought), a director or officer of the Corporation or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another
 
corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans maintained or sponsored by the Corporation, whether the basis of such proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director, officer, employee or agent or in any other capacity while serving as a director, officer, employee or agent, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation to the fullest extent authorized by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the Corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than said law permitted the Corporation to provide prior to such amendment), against all expense, liability and loss (including attorneys' fees, judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes or penalties and amounts paid or to be paid in settlement) reasonably incurred or suffered by such person in connection therewith and such indemnification shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of his or her heirs, executors and administrators; provided, however, that except as provided in Section 3 of this Article VI, the Corporation shall indemnify any such person seeking indemnification in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors. The right to indemnification conferred in this Article VI shall be a contract right that vests at the time of such person's service to or at the request of the Corporation and such rights shall continue as to an indemnitee who has ceased to be a director, officer, trustee, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of the indemnitee's heirs, executors and administrators. The right to indemnification shall include the right to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition, such advances to be paid by the Corporation within 20 days after the receipt by the Corporation of a statement or statements from the claimant requesting such advance or advances from time to time; provided, however, that if the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware requires, the payment of such expenses incurred by a director or officer in his or her capacity as a director or officer (and not in any other capacity in which service was or is rendered by such person while a director or officer, including, without limitation, service to an employee benefit plan) in advance of the final disposition of a proceeding, shall be made only upon delivery to the Corporation of an undertaking by or on behalf of such director or officer, to repay all amounts so advanced if it shall ultimately be determined that such director or officer is not entitled to be indemnified under this Article VI or otherwise.
     SECTION 2. To obtain indemnification under this Article VI, a claimant shall submit to the Corporation a written request, including therein or therewith such documentation and information as is reasonably available to the claimant and is reasonably necessary to determine whether and to what extent the claimant is entitled to indemnification. Upon written request by a claimant for indemnification pursuant to the first sentence of this Section 2, a determination, if required by applicable law, with respect to the claimant's entitlement thereto shall be made as follows: (1) if requested by the claimant, by Independent Counsel (as hereinafter defined), or (2) if no request is made by the claimant for a determination by Independent Counsel, (i) by the Board of Directors by a majority vote of a quorum consisting of Disinterested Directors (as hereinafter defined), or (ii) if a quorum of the Board of Directors consisting of Disinterested Directors is not obtainable or, even if obtainable, such quorum of Disinterested Directors so directs, by Independent Counsel in a written opinion to the Board of Directors, a copy of which shall be delivered to the claimant, or (iii) if a quorum of Disinterested Directors so directs, by the stockholders of the Corporation. In the event the determination of
 
entitlement to indemnification is to be made by Independent Counsel at the request of the claimant, the Independent Counsel shall be selected by the Board of Directors unless there shall have occurred within two years prior to the date of the commencement of the action, suit or proceeding for which indemnification is claimed a "Change of Control" as defined in the BorgWarner Inc. Amended and Restated 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (as such plan shall exist as of the date of adoption of these Amended and Restated By-laws), in which case the Independent Counsel shall be selected by the claimant unless the claimant shall request that such selection be made by the Board of Directors. If it is so determined that the claimant is entitled to indemnification, payment to the claimant shall be made within 10 days after such determination.
     SECTION 3. If a claim under Section 1 of this Article VI is not paid in full by the Corporation within thirty days after a written claim pursuant to Section 2 of this Article VI has been received by the Corporation, the claimant may at any time thereafter bring suit against the Corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim and, if successful in whole or in part, the claimant shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting such claim. It shall be a defense to any such action (other than an action brought to enforce a claim for expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition where the required undertaking, if any is required, has been tendered to the Corporation) that the claimant has not met the standard of conduct which makes it permissible under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware for the Corporation to indemnify the claimant for the amount claimed, but the burden of proving such defense shall be on the Corporation. Neither the failure of the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, Independent Counsel or stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the claimant is proper in the circumstances because he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, nor an actual determination by the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, Independent Counsel or stockholders) that the claimant has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that the claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct.
     SECTION 4. If a determination shall have been made pursuant to Section 2 of this Article VI that the claimant is entitled to indemnification, the Corporation shall be bound by such determination in any judicial proceeding commenced pursuant to Section 3 of this Article VI.
     SECTION 5. The Corporation shall be precluded from asserting in any judicial proceeding commenced pursuant to Section 3 of this Article VI that the procedures and presumptions of this Article VI are not valid, binding and enforceable and shall stipulate in such proceeding that the Corporation is bound by all the provisions of this Article VI.
     SECTION 6. The right to indemnification and the payment of expenses incurred in defending a proceeding in advance of its final disposition conferred in this Article VI shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, By-Laws, agreement, vote of stockholders or Disinterested Directors or otherwise. No repeal or modification of this Article VI shall in any way diminish or adversely affect the rights of any director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation hereunder in respect of any occurrence or matter arising prior to any such repeal or modification and cannot be terminated by the Corporation, the Board of Directors or the
 
stockholders of the Corporation with respect to a person's service prior to the date of such termination. Any amendment, modification, alteration or repeal of this By-Law that in any way diminishes, limits, restricts, adversely affects or eliminates any right of an indemnitee or his or her successors to indemnification, advancement of expenses or otherwise shall be prospective only and shall not in any way diminish, limit, restrict, adversely affect or eliminate any such right with respect to any actual or alleged state of facts, occurrence, action or omission then or previously existing, or any action, suit or proceeding previously or thereafter brought or threatened based in whole or in part upon any such actual or alleged state of facts, occurrence, action or omission.
     SECTION 7. The Corporation may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and any current or former director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any expense, liability or loss, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. To the extent that the Corporation maintains any policy or policies providing such insurance, each such current or former director or officer, and each such agent or employee to which rights to indemnification have been granted as provided in Section 8 of this Article VI, shall be covered by such policy or policies in accordance with its or their terms to the maximum extent of the coverage there under for any such director, officer, employee or agent.
     SECTION 8. The Corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, grant rights to indemnification, and rights to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition, to any current or former employee or agent or class of employees or agents of the Corporation (including the heirs, executors, administrators or estate of each such person) to the fullest extent of the provisions of this Article VI with respect to the indemnification and advancement of expenses of current or former directors and officers of the Corporation.
     SECTION 9. If any provision or provisions of this Article VI shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever: (1) the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Article VI (including, without limitation, each portion of any paragraph of this Article VI containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that is not itself held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby; and (2) to the fullest extent possible, the provisions of this Article VI (including, without limitation, each such portion of any paragraph of this Article VI containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall be construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested by the provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable.
     SECTION 10. For purposes of this Article VI:
          (a) "Disinterested Director" means a director of the Corporation who is not and was not a party to the matter in respect of which indemnification is sought by the claimant.
 
          (b) "Independent Counsel" means a law firm, a member of a law firm, or an independent practitioner, that is experienced in matters of corporation law and shall include any person who, under the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing, would not have a conflict of interest in representing either the Corporation or the claimant in an action to determine the claimant's rights under this Article VI.
     SECTION 11. Any notice, request or other communication required or permitted to be given to the Corporation under this Article VI shall be in writing and either delivered in person or sent by telecopy, telex, telegram, overnight mail or courier service, or certified or registered mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to the Secretary of the Corporation and shall be effective only upon receipt by the Secretary.
     These By-Laws may be altered, amended or repealed, and any By-Laws may be made, at any annual meeting of the stockholders or at any special meeting thereof if notice of the proposed alteration or repeal of the By-Laws, or of the By-Laws to be made, is contained in the notice of such meeting, by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of the voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock, or by the affirmative vote of a majority of the total number of directors, at any regular meeting of the Board of Directors, or at any special meeting of the Board of Directors, if notice of the proposed alteration or repeal, or of the By-Laws to be made, is contained in the notice of such special meeting.
     When used in these By-Laws, the terms "written" and "in writing" shall include any "electronic transmission" (as defined in Section 232(c) of the Delaware General Corporation Law, as amended), including, without limitation, any telegram, cablegram, datagram, facsimile transmission and communication by electronic mail.

        .
Exhibit 99.1
Immediate Release
Phone: 248.754.0881
Contact: Mary Brevard
 BorgWarner Inc. (NYSE: BWA), a leading provider of highly engineered engine and drivetrain components and systems to vehicle makers worldwide, announced today that the company's board of directors has approved a 9% increase in the quarterly cash dividend to $0.12 per share on all of the company's issued and outstanding common stock. The dividend is payable on February 16, 2009 to shareholders of record on February 2, 2009.
Auburn Hills, Michigan, November 12, 2008
     "While the economic crisis has created a very difficult environment for our industry, our strong financial position and confidence in future growth set us apart and enables us to increase returns to our shareholders," said Timothy M. Manganello, chairman and chief executive officer. "This is the seventh consecutive year of dividend increases and over that period the dividend has more than tripled."
     Auburn Hills, Michigan-based BorgWarner Inc. (NYSE: BWA) is a product leader in highly engineered components and systems for vehicle powertrain applications worldwide. The FORTUNE 500 company operates manufacturing and technical facilities in 64 locations in 17 countries. Customers include VW/Audi, Ford, Toyota, Renault/Nissan, General Motors, Hyundai/Kia, Daimler, Chrysler, Fiat, BMW, Honda, John Deere, PSA, and MAN. The Internet address for BorgWarner is:
http://www.borgwarner.com.
Statements contained in this news release may contain forward-looking statements as contemplated by the 1995 Private Securities Litigation Reform Act that are based on management's current expectations, estimates and projections. Words such as "outlook," "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "estimates," variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the control of the Company, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed, projected or implied in or by the forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include: fluctuations in domestic or foreign automotive production, the continued use of outside suppliers by original equipment manufacturers, fluctuations in demand for vehicles containing the Company's products, general economic conditions, as well as other risks detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Risk Factors identified in its most recently filed annual report on Form 10-K.  The Company does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statement.


