FILE:BWA/BWA-8K-20081029082526.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     On October 29, 2008, BorgWarner Inc. released its financial results for the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2008. A copy of BorgWarner Inc.'s press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is hereby incorporated by reference (the "Press Release").
     The information provided in the response to this Item 2.02 and the accompanying Exhibit 99.1 are being furnished under Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liability of such Section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation by reference language in any such filing, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
     On October 29, 2008, BorgWarner Inc. issued a press release regarding $2.1 billion of expected new business for 2009 through 2011. A copy of BorgWarner Inc.'s press release regarding such new business is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is hereby incorporated by reference.
     The information provided in the response to this Item 7.01 and the accompanying Exhibit 99.2 are being furnished under Item 7.01 of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liability of such Section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation by reference language in any such filing, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibits are being furnished as part of this Report.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX

EXHIBIT 99.1
 BorgWarner Inc. (NYSE: BWA) today reported third quarter sales and earnings for 2008. International sales offset steep declines in U.S. revenue due to declining economic conditions in the market. The company also adjusted its outlook for the remainder of the year to reflect deteriorating global economic conditions and automotive production declines in Europe.
Auburn Hills, Michigan, October 29, 2008
     
Third Quarter Highlights:
     "While we continued to generate growth from our international operations, the crisis in the financial sector and deteriorating global economic conditions negatively impacted our performance," said Tim Manganello, Chairman and CEO. "We expect the unprecedented current economic environment to continue to affect our near-term results and create difficult conditions through 2009. However, we are responding swiftly to these challenges, having expanded our North American restructuring program during the third quarter and initiating actions in Europe.
Comment and Outlook:
     "We have successfully managed through difficult market environments before. The underlying fundamentals of our business remain strong and our financial structure is sound. We expect to continue to outpace the growth of the auto industry and to strengthen our competitive position through our focus on fuel-efficient technologies, our diversified customer base, a strong geographic presence, and our robust pipeline of new business. We have already taken actions, and will take any necessary additional actions, to successfully navigate through this difficult period and meet the future needs of customers for BorgWarner powertrain technologies."
 
     Commenting on the outlook, Robin Adams, Chief Financial Officer, stated: "Our adjusted guidance for 2008 reflects the rapid deterioration of the global economic environment beyond North America and the resulting near-term pressure on both sales and margins. Our current guidance reflects a 12% reduction in sales in the last six months of 2008 from our previous guidance, of which two-thirds of the sales decline is occurring in our operations outside of the U.S.
     "Looking into 2009, our preliminary view of the year would indicate flat year-over-year sales, excluding the impact of foreign currencies which will be negative. Our current production assumptions are a build rate of less than 12 million units in North America and close to 13 million units in Western Europe. Earnings could be flat year-over-year." The company will provide formal full-year 2009 guidance in January.
     Sales were $1,316.9 million in third quarter 2008, flat with $1,313.6 million in third quarter 2007. The impact of foreign currencies, primarily the Euro, increased sales by $64.4 million, or 4.9%, in third quarter 2008 compared with the same period in 2007. Net income (loss) in the quarter was $(130.4) million or $(1.12) per diluted share compared with $83.2 million, or $0.70 per diluted share in third quarter 2007. Excluding one-time adjustments, third quarter 2008 net income was $51.6 million or $0.44 per diluted share. Third quarter 2007 included a net gain of $16.7 million, or $0.14 per diluted share, related to tax account adjustments, primarily due to a change in the statutory tax rate in Germany. The impact of foreign currencies, primarily the Euro, increased net income by $4.2 million, or $0.04 per diluted share, in third quarter 2008 compared with the same period in 2007.
Financial Results:
     Sales were $4,332.4 million in the first nine months of 2008, up 9.5% from $3,955.7 million, in the first nine months of 2007. The impact of foreign currencies, primarily the Euro, increased sales by $305.1 million, or 8%, in the first nine months of 2008 compared with the same period in 2007. Net income was $45.8 million in the first nine months of 2008, or $0.39 per diluted share, compared with $217.3 million, or $1.85 per diluted share in the first nine months of 2007. Excluding one-time adjustments, nine month 2008 net income was $232.2 million or $1.97 per diluted share. The first nine months of 2007 included a net gain of $16.7 million, or $0.14 per diluted share, related to tax account adjustments, primarily due to a change in the statutory tax rate in Germany. The impact of foreign currencies, primarily the Euro, increased net income by $22.6 million, or $0.19 per diluted share, in the first nine months of 2008 compared with the prior year period.
     Excluding the one-time items, operating income was $74.1 million, or 5.6% of sales, in third quarter 2008 versus $98.3 million, or 7.5% of sales, in third quarter 2007. Research and development spending was $50.7 million in the quarter versus $49.1 million in 2007.
     Net cash provided by operating activities was $265.1 million in the first nine months of 2008 versus $366.1 million in the first nine months of 2007. Investments in capital expenditures, including tooling outlays, totaled $265.6 million for the first nine months of 2008, compared with $194.6 million for the same period in 2007. The company repurchased $48.4 million of common stock during the first nine months of 2008. Balance sheet debt increased by $78.0 million at the end of third quarter 2008 compared with the end of 2007.
 
     The company's capital structure remains strong. The ratio of balance sheet debt to capital was 24% at the end of the third quarter. The company has ample liquidity with $136 million of cash on hand at the end of the quarter and no outstanding borrowings under its $600 million revolving credit facility.
     The following table reconciles the Company's U.S. GAAP reported earnings amounts to the non-U.S. GAAP amounts referenced in the press release and is provided for comparisons with other period results:
     Engine Group third quarter 2008 sales were up 4% versus third quarter 2007 to $974.1 million, while earnings before interest and income taxes were $94.1 million. Sales outside of the U.S. were up 5% excluding the impact of foreign currencies, as the group continued to benefit from European and Asian automaker demand for turbochargers. Sales in the U.S. were down 19% due to production volume declines in vehicles using the company's chain products, thermal systems and turbochargers.
Engine Group Results:
     Drivetrain Group third quarter 2008 sales were down 10% versus third quarter 2007 to $347.2 million. Earnings before interest and income taxes were a loss of $(2.9) million. Sales outside of the U.S. were up 9%, excluding the impact of foreign currencies, driven by demand for dual clutch transmission technology. Drivetrain sales in the U.S. were down 30% primarily due to the impact of lower domestic vehicle production, especially light trucks and SUVs. Industry production of light trucks and SUVs was down 36% from the 2007 third quarter.
Drivetrain Group Results:
 
     Two BorgWarner technologies have been named finalists for the prestigious 2009 Automotive News PACE Awards, BorgWarner's industry-first, patented Cam Torque Actuated (CTA) Camshaft Phasing System from Morse TEC and award-winning, patented Pressure Sensor Glow Plug for diesel engines from BERU. Introduced on the 2009 VW Jetta powered by a 2.0-liter CR-TDI engine, the BorgWarner Pressure Sensor Glow Plug is the first technology that allows OEMs to implement closed-loop combustion control in a mass-produced vehicle at a reasonable cost.
Recent Highlights:
     BorgWarner will supply Cam Torque Actuated (CTA) variable cam timing technology for the upgraded Ford Duratec 3.0-liter V-6 engine, debuting in the 2009 Ford Escape. BorgWarner's industry-first, patented technology improves engine performance and fuel economy while reducing emissions.
     In addition, BorgWarner's award-winning, patented DualTronic Performance Package from Transmission Systems was one of eleven innovations to earn an Honorable Mention from PACE judges. In addition, BorgWarner received a 2008 Global Innovation Award from Nissan in recognition of this innovative dual-clutch technology, used in the all-new 2008 Nissan GT-R.
     BorgWarner will also supply its DualTronic clutch module for the 7-speed "M double-clutch transmission (DCT) Drivelogic" in the BMW M3, recently launched in Europe, the United States and other markets worldwide. The BorgWarner DualTronic clutch module is a critical component in the BMW M DCT Drivelogic developed and manufactured by Getrag. The transmission is the world's first dual clutch transmission designed for conventional rear-wheel drive inline vehicle configurations and was developed to match BMW's highest performance vehicles. The same transmission will later be used in other BMW 3-series vehicles.
     At 9:00 a.m. ET today, a brief conference call concerning third quarter results will be webcast at: .
http://www.borgwarner.com/invest/webcasts.shtml
     Auburn Hills, Michigan-based BorgWarner Inc. (NYSE: BWA) is a product leader in highly engineered components and systems for vehicle powertrain applications worldwide. The FORTUNE 500 company operates manufacturing and technical facilities in 64 locations in 17 countries. Customers include VW/Audi, Ford, Toyota, Renault/Nissan, General Motors, Hyundai/Kia, Daimler, Chrysler, Fiat, BMW, Honda, John Deere, PSA, and MAN. The Internet address for BorgWarner is: http://www.borgwarner.com.
Additional Important Information
Statements contained in this news release may contain forward-looking statements as contemplated by the 1995 Private Securities Litigation Reform Act that are based on management's current expectations, estimates and projections. Words such as "outlook," "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "estimates," variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the control of the Company, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed, projected or implied in or by the forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include: fluctuations in domestic or foreign automotive production, the continued use of outside suppliers by original equipment manufacturers, fluctuations in demand for vehicles containing the Company's products, general economic conditions, as well as other risks detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Risk Factors identified in its most recently filed annual report on Form 10-K. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
Financial Tables Follow
 
BorgWarner Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations (Unaudited) (millions of dollars, except per share data)
Supplemental Information (Unaudited) (millions of dollars)
 
BorgWarner Inc. Net Sales by Reporting Segment (Unaudited) (millions of dollars)
Segment Earnings Before Interest and Income Taxes (Unaudited) (millions of dollars)
 
BorgWarner Inc. Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited) (millions of dollars)
 
BorgWarner Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow (Unaudited) (millions of dollars)

EXHIBIT 99.2
Immediate Release
Mary Brevard 248 754 0881
Contact:
- BorgWarner Inc. (NYSE: BWA) today announced $2.1 billion of expected net new powertrain business for 2009 through 2011, an 8% increase over its previous three-year new business despite the contraction currently occurring within the global auto industry. Demand for the company's environmentally friendly technologies such as gasoline and diesel turbochargers and dual-clutch transmission technology is expected to continue to drive a growth rate for the company that exceeds that of the overall auto industry.
Auburn Hills, Michigan, October 29, 2008
     BorgWarner is a leading provider of highly engineered engine and drivetrain components and systems that address critical environmental needs around the globe such as fuel economy and air quality. The majority of the company's new business is sourced outside of North America with 80% of the programs expected to be launched in Asia and Europe over the three-year period.
     "While the current economic crisis is expected to slow near-term global auto sales, climate change and fuel economy remain major issues that auto makers around the world continue to address," said Timothy M. Manganello, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "With an expanding global customer base, BorgWarner is uniquely positioned among vehicle suppliers to deliver powertrain technologies in a broad range of products that address these needs. Over the next three years, we believe our fuel-efficient technology will be a strong growth catalyst as the industry recovers and increases the number of more efficient vehicles available in every region of the world."
     Of the total new business, 80% is anticipated from engine-related products such as turbochargers, ignition systems, emissions products, engine timing systems, variable cam timing modules and thermal systems. The other 20% is expected in drivetrain-related products including the company's fuel-efficient DualTronic transmission technology and its traditional automatic transmission and all-wheel drive technologies.
     "We have outpaced the growth of the industry by developing and launching products with customers in those regions of the world that are adopting fuel-efficient technologies," Manganello continued. "The European market remains the leader in new powertrain technology and Europe accounts for 50% of our expected new business. As our expansion in Asia continues, new business sales are expected to account for about 30% of the total in that region by the end of the period. China represents about half of that new business. North America is approximately 20% of the anticipated new business over the three years and includes new domestic engine programs aimed at improving fuel efficiency."
     Turbochargers for advanced diesel and gasoline direct injected (GDI) engines account for about 35% of the company's new business, with six of the top 25 programs tied to gasoline direct injected engines in Europe and North America. This is a significant shift from the previous years' new business and reflects the growing
 
importance of GDI engines to address the issues of fuel efficiency and emissions reductions. The market for GDI engines is expected to triple over the next three years, from about 2 million units today to over 6 million by 2011. Europe will remain the largest market for gasoline turbochargers but North America will be the fastest growing one.
     Another 16% of the new business is tied to the company's dual-clutch technology. The technology provides the fuel-efficiency and fun-to-drive characteristics of a manual transmission with the convenience and smooth shifting of an automatic. The number of dual-clutch transmissions in the market is expected to grow ten-fold by 2013 to about 5 million units.
     At 9:00 a.m. ET today, a brief conference call concerning third quarter results and new business will be webcast at:
http://www.borgwarner.com/invest/webcasts.shtml.
     Auburn Hills, Michigan-based BorgWarner Inc. (NYSE: BWA) is a product leader in highly engineered components and systems for vehicle powertrain applications worldwide. The FORTUNE 500 company operates manufacturing and technical facilities in 64 locations in 17 countries. Customers include VW/Audi, Ford, Toyota, Renault/Nissan, General Motors, Hyundai/Kia, Daimler, Chrysler, Fiat, BMW, Honda, John Deere, PSA, and MAN. The Internet address for BorgWarner is: http://www.borgwarner.com.
Statements contained in this news release may contain forward-looking statements as contemplated by the 1995 Private Securities Litigation Reform Act that are based on management's current expectations, estimates and projections. Words such as "outlook," "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "estimates," variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the control of the Company, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed, projected or implied in or by the forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include: fluctuations in domestic or foreign automotive production, the continued use of outside suppliers by original equipment manufacturers, fluctuations in demand for vehicles containing the Company's products, general economic conditions, as well as other risks detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Risk Factors identified in its most recently filed annual report on Form 10-K. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statement.


