FILE:BWA/BWA-8K-20090331170704.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     (e) On March 25, 2009, the Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of BorgWarner Inc. (the "Company") approved the award of performance units ("Performance Units") to certain executive officers under the BorgWarner Inc. Amended and Restated 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan") as part of its long-term incentive program. The Plan has been previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission").
     Each Performance Unit will represent and have a value equal to one dollar. The number of Performance Units actually earned will be based on the Company's Reduction in 2009 SG&A Expenses during a one-year period ending December 31, 2009. The terms of the Performance Units Awards Agreements are the same for each recipient (except for the number of Performance Units granted). A Performance Units Award Agreement, the form of which is attached as Exhibit 10.1, contains the terms and conditions of each award (in addition to those generally applicable under the terms of the Plan).
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 10.1
     You have been selected to receive a Performance Units Award under the BorgWarner Inc. Amended and Restated 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), as specified below:
:
Participant
                    
                    
:
Address
                    
                    
                    
     , effective , 20___, represents the grant of Performance Units by BorgWarner Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), to the Participant named above, pursuant to the provisions of the Plan. All capitalized terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Plan, unless specifically set forth otherwise herein. The parties hereto agree as follows:
THIS AGREEMENT
                    
     1. . The Performance Period commences on January 1, 20___, and ends on December 31, 20___, which is the 20___fiscal year of the Company.
Performance Period
     2. . Each Performance Unit shall represent and have a value equal to $.
Value of Performance Units
                    
     3. . The number of Performance Units earned under this Agreement shall be equal to the following:
Performance Units and Achievement of Performance Goal
 
[(Performance Goal Achieved)
X
(Specified Percentage )
X
(Participant's Percentage of Pool) = Number of Earned Performance Units]
provided however, that the maximum number of Performance Units that may be earned hereunder is the number of Performance Units set forth in Section A, above, and provided further that the number of earned Performance Units determined under this Section 3 may be reduced by the Compensation Committee pursuant to Section 5 hereof, in which case, the number of earned Performance Units shall be such reduced number.
For purposes of this Award Agreement, the following terms have the meanings set forth below:
[Definition applicable to performance measure(s) and performance goal specified above]
"" means the percentage set forth in Section F hereof.
Participant's Percentage of Pool
     4. The Committee shall have no discretion to increase the number of Performance Units earned under this Agreement (or the amount payable with respect thereto) in excess of the number of Performance Units determined under Section 3 hereof (taking into consideration any pro rata adjustment in the event the Committee waives the requirement that the Participant be employed by the Company through the end of the Performance Period, as provided in Section 6 hereof but without regard to any reduction provided by Section 5 hereof).
No Committee Discretion To Increase Award.
     5. . Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the Committee may, in its complete and sole discretion, reduce the number of Performance Units determined under Section 3, . Whenever the Committee takes such action, the number of earned Performance Units determined under Section 3 shall be such reduced number of Performance Units. Such a reduction, if any, may be based upon such considerations as the Committee shall determine in its complete and sole discretion.
Committee Discretion to Reduce The Number of Performance Units
including a reduction by the Committee in the number of Performance Units earned to zero, so that no amounts shall be payable hereunder
     6. . Except as provided in Section 11(a) of this Agreement and in the next paragraph, a Participant shall be eligible for payment of earned Performance Units, as specified in Section 3, only if the Participant's employment with the Company continues through the end of the Performance Period.
Termination Provisions
     If a Participant suffers a Disability, dies, is terminated involuntarily without Cause during the Performance Period, or in the event of the Participant's Retirement during the Performance Period, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may waive the requirement that the Participant be employed by the Company through the end of the Performance Period. In such a case, the Participant (or in the event of the Participant's death, the Participant's beneficiary) shall be eligible for all or that proportion of the number of Performance Units earned under Section 3 (determined at the end of the Performance Period and based on actual results) that his number of full months of participation during the Performance Period bears to the total number of months in the Performance Period. In the event that the Committee exercises its discretion under this paragraph, the Committee shall have no discretion to increase the amount of the cash payment in settlement of the Performance Units in excess of the cash payable for the pro rata number of earned Performance Units, as such earned Performance Units are determined under Section 3 hereof and subject to Section 4 hereof.
 
     In the event of the Participant's Termination of Employment for Cause or voluntary Termination of Employment during the Performance Period, or if the Committee does not exercise its discretion to waive the requirement that the Participant be employed by the Company through the end of the Performance Period, then in the event of the Participant's Termination of Employment by reason of the Participant's death, Disability, involuntary termination without Cause, or Retirement prior to the close of the Performance Period, the Participant shall forfeit this entire award, with no payment to the Participant. The Participant's transfer of employment to the Company or any Subsidiary from another Subsidiary or the Company during the Performance Period shall not constitute a Termination of Employment.
     7. . Following the close of the Performance Period, the Committee shall determine and certify the number of Performance Units awarded hereunder that shall have been earned. The aggregate value of such Performance Units shall be determined and paid to the Participant in cash as soon as administratively practicable in the year after the year in which the Performance Period ends, but in any event, no later than March 15 of the year following the year in which the Performance Period ends.
Amount, Form and Timing of Payment of Performance Units
     8. . The Company shall have the power and the right to deduct or withhold, or require the Participant or beneficiary to remit to the Company, an amount sufficient to satisfy federal, state, and local taxes, domestic or foreign, required by law or regulation to be withheld with respect to any taxable event arising as a result of this Agreement.
Tax Withholding
     9. . Performance Units may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.
Nontransferability
     10. . This Agreement and the rights of the Participant hereunder are subject to all the terms and conditions of the Plan, as the same may be amended from time to time, as well as to such rules and regulations as the Committee may adopt for administration of the Plan. It is expressly understood that the Committee is authorized to administer, construe, and make all determinations necessary or appropriate to the administration of the Plan and this Agreement, all of which shall be binding upon the Participant. Any inconsistency between the Agreement and the Plan shall be resolved in favor of the Plan.
Administration
     11. .
Miscellaneous
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has executed this Agreement in duplicate on the day and year first above written.
 
BORGWARNER INC.
By:
                    
                    
The undersigned hereby accepts, and agrees to, all terms and provisions of the forgoing Agreement.
                    
                    


