FILE:BWA/BWA-8K-20101217095427.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 7.01.                      Regulation FD Disclosure
On December 17, 2010, BorgWarner Inc. issued a press release announcing that it has signed an agreement to acquire, subject to standard regulatory approvals, the Traction Systems division of Haldex Group, headquartered in Stockholm, Sweden.
The information contained in this Item 7.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, is being furnished and shall not be deemed to be filed for the purpose of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Exchange Act or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, regardless of any general incorporation language in any such filings.
Item 9.01.                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)           Exhibits.  The following exhibits are being furnished as part of this Report.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Date:           December 17, 2010         
       
                        
 
 
 

 
 BorgWarner announced today that it has signed an agreement to acquire the Traction Systems division of Haldex Group, a leading provider of innovative products for the global vehicle industry headquartered in Stockholm, Sweden.
Auburn Hills, Michigan, December 17, 2010
 
 This acquisition supports our continuing strategy to be a global technology leader in providing powertrain solutions, said Timothy M. Manganello, Chairman and CEO, BorgWarner.  With the acquisition of Haldex Traction Systems, BorgWarner has added a strong and well-respected brand of all-wheel drive products that will compliment our current portfolio as well as our customer and geographic mix.
 
The move is expected to accelerate BorgWarners growth in the global all-wheel drive (AWD) market as it continues to shift toward front-wheel drive (FWD) based vehicles.  The acquisition will add industry leading FWD/AWD technologies, with a strong European customer base, to BorgWarners existing portfolio of front and rear-wheel drive based products.  This enables BorgWarner to provide global customers a broader range of all-wheel drive solutions to meet their vehicle needs.
 
The purchase price is approximately $205 million (1.425 billion SEK) and represents less than one times estimated 2011 sales.  The deal is expected to close in the first quarter of 2011 subject to standard regulatory approvals.
 
 
Auburn Hills, Michigan-based BorgWarner Inc. (NYSE: BWA) is a product leader in highly engineered components and systems for vehicle powertrain applications worldwide. The company operates manufacturing and technical facilities in 60 locations in 18 countries. Customers include VW/Audi, Ford, Toyota, Renault/Nissan, General Motors, Hyundai/Kia, Daimler, Chrysler, Fiat, BMW, Honda, Deere & Company, PSA, and MAN. The Internet address for BorgWarner is: http://www.borgwarner.com. 
Statements contained in this news release may contain forward-looking statements as contemplated by the 1995 Private Securities Litigation Reform Act that are based on managements current expectations, estimates and projections.  Words such as outlook, "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "estimates," variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements.  Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond our control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed, projected or implied in or by the forward-looking statements.  Such risks and uncertainties include: fluctuations in domestic or foreign vehicle product ion, the continued use of outside suppliers, fluctuations in demand for vehicles containing our products, changes in general economic conditions, and other risks detailed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Risk Factors, identified in our most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K.  We do not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
 


