FILE:ADI/ADI-8K-20071026134151.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02. Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
Pursuant to the Employment Agreement dated November 14, 2005 between Analog Devices, Inc. ("Analog") and Jerald G. Fishman, Analog and Mr. Fishman entered into an Executive Retention Agreement on October 22, 2007. This agreement is designed to retain Mr. Fishman as Chief Executive Officer of Analog at least through fiscal year 2010 (the "Retention Period"), which the Board of Directors believes is in the best interests of Analog. The Executive Retention Agreement provides for annual performance-based cash incentives and is designed to closely align the amounts that Mr. Fishman may earn thereunder with the performance of Analog during the Retention Period.
The incentives provided in the Executive Retention Agreement are in lieu of any additional equity grants to Mr. Fishman during the Retention Period.
Pursuant to the Executive Retention Agreement, provided that Mr. Fishman's employment with Analog does not terminate prior to the conclusion of the Retention Period, Analog will credit to an account established for Mr. Fishman under Analog's Deferred Compensation Plan an amount equal to $5,000,000 plus the sum of the following: for each of fiscal 2008, fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2010, an amount equal to the annual bonus earned by Mr. Fishman under Analog's executive performance bonus plan with respect to such fiscal year, multiplied by two (2). The maximum amount that shall be contributed with respect to any particular fiscal year (after applying the multiplier of two) shall be $5,000,000.
Analog's executive performance bonus plan for each fiscal year is subject to the approval of the Compensation Committee. The specific metrics applicable to the calculation of Mr. Fishman's annual bonus shall be established by the Compensation Committee, in its sole discretion, and may vary from year to year. Mr. Fishman's annual bonus target percentage under the applicable executive performance bonus plan shall be 160% of his then annual base salary. Mr. Fishman's current annual base salary is $930,935.
If, prior to the conclusion of the Retention Period, Mr. Fishman's employment with Analog terminates as a result of termination by Analog without "Cause" (as defined in the Employment Agreement), termination by Mr. Fishman for "Good Reason" (as defined in the Employment Agreement), or termination under circumstances that give rise to severance payments under Mr. Fishman's Employee Retention Agreement dated January 16, 1989, then Analog shall credit to an account established for Mr. Fishman under Analog's Deferred Compensation Plan an amount (determined in accordance with the Executive Retention Agreement) that is equivalent to the amount that would have been credited if he had remained employed through the end of the Retention Period and earned annual target bonuses.
No portion of the Retention Amount shall accrue or be credited with any investment earnings or interest prior to such time as it is credited to an account established for Mr. Fishman under Analog's Deferred Compensation Plan.
If payments to Mr. Fishman under the Executive Retention Agreement would result in the triggering of the provisions of Sections 280G and 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code, Analog shall pay to Mr. Fishman an additional amount such that the net amount Mr. Fishman retains after paying any excise tax and any federal, state or local income or FICA taxes on such additional amount shall be equal to the amount he would have received if the taxes paid pursuant to Sections 280G and 4999 were not applicable.
In connection with the Executive Retention Agreement, Analog and Mr. Fishman amended his 1989 Employee Retention Agreement and 2005 Employment Agreement to comply with regulations recently promulgated under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and to align certain provisions thereof with the Executive Retention Agreement.
The foregoing description is subject to, and qualified in its entirety by, the Employment Agreement, the Executive Retention Agreement and other agreements filed as exhibits hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Table of Contents
Item 9.01. Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.2
     Agreement dated as of October 22, 2007 (the "Agreement") between Analog Devices, Inc. (the "Corporation"), and Jerald G. Fishman (the "Executive").
     WHEREAS, the parties have entered into an Employment Agreement dated as of November 14, 2005 (the "Employment Agreement").
     WHEREAS, Section 3.7 of the Employment Agreement provided that the Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "Board") would seek to establish a long-term retention arrangement for the Executive.
     WHEREAS, in order to provide an additional compensation incentive for the Executive's services from the date of this Agreement to the Retention Date, and in lieu of any additional equity grants to the Executive during the Retention Period, the Committee and Executive have agreed upon such a long-term retention arrangement, upon the terms set forth in this Agreement.
     NOW, THEREFORE, for valuable consideration, receipt of which is acknowledged, the parties agree as follows:
1. .
Certain Defined Terms
2. .
Retention Amount and Equity Grant
 
 
3. .
Certain Tax Matters
 
 
 
4. .
Successors
5. .
Miscellaneous
 
:
If to Executive
Jerald G. Fishman 169 Hickory Road Weston, MA 02493
:
If to the Corporation
Analog Devices, Inc. One Technology Way Norwood, MA 02062 Attention: General Counsel
or to such other address as either party shall have furnished to the other in writing in accordance herewith. Notice and communications shall be effective when actually received by the addressee.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Executive has hereunto set his hand and the Corporation has caused this Agreement to be executed in its name on its behalf, all as of the day and year first above written.

 
EXHIBIT 99.3
     Amendment dated as of October 22, 2007 ("Amendment") to the Employee Retention Agreement dated as of January 16, 1989 (the "Retention Agreement") between Analog Devices, Inc. (the "Company") and Jerald G. Fishman (the "Executive").
     WHEREAS, the parties desire to amend the Retention Agreement to reflect changes required by final regulations issued under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") and also to reflect the provisions of the Long-Term Retention Agreement of the even date herewith between the Company and the Executive.
     NOW, THEREFORE, for valuable consideration, receipt of which is acknowledged, the parties agree as follows:
"(i) the Company shall pay to you your full base salary and all other compensation through the Date of Termination at the rate in effect at the time the Notice of Termination is given, no later than the fifth day following the Date of Termination, plus all other amounts to which you are entitled under any compensation plan of the Company at the time such payments are due."
"; provided, however that (i) you must incur such expenses during the Term of the Agreement or thereafter and before the date on which the statute of limitations has expired, including any extensions, with respect to any claims arising in connection with such termination or the payment or provision or failure to pay or provide any rights or benefits under this Agreement, (ii) such reimbursement must be made no later than the end of the calendar year following the taxable year in which the expense is incurred, (iii) the expenses eligible for reimbursement under this provision may not affect the amount of such expenses eligible for reimbursement in any other taxable year, and (iv) you may not cash out the right to this reimbursement or exchange it for another benefit."
"either by paying the cost of your continued participation in the Company's health benefit plans or the cost of comparable health benefits to those you previously received under the Company health benefit plans, from other sources, if such continued
 
participation cannot be provided by the Company for the entire period, or, with respect to life, disability and accident benefits the Company previously provided for you, by paying you a lump sum, within 30 days, which is equal to the estimated cost to you of obtaining those benefits to the extent they are available on a commercially reasonable basis, as determined by the Company, in good faith."
"(d) Any benefits you receive under this Agreement will be treated, as applicable, as part of the "Payments" covered by Section 3(b) of the Long-Term Retention Agreement entered into by you and Company, dated October 22, 2007, for purposes of the "Section 4999 Gross-Up Payment" as defined in such agreement."
"; provided that such payments will only be made if the date on which the succession becomes effective would be considered the date of (i) a change in the ownership of the Company as defined in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(v), (ii) a change in effective control of the Company as defined in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(vi), or (iii) a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the Company as defined in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(vii), as amended or supplemented from time to time."
"9. .
Section 409A
(a) Benefits provided under this Agreement, except as provided in Section 6(a), shall only be made on a "separation from service" with the Company as defined in Section 409A of the Code. If, as of the date of such separation from service, you are a "specified employee" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, then each payment or benefit due under this Agreement that would, absent this provision be paid within the six-month period following such "separation from service" shall not be paid until the date that is six months and one day after such separation from service (or, if earlier, on your death). Such delayed payments will be credited with interest at the annual prime rate as set forth in the Eastern edition of the Wall Street Journal on the date of the "separation from service," compounded daily, for the period beginning on the date each such payment or benefit would have paid during that six month period and ending on the date of such payment. Such interest payment will be paid within five business days of the end of such six month period.
(b) This Agreement has been amended to comply with the provisions of Section 409A of the Code, and final Treasury regulations and guidance issued thereunder. It shall be interpreted and construed in accordance with that intention."
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Executive has hereunto set his hand and the Company has caused this Agreement to be executed, all as of the day and year first above written.

 
EXHIBIT 99.4
     Amendment dated as of October 22, 2007 ("Amendment") to the Employment Agreement dated as of November 14, 2005 (the "Employment Agreement") between Analog Devices, Inc. (the "Corporation") and Jerald G. Fishman (the "Executive").
     WHEREAS, the parties have entered into the Employment Agreement;
     WHEREAS, the parties desire to modify certain provisions of the Employment Agreement to reflect changes required by final regulations issued under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") and to make changes that conform to the provisions of the Long-Term Retention Agreement of even date herewith between the Corporation and the Executive.
     NOW, THEREFORE, for valuable consideration, receipt of which is acknowledged, the parties agrees as follows:
"Any annual bonus payable under this provision shall be paid no later than 2/ months after the end of the later of the calendar year or the Corporation's fiscal year."
1
2
"Such reimbursement must be made no later than the end of the calendar year following the taxable year in which the expense is incurred, the expenses eligible for reimbursement under this provision may not affect the amount of such expenses eligible for reimbursement in any other taxable year, and the right to reimbursement is not subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit."
"(c) provide to Executive the medical and dental benefits available to Executive immediately prior to such termination for the remainder of the Employment Period (notwithstanding the termination thereof by reason of this Section 5), with the Corporation paying the same percentage of the cost of such benefits with respect to the Executive as prior to such termination, such payments to be made each calendar month, or, if the Corporation determines it cannot reasonably provide such benefits for the remainder of the Employment Period then it will make a lump sum payment to the Executive within 60 days of such termination, equal to the Corporation's good faith
 
estimate of the Executive's cost of obtaining such benefits for the portion of the period during which such benefits cannot be provided by the Corporation.
5.5 . Payments under Sections 5.1(a), 5.2(a), 5.3 and 5.4(a) shall be made within thirty (30) days after the date of termination of employment, and payments under Sections 5.1(b) and 5.2(b) shall be made in accordance with the terms of the applicable plan or program.
Time of Payment
9.9 The Retention Agreement shall remain in full force and effect, subject to the following: (a) in the event of any termination of employment of the Executive following a Change in Control (as defined in the Retention Agreement) that gives rise to any payments or benefits under Section 5(c)(i), (ii) or (iv) of the Retention Agreement that are greater than the corresponding payments or benefits provided for in this Agreement, the payments and benefits provided under Sections 5(c)(i), (ii) and/or (iv), as applicable, of the Retention Agreement shall supersede and be in lieu of the corresponding payments or benefits under Section 5.4 hereof (other than the last sentence of Section 5.4), and (b) in the event of any termination of employment of the Executive following a Change of Control that gives rise to any payments or benefits under Section 5(c)(i), (ii) or (iv) of the Retention Agreement that are less than the corresponding payments or benefits provided for in this Agreement, the payments and benefits under this Agreement shall supersede and be in lieu of the corresponding payments and benefits provided under Sections 5(c)(i), (ii) and/or (iv), as applicable, of the Retention Agreement. Any and all such payments and benefits under this Agreement shall be considered a "Contingent Compensation Payment" for purposes of Section 3 of the Long-Term Retention Agreement dated October 22, 2007 between the Executive and the Corporation.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Executive has hereunto set his hand and the Corporation has caused this Agreement to be executed, all as of the day and year first above written.


