FILE:ADI/ADI-8K-20080521171046.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): May 19, 2008
Registrants telephone number, including area code: (781) 329-4700
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
     
Item 5.02.
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
Election of Directors
On May 19, 2008, Neil Novich was elected to the Board of Directors of the Company, as a Class I Director. It is expected that Mr. Novich will join the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors. In connection with his service on the Companys Board of Directors, Mr. Novich will be entitled to receive an annual cash retainer of $60,000, paid quarterly. Mr. Novich will also be granted an initial stock option to purchase 15,000 shares of common stock of the Company, and will be eligible to receive annual stock option grants, as more fully described in the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 1-7819), dated September 20, 2006.
A press release related to foregoing is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report, and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.     Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)       Exhibits
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
Analog Devices Names Neil Novich to Board of Directors
NORWOOD, Mass.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Analog Devices, Inc. (NYSE: ADI), a global leader in high-performance semiconductors for signal processing applications, today announced that Neil Novich has been elected as a Director of the Company.
Mr. Novich is the former Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer of Ryerson Inc., a leading global metals distributor and fabricator. He joined Ryerson in 1994 as Chief Operating Officer and served in that role until 1999 when he was named Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, a position he held through 2007. Prior to that, Mr. Novich was a Director at Bain & Company, an international management consulting firm, where he worked with clients in the high technology, manufacturing, distribution, and telecommunications industries on a broad range of business issues.
Neils executive experience in leading a large and complex organization combined with his consulting experience with Bain and education in science and technology make him an excellent addition to ADIs Board of Directors, said Ray Stata, ADI Chairman. "We look forward to the broad ranging understanding of business which Neil brings to our Board."
Mr. Novich earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in Physics from Harvard University, and Master of Science degrees in both Management and Nuclear Engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. In addition to ADI, he currently serves as a director of W.W. Grainger, Inc. Mr. Novich is also a Trustee of the Field Museum of Natural History, where he was a past Chairman of the Technology Committee, and a Trustee of the Childrens Home & Aid Society of Illinois.
About Analog Devices
Innovation, performance, and excellence are the cultural pillars on which Analog Devices has built one of the longest standing, highest growth companies within the technology sector. Acknowledged industry-wide as the world leader in data conversion and signal conditioning technology, Analog Devices serves over 60,000 customers, representing virtually all types of electronic equipment. Celebrating over 40 years as a leading global manufacturer of high-performance integrated circuits used in analog and digital signal processing applications, Analog Devices is headquartered in Norwood, Massachusetts, with design and manufacturing facilities throughout the world. Analog Devices' common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker ADI and is included in the S&P 500 Index.
CONTACT: Analog Devices, Inc. Mindy Kohl, 781-461-3282
investor.relations@analog.com


