FILE:ADI/ADI-8K-20090630161707.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 8.01. Other Events
     On June 30, 2009, Analog Devices, Inc. ("Analog Devices") issued $375 million aggregate principal amount of 5.00% notes due July 1, 2014 (the "Notes") in a public offering pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-160215) (the "Registration Statement") and a related prospectus and prospectus supplement, each as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Notes were issued under an indenture dated June 30, 2009 (the "Indenture"), between Analog Devices and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as supplemented by a supplemental indenture dated June 30, 2009 (the "Supplemental Indenture"). The sale of the Notes was made pursuant to the terms of an Underwriting Agreement dated June 25, 2009 (the "Underwriting Agreement"), between Analog Devices and Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, as representative of the several underwriters named therein. Analog Devices received net proceeds from the sale of the Notes, after deducting expenses and underwriting discounts and commissions, of approximately $370 million.
     The above description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Underwriting Agreement, form of Indenture, Supplemental Indenture and form of 5.00% Global Note due July 1, 2014. The Underwriting Agreement is filed as Exhibit 1.1 hereto. The form of Indenture has been previously filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Registration Statement. The Supplemental Indenture is filed as Exhibit 4.1 hereto and the form of 5.00% Global Note due July 1, 2014 is filed as Exhibit 4.2 hereto. The Underwriting Agreement, form of Indenture, Supplemental Indenture and form of 5.00% Global Note due July 1, 2014 are incorporated herein by reference.
     Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP, counsel to Analog Devices, has issued an opinion to Analog Devices dated June 25, 2009, regarding the legality of the Notes upon issuance and sale thereof. A copy of the opinion as to legality is filed as Exhibit 5.1 hereto.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 1.1
Execution Copy
June 25, 2009
As Representative of the Several Underwriters, Eleven Madison Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10010-3629
Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC,
Ladies and Gentlemen:
          1. . Analog Devices, Inc., a Massachusetts corporation (the ""), agrees with the several Underwriters named in Schedule A hereto (the "") for whom Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC is acting as Representative (the "Representative") to issue and sell to the several Underwriters $375,000,000 principal amount of its 5.00% Senior Notes Due 2014 (the ""). The Securities shall be issued under an indenture, to be dated as of June 30, 2009, as supplemented through the Closing Date (the "Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee.
Introductory
Company
Underwriters
Securities
          2. . The Company represents and warrants to, and agrees with, the several Underwriters that:
Representations and Warranties of the Company
     (a) . The Company has filed with the Commission a registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-160215), including a related prospectus or prospectuses, covering the registration of the Securities under the Act, which has become effective. "" at any particular time means such registration statement in the form then filed with the Commission, including any amendment thereto, any document incorporated by reference therein and all 430B Information and all 430C Information with respect to such registration statement, that in any case has not been superseded or modified. "" without reference to a time means the Registration Statement as of the Effective Time. For purposes of this definition, 430B Information shall be considered to be included in the Registration Statement as of the time specified in Rule 430B.
Filing and Effectiveness of Registration Statement; Certain Defined Terms
Registration Statement
Registration Statement
     For purposes of this Agreement:
     "" means information included in a prospectus then deemed to be a part of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 430B(e) or retroactively deemed to be a part of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 430B(f).
430B Information
     "" means information included in a prospectus then deemed to be a part of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 430C.
430C Information
     "" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Act
     "" means 4:00 p.m. (Eastern time) on the date of this Agreement.
Applicable Time
     "" has the meaning defined in Section 3 hereof.
Closing Date
     "" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Commission
 
     "" of the Registration Statement relating to the Securities means the time of the first contract of sale for the Securities.
Effective Time
     "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
     means the rules of the New York Stock Exchange.
"Exchange Rules"
     "" means the Statutory Prospectus that discloses the public offering price, other 430B Information and other final terms of the Securities and otherwise satisfies Section 10(a) of the Act.
Final Prospectus
     "" means any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that is intended for general distribution to prospective investors, as evidenced by its being so specified in Schedule B to this Agreement.
General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
     "" means any "issuer free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 433, relating to the Securities in the form filed or required to be filed with the Commission or, if not required to be filed, in the form retained in the Company's records pursuant to Rule 433(g).
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
     "" means any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that is not a General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus.
Limited Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
     "" means the rules and regulations of the Commission.
Rules and Regulations
     "" means, collectively, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (""), the Act, the Exchange Act, the Rules and Regulations and the auditing principles, rules, standards and practices applicable to auditors of "issuers" (as defined in Sarbanes-Oxley) promulgated or approved by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
Securities Laws
Sarbanes-Oxley
     "" with reference to any particular time means the prospectus relating to the Securities that is included in the Registration Statement immediately prior to that time, including all 430B Information and all 430C Information with respect to the Registration Statement. For purposes of the foregoing definition, 430B Information shall be considered to be included in the Statutory Prospectus only as of the actual time that form of prospectus (including a prospectus supplement) is filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) and not retroactively.
Statutory Prospectus
     "" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended.
Trust Indenture Act
          Unless otherwise specified, a reference to a "rule" is to the indicated rule under the Act.
     (b) . (i) (A) At the time the Registration Statement initially became effective, (B) at the time of each amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Act (whether by post-effective amendment, incorporated report or form of prospectus), (C) at the Effective Time relating to the Securities and (D) on the Closing Date, the Registration Statement conformed and will conform in all material respects to the requirements of the Act, the Trust Indenture Act and the Rules and Regulations and did not and will not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading and (ii) (A) on its date, (B) at the time of filing the Final Prospectus pursuant to Rule 424(b) and (C) on the Closing Date, the Final Prospectus will conform in all material respects to the requirements of the Act, the Trust Indenture Act and the Rules and Regulations, and will not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from any such document based upon written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representative specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information is that described as such in Section 8(b) hereof.
Compliance with Securities Act Requirements
 
     (c) . (i) . (A) At the time of initial filing of the Registration Statement, (B) at the time of the most recent amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Act (whether such amendment was by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or form of prospectus), and (C) at the time the Company or any person acting on its behalf (within the meaning, for this clause only, of Rule 163(c)) made any offer relating to the Securities in reliance on the exemption of Rule 163, the Company was a "well known seasoned issuer" as defined in Rule 405, including not having been an "ineligible issuer" as defined in Rule 405 by virtue of a waiver issued by the Commission on May 30, 2008.
Automatic Shelf Registration Statement
Well-Known Seasoned Issuer Status
     (ii) . The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement," as defined in Rule 405, that initially became effective within three years of the date of this Agreement.
Effectiveness of Automatic Shelf Registration Statement
     (iii) . The Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form. If at any time when the Securities remain unsold by the Underwriters the Company receives from the Commission a notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) or otherwise ceases to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration statement form, the Company will (i) promptly notify the Representative, (ii) promptly file a new registration statement or post-effective amendment on the proper form relating to the Securities, in a form satisfactory to the Representative, (iii) use its best efforts to cause such registration statement or post-effective amendment to be declared effective as soon as practicable, and (iv) promptly notify the Representative of such effectiveness. The Company will take all other action necessary or appropriate to permit the public offering and sale of the Securities to continue as contemplated in the registration statement that was the subject of the Rule 401(g)(2) notice or for which the Company has otherwise become ineligible. References herein to the Registration Statement shall include such new registration statement or post-effective amendment, as the case may be.
Eligibility to Use Automatic Shelf Registration Form
     (iv) . The Company has paid or shall pay the required Commission filing fees relating to the Securities within the time required by Rule 456(b)(1) without regard to the proviso therein and otherwise in accordance with Rules 456(b) and 457(r).
Filing Fees
     (d) . (i) At the earliest time after the filing of the Registration Statement that the Company or another offering participant made a bona fide offer (within the meaning of Rule 164(h)(2)) of the Securities and (ii) at the date of this Agreement, the Company was not and is not an "ineligible issuer," as defined in Rule 405, by virtue of a waiver issued by the Commission on May 30, 2009.
Ineligible Issuer Status
     (e) . As of the Applicable Time, neither (i) the General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus(es) issued at or prior to the Applicable Time and the preliminary prospectus supplement, dated June 25, 2009, including the base prospectus, dated June 25, 2009, (which is the most recent Statutory Prospectus distributed to investors generally), and the other information, if any, stated in Schedule B to this Agreement to be included in the General Disclosure Package, all considered together (collectively, the ""), nor (ii) any individual Limited Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, when considered together with the General Disclosure Package, included any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from the General Disclosure Package or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representative specifically for use therein, it being
General Disclosure Package
General Disclosure Package
 
understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the information described as such in Section 8(b) hereof.
     (f) . Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, as of its issue date and at all subsequent times through the completion of the public offer and sale of the Securities or until any earlier date that the Company notified or notifies the Representative as described in the next sentence, did not, does not and will not include any information that conflicted, conflicts or will conflict with the information then contained in the Registration Statement. If at any time prior to or as of the Closing Date following issuance of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus there occurred or occurs an event or development as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus conflicted or would conflict with the information then contained in the Registration Statement or as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, if republished immediately following such event or development, would include an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or would omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, (i) the Company has promptly notified or will promptly notify the Representative and (ii) the Company has promptly amended or will promptly amend or supplement such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to eliminate or correct such conflict, untrue statement or omission.
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
     (g) . The Company has been duly incorporated and is existing and in good standing under the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, with corporate power and authority to own its properties and conduct its business as described in the General Disclosure Package; and the Company is duly qualified to do business as a foreign corporation and in good standing in all other jurisdictions in which its ownership or lease of property or the conduct of its business requires such qualification, except where the failure to be so qualified would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect (as defined below).
Due Incorporation and Good Standing of the Company
     (h) . Each subsidiary of the Company has been duly incorporated or organized, as the case may be, and is existing and in good standing under, the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation or organization, as the case may be, with corporate power and authority to own its properties and conduct its business as described in the General Disclosure Package; and each subsidiary of the Company is duly qualified to do business as a foreign corporation or other applicable entity in good standing in all other jurisdictions in which its ownership or lease of property or the conduct of its business requires such qualification and where such concepts of "due qualification" and "good standing" exist; all of the issued and outstanding capital stock or other equity interests of each subsidiary of the Company has been duly authorized and validly issued and is fully paid and nonassessable (to the extent that such concepts of "due authorization", "valid issuance" and being "fully paid and nonassessable" exist in the jurisdiction in which such subsidiary is incorporated or organized, as the case may be); and the capital stock or other equity interests of each subsidiary owned by the Company, directly or through subsidiaries, is owned free from liens, encumbrances and defects, except, in each case in this clause (h), as would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Subsidiaries
     (i) . The Indenture has been duly authorized by the Company and has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act; the Securities have been duly authorized and, when the Securities are delivered and paid for pursuant to this Agreement on each Closing Date, the Indenture will have been duly executed and delivered by the Company, such Securities will have been duly executed, authenticated, issued and delivered, will be consistent with the information in the General Disclosure Package and will conform to the description of such Securities contained in the Final Prospectus and the Indenture and such Securities will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company, enforceable in accordance with their terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium and
Execution and Delivery of Indenture
 
similar laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general equity principles.
     (j) . No consent, approval, authorization, or order of, or filing or registration with, any governmental agency or body or any court is required for the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the Indenture in connection with the offering, issuance and sale of the Securities by the Company, except such as have been obtained or made and such as may be required under state securities laws.
Absence of Further Requirements
     (k) . Except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package, the Company and its subsidiaries have good and marketable title to all real properties and good title to all other properties and assets owned by them, in each case free from liens, charges, encumbrances and defects that would materially affect the value thereof or materially interfere with the use made or to be made thereof by them and, except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package, the Company and its subsidiaries hold any leased real or personal property under valid and enforceable leases with no terms or provisions that would materially interfere with the use made or to be made thereof by them, except, in each case in this clause (k), as would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Title to Property
     (l) . The execution, delivery and performance of the Indenture and this Agreement, and the issuance and sale of the Securities and compliance with the terms and provisions thereof, will not result in a breach or violation of any of the terms and provisions of, or constitute a default or a Debt Repayment Triggering Event (as defined below) under, or result in the imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries pursuant to, (i) the charter or by-laws or other organizational documents of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (ii) any statute, rule, regulation or order of any governmental agency or body or any court, domestic or foreign, having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of their properties, or (iii) any agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is bound or to which any of the properties of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject, except, in the case of clause (i) as it applies to the Company's subsidiaries, as would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect, and in the case of clauses (ii) and (iii), as would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect; a "" means any event or condition that gives, or with the giving of notice or lapse of time would give, the holder of any note, debenture, or other evidence of indebtedness (or any person acting on such holder's behalf) the right to require the repurchase, redemption or repayment of all or a portion of such indebtedness by the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Absence of Defaults and Conflicts Resulting from Transaction
Debt Repayment Triggering Event
     (m) . Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is in violation of its respective charter or by-laws or other organizational documents, or in default (or with the giving of notice or lapse of time would be in default) under any existing obligation, agreement, covenant or condition contained in any indenture, loan agreement, mortgage, lease or other agreement or instrument to which any of them is a party or by which any of them is bound or to which any of the properties of any of them is subject, except such defaults that would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a material adverse effect on the condition (financial or otherwise), results of operations, business or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole ("").
Absence of Existing Defaults and Conflicts
Material Adverse Effect
     (n) . This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
Authorization of Agreement
     (o) . The Company and its subsidiaries possess, and are in compliance with the terms of, all adequate certificates, authorizations, franchises, licenses and
Possession of Licenses and Permits
 
permits ("") material to the conduct of the business now conducted or proposed in the General Disclosure Package to be conducted by them and have not received any notice of proceedings relating to the revocation or modification of any Licenses that, if determined adversely to the Company or any of its subsidiaries, would individually or in the aggregate have a Material Adverse Effect.
Licenses
     (p) . No labor dispute with the employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries exists or, to the knowledge of the Company, is imminent, in either case that would have a Material Adverse Effect.
Absence of Labor Dispute
     (q) . The Company and its subsidiaries own, possess or can acquire on reasonable terms sufficient trademarks, trade names, patent rights, copyrights, domain names, licenses, approvals, trade secrets, inventions, technology, know-how and other intellectual property and similar rights (collectively, "") material to the conduct of the business now conducted or proposed in the General Disclosure Package to be conducted by them, and the expected expiration of any such Intellectual Property Rights would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect. Except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package (i) to the Company's knowledge, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is infringing the Intellectual Property Rights of any third parties; (ii) to the Company's knowledge, no third party is infringing the Intellectual Property Rights of the Company or any of its subsidiaries; (iii) there is no pending or threatened action, suit, proceeding or claim by others challenging the Company's or any subsidiary's rights in or to, any of their Intellectual Property Rights, and the Company is unaware of any facts which would form a reasonable basis for any such claim; (iv) there is no pending or threatened action, suit, proceeding or claim by others challenging the validity, enforceability or scope of any such Intellectual Property Rights, and the Company is unaware of any facts which would form a reasonable basis for any such claim; and (v) none of the Intellectual Property Rights used by the Company or its subsidiaries in their businesses as currently conducted or proposed to be conducted in the General Disclosure Package has been obtained or is being used by the Company or its subsidiaries in violation of any contractual obligation binding on the Company or any of its subsidiaries, except in each case covered by clauses (i)  (v) such as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
Possession of Intellectual Property
Intellectual Property Rights
     (r) . Except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is in violation of any statute, any rule, regulation, decision or order of any governmental agency or body or any court, domestic or foreign, relating to the use, disposal or release of hazardous or toxic substances or relating to the protection or restoration of the environment or human exposure to hazardous or toxic substances (collectively, ""), owns or operates any real property contaminated with any substance that is subject to any environmental laws, is liable for any off-site disposal or contamination pursuant to any environmental laws, or is subject to any claim relating to any environmental laws, which violation, contamination, liability or claim would individually or in the aggregate have a Material Adverse Effect; and the Company is not aware of any pending investigation relating to environmental laws.
Environmental Laws
environmental laws
     (s) . The statements in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus under the headings "Description of the Notes", "Description of Debt Securities" and "Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations to Non-U.S. Holders", insofar as such statements summarize legal matters, agreements, documents or proceedings discussed therein, are accurate and fair summaries of such legal matters, agreements, documents or proceedings in all material respects and present the information required to be shown therein.
Accurate Disclosure
     (t) . The Company has not taken, directly or indirectly, any action that is designed to or that has constituted or that would reasonably be expected to cause or result in
Absence of Manipulation
 
the stabilization or manipulation of the price of any security of the Company, in each case for the purpose of facilitating the sale or resale of the Securities.
     (u) . Except as set forth in the General Disclosure Package, the Company, its subsidiaries and the Company's Board of Directors (the "") are in compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley and all applicable Exchange Rules. The Company maintains a system of internal controls, including, but not limited to, disclosure controls and procedures, internal controls over accounting matters and financial reporting, an internal audit function and legal and regulatory compliance controls (collectively, "") that comply in all material respects with the Securities Laws and are sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that (i) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorizations, (ii) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. General Accepted Accounting Principles and to maintain accountability for assets, (iii) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization and (iv) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences. The Internal Controls are, or upon consummation of the offering of the Securities will be, overseen by the Audit Committee (the "") of the Board in accordance with Exchange Rules. Since the filing of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 1, 2008, the Company has not publicly disclosed or reported to the Audit Committee or the Board, and within the next 90days the Company does not reasonably expect to publicly disclose or report to the Audit Committee or the Board, a significant deficiency, material weakness, change in Internal Controls or fraud involving management or other employees who have a significant role in Internal Controls (each, an ""), any violation of, or failure to comply with, the Securities Laws, or any matter which, if determined adversely, would have a Material Adverse Effect.
Internal Controls and Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
Board
Internal Controls
Audit Committee
Internal Control Event
     (v) . Except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package, there are no pending actions, suits or proceedings (including any inquiries or investigations by any court or governmental agency or body, domestic or foreign) against or affecting the Company, any of its subsidiaries or any of their respective properties that, if determined adversely to the Company or any of its subsidiaries, would individually or in the aggregate have a Material Adverse Effect, or would materially and adversely affect the ability of the Company to perform its obligations under the Indenture or this Agreement, or which are otherwise material in the context of the sale of the Securities; and no such actions, suits or proceedings (including any inquiries or investigations by any court or governmental agency or body, domestic or foreign) are, to the Company's knowledge, threatened or contemplated.
Litigation
     (w) . The financial statements included in the Registration Statement and the General Disclosure Package present fairly the financial position of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries as of the dates shown and their results of operations and cash flows for the periods shown, and such financial statements have been prepared in conformity with the generally accepted accounting principles in the United States applied on a consistent basis. The schedules included in the Registration Statement present fairly the information required to be stated therein.
Financial Statements
     (x) . Except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package, since the end of the period covered by the latest audited financial statements included in the General Disclosure Package (i) there has been no change, nor any development or event involving a prospective change, in the condition (financial or otherwise), results of operations, business or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, that is material and adverse (ii) except for a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.20 or as otherwise disclosed in or contemplated by the General Disclosure Package, there has been no dividend or distribution of any
No Material Adverse Change in Business
 
kind declared, paid or made by the Company on any class of its capital stock and (iii) except as disclosed in or contemplated by the General Disclosure Package, there has been no material adverse change in the capital stock, long term indebtedness, or net assets of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
     (y) . The Company is not and, after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Securities and the application of the proceeds thereof as described in the General Disclosure Package, will not be, an "investment company" as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the "").
Investment Company Act
Investment Company Act
     (z) . No "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" as such term is defined for purposes of Rule 436(g)(2)(i) has imposed (or has informed the Company that it is considering imposing) any condition (financial or otherwise) on the Company's retaining any rating assigned to the Company or any securities of the Company or (ii) has told the Company that it is considering any of the actions described in Section 7(c)(ii) hereof.
Ratings
     . Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries nor, to the knowledge of the Company, any director or officer of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, is aware of or has taken any action, directly or indirectly, that would result in a violation by any director, officer, agent, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder (the ""), including, without limitation, making use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce corruptly in furtherance of an offer, payment, promise to pay or authorization of the payment of any money, or other property, gift, promise to give, or authorization of the giving of anything of value to any "foreign official" (as such term is defined in the FCPA) or any foreign political party or official thereof or any candidate for foreign political office, in contravention of the FCPA, and the Company, its subsidiaries and, to the knowledge of the Company, its directors and officers, have conducted the business of the Company and its subsidiaries in compliance with the FCPA (other than for any immaterial noncompliance that would not result in a violation of the FCPA), and the Company and its subsidiaries have instituted and maintain policies and procedures designed to ensure, and which are reasonably expected to continue to ensure, continued compliance therewith.
(aa) Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
FCPA
     . The operations of the Company and its subsidiaries are and have been conducted at all times in compliance with applicable financial recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970, as amended, the money laundering statutes of all jurisdictions, and the rules and regulations thereunder, and, to the Company's knowledge, any related or similar rules, regulations or guidelines, issued, administered or enforced by any governmental agency (collectively, the ""), and no action, suit or proceeding by or before any court or governmental agency, authority or body or any arbitrator involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries with respect to the Money Laundering Laws is pending or, to the Company's knowledge, threatened.
(bb) Money Laundering Laws
Money Laundering Laws
     . Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries nor, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent or employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Treasury Department ("").
(cc) OFAC
OFAC
          3. . On the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Company agrees to sell to the several Underwriters, and each of the Underwriters agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company, at a purchase price of 98.976% of the principal amount thereof, the respective principal amounts
Purchase, Sale and Delivery of Securities
 
of Securities set forth opposite the names of the Underwriters in Schedule A hereto plus accrued interest from June 30, 2009 to the Closing Date (as hereinafter defined).
          The Company will deliver the Securities to or as instructed by the Representative for the accounts of the several Underwriters in a form reasonably acceptable to the Representative against payment of the purchase price by the Underwriters in Federal (same day) funds by wire transfer to an account at a bank acceptable to the Representative drawn to the order of Analog Devices, Inc. at the office of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, at 9:30 a.m., New York time, on June 30, 2009, or at such other time not later than seven full business days thereafter as the Representative and the Company determine, such time being herein referred to as the "". For purposes of Rule 15c6-1 under the Exchange Act, the Closing Date (if later than the otherwise applicable settlement date) shall be the settlement date for payment of funds and delivery of all the Securities sold pursuant to the offering. A copy of the Securities so to be delivered or evidence of their issuance will be made available for checking at the above office of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP at least 24 hours prior to the Closing Date.
Closing Date
          4. . It is understood that the several Underwriters propose to offer the Securities for sale to the public as set forth in the Final Prospectus.
Offering by Underwriters
          5. . The Company agrees with the several Underwriters that:
Certain Agreements of the Company
     (a) The Company has filed or will file each Statutory Prospectus (including the Final Prospectus) pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 424(b) not later than the second business day following the earlier of the date it is first used or the execution and delivery of this Agreement. The Company has complied and will comply with Rule 433.
Filing of Prospectuses.
     (b) . For so long as a prospectus relating to the Securities is (or but for the exemption in Rule 172 would be) required to be delivered under the Act by any Underwriter or dealer) the Company will promptly advise the Representative of any proposal to amend or supplement the Registration Statement or any Statutory Prospectus at any time and will offer the Representative a reasonable opportunity to comment on any such amendment or supplement; and the Company will also advise the Representative promptly of (i) the filing of any such amendment or supplement, (ii) any request by the Commission or its staff for any amendment to the Registration Statement, for any supplement to any Statutory Prospectus or for any additional information, (iii) the institution by the Commission of any stop order proceedings in respect of the Registration Statement or the threatening of any proceeding for that purpose and (iv) the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Securities in any jurisdiction or the institution or threatening of any proceedings for such purpose. The Company will use its best efforts to prevent the issuance of any such stop order or the suspension of any such qualification and, if issued, to obtain as soon as possible the withdrawal thereof.
Filing of Amendments; Response to Commission Requests
     (c) . If, at any time when a prospectus relating to the Securities is (or but for the exemption in Rule 172 would be) required to be delivered under the Act by any Underwriter or dealer, any event occurs as a result of which the Final Prospectus as then amended or supplemented would include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, or if it is necessary at any time to amend the Registration Statement or supplement the Final Prospectus to comply with the Act, the Company will promptly notify the Representative of such event and will promptly prepare and file with the Commission and furnish, at its own expense, to the Underwriters and the dealers and any other dealers upon request of the Representative, an amendment or supplement which will correct such statement or omission or an amendment which will effect such compliance. Neither the Representative's consent to, nor the Underwriters' delivery of, any such amendment or supplement shall constitute a waiver of any of the conditions set forth in Section 7 hereof.
Continued Compliance with Securities Laws
 
     (d) As soon as practicable, but not later than 16 months, after the date of this Agreement, the Company will make generally available to its securityholders an earnings statement covering a period of at least 12 months beginning after the date of this Agreement and satisfying the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Act and Rule 158.
Rule 158.
     (e) . The Company will furnish to the Representative copies of the Registration Statement, including all exhibits, any Statutory Prospectus, the Final Prospectus and all amendments and supplements to such documents, in each case as soon as available and in such quantities as the Representative reasonably requests. The Company will pay the expenses of printing and distributing to the Underwriters all such documents.
Furnishing of Prospectuses
     (f) . The Company will arrange for the qualification of the Securities for sale and the determination of their eligibility for investmentunder the laws of such jurisdictions as the Representative designates and will continue such qualifications in effect so long as required for the distribution; provided that the Company shall not be required to qualify to transact business or to take any action that would subject it to general service of process in any such jurisdiction where it is not currently qualified or where it would be subject to taxation as a foreign business.
Blue Sky Qualifications
     (g) . For so long as delivery of a prospectus by an Underwriter or dealer may be (or but for the exception in Rule 172 would be) required under the Act, the Company will furnish to the Representative and, upon request, to each of the other Underwriters, as soon as practicable after the end of each fiscal year, a copy of its annual report to stockholders for such year as is required to be filed by the Company with the Commission; and the Company will furnish to the Representative (i) as soon as available, a copy of each report and any definitive proxy statement of the Company filed with the Commission under the Exchange Act or mailed to stockholders, and (ii) from time to time, such other information concerning the Company as the Representative may reasonably request. However, so long as the Company is subject to the reporting requirements of either Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act and is timely filing reports with the Commission on its Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval system or any successor system (""), it is not required to furnish such reports or statements to the Underwriters.
Reporting Requirements
EDGAR
     (h) . The Company will pay all expenses incident to the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, including but not limited to any filing fees and other expenses (including fees and disbursements of counsel to the Underwriters) incurred in connection with qualification of the Securities for sale under the laws of such jurisdictions as the Representative designates pursuant to Section 5(f) and the preparation and printing of memoranda relating thereto, any fees charged by investment rating agencies for the rating of the Securities, costs and expenses relating to investor presentations or any "road show" in connection with the offering and sale of the Securities including, without limitation, any travel expenses of the Company's officers and employees and any other expenses of the Company, fees and expenses in connection with the registration of the Securities under the Exchange Act, and expenses incurred in distributing preliminary prospectuses and the Final Prospectus (including any amendments and supplements thereto) to the Underwriters and for expenses incurred for preparing, printing and distributing any Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses to investors or prospective investors. It is understood, however, that, except as provided in this Section 5 and Sections 8 and 10, the Underwriters will pay the fees of their counsel.
Payment of Expenses
     (i) . The Company will use the net proceeds received in connection with this offering in the manner described in the "Use of Proceeds" section of the General Disclosure Package and, except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package, the Company does not intend to use any of the proceeds from the sale of the Securities hereunder to repay any outstanding debt owed to any affiliate of any Underwriter.
Use of Proceeds
 
     (j) . The Company will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that would constitute or that might reasonably be expected to cause or result in, stabilization or manipulation of the price of any securities of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Securities.
Absence of Manipulation
     (k) The Company will not offer, sell, contract to sell, pledge or otherwise dispose of, directly or indirectly, or file with the Commission a registration statement under the Act relating to United States dollar-denominated debt securities issued or guaranteed by the Company and having a maturity of more than one year from the date of issue, or publicly disclose the intention to make any such offer, sale, pledge, disposition or filing, without the prior written consent of the Representative for a period beginning on the date hereof and ending on the Closing Date.
Restriction on Sale of Securities.
          6. . (a) . The Company represents and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior consent of the Representative, and each Underwriter represents and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior consent of the Company and the Representative, it has not made and will not make any offer relating to the Securities that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or that would otherwise constitute a "free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 405, required to be filed with the Commission. Any such free writing prospectus consented to by the Company and the Representative is hereinafter referred to as a "." The Company represents that it has treated and agrees that it will treat each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an "issuer free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 433, and has complied and will comply with the requirements of Rules 164 and 433 applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including timely Commission filing where required, legending and record keeping.
Free Writing Prospectuses
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
Permitted Free Writing Prospectus
     (b) . The Company will prepare a final term sheet relating to the Securities, containing only information that describes the final terms of the Securities and otherwise in a form consented to by the Representative, and will file such final term sheet within the period required by Rule 433(d)(5)(ii) following the date such final terms have been established for the offering of the Securities. Any such final term sheet is an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus and a Permitted Free Writing Prospectus for purposes of this Agreement. The Company also consents to the use by any Underwriter of a free writing prospectus that contains only (i)(x) information describing the preliminary terms of the Securities or their offering or (y) information that describes the final terms of the Securities or their offering and that is included in the final term sheet of the Company contemplated in the first sentence of this subsection or (ii) other information that is not "issuer information," as defined in Rule 433, it being understood that any such free writing prospectus referred to in clause (i) or (ii) above shall not be an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus for purposes of this Agreement.
Term Sheets
          7. . The obligations of the several Underwriters to purchase and pay for the Securities on the Closing Date will be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Company herein (as though made on the Closing Date), to the accuracy of the statements of Company officers made pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the performance by the Company of its obligations hereunder and to the following additional conditions precedent:
Conditions of the Obligations of the Underwriters
     (a) . The Representative shall have received letters, dated, respectively, the date hereof and the Closing Date, of Ernst & Young LLP, confirming that they are a registered public accounting firm and independent public accountants within the meaning of the Securities Laws and substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto (except that, in any letter dated the Closing Date, the specified date referred to in Exhibit A hereto shall be a date no more than three days prior to the Closing Date).
Accountants' Comfort Letter
          (b) The Final Prospectus shall have been filed with the Commission in accordance with the Rules and Regulations and Section 5(a) hereof. No stop order
Filing of Prospectus.
 
suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or of any part thereof shall have been issued and no proceedings for that purpose shall have been instituted or, to the knowledge of the Company or any Underwriter, shall be contemplated by the Commission.
          (c) . Subsequent to the execution and delivery of this Agreement, there shall not have occurred (i) any change, or any development or event involving a prospective change, in the condition (financial or otherwise), results of operations, business or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, which, in the judgment of the Representative, is material and adverse and makes it impractical or inadvisable to market the Securities; (ii) any downgrading in the rating of any debt securities of the Company by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" (as defined for purposes of Rule 436(g)), or any public announcement that any such organization has under surveillance or review its rating of any debt securities of the Company (other than an announcement with positive implications of a possible upgrading, and no implication of a possible downgrading, of such rating); (iii) any change in U.S. or international financial, political or economic conditions or currency exchange rates or exchange controls the effect of which is such as to make it, in the judgment of the Representative, impractical to market or to enforce contracts for the sale of the Securities, whether in the primary market or in respect of dealings in the secondary market; (iv) any suspension or material limitation of trading in securities generally on the New York Stock Exchange, or any setting of minimum or maximum prices for trading on such exchange; (v) or any suspension of trading of any securities of the Company on any exchange or in the over-the-counter market; (vi) any banking moratorium declared by any U.S. federal or New York authorities; (vii) any major disruption of settlements of securities, payment, or clearance services in the United States or any other country where such securities are listed or (viii) any attack on, outbreak or escalation of hostilities or act of terrorism involving the United States, any declaration of war by Congress or any other national or international calamity or emergency if, in the judgment of the Representative, the effect of any such attack, outbreak, escalation, act, declaration, calamity or emergency is such as to make it impractical or inadvisable to market the Securities or to enforce contracts for the sale of the Securities.
No Material Adverse Change
          (d) . The Representative shall have received an opinion, dated the Closing Date, of Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP, counsel for the Company, in the form of Exhibit B hereto.
Opinion of Counsel for Company
          (e) The Representative shall have received an opinion, dated the Closing Date, of Houben Advocaten, Netherlands counsel for the Company, in the form of Exhibit C hereto.
Opinion of Netherlands Counsel for Company.
          (f) The Representative shall have received an opinion, dated the Closing Date, of Margaret K. Seif, General Counsel of the Company, in the form of Exhibit D hereto.
Opinion of General Counsel of the Company.
          (g) The Representative shall have received from Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, such opinion or opinions, dated the Closing Date, with respect to such matters as the Representative may require, and the Company shall have furnished to such counsel such documents as they request for the purpose of enabling them to pass upon such matters.
Opinion of Counsel for Underwriters.
          (h) . The Representative shall have received a certificate, dated the Closing Date, of an executive officer of the Company and a principal financial or accounting officer of the Company in which such officers shall state that: the representations and warranties of the Company in this Agreement are true and correct; the Company has complied with all agreements and satisfied all conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied hereunder at or prior to the Closing Date; no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has
Officer's Certificate
 
been issued and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or, to their knowledge, are contemplated by the Commission; and, subsequent to the date of the most recent financial statements in the General Disclosure Package, there has been no material adverse change, nor any development or event involving a prospective material adverse change, in the condition (financial or otherwise), results of operations, business, properties or prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole except as set forth in the General Disclosure Package or as described in such certificate.
The Company will furnish the Representative with such conformed copies of such opinions, certificates, letters and documents as the Representative reasonably requests. The Representative may in its sole discretion waive on behalf of the Underwriters compliance with any conditions to the obligations of the Underwriters hereunder.
          8. . (a) . The Company will indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, its partners, members, directors, officers, employees, agents, affiliates and each person, if any, who controls such Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act (each, an ""), against any and all losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, to which such Indemnified Party may become subject, under the Act, the Exchange Act, other Federal or state statutory law or regulation or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of any material fact contained in any part of the Registration Statement, any Statutory Prospectus, the Final Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, and will reimburse each Indemnified Party for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such Indemnified Party in connection with investigating or defending against any such loss, claim, damage, liability, action, litigation, investigation or proceeding whatsoever (whether or not such Indemnified Party is a party thereto), whether threatened or commenced, and in connection with the enforcement of this provision with respect to any of the above as such expenses are incurred; provided, however, that the Company will not be liable in any such case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage or liability arises out of or is based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement in or omission or alleged omission from any of such documents in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representative specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the information described as such in subsection (b) below.
Indemnification and Contribution
Indemnification of Underwriters
Indemnified Party
          (b) . Each Underwriter will severally and not jointly indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each of its directors and each of its officers who signs a Registration Statement and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act (each, an ""), against any losses, claims, damages or liabilities to which such Underwriter Indemnified Party may become subject, under the Act, the Exchange Act, other Federal or state statutory law or regulation or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of any material fact contained in any part of the Registration Statement, any Statutory Prospectus, the Final Prospectus, or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or the alleged omission of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by such Underwriter through the Representative specifically for use therein, and will reimburse any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such Underwriter Indemnified Party in connection with investigating or defending against any such loss, claim, damage, liability, action, litigation, investigation or proceeding whatsoever (whether or not such Underwriter Indemnified Party is a party thereto), whether threatened or commenced, based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission as such expenses are incurred, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter
Indemnification of Company
Underwriter Indemnified Party
 
consists of the following information in the Final Prospectus furnished on behalf of each Underwriter: the concession and reallowance figures appearing in the third paragraph under the caption "Underwriting", the second sentence in the sixth paragraph under the caption "Underwriting", and the information contained in the twelfth and thirteenth paragraphs under the caption "Underwriting".
          (c) . Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the indemnifying party under subsection (a) or (b) above, notify the indemnifying party of the commencement thereof; but the failure to notify the indemnifying party shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have under subsection (a) or (b) above except to the extent that it has been materially prejudiced (through the forfeiture of substantive rights or defenses) by such failure; and provided further that the failure to notify the indemnifying party shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have to an indemnified party otherwise than under subsection (a) or (b) above. In case any such action is brought against any indemnified party and it notifies the indemnifying party of the commencement thereof, the indemnifying party will be entitled to participate therein and, to the extent that it may wish, jointly with any other indemnifying party similarly notified, to assume the defense thereof, with counsel satisfactory to such indemnified party (who shall not, except with the consent of the indemnified party, be counsel to the indemnifying party), and after notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of its election so to assume the defense thereof, the indemnifying party will not be liable to such indemnified party under this Section for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof other than reasonable costs of investigation. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened action in respect of which any indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party unless such settlement (i) includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on any claims that are the subject matter of such action and (ii) does not include a statement as to, or an admission of, fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of an indemnified party.
Actions against Parties; Notification
          (d) . If the indemnification provided for in this Section is unavailable or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party under subsection (a) or (b) above, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to in subsection (a) or (b) above (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other from the offering of the Securities or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) above is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other shall be deemed to be in the same proportion as the total net proceeds from the offering (before deducting expenses) received by the Company bear to the total underwriting discounts and commissions received by the Underwriters. The relative fault shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or the Underwriters and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such untrue statement or omission. The amount paid by an indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to in the first sentence of this subsection (d) shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in connection with investigating or defending any action or claim which is the subject of this subsection (d). Notwithstanding the provisions of this subsection (d), no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Securities underwritten by it and distributed to the public were offered to the public exceeds the amount of any damages which such Underwriter has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not
Contribution
 
guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Underwriters' obligations in this subsection (d) to contribute are several in proportion to their respective underwriting obligations and not joint. The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 8(d) were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in this Section 8(d).
          9. . If any Underwriter or Underwriters default in their obligations to purchase Securities hereunder on the Closing Date and the aggregate principal amount of Securities that such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed to purchase does not exceed 10% of the total principal amount of Securities that the Underwriters are obligated to purchase on the Closing Date, the Representative may make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the purchase of such Securities by other persons, including any of the Underwriters, but if no such arrangements are made by the Closing Date, the non-defaulting Underwriters shall be obligated severally, in proportion to their respective commitments hereunder, to purchase the Securities that such defaulting Underwriters agreed but failed to purchase on the Closing Date. If any Underwriter or Underwriters so default and the aggregate principal amount of Securities with respect to which such default or defaults occur exceeds 10% of the total principal amount of Securities that the Underwriters are obligated to purchase on the Closing Date and arrangements satisfactory to the Representative and the Company for the purchase of such Securities by other persons are not made within 36 hours after such default, this Agreement will terminate without liability on the part of any non-defaulting Underwriter or the Company, except as provided in Section 10. As used in this Agreement, the term "Underwriter" includes any person substituted for an Underwriter under this Section. Nothing herein will relieve a defaulting Underwriter from liability for its default.
Default of Underwriters
          10. . The respective indemnities, agreements, representations, warranties and other statements of the Company or its officers and of the several Underwriters set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement will remain in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation, or statement as to the results thereof, made by or on behalf of any Underwriter, the Company or any of their respective representatives, officers or directors or any controlling person, and will survive delivery of and payment for the Securities. If the purchase of the Securities by the Underwriters is not consummated for any reason other than solely because of the termination of this Agreement pursuant to Section 9 hereof or the occurrence of any event specified in clause (iii), (iv), (vi), (vii) or (viii) of Section 7(c) hereof, the Company will reimburse the Underwriters for all out-of-pocket expenses (including fees and disbursements of counsel) reasonably incurred by them in connection with the offering of the Securities, and the respective obligations of the Company and the Underwriters pursuant to Section 8 hereof shall remain in effect. In addition, if any Securities have been purchased hereunder, the representations and warranties in Section 2 and all obligations under Section 5 shall also remain in effect.
Survival of Certain Representations and Obligations
          11. . All communications hereunder will be in writing and, if sent to the Underwriters, will be mailed, delivered or telegraphed and confirmed to the Representative at Eleven Madison Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10010-3629, Attention: LCD-IBD, or, if sent to the Company, will be mailed, delivered or telegraphed and confirmed to it at One Technology Way, Norwood, Massachusetts 02062, Attention: General Counsel; provided, however, that any notice to an Underwriter pursuant to Section 8 will be mailed, delivered or telegraphed and confirmed to such Underwriter.
Notices
          12. . This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and the officers and directors and controlling persons referred to in Section 8, and no other person will have any right or obligation hereunder.
Successors
          13. . The Representative will act for the several Underwriters in connection with this financing, and any action under this Agreement taken by the Representative will be binding upon all the Underwriters.
Representation of Underwriters
 
          14. . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same Agreement.
Counterparts
          15. The Company acknowledges and agrees that:
Absence of Fiduciary Relationship.
               (a) . The Representative has been retained solely to act as an underwriter in connection with the sale of Securities and that no fiduciary, advisory or agency relationship between the Company and the Representative has been created in respect of any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the Final Prospectus, irrespective of whether the Representative has advised or is advising the Company on other matters;
No Other Relationship
               (b) . The price of the Securities set forth in this Agreement was established by the Company following discussions and arms-length negotiations with the Representative and the Company is capable of evaluating and understanding and understands and accepts the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement;
Arms' Length Negotiations
               (c) . The Company has been advised that the Representative and its affiliates are engaged in a broad range of transactions which may involve interests that differ from those of the Company and that the Representative has no obligation to disclose such interests and transactions to the Company by virtue of any fiduciary, advisory or agency relationship; and
Absence of Obligation to Disclose
               (d) . The Company waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims it may have against the Representative for breach of fiduciary duty or alleged breach of fiduciary duty and agrees that the Representative shall have no liability (whether direct or indirect) to the Company in respect of such a fiduciary duty claim or to any person asserting a fiduciary duty claim on behalf of or in right of the Company, including stockholders, employees or creditors of the Company.
Waiver
          
16. 
Applicable Law
. This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
          The Company hereby submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the Federal and state courts in the Borough of Manhattan in The City of New York in any suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby. The Company irrevocably and unconditionally waives any objection to the laying of venue of any suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby in Federal and state courts in the Borough of Manhattan in The City of New York and irrevocably and unconditionally waives and agrees not to plead or claim in any such court that any such suit or proceeding in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum.
 
          If the foregoing is in accordance with the Representative's understanding of our agreement, kindly sign and return to the Company one of the counterparts hereof, whereupon it will become a binding agreement between the Company and the several Underwriters in accordance with its terms.
 
 
1. General Use Free Writing Prospectuses (included in the General Disclosure Package)
          "General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus" includes each of the following documents:
          1. Pricing term sheet dated June 25, 2009, filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 433.
2. Other Information Included in the General Disclosure Package
          The following information is also included in the General Disclosure Package:
          None.

Exhibit 4.1
EXECUTION VERSION
 
 
     SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE dated as of June 30, 2009 by and between Analog Devices, Inc., a Massachusetts corporation (the ""), and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., a national banking association, as trustee (the "").
Company
Trustee
     The Company has heretofore executed and delivered to the Trustee an indenture, dated as of June 30, 2009 (the "and together with this Supplemental Indenture, the ""), providing for the issuance from time to time of one or more Series of the Company's securities.
Base Indenture
"
Indenture
     The Company desires and has requested the Trustee pursuant to Section 9.1 of the Base Indenture to join with it in the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture in order to supplement the Base Indenture as, and to the extent, set forth herein to provide for the issuance of and establish the form and terms and conditions of the Notes (as defined below).
     Section 9.1 of the Base Indenture provides that the Company and the Trustee, without the consent of any holders of the Company's Securities, may amend or supplement certain terms and conditions in the Base Indenture, including to provide for the issuance of and establishment of terms of a Series of Securities as permitted by Sections 2.1 and 2.2 thereof.
     The execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture has been duly authorized by votes of the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof.
     All conditions and requirements necessary to make this Supplemental Indenture a valid, binding and legal instrument in accordance with its terms have been performed and fulfilled by the parties hereto and the execution and delivery thereof have been in all respects duly authorized by the parties hereto.
     The Company and the Trustee agree as follows for the benefit of each other and for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders (as defined herein) of the 5.00% Notes due July 1, 2014 (the ""):
Notes
Section 1.1
Relationship with Base Indenture.
     The terms and provisions contained in the Base Indenture will constitute, and are hereby expressly made, a part of this Supplemental Indenture and the Company and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture, expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby. However, to the extent any provision of the Base Indenture conflicts with the express provisions of this Supplemental Indenture, the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture will govern and be controlling.
     The Trustee accepts the amendment of the Base Indenture effected by this Supplemental Indenture and agrees to execute the trust created by the Base Indenture as hereby amended, but only upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Supplemental Indenture, including the terms and provisions defining and limiting the liabilities and responsibilities of the Trustee in the performance of the trust created by the Base Indenture, and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Trustee will not be responsible in any manner whatsoever for or with respect to any of the recitals or statements contained herein, all of which recitals or statements are made solely by the Company, or for or with respect to (1) the proper authorization of this Supplemental Indenture by the Company, (2) the due execution hereof by the Company or (3) the consequences (direct or indirect and whether deliberate or inadvertent) of any amendment herein provided for, and the Trustee makes no representation with respect to any such matters.
     Further, the Trustee shall not be responsible or liable for any failure or delay in the performance of its obligations under this Indenture arising out of or caused, directly or indirectly, by circumstances beyond its reasonable control, including acts of God; earthquakes; fires; floods; wars; civil or military disturbances; sabotage; epidemics; riots; interruptions, loss or malfunctions of utilities, computer (hardware or software) or communications
 
service; accidents; labor disputes; acts of civil or military authority or governmental actions; it being understood that the Trustee shall use its best efforts to resume performance as soon as practicable under the circumstances.
Section 1.2
Definitions.
     Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the respective meanings set forth in the Base Indenture. The following terms have the meanings given to them in this Section 1.2:
     "" means any Notes (other than the Initial Notes) issued under this Supplemental Indenture in accordance with Section 2.3 hereof, as part of the same Series as the Initial Notes.
Additional Notes
     "" means, with respect to any transfer or exchange of or for beneficial interests in any Global Note, the rules and procedures established by and customary for the Depositary that apply to such transfer or exchange.
Applicable Procedures
     "" with regard to a Sale and Lease-Back Transaction with respect to any Principal Property means, at the time of determination, the lesser of (i) the fair market value of the Principal Property subject to the Sale and Lease-Back Transaction or (ii) the present value (discounted by the weighted average interest rate borne by all securities then outstanding under the Indenture at the time of determination compounded semiannually) of the total obligations of the lessee for rental payments (other than amounts required to be paid on account of property taxes as well as maintenance, repairs, insurance, water rates and other items which do not constitute payments for property rights) during the remaining portion of the base term of the lease included in such Sale and Lease-Back Transaction.
Attributable Debt
     "" has the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Supplemental Indenture, as it may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof.
Base Indenture
     "" means the notes are downgraded below Investment Grade by both Rating Agencies on any date during the period (the "") commencing 60 days prior to the first public announcement by the Company of any Change of Control (or pending Change of Control) and ending 60 days following the consummation of such Change of Control (which Trigger Period shall be extended if the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade by any Rating Agency on such 60th day, such extension to last with respect to each Rating Agency until the date on which such Rating Agency considering such possible downgrade either (i) rates the Notes below Investment Grade or (ii) publicly announces that it is no longer considering the Notes for possible downgrade, provided that no such extension will occur if on such 60th day the Notes are rated Investment Grade by both Rating Agencies and are not subject to review for possible downgrade by either Rating Agency).
Below Investment Grade Rating Event
Trigger Period
     "" means the occurrence of any of the following:
Change of Control
     (i) the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or more series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the Company's assets and the assets of its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any person, other than to the Company or one of its direct or indirect Subsidiaries;
     (ii) the consummation of any transaction (including any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any person becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Company's outstanding Voting Stock or other Voting Stock into which the Company's Voting Stock is reclassified, consolidated, exchanged or changed, measured by voting power rather than number of shares;
     (iii) the Company consolidates with, or merges with or into, any person, or any person consolidates with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the Company's outstanding Voting Stock or the Voting Stock of such other person is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the shares of the Company's Voting Stock
 
outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the outstanding Voting Stock of the surviving person or any direct or indirect parent company of the surviving person immediately after giving effect to such transaction, measured by voting power rather than number of shares;
     (iv) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors; or
     (v) the adoption of a plan providing for the Company's liquidation or dissolution.
     Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction will not be deemed to involve a Change of Control if (i) the Company becomes a direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiary of a holding company (which shall include a parent company) and (ii)(A) the direct or indirect holders of the Voting Stock of such holding company immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of Voting Stock of the Company immediately prior to that transaction or (B) immediately following that transaction no person (other than a holding company satisfying the requirements of this sentence) is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of such holding company. The term "," as used in this definition, has the meaning given thereto in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.
person
     "" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Rating Event.
Change of Control Triggering Event
     "" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Quotation Agent as having an actual or interpolated maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Notes.
Comparable Treasury Issue
     "" means with respect to any redemption date, the arithmetic average of all Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date or if the Quotation Agent obtains only one Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation, such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation.
Comparable Treasury Price
     "" means, as of any date on which the Company effects a transaction requiring such Consolidated Net Tangible Assets to be measured hereunder, the aggregate amount of assets (less applicable reserves) after deducting therefrom (i) all current liabilities, except for any notes and loans payable, current maturities of long-term debt, the current portion of deferred revenue and obligations under capital leases; and (ii) all goodwill, trade names, patents, unamortized debt discount and expense and any other like intangibles, to the extent included in said aggregate amount of assets, all as set forth on the Company's most recent consolidated balance sheet and computed in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Net Tangible Assets
     "" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Board of Directors who (i) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date the Notes were issued or (ii) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination, election or appointment (either by a specific vote or by approval of the Company's proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
Continuing Directors
     "" means a certificated Note registered in the name of the Holder thereof and issued in accordance with Section 2.2 hereof, substantially in the form of hereto except that such Note will not bear the Global Note Legend.
Definitive Note
Exhibit A
     "" means, with respect to the Notes issuable or issued in whole or in part in global form, the person specified in Section 2.1 hereof as the Depositary, with respect to the Notes, and any and all successors thereto appointed as depositary hereunder.
Depositary
     "" means the legend set forth in Section 2.2(e), which is required to be placed on all Global Notes issued under this Supplemental Indenture.
Global Note Legend
 
     "" means, individually and collectively, each of the Global Notes, in the form of hereto issued in accordance with Section 2.1 hereof.
Global Notes
Exhibit A
     "" means a person in whose name a Note is registered.
Holder
     "" means the Base Indenture, as supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture, governing the Notes, in each case, as amended, supplemented or restated from time to time.
Indenture
     "" means a person who holds a beneficial interest in a Global Note through a Participant.
Indirect Participant
     "" means the first $375,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Notes issued under this Supplemental Indenture on the date hereof.
Initial Notes
     "" means having a rating equal to or higher than Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's and BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P.
Investment Grade
     "" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc., and its successors.
Moody's
     "" from any Sale and Lease-Back Transaction by the Company or any Subsidiary means cash or readily marketable cash equivalents received (including by way of sale or discounting of a note, installment receivable or other receivable, but excluding any other consideration received in the form of assumption by the acquiree of debt or obligations relating to the properties or assets that are the subject of such Sale and Lease-Back Transaction or received in any other noncash form) therefrom by the Company or any Subsidiary, net of (i) all legal, title and recording tax expenses, commissions and other fees and expenses incurred and all United States federal, state, provincial, foreign and local taxes required to be accrued as a liability as a consequence of such Sale and Lease-Back Transaction; (ii) all payments made the Company or any Subsidiary on any debt which is secured in whole or in part by any such properties and assets in accordance with the terms of any Lien upon or with respect to any such properties and assets or which must, by the terms of such Lien, or in order to obtain a necessary consent to such Sale and Lease-Back Transaction or by applicable law, be repaid out of the proceeds from such Sale and Lease-Back Transaction; and (iii) all distributions and other payments made to the minority interest holders in any Subsidiary or joint ventures as a result of such Sale and Lease-Back Transaction.
Net Available Proceeds
     "" has the meaning assigned to it in the preamble to this Supplemental Indenture. The Initial Notes and the Additional Notes, if any, will be treated as a single class for all purposes under this Supplemental Indenture, and unless the context otherwise requires, all references to the Notes will include the Initial Notes and any Additional Notes.
Notes
     "" means, with respect to the Depositary, a person who has an account with the Depositary.
Participant
     means any single parcel of real property or any permanent improvement thereon (i) owned by the Company or any of the Subsidiaries located in the United States, including the Company's principal corporate office, any manufacturing facility or plant or any portion thereof and (ii) having a book value, as of the date of determination, in excess of 3.00% of the most recently calculated Consolidated Net Tangible Assets. Principal Property does not include any property that the Board of Directors has determined not to be of material importance to the business conducted by the Subsidiaries and the Company, taken as a whole.
"Principal Property"
     "" means any Subsidiary which owns any Principal Property.
Principal Subsidiary
     "" means the Reference Treasury Dealer selected by the Company.
Quotation Agent
     "" means each of Moody's and S&P; provided, that if either of Moody's and S&P ceases to provide rating services to issuers or investors, the Company may appoint a replacement for such Rating Agency that is a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act.
Rating Agencies
 
     "" means each of Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC and Banc of America Securities LLC (or their respective successors), and any other primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a "") selected by the Quotation Agent after consultation with the Company, provided that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a primary treasury dealer, another primary treasury dealer shall be substituted therefor by the Company.
Reference Treasury Dealer
primary treasury dealer
     "" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the arithmetic average, as determined by the Quotation Agent, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Quotation Agent by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time on the third Business Day preceding such redemption date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation
     "" means, with respect to any Note being redeemed, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal and interest thereon that would be due after the related redemption date but for such redemption; provided, however, that, if such redemption date is not an interest payment date with respect to such Note, the amount of the next scheduled interest payment thereon shall be reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to such redemption date.
Remaining Scheduled Payments
     "" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and its successors.
S&P
     "" means an arrangement with any lender or investor or to which such lender or investor is a party providing for the leasing by the Company or any Subsidiary of any Principal Property that, more than 12 months after the later of (i) the completion of the acquisition, construction, development or improvement of such Principal Property or (ii) the placing in operation of such Principal Property or of such Principal Property as so constructed, developed or improved, has been or is being sold, conveyed, transferred or otherwise disposed of by the Company or any Subsidiary to such lender or investor or to any person to whom funds have been or are to be advanced by such lender on the security of such Principal Property.
Sale and Lease-Back Transaction
     "" means any corporation, association or other business entity of which more than 50% of the total voting power of all shares, interests, participations, rights or other equivalents (however designated) of corporate stock entitled (without regard to the occurrence of any contingency) to vote in the election of directors, managers or trustees thereof is at the time owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the Company or one or more of its other Subsidiaries or a combination thereof.
Subsidiary
     "" means this Supplemental Indenture, dated as of the date hereof, by and between the Company and the Trustee, governing the Notes, as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance with the Base Indenture and the terms hereof.
Supplemental Indenture
     "" means, with respect to any redemption date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity or interpolated yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue. In determining this rate, the price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) shall be assumed to be equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such redemption date.
Treasury Rate
     "" means a certificate signed on behalf of the Trustee by one of its duly authorized officers.
Trustee Certificate
     "" means, with respect to any specified "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) as of any date, the Capital Stock of such person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such person.
Voting Stock
 
Section 1.3
Other Definitions.
Section 2.1
Form and Dating.
     (a) . The Notes and the Trustee's certificate of authentication will be substantially in the form of hereto. The Notes may have notations, legends or endorsements required by law, stock exchange rule or usage. Each Note will be dated the date of its authentication. The Notes will be in denominations of $2,000 with integral multiples of $1,000 thereof.
General
Exhibit A
     The terms and provisions contained in the Notes will constitute, and are hereby expressly made, a part of this Supplemental Indenture and the Company and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture, expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby. However, to the extent any provision of any Note conflicts with the express provisions of the Indenture, the provisions of the Indenture will govern and be controlling.
     (b) . Notes issued in global form will be substantially in the form of attached hereto (including the Global Note Legend thereon). Notes issued in definitive form will be substantially in the form of attached hereto (but without the Global Note Legend thereon). Each Global Note will represent such of the outstanding Notes as will be specified therein and each will provide that it will represent the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes represented thereby may from time to time be reduced or increased, as appropriate, to reflect exchanges and redemptions. Any endorsement of a Global Note to reflect the amount of any increase or decrease in the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes represented thereby will be made by the Trustee or the Custodian, at the direction of the Trustee, in accordance with instructions given by the Holder thereof as required by Section 2.2 hereof. The Company initially appoints The Depository Trust Company ("") to act as Depositary with respect to the Global Notes.
Global Notes
Exhibit A
Exhibit A
DTC
Section 2.2
Transfer and Exchange.
     (a) . A Global Note may not be transferred as a whole except by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary, by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or to another nominee of the Depositary, or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary. All Global Notes will be exchanged by the Company for Definitive Notes if:
Transfer and Exchange of Global Notes
          (1) the Company delivers to the Trustee notice from the Depositary that it is unwilling or unable to continue to act as Depositary or that it is no longer a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act and, in either case, a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 90 days after the date of such notice from the Depositary; or
          (2) the Company in its sole discretion determines that the Global Notes (in whole but not in part) should be exchanged for Definitive Notes and delivers a written notice to such effect to the Trustee.
 
     Upon the occurrence of either of the preceding events in (1) or (2) above, Definitive Notes will be issued in such names and in any approved denominations as the Depositary will instruct the Trustee. Global Notes also may be exchanged or replaced, in whole or in part, as provided in Sections 2.8 and 2.11 of the Base Indenture. Every Note authenticated and delivered in exchange for, or in lieu of, a Global Note or any portion thereof, pursuant to this Section 2.2 or Sections 2.8 or 2.11 of the Base Indenture, will be authenticated and delivered in the form of, and will be, a Global Note. A Global Note may not be exchanged for another Note other than as provided in this Section 2.2(a); however, beneficial interests in a Global Note may be transferred and exchanged as provided in Sections 2.2(b) or (f) hereof.
     (b) . The transfer and exchange of beneficial interests in the Global Notes will be effected through the Depositary, in accordance with the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture and the Applicable Procedures. Transfers of beneficial interests in the Global Notes also will require compliance with either subparagraph (1) or (2) below, as applicable, as well as one or more of the other following subparagraphs, as applicable:
Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in the Global Notes
          (1) . Beneficial interests in any Global Note may be transferred to persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in a Global Note. No written orders or instructions will be required to be delivered to the Registrar to effect the transfers described in this Section 2.2(b)(1).
Transfer of Beneficial Interests in the Same Global Note
          (2) . In connection with all transfers and exchanges of beneficial interests that are not subject to Section 2.2(b)(1) above, the transferor of such beneficial interest must deliver to the Registrar:
All Other Transfers and Exchanges of Beneficial Interests in Global Notes
          (i) a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depositary in accordance with the Applicable Procedures directing the Depositary to credit or cause to be credited a beneficial interest in another Global Note in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged; and
          (ii) instructions given in accordance with the Applicable Procedures containing information regarding the Participant account to be credited with such increase.
     Upon satisfaction of all of the requirements for transfer or exchange of beneficial interests in Global Notes contained in this Supplemental Indenture and the Notes or otherwise applicable under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the Trustee will adjust the principal amount of the relevant Global Note(s) pursuant to Section 2.2(f) hereof.
     (c) .
Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Notes for Beneficial Interests
     A Holder of a Definitive Note may exchange such Note for a beneficial interest in a Global Note or transfer such Definitive Notes to a person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in a Global Note at any time. Upon receipt of a request for such an exchange or transfer, the Trustee will cancel the applicable Definitive Note and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of one of the Global Notes.
     If any such exchange or transfer from a Definitive Note to a beneficial interest is effected pursuant to the previous paragraph at a time when a Global Note has not yet been issued, the Company will issue and, upon receipt of the Company's order, the Trustee will authenticate one or more Global Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of Definitive Notes so transferred.
     A Holder of Definitive Notes may transfer such Notes to a person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Definitive Note.
     (d) . Upon request by a Holder of Definitive Notes and such Holder's compliance with the provisions of this Section 2.2(d), the Registrar will register the transfer or exchange of Definitive Notes. Prior to such registration of transfer or exchange, the requesting Holder will present or surrender to the Registrar the Definitive Notes duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instruction of
Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Notes for Definitive Notes
 
transfer in form satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by such Holder or by his attorney, duly authorized in writing. In addition, the requesting Holder will provide any additional required certifications, documents and information, as applicable.
     (e) . The following legends will appear on the face of all Global Notes issued under this Supplemental Indenture unless specifically stated otherwise in the applicable provisions of this Supplemental Indenture.
Legends
     "THIS GLOBAL NOTE IS HELD BY THE DEPOSITARY (AS DEFINED IN THE SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO) OR ITS NOMINEE IN CUSTODY FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE BENEFICIAL OWNERS HEREOF, AND IS NOT TRANSFERABLE TO ANY PERSON UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES EXCEPT THAT (I) THE TRUSTEE MAY MAKE SUCH NOTATIONS HEREON AS MAY BE REQUIRED PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.2 OF THE SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, (II) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE BUT NOT IN PART PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.2(a) OF THE SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, (III) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE DELIVERED TO THE TRUSTEE FOR CANCELLATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.12 OF THE BASE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND (IV) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE TRANSFERRED TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY WITH THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF THE COMPANY HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO.
     THIS GLOBAL NOTE IS A GLOBAL NOTE WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF THE DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY. THIS GLOBAL NOTE IS EXCHANGEABLE FOR NOTES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITARY OR ITS NOMINEE ONLY IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE, AND MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY, BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY THE DEPOSITARY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY. UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (55 WATER STREET, NEW YORK, NEW YORK) ("") TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN."
DTC
     (f) . At such time as all beneficial interests in a particular Global Note have been exchanged for Definitive Notes or a particular Global Note has been redeemed, repurchased or canceled in whole and not in part, each such Global Note will be returned to or retained and canceled by the Trustee in accordance with Section 2.12 of the Base Indenture. At any time prior to such cancellation, if any beneficial interest in a Global Note is exchanged for or transferred to a person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Note, the principal amount of Notes represented by such Global Note will be reduced accordingly and an endorsement will be made on such Global Note by the Trustee or by the Depositary at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such reduction; and if the beneficial interest is being exchanged for or transferred to a person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Note, such other Global Note will be increased accordingly and an endorsement will be made on such Global Note by the Trustee or by the Depositary at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such increase.
Cancellation and/or Adjustment of Global Notes
     (g) .
General Provisions Relating to Transfers and Exchanges
          (1) To permit registrations of transfers and exchanges, the Company will execute and the Trustee will authenticate Global Notes and Definitive Notes upon the Company's order or at the Registrar's request.
          (2) No service charge will be made to a holder of a beneficial interest in a Global Note or to a Holder of a Definitive Note for any registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable in connection therewith (other than any
 
such transfer taxes or similar governmental charge payable upon exchange or transfer pursuant to Sections 2.11, 3.6 and 9.6 of the Base Indenture).
          (3) The Registrar will not be required to register the transfer of or exchange any Note selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Note being redeemed in part.
          (4) All Global Notes and Definitive Notes issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Global Notes or Definitive Notes will be the valid obligations of the Company, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Supplemental Indenture, as the Global Notes or Definitive Notes surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange.
          (5) The Company will not be required:
          (i) to issue, to register the transfer of or to exchange any Notes during a period of 15 days before the day of any selection of Notes for redemption under Section 3.2 of the Base Indenture and ending at the close of business on the day of selection;
          (ii) to register the transfer of or to exchange any Note so selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Note being redeemed in part; or
          (iii) to register the transfer of or to exchange a Note between a record date and the next succeeding interest payment date.
          (6) Prior to due presentment for the registration of a transfer of any Note, the Trustee, any Agent and the Company may deem and treat the person in whose name any Note is registered as the absolute owner of such Note for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of and interest on such Notes and for all other purposes, and none of the Trustee, any Agent or the Company will be affected by notice to the contrary.
          (7) The Trustee will authenticate Global Notes and Definitive Notes in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.3 of the Base Indenture.
          (8) The Trustee will deliver one or more Trustee Certificates in a form reasonably acceptable to the Company certifying, among other things, pursuant to Section 2.3 of the Base Indenture, that the Notes have been authenticated and have been made available for delivery and the corporate governance documents and incumbency of signing officers of the Trustee as of the date hereof.
          (9) All certifications, certificates and Opinions of Counsel required to be submitted to the Registrar pursuant to this Section 2.2 to effect a registration of transfer or exchange may be submitted by facsimile.
          (10) The Trustee shall have no obligation or duty to monitor, determine or inquire as to compliance with any restrictions on transfer imposed under this Supplemental Indenture or under applicable law with respect to any transfer of any interest in any Note other than to require delivery of such certificates and other documentation or evidence as are expressly required by, and to do so if and when expressly required by the terms of, this Supplemental Indenture, and to examine the same to determine substantial compliance as to form with the express requirements hereof.
          (11) Neither the Trustee nor any Agent shall have any responsibility for any actions taken or not taken by the Depositary.
Section 2.3
Issuance of Additional Notes.
     The Company will be entitled, upon delivery of an Officer's Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, to issue Additional Notes under this Supplemental Indenture which will have identical terms as the Initial Notes issued on the date hereof, other than with respect to the date of issuance and issue price. The Initial Notes issued on the date
 
hereof and any Additional Notes issued will be treated as a single class for all purposes under this Supplemental Indenture.
     With respect to any Additional Notes, the Company will set forth in a resolution of its Board of Directors (or a duly authorized committee thereof) or of a designee thereof and an Officers' Certificate, a copy of each which will be delivered to the Trustee, the following information:
     (a) the aggregate principal amount of such Additional Notes to be authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Supplemental Indenture; and
     (b) the issue price, the issue date and the CUSIP number of such Additional Notes.
Section 3.1
Optional Redemption.
     The Notes are redeemable at the option of the Company, at any time or from time to time, either in whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to the greater of the following amounts, plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the redemption date:
          (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed; and
          (ii) the sum of the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments.
     In determining the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments, such payments shall be discounted to the redemption date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) using a discount rate equal to the Treasury Rate plus 37.5 basis points.
     Calculation of the foregoing shall be made by the Company or on the Company's behalf by such person as the Company shall designate; provided, however, that such calculation shall not be a duty or obligation of the Trustee.
     Unless the Company defaults in payment of the redemption price, on and after the redemption date, interest will cease to accrue on the Notes or portions thereof called for redemption.
     A partial redemption of the Notes may be effected by such method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate and may provide for the selection for redemption of a portion of the principal amount of the Notes equal to an authorized denomination.
     No Notes of $2,000 or less can be redeemed in part. Notes in denominations larger than $2,000 may be redeemed in part but only in whole multiples of $1,000, unless all of the Notes held by a Holder are to be redeemed.
Section 3.2
Mandatory Redemption.
     The Company is not required to make any mandatory redemption or sinking fund payments with respect to the Notes.
Section 4.1
Offer to Purchase Upon Change of Control Triggering Event.
     (a) If a Change of Control Triggering Event occurs, unless the Company has exercised its option to redeem the Notes or has defeased the Notes or satisfied and discharged the Notes, the Company shall be required to make an offer (a "") to each Holder of the Notes to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 and
Change of Control Offer
 
in integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof) of that Holder's Notes pursuant to the offer set forth below. In a Change of Control Offer, the Company shall be required to offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes repurchased to the date of repurchase (a ""). Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event or, at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control, but after public announcement of the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control, a notice shall be mailed to Holders of the Notes describing the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase such Notes on the date specified in the notice, which date shall be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (a ""). The notice shall, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, state that the offer to purchase is conditioned on the Change of Control Triggering Event occurring on or prior to the Change of Control Payment Date.
Change of Control Payment
Change of Control Payment Date
     (b) Such notice shall also state:
          (1) that the Change of Control Offer is being made pursuant to this Section 4.1 and that all Notes or portion of Notes validly tendered and not withdrawn will be accepted for payment;
          (2) the Change of Control Payment and the Change of Control Payment Date;
          (3) that any Note not tendered will continue to accrue interest;
          (4) that any Note accepted for payment pursuant to the Change of Control Offer shall cease to accrue interest after the Change of Control Payment Date unless the Company shall default in the payment of the Change of Control Payment of the Notes and the only remaining right of the Holder is to receive payment of the Change of Control Payment upon surrender of the Notes to the Paying Agent;
          (5) that Holders electing to have a portion of a Note purchased pursuant to a Change of Control Offer may only elect to have such Note purchased as to $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof;
          (6) that if a Holder elects to have a Note purchased pursuant to the Change of Control Offer such Holder will be required to surrender the Note, with the form entitled "Option of Holder to Elect Purchase" on the reverse of the Note completed, or transfer by book-entry transfer, to the Paying Agent at the address specified in the notice prior to the close of business on the third Business Day prior to the Change of Control Payment Date;
          (7) that a Holder will be entitled to withdraw its election if the Company receives, not later than the close of business on the third Business Day preceding the Change of Control Payment Date, a facsimile transmission or letter setting forth the name of such Holder, the principal amount of Notes such Holder delivered for purchase, and a statement that such Holder is withdrawing its election to have such Note purchased; and
          (8) that if Notes are purchased only in part by the Company, a new Note of the same type will be issued in principal amount equal to the unpurchased portion of the Notes surrendered.
     (c) On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful:
          (1) accept for payment all Notes or portions of such Notes properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer;
          (2) deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes or portions of such Notes properly tendered; and
          (3) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes properly accepted together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes or portions of such Notes being repurchased.
     (d) The Company shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in
 
compliance with the requirements for an offer made by the Company and the third party purchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer.
     (e) The Company shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent such securities laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any such securities laws or regulations conflict with the provisions under this Section 4.1, the Company shall comply with such securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under this Section 4.1 by virtue of any such conflict.
     (f) No Notes of $2,000 or less can be repurchased pursuant to this Section 4.1 in part. Notes in denominations larger than $2,000 may be repurchased in part but only in whole multiples of $1,000, unless all of the Notes held by a Holder are to be repurchased.
Section 4.2
Liens.
     (a) The Company will not, nor will it permit any Subsidiary to, issue, incur, create, assume or guarantee (collectively, "") any debt for borrowed money including all obligations evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar instruments (collectively a ""), secured by a mortgage, deed of trust, security interest, pledge, lien, charge or other encumbrance (collectively, a "") upon any Principal Property or upon any shares of stock of any Principal Subsidiary (whether such Principal Property or shares are now existing or owed or hereafter created or acquired) without in any such case effectively providing, substantially concurrently with or prior to the creation or assumption of such Lien, that the Notes (together with, if the Company shall so determine, any other indebtedness of or guarantee by the Company or such Subsidiary ranking equally with the Notes) shall be secured equally and ratably with (or, at the Company's option, prior to) such secured Debt. The foregoing restriction, however, will not apply to each of the following:
incur
Debt
Lien
          (1) Liens on property, shares of stock or other assets of any person existing at the time such person becomes a Subsidiary or existing at the time of acquisition thereof by the Company or a Subsidiary, provided that such Liens are not incurred in anticipation of such person's becoming a Subsidiary or such acquisition and do not extend to (i) any Principal Property or (ii) any Shares of Stock of any Principal Subsidiary that, in each case, were not previously encumbered by such Liens;
          (2) Liens on property of a person (as defined in the Base Indenture) existing at the time such person is merged into or consolidated with the Company or a Subsidiary or at the time of a sale, lease or other disposition of the properties of such person (or a division thereof) as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to the Company or a Subsidiary, provided that such Liens were not incurred in anticipation of such merger or consolidation or sale, lease or other disposition and do not extend to (i) any Principal Property or (ii) any Shares of Stock of any Principal Subsidiary that, in each case, were not previously encumbered by such Liens;
          (3) Liens to secure all or part of the cost of acquisition, construction, development or improvement of any property or to secure Debt incurred to provide funds for any such purpose (including purchase money security interests or purchase money mortgages), provided that the commitment of the creditor to extend the credit secured by any such Lien is obtained not later than 24 months after the later of (i) the completion of acquisition, construction, development or improvement of such property and (ii) the placing in operating of such property or of such property as so constructed, developed or improved;
          (4) Liens in favor of, or which secure Debt owing to, the Company or any Subsidiary;
          (5) Liens existing at the date of the issuance of the Notes;
          (6) Liens in favor of the United States or any state, territory or possession thereof (or the District of Columbia), or any department, agency, instrumentality or political subdivision of the United States or any state, territory or possession thereof (or the District of Columbia), to secure partial, progress, advance or other payments
 
pursuant to any contract or statute or to secure any indebtedness incurred for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price or the cost of constructing or improving the property subject to such Liens;
          (7) Liens incurred or assumed in connection with the issuance of revenue bonds the interest on which is exempt from federal taxation pursuant to Section 103(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended; and
          (8) extensions, renewals or replacements of any Liens referred to in the foregoing clauses, provided that (i) the principal amount of Debt secured thereby shall not exceed the principal amount of Debt so secured at the time of such extension, renewal or replacement and (ii) such extension, renewal or replacement Liens will be limited to all or part of the same property and improvement thereon which secured the Debt so secured at the time of such extension, renewal or replacement.
     (b) Notwithstanding the restrictions in clause (a) above, the Company or any Subsidiary may incur Debt secured by a Lien which would otherwise be subject to such restrictions without equally and ratably securing the Notes provided that after giving effect thereto, the aggregate amount of all such Debt so secured by such Liens (not including Liens permitted under items (1) through (8) in clause (a) above) plus the aggregate amount of Attributable Debt in respect of Sale and Lease-Back Transactions entered into after the date of issuance of the Notes and permitted solely pursuant to clause (c) of Section 4.3 hereof and still in existence does not exceed the greater of 15% of the Consolidated Net Tangible Assets at the time of such incurrence and $350 million.
Section 4.3
Sale and Lease-Back Transactions.
     The Company will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, enter into any Sale and Lease-Back Transaction with respect to any Principal Property, other than any such Sale and Lease-Back Transaction involving a lease for a term of not more than three years or any such Sale and Lease-Back Transaction between the Company and one of its Subsidiaries, or between its Subsidiaries, unless:
     (a) the Company or such Subsidiary, as applicable, would be entitled to incur debt secured by a Lien on the Principal Property involved in such Sale and Lease-Back Transaction at least equal in amount to the Attributable Debt with respect to such Sale and Lease-Back Transaction, without equally and ratably securing the Notes, pursuant to items (1) through (8) in clause (a) of Section 4.2 hereof;
     (b) the Company applies the Net Available Proceeds of such Sale and Lease-Back Transaction within 180 days of such Sale and Lease-Back Transaction to either (or a combination of) (i) the prepayment or retirement of debt of the Company or a Subsidiary (other than debt that is, in the case of debt of the Company, subordinated to the Notes or debt owed to the Company or a Subsidiary) that by its terms matures more than 12 months after its creation or (ii) the purchase, construction, development, expansion or improvement of comparable properties or facilities; or
     (c) the aggregate amount of Attributable Debt in respect of such Sale and Lease-Back Transaction plus the Attributable Debt in respect of all other Sale and Lease-Back Transactions of Principal Properties entered into after the date of issuance of the Notes permitted solely pursuant to this clause (c) and still in existence, plus the aggregate amount of all Debt secured by Liens permitted solely pursuant to clause (b) of Section 4.2 above and still outstanding, does not exceed the greater of 15% of the Consolidated Net Tangible Assets at the time of such Sale and Lease-Back Transaction and $350 million.
Section 5.1
Events of Default.
          In addition to the Events of Default set forth in the Base Indenture, the following is an "Event of Default" with respect to the Notes: (i) the failure of the Company or any Subsidiary to pay indebtedness for money borrowed in an aggregate principal amount of at least $100,000,000, at the later of final maturity and the expiration of any related applicable grace period and such defaulted payment shall not have been made, waived or extended within 30 days after written notice from the Trustee or the holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the outstanding Notes
 
or (ii) acceleration of the maturity of indebtedness for money borrowed by the Company or any Subsidiary in an aggregate principal amount of at least $100,000,000, if that acceleration results from a default under the instrument giving rise to or securing such indebtedness for money borrowed and such indebtedness has not been discharged in full or such acceleration has not been rescinded or annulled within 30 days after written notice from the Trustee or the holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the outstanding Notes.
Section 6.1
Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture.
     The Company may satisfy and discharge the Notes in accordance with and subject to the terms of Section 8.1 of the Base Indenture.
Section 6.2
Legal Defeasance of Securities of any Series
     Section 8.3 of the Base Indenture shall be applicable to the Notes.
Section 6.3
Covenant Defeasance
     In addition to the covenants specified in Section 8.4 of the Base Indenture, the Company may omit to comply with respect to the Notes with any term, provision or condition set forth in Sections 4.1, 4.2 and 4.3 of this Supplemental Indenture by complying with the requirements of Section 8.4 of the Base Indenture.
Section 7.1
Trust Indenture Act Controls.
     If any provision of this Supplemental Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with another provision which is required or deemed to be included in this Supplemental Indenture by the TIA, such required or deemed provision shall control.
Section 7.2
Governing Law.
     THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE AND THE SECURITIES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK APPLICABLE TO AGREEMENTS MADE AND TO BE PERFORMED IN SUCH STATE, WITHOUT REGARD TO THE CONFLICT OF LAWS PROVISIONS THEREOF.
Section 7.3
Successors.
     All agreements of the Company in this Supplemental Indenture and the Notes will bind its successors. All agreements of the Trustee in this Supplemental Indenture will bind its successors.
Section 7.4
Severability.
     In case any provision in this Supplemental Indenture or in the Notes will be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions will not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Section 7.5
Counterpart Originals.
     This Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
 
Section 7.6
Table of Contents, Headings, Etc.
     The Table of Contents and headings of the Articles and Sections of this Supplemental Indenture have been inserted for convenience of reference only, are not to be considered a part of this Supplemental Indenture and will in no way modify or restrict any of the terms or provisions hereof.
Section 7.7
Jury Trial
     Each party hereto hereby irrevocably waives any and all rights to trial by jury in any legal proceeding arising out of or relating to this Supplemental Indenture.
Section 7.8
Interpretation
     The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "include," "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation." The word "will" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "shall." Unless the context requires otherwise (a) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document herein shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein), (b) any reference herein to any person shall be construed to include such person's successors and assigns, (c) the words "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder," and words of similar import, shall be construed to refer to this Supplemental Indenture in its entirety and not to any particular provision hereof, (d) all references herein to Articles, Sections and Exhibits shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of and Exhibits to, this Supplemental Indenture and (e) the words "asset" and "property" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.
 
Dated as of June 30, 2009

Exhibit 4.2
     THIS GLOBAL NOTE IS HELD BY THE DEPOSITARY (AS DEFINED IN THE SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO GOVERNING THIS NOTE) OR ITS NOMINEE IN CUSTODY FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE BENEFICIAL OWNERS HEREOF, AND IS NOT TRANSFERABLE TO ANY PERSON UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES EXCEPT THAT (I) THE TRUSTEE MAY MAKE SUCH NOTATIONS HEREON AS MAY BE REQUIRED PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.2 OF THE SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, (II) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE BUT NOT IN PART PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.2(a) OF THE SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, (III) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE DELIVERED TO THE TRUSTEE FOR CANCELLATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.12 OF THE BASE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND (IV) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE TRANSFERRED TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY WITH THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF THE COMPANY HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO.
     THIS GLOBAL NOTE IS A GLOBAL NOTE WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF THE DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY. THIS GLOBAL NOTE IS EXCHANGEABLE FOR NOTES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITARY OR ITS NOMINEE ONLY IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE, AND MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY, BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY THE DEPOSITARY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY. UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (55 WATER STREET, NEW YORK, NEW YORK) ("") TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
DTC
CUSIP: 032654 AE5 ISIN: US032654AE55
 
Analog Devices, Inc., a Massachusetts corporation, promises to pay to CEDE & CO. or registered assigns, the principal sum of $ on July 1, 2014.
                    
Dated: , 2009
                    
     
Date of Authentication: , 2009
                    
     
This is one of the Global Notes referred to in the within-mentioned Supplemental Indenture:
Dated: , 2009
                    
     
 
     Capitalized terms used herein have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture referred to below unless otherwise indicated.
     1. . Analog Devices, Inc., a Massachusetts corporation (the ""), promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Note at 5.00% per annum from the date hereof until maturity. The Company will pay interest semi-annually on January 1 and July 1 of each year, or if any such day is not a Business Day, on the next succeeding Business Day, and no additional interest will accrue on the amount so payable for that period (each an ""). Interest on the Notes will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from June 30, 2009; that if there is no existing Default in the payment of interest, and if this Note is authenticated between a record date referred to on the face hereof and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, interest will accrue from such next succeeding Interest Payment Date; , that the first Interest Payment Date will be January 1, 2010. The Company will pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law to the extent allowable) on overdue principal at the rate equal to the then applicable interest rate on the Notes to the extent lawful; it will pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law to the extent allowable) on overdue installments of interest at the same rate to the extent lawful. Interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
INTEREST
Company
Interest Payment Date
provided
provided, further
     2. . The Company will pay interest on the Notes (except defaulted interest) to the persons who are registered Holders of Notes at the close of business on the June 15 or December 15 next preceding the Interest Payment Date, even if such Notes are canceled after such record date and on or before such Interest Payment Date, except as provided in Section 2.13 of the Base Indenture with respect to defaulted interest. Principal and interest on the Notes will be payable at the office or agency of the Paying Agent and Registrar within the City and State of New York or, at the option of the Company, payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the Holders of the Notes at their respective addresses set forth in the register of Holders of Notes; that payment by wire transfer of immediately available funds will be required with respect to principal of and interest on all Global Securities and all other Notes the Holders of which will have provided wire transfer instructions to the Company or the Paying Agent. Such payment will be in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.
METHOD OF PAYMENT
provided
     3. . Initially, The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., the Trustee under the Indenture, will act as Paying Agent and Registrar. The Company may change any Paying Agent or Registrar without notice to any Holder. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries may act in any such capacity.
PAYING AGENT AND REGISTRAR
 
     4. . This Note is one of a duly authenticated Series of securities of the Company issued and to be issued in one or more Series under an indenture (the ""), dated as of June 30, 2009 between the Company and the Trustee, as amended by the Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 30, 2009, between the Company and the Trustee (the "" and, together with the Base Indenture, the ""). The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the TIA. The Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and such Act for a statement of such terms. To the extent any provision of this Note conflicts with the express provisions of the Indenture, the provisions of the Indenture will govern and be controlling, and to the extent any provision of the Base Indenture conflicts with the express provisions of the Supplemental Indenture, the provisions of the Supplemental Indenture will govern and be controlling. The Company will be entitled to issue Additional Notes pursuant to Section 2.3 of the Supplemental Indenture.
INDENTURE
Base Indenture
Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
     5. 
OPTIONAL REDEMPTION.
     The Notes are redeemable at the option of the Company, at any time or from time to time, either in whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to the greater of the following amounts, plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the redemption date:
     (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed; and
     (ii) the sum of the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments.
     In determining the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments, such payments shall be discounted to the redemption date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) using a discount rate equal to the Treasury Rate plus 37.5 basis points.
     Calculation of the foregoing shall be made by the Company or on the Company's behalf by such person as the Company shall designate; , , that such calculation shall not be a duty or obligation of the Trustee.
provided
however
     Unless the Company defaults in payment of the redemption price, on and after the redemption date, interest will cease to accrue on the Notes or portions thereof called for redemption.
     A partial redemption of the Notes may be effected by such method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate and may provide for the selection for redemption of a portion of the principal amount of the Notes equal to an authorized denomination.
     No Notes of $2,000 or less can be redeemed in part. Notes in denominations larger than $2,000 may be redeemed in part but only in whole multiples of $1,000, unless all of the Notes held by a Holder are to be redeemed.
 
Notice of any redemption shall be mailed at least 15 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each Holder of the Notes to be redeemed.
     6. . The Company is not required to make any mandatory redemption or sinking fund payments with respect to the Notes.
MANDATORY REDEMPTION
     7. 
OFFER TO PURCHASE UPON CHANGE OF CONTROL.
     If a Change of Control Triggering Event occurs, unless the Company has exercised its option to redeem the Notes or has defeased the Notes or satisfied and discharged the Notes, the Company shall be required to make an offer (a "") to each Holder of the Notes to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 and in integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof) of that Holder's Notes pursuant to the terms set forth in the Indenture. In a Change of Control Offer, the Company shall be required to offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes repurchased to the date of repurchase.
Change of Control Offer
     8. . The Notes are in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000. Notes may be transferred or exchanged as provided in the Indenture. The Registrar and the Trustee may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and the Company or the Trustee may require a Holder to pay any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture. The Company need not exchange or transfer any Note or portion of a Note selected for redemption, except for the unredeemed portion of any Note being redeemed in part. Also, the Company need not exchange or register the transfer of any Notes for a period of 15 days before the day of any selection of Notes to be redeemed or during the period between a record date and the corresponding Interest Payment Date.
DENOMINATIONS, TRANSFER, EXCHANGE
     9. . The registered Holder of a Note may be treated as its owner for all purposes.
PERSONS DEEMED OWNERS
     10. . Subject to certain exceptions, the Indenture or the Notes may be amended or supplemented with the consent of the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the Notes then outstanding, including, without limitation, consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for the Notes, and any existing default or compliance with any provision of the Indenture or the Notes, may be waived with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes, including, without limitation, consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for the Notes. Without the consent of any Holder of a Note, the Indenture or the Notes may be amended or supplemented (i) to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency; (ii) to provide for a supplemental indenture as set forth in Article V of the Base Indenture; (iii) to provide for uncertificated Notes in addition to or in place of certificated Notes; (iv) to make any change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Holder; (v) to provide for the issuance of and establish the form and terms and conditions of the Securities of any Series as permitted by the Indenture; (vi) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment under the Indenture by a successor Trustee and to add to or change any of the provisions of the Indenture as shall be
AMENDMENT, SUPPLEMENT AND WAIVER
 
necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts under the Indenture by more than one Trustee; or (vii) to comply with the requirements of the SEC in order to effect or maintain the qualification of the Indenture under the TIA.
     11. . If an Event of Default with respect to the Notes shall occur and be continuing, the principal of, and any accrued and unpaid interest on, the outstanding Notes may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
DEFAULTS AND REMEDIES
     12. . The Trustee, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of the Notes and may otherwise deal with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee.
TRUSTEE DEALINGS WITH COMPANY
     13. . A director, officer, employee or stockholder, as such, of the Company will not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Notes or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder by accepting a Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issue of the Notes.
NO RECOURSE AGAINST OTHERS
     14. . This Note will not be valid until authenticated by the manual signature of the Trustee or an authenticating agent.
AUTHENTICATION
     15. . Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
ABBREVIATIONS
     16. . The Company has caused CUSIP numbers to be printed on the Notes and the Trustee shall use CUSIP numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders. No representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Notes or as contained in any notice of redemption and reliance may be placed only on the other elements of identification printed on the Notes, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Company will furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Base Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture. Requests may be made to:
CUSIP NUMBERS
Analog Devices, Inc. One Technology Way Norwood, Massachusetts 02062 Attention: General Counsel
 
To assign this Note, fill in the form below:
(I) or (we) assign and transfer this Note to:
and irrevocably appoint to transfer this Note on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
                    
                    
                    
Date:
                          
Your Signature:
 
(sign exactly as your name appears on the face of this Note)
Tax Identification No:
 
Signature Guarantee:
 
Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
STAMP
 
     If you want to elect to have this Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 4.1 of the Supplemental Indenture, check the box below:
      Section 4.1
o
     If you want to elect to have only part of the Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 4.1 of the Supplemental Indenture, state the amount you elect to have purchased: $
                    
Date:
                    
     
     
Your Signature:
 
(sign exactly as your name appears on the face of this Note)
Tax Identification No:
 
Signature Guarantee:
 
Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program (") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
STAMP"

Exhibit 5.1
Analog Devices, Inc. One Technology Way Norwood, Massachusetts 02062
Re:
Registration Statement on Form S-3
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     We have acted as counsel for Analog Devices, Inc., a Massachusetts corporation (the "Company"), in connection with the offer and sale of $375,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 5.00% Notes due 2014 (the "Debt Securities"), pursuant to an underwriting agreement dated June 25, 2009 (the "Underwriting Agreement"), between the Company and Credit Suisse Securities, LLC, as representative of the several underwriters named in the Underwriting Agreement. The Debt Securities will be issued pursuant to an indenture to be dated as of June 30, 2009 between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (the "Trustee"), as supplemented by the supplemental indenture to be dated as of June 30, 2009 (the "Indenture").
     As such counsel, we have assisted in the preparation and filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") of the Company's prospectus supplement dated June 25, 2009 (the "Prospectus Supplement") to the prospectus dated June 25, 2009 (the "Base Prospectus"), each relating to the registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-160215) (the "Registration Statement") filed by the Company with the Commission on June 25, 2009.
     We have examined and relied upon corporate or other proceedings of the Company regarding (i) the authorization of the execution and delivery of the Indenture, the Underwriting Agreement and the issuance of the Debt Securities, (ii) the Registration Statement, (iii) the Base Prospectus, (iv) the Prospectus Supplement, (v) the Underwriting Agreement and (vi) the Indenture. We have also examined and relied upon originals or copies, certified or otherwise identified to our satisfaction, of such other corporate records of the Company, such other agreements and instruments, certificates of public officials, officers of the Company and other persons, and such other documents, instruments and certificates as we have deemed necessary as a basis for the opinions hereinafter expressed.
     In our examination of the documents referred to above, we have assumed the genuineness of all signatures, the legal capacity of all individual signatories, the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as originals, the conformity to original documents of all documents submitted to us as copies, the authenticity of such original documents, and the completeness and accuracy of the corporate records of the Company provided to us by the Company.
 
Analog Devices, Inc. June 25, 2009 Page 2
     In rendering the opinions set forth below, we have assumed that (i) the Trustee has the power, corporate or other, to enter into and perform its obligations under the Indenture, (ii) the Indenture will be a valid and binding obligation of the Trustee, and (iii) the Trustee shall have been qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended. We have also assumed the due authentication of the Debt Securities by the Trustee, that there will not have occurred, prior to the date of issuance of the Debt Securities, any change in law affecting the validity or enforceability of such Debt Securities and that at the time of the issuance and sale of the Debt Securities, the Board of Directors of the Company (or any committee thereof acting pursuant to authority properly delegated to such committee by the Board of Directors) has not taken any action to rescind or otherwise reduce its prior authorization of the issuance of the Debt Securities.
     We express no opinion herein as to the laws of any jurisdiction other than the state laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, the state laws of the State of New York and the federal laws of the United States of America.
     We have assumed for purposes of our opinions below that no authorization, approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any governmental authority or regulatory body or (to the extent the same is required under any agreement or document binding on it of which an addressee has knowledge, has received notice or has reason to know) any other third party is required for the due execution, delivery or performance by the Company of the Indenture or the Debt Securities or, if any such authorization, approval, consent, action, notice or filing is required, it will have been duly obtained, taken, given or made and will be in full force and effect.
     Our opinions below are qualified to the extent that they may be subject to or affected by (i) applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, usury, fraudulent conveyance or similar laws relating to or affecting the rights or remedies of creditors generally, (ii) duties and standards imposed on creditors and parties to contracts, including, without limitation, requirements of materiality, good faith, reasonableness and fair dealing, and (iii) general equitable principles. Furthermore, we express no opinion as to the availability of any equitable or specific remedy upon any breach of the Indenture or the Debt Securities, or to the successful assertion of any equitable defenses, inasmuch as the availability of such remedies or the success of any equitable defenses may be subject to the discretion of a court. We also express no opinion herein with respect to compliance by the Company with the securities or "blue sky" laws of any state or other jurisdiction of the United States or of any foreign jurisdiction. In addition, we express no opinion and make no statement herein with respect to the antifraud laws of any jurisdiction.
     On the basis of, and subject to, the foregoing, we are of the opinion that when the Debt Securities have been duly executed by the Company, and duly authenticated by the Trustee in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, and delivered to the purchasers thereof against payment of the consideration therefor duly approved by the Company, and subject to the final
 
Analog Devices, Inc. June 25, 2009 Page 3
terms of the Debt Securities complying with then applicable law, not resulting in a default under or a breach of any agreement or instrument binding upon the Company and complying with any requirement or restriction imposed by any court or governmental entity having jurisdiction over the Company, the Debt Securities will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms.
     Please note that we are opining only as to the matters expressly set forth herein, and no opinion should be inferred as to any other matters. This opinion is based upon currently existing statutes, rules, regulations and judicial decisions and is rendered as of the date hereof, and we disclaim any obligation to advise you of any change in any of the foregoing sources of law or subsequent developments in law or changes in facts or circumstances that might affect any matters or opinions set forth herein.
     We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion with the Commission as an exhibit to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K to be filed on or about June 30, 2009, which Form 8-K will be incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement and to the use of our name therein and in the related Base Prospectus, Preliminary Prospectus Supplement and Prospectus Supplement under the caption "Legal Matters." In giving such consent, we do not hereby admit that we are in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the rules and regulations of the Commission.


