FILE:ADI/ADI-8K-20101203144532.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On November 30, 2010, Analog's Compensation Committee approved new forms of the stock option and restricted stock unit agreements for stock options and restricted stock unit awards made to Analog's executive officers and employees pursuant to and as permitted by Analog's 2006 Stock Incentive Plan. The forms provide for vesting of the stock options and restricted stock units according to the schedules set forth therein and for vesting in full on the occurrence of certain events, such the death of the recipient. The foregoing description of the stock option and restricted stock unit agreements does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Forms of Global Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement and Global Restricted Stock Unit Agreement filed as Exhibit 10.1 and 10.2 of this Report and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
{EMPNAME} {EMPNUMBER}
We are pleased to advise the Optionee (the "Optionee") that Analog Devices, Inc., a Massachusetts corporation (the "Company"), has granted to the Optionee an option to purchase that number of shares of Common Stock set forth below (the "Option") subject to the terms and conditions of the Analog Devices, Inc. 2006 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), and this Global Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement, including Appendix A, which includes any applicable country-specific provisions, and Appendix B, which includes additional documents that may need to be signed and returned to the Company (this agreement and Appendices A and B, collectively, the "Agreement"). The grant of this Option reflects the Company's confidence in the Optionee's commitment and contributions to the success and continued growth of the Company.
All terms not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Plan.
The right of exercise is cumulative, so that an Option, once vested, may be exercised, in whole or in part, at any time up to {EXPDATE}, the expiration date, or such earlier date as provided in Section 3 below or in the country-specific provisions in Appendix A.
 
 
 
A copy of the Plan prospectus is available on the Company's Intranet at (from Signals home page, click Knowledge Centers, HR, Employee Stock Programs. The related documents can be found in the right-hand column). If the Optionee is unable to access this information via the Intranet, ADI's or the Optionee's regional stock plan administrator can provide the Optionee with copies.
www.analog.com/employee

Exhibit 10.2
{EMPNAME} {EMPNUMBER}
We are pleased to advise you (the "Participant") that Analog Devices, Inc., a Massachusetts corporation (the "Company"), has granted to the Participant that number of Restricted Stock Units ("RSUs") set forth below, subject to the terms and conditions of the Analog Devices, Inc. 2006 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan") and this Global Restricted Stock Unit Agreement, including Appendix A, which includes any applicable country-specific provisions, and Appendix B, which includes additional documents that may need to be signed and returned to the Company depending on the Participant's country of residence (this agreement, collectively with Appendices A and B, the "Agreement"). The grant of RSUs reflects the Company's confidence in the Participant's commitment and contributions to the success and continued growth of the Company. All terms not defined in this Agreement shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan.
 
 
 
 


