FILE:ADI/ADI-8K-20110331171528.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
Table of Contents
     On March 30, 2011, Analog Devices, Inc. ("Analog Devices") entered into an Underwriting Agreement among Analog Devices and Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as representatives of the several underwriters named therein (the "Underwriting Agreement") pursuant to which Analog Devices intends to issue $375 million aggregate principal amount of 3.00% senior unsecured notes due April 15, 2016 (the "Notes") in a public offering pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-160215) (the "Registration Statement") and a related prospectus and prospectus supplement, each as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Notes are to be issued under the indenture dated June 30, 2009 (the "Indenture"), between Analog Devices and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee, as supplemented by a supplemental indenture to be entered into with the trustee, prior to the closing of the transactions contemplated by the Underwriting Agreement.
     The above description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Underwriting Agreement and Indenture. The Underwriting Agreement is filed as Exhibit 1.1 hereto. The Indenture was previously filed as Exhibit 4.1 to Analog Devices' Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 18, 2009. The Underwriting Agreement and Indenture are incorporated herein by reference.
     Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP, counsel to Analog Devices, has issued an opinion to Analog Devices dated March 30, 2011, regarding the legality of the Notes upon issuance and sale thereof. A copy of the opinion as to legality is filed as Exhibit 5.1 hereto.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 1.1
EXECUTION COPY
March 30, 2011
As Representatives of the Several Underwriters, c/o Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC   Eleven Madison Avenue     New York, New York 10010
Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     1. . Analog Devices, Inc., a Massachusetts corporation (the ""), agrees with the several Underwriters named in Schedule A hereto (the "") for whom Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated are acting as Representatives (the "Representatives") to issue and sell to the several Underwriters $375,000,000 principal amount of its 3.000% Senior Notes Due 2016 (the ""). The Securities shall be issued under an indenture, dated as of June 30, 2009, as supplemented by a supplemental indenture to be dated as of the Closing Date (the "Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee.
Introductory
Company
Underwriters
Securities
     2. . The Company represents and warrants to, and agrees with, the several Underwriters that:
Representations and Warranties of the Company
     (a) . The Company has filed with the Commission a registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-160215), including a related prospectus or prospectuses, covering the registration of the Securities under the Act, which has become effective. "" at any particular time means such registration statement in the form then filed with the Commission, including any amendment thereto, any document incorporated by reference therein and all 430B Information and all 430C Information with respect to such registration statement, that in any case has not been superseded or modified. "" without reference to a time means the Registration Statement as of the Effective Time. For purposes of this definition, 430B Information shall be considered to be included in the Registration Statement as of the time specified in Rule 430B.
Filing and Effectiveness of Registration Statement; Certain Defined Terms
Registration Statement
Registration Statement
     For purposes of this Agreement:
     "" means information included in a prospectus then deemed to be a part of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 430B(e) or retroactively deemed to be a part of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 430B(f).
430B Information
     "" means information included in a prospectus then deemed to be a part of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 430C.
430C Information
     "" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Act
     "" means 2:30 p.m. (Eastern time) on the date of this Agreement.
Applicable Time
 
     "" has the meaning defined in Section 3 hereof.
Closing Date
     "" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Commission
     "" of the Registration Statement relating to the Securities means the time of the first contract of sale for the Securities.
Effective Time
     "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
     means the rules of the New York Stock Exchange.
"Exchange Rules"
     "" means the Statutory Prospectus that discloses the public offering price, other 430B Information and other final terms of the Securities and otherwise satisfies Section 10(a) of the Act.
Final Prospectus
     "" means any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that is intended for general distribution to prospective investors, as evidenced by its being so specified in Schedule B to this Agreement.
General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
     "" means any "issuer free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 433, relating to the Securities in the form filed or required to be filed with the Commission or, if not required to be filed, in the form retained in the Company's records pursuant to Rule 433(g).
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
     "" means any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that is not a General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus.
Limited Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
     "" means the rules and regulations of the Commission.
Rules and Regulations
     "" means, collectively, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (""), the Act, the Exchange Act, the Rules and Regulations and the auditing principles, rules, standards and practices applicable to auditors of "issuers" (as defined in Sarbanes-Oxley) promulgated or approved by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
Securities Laws
Sarbanes-Oxley
     "" with reference to any particular time means the prospectus relating to the Securities that is included in the Registration Statement immediately prior to that time, including all 430B Information and all 430C Information with respect to the Registration Statement. For purposes of the foregoing definition, 430B Information shall be considered to be included in the Statutory Prospectus only as of the actual time that form of prospectus (including a prospectus supplement) is filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) and not retroactively.
Statutory Prospectus
     "" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended.
Trust Indenture Act
     Unless otherwise specified, a reference to a "rule" is to the indicated rule under the Act.
     (b) . (i) (A) At the time the Registration Statement initially became effective, (B) at the time of each amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Act (whether by post-effective amendment, incorporated report or form of prospectus), (C) at the Effective Time relating to the Securities and (D) on the Closing Date, the Registration Statement conformed and will conform in all material respects to the requirements of the Act, the Trust Indenture Act and the Rules and Regulations and did not and will not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading and (ii) (A) on its date, (B) at the time of filing the Final Prospectus pursuant to Rule 424(b) and (C) on the Closing Date, the Final Prospectus will conform in all material respects to the requirements of the Act, the Trust Indenture Act and the Rules and Regulations, and will not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from
Compliance with Securities Act Requirements
 
any such document based upon written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information is that described as such in Section 8(b) hereof.
     (c) . (i) . (A) At the time of initial filing of the Registration Statement, (B) at the time of the most recent amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Act (whether such amendment was by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or form of prospectus), and (C) at the time the Company or any person acting on its behalf (within the meaning, for this clause only, of Rule 163(c)) made any offer relating to the Securities in reliance on the exemption of Rule 163, the Company was a "well known seasoned issuer" as defined in Rule 405, including not having been an "ineligible issuer" as defined in Rule 405 by virtue of a waiver issued by the Commission on May 30, 2008.
Automatic Shelf Registration Statement
Well-Known Seasoned Issuer Status
     (ii) . The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement," as defined in Rule 405, that initially became effective within three years of the date of this Agreement.
Effectiveness of Automatic Shelf Registration Statement
     (iii) . The Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form. If at any time when the Securities remain unsold by the Underwriters the Company receives from the Commission a notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) or otherwise ceases to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration statement form, the Company will (i) promptly notify the Representatives, (ii) promptly file a new registration statement or post-effective amendment on the proper form relating to the Securities, in a form satisfactory to the Representatives, (iii) use its best efforts to cause such registration statement or post-effective amendment to be declared effective as soon as practicable, and (iv) promptly notify the Representatives of such effectiveness. The Company will take all other action necessary or appropriate to permit the public offering and sale of the Securities to continue as contemplated in the registration statement that was the subject of the Rule 401(g)(2) notice or for which the Company has otherwise become ineligible. References herein to the Registration Statement shall include such new registration statement or post-effective amendment, as the case may be.
Eligibility to Use Automatic Shelf Registration Form
     (iv) . The Company has paid or shall pay the required Commission filing fees relating to the Securities within the time required by Rule 456(b)(1) without regard to the proviso therein and otherwise in accordance with Rules 456(b) and 457(r).
Filing Fees
     (d) . (i) At the earliest time after the filing of the Registration Statement that the Company or another offering participant made a bona fide offer (within the meaning of Rule 164(h)(2)) of the Securities and (ii) at the date of this Agreement, the Company was not and is not an "ineligible issuer," as defined in Rule 405, by virtue of a waiver issued by the Commission on May 30, 2008.
Ineligible Issuer Status
     (e) . As of the Applicable Time, neither (i) the General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus(es) issued at or prior to the Applicable Time and the preliminary prospectus supplement, dated March 30, 2011 including the base prospectus, dated June 25, 2009 (which is the most recent Statutory Prospectus distributed to investors generally), and the other information, if any, stated in Schedule B to this Agreement to be included in the General Disclosure Package, all considered together (collectively, the ""), nor (ii) any individual Limited Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, when considered together with the General Disclosure Package, included any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The preceding sentence does not
General Disclosure Package
General Disclosure Package
 
apply to statements in or omissions from the General Disclosure Package or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the information described as such in Section 8(b) hereof.
     (f) . Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, as of its issue date and at all subsequent times through the completion of the public offer and sale of the Securities or until any earlier date that the Company notified or notifies the Representatives as described in the next sentence, did not, does not and will not include any information that conflicted, conflicts or will conflict with the information then contained in the Registration Statement. If at any time prior to or as of the Closing Date following issuance of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus there occurred or occurs an event or development as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus conflicted or would conflict with the information then contained in the Registration Statement or as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, if republished immediately following such event or development, would include an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or would omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, (i) the Company has promptly notified or will promptly notify the Representatives and (ii) the Company has promptly amended or will promptly amend or supplement such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to eliminate or correct such conflict, untrue statement or omission.
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
     (g) . The Company has been duly incorporated and is existing and in good standing under the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, with corporate power and authority to own its properties and conduct its business as described in the General Disclosure Package; and the Company is duly qualified to do business as a foreign corporation and in good standing in all other jurisdictions in which its ownership or lease of property or the conduct of its business requires such qualification, except where the failure to be so qualified would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect (as defined below).
Due Incorporation and Good Standing of the Company
     (h) . Each subsidiary of the Company has been duly incorporated or organized, as the case may be, and is existing and in good standing under, the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation or organization, as the case may be, with corporate power and authority to own its properties and conduct its business as described in the General Disclosure Package; and each subsidiary of the Company is duly qualified to do business as a foreign corporation or other applicable entity in good standing in all other jurisdictions in which its ownership or lease of property or the conduct of its business requires such qualification and where such concepts of "due qualification" and "good standing" exist; all of the issued and outstanding capital stock or other equity interests of each subsidiary of the Company has been duly authorized and validly issued and is fully paid and nonassessable (to the extent that such concepts of "due authorization", "valid issuance" and being "fully paid and nonassessable" exist in the jurisdiction in which such subsidiary is incorporated or organized, as the case may be); and the capital stock or other equity interests of each subsidiary owned by the Company, directly or through subsidiaries, is owned free from liens, encumbrances and defects, except, in each case in this clause (h), as would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Subsidiaries
     (i) . The Indenture has been duly authorized by the Company and has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act; the Securities have been duly authorized and, when the Securities are delivered and paid for pursuant to this Agreement on each Closing Date, the Indenture will have been duly executed and delivered by the Company, such Securities will have been duly executed, authenticated, issued and delivered, will be consistent with the information in the General Disclosure Package and will conform to the description of such Securities contained in the Final Prospectus and the Indenture and such Securities will
Execution and Delivery of Indenture
 
constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company, enforceable in accordance with their terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general equity principles.
     (j) . No consent, approval, authorization, or order of, or filing or registration with, any governmental agency or body or any court is required for the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the Indenture in connection with the offering, issuance and sale of the Securities by the Company, except such as have been obtained or made and such as may be required under state securities laws.
Absence of Further Requirements
     (k) . Except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package, the Company and its subsidiaries have good and marketable title to all real properties and good title to all other properties and assets owned by them, in each case free from liens, charges, encumbrances and defects that would materially affect the value thereof or materially interfere with the use made or to be made thereof by them and, except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package, the Company and its subsidiaries hold any leased real or personal property under valid and enforceable leases with no terms or provisions that would materially interfere with the use made or to be made thereof by them, except, in each case in this clause (k), as would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Title to Property
     (l) . The execution, delivery and performance of the Indenture and this Agreement, and the issuance and sale of the Securities and compliance with the terms and provisions thereof, will not result in a breach or violation of any of the terms and provisions of, or constitute a default or a Debt Repayment Triggering Event (as defined below) under, or result in the imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries pursuant to, (i) the charter or by-laws or other organizational documents of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (ii) any statute, rule, regulation or order of any governmental agency or body or any court, domestic or foreign, having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of their properties, or (iii) any agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is bound or to which any of the properties of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject, except, in the case of clause (i) as it applies to the Company's subsidiaries, as would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect, and in the case of clauses (ii) and (iii), as would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect; a "" means any event or condition that gives, or with the giving of notice or lapse of time would give, the holder of any note, debenture, or other evidence of indebtedness (or any person acting on such holder's behalf) the right to require the repurchase, redemption or repayment of all or a portion of such indebtedness by the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Absence of Defaults and Conflicts Resulting from Transaction
Debt Repayment Triggering Event
     (m) . Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is in violation of its respective charter or by-laws or other organizational documents, or in default (or with the giving of notice or lapse of time would be in default) under any existing obligation, agreement, covenant or condition contained in any indenture, loan agreement, mortgage, lease or other agreement or instrument to which any of them is a party or by which any of them is bound or to which any of the properties of any of them is subject, except such defaults that would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a material adverse effect on the condition (financial or otherwise), results of operations, business or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole ("").
Absence of Existing Defaults and Conflicts
Material Adverse Effect
     (n) . This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
Authorization of Agreement
 
     (o) . The Company and its subsidiaries possess, and are in compliance with the terms of, all adequate certificates, authorizations, franchises, licenses and permits ("") material to the conduct of the business now conducted or proposed in the General Disclosure Package to be conducted by them and have not received any notice of proceedings relating to the revocation or modification of any Licenses that, if determined adversely to the Company or any of its subsidiaries, would individually or in the aggregate have a Material Adverse Effect.
Possession of Licenses and Permits
Licenses
     (p) . No labor dispute with the employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries exists or, to the knowledge of the Company, is imminent, in either case that would have a Material Adverse Effect.
Absence of Labor Dispute
     (q) . The Company and its subsidiaries own, possess or can acquire on reasonable terms sufficient trademarks, trade names, patent rights, copyrights, domain names, licenses, approvals, trade secrets, inventions, technology, know-how and other intellectual property and similar rights (collectively, "") material to the conduct of the business now conducted or proposed in the General Disclosure Package to be conducted by them, and the expected expiration of any such Intellectual Property Rights would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect. Except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package (i) to the Company's knowledge, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is infringing the Intellectual Property Rights of any third parties; (ii) to the Company's knowledge, no third party is infringing the Intellectual Property Rights of the Company or any of its subsidiaries; (iii) there is no pending or threatened action, suit, proceeding or claim by others challenging the Company's or any subsidiary's rights in or to, any of their Intellectual Property Rights, and the Company is unaware of any facts which would form a reasonable basis for any such claim; (iv) there is no pending or threatened action, suit, proceeding or claim by others challenging the validity, enforceability or scope of any such Intellectual Property Rights, and the Company is unaware of any facts which would form a reasonable basis for any such claim; and (v) none of the Intellectual Property Rights used by the Company or its subsidiaries in their businesses as currently conducted or proposed to be conducted in the General Disclosure Package has been obtained or is being used by the Company or its subsidiaries in violation of any contractual obligation binding on the Company or any of its subsidiaries, except in each case covered by clauses (i)  (v) such as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
Possession of Intellectual Property
Intellectual Property Rights
     (r) . Except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is in violation of any statute, any rule, regulation, decision or order of any governmental agency or body or any court, domestic or foreign, relating to the use, disposal or release of hazardous or toxic substances or relating to the protection or restoration of the environment or human exposure to hazardous or toxic substances (collectively, ""), owns or operates any real property contaminated with any substance that is subject to any environmental laws, is liable for any off-site disposal or contamination pursuant to any environmental laws, or is subject to any claim relating to any environmental laws, which violation, contamination, liability or claim would individually or in the aggregate have a Material Adverse Effect; and the Company is not aware of any pending investigation relating to environmental laws.
Environmental Laws
environmental laws
     (s) . The statements in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus under the headings "Description of the Notes", "Description of Debt Securities" and "Material United States Federal Tax Consequences", insofar as such statements summarize legal matters, agreements, documents or proceedings discussed therein, are accurate and fair summaries of such legal matters, agreements, documents or proceedings in all material respects and present the information required to be shown therein.
Accurate Disclosure
 
     (t) . The Company has not taken, directly or indirectly, any action that is designed to or that has constituted or that would reasonably be expected to cause or result in the stabilization or manipulation of the price of any security of the Company, in each case for the purpose of facilitating the sale or resale of the Securities.
Absence of Manipulation
     (u) . Except as set forth in the General Disclosure Package, the Company, its subsidiaries and the Company's Board of Directors (the "") are in compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley and all applicable Exchange Rules. The Company maintains a system of internal controls, including, but not limited to, disclosure controls and procedures, internal controls over accounting matters and financial reporting, an internal audit function and legal and regulatory compliance controls (collectively, "") that comply in all material respects with the Securities Laws and are sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that (i) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorizations, (ii) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. General Accepted Accounting Principles and to maintain accountability for assets, (iii) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization and (iv) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences. The Internal Controls are, or upon consummation of the offering of the Securities will be, overseen by the Audit Committee (the "") of the Board in accordance with Exchange Rules. Since the filing of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 30, 2010, the Company has not publicly disclosed or reported to the Audit Committee or the Board, and within the next 90days the Company does not reasonably expect to publicly disclose or report to the Audit Committee or the Board, a significant deficiency, material weakness, change in Internal Controls or fraud involving management or other employees who have a significant role in Internal Controls (each, an ""), any violation of, or failure to comply with, the Securities Laws, or any matter which, if determined adversely, would have a Material Adverse Effect.
Internal Controls and Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
Board
Internal Controls
Audit Committee
Internal Control Event
     (v) . Except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package, there are no pending actions, suits or proceedings (including any inquiries or investigations by any court or governmental agency or body, domestic or foreign) against or affecting the Company, any of its subsidiaries or any of their respective properties that, if determined adversely to the Company or any of its subsidiaries, would individually or in the aggregate have a Material Adverse Effect, or would materially and adversely affect the ability of the Company to perform its obligations under the Indenture or this Agreement, or which are otherwise material in the context of the sale of the Securities; and no such actions, suits or proceedings (including any inquiries or investigations by any court or governmental agency or body, domestic or foreign) are, to the Company's knowledge, threatened or contemplated.
Litigation
     (w) . The financial statements included in the Registration Statement and the General Disclosure Package present fairly the financial position of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries as of the dates shown and their results of operations and cash flows for the periods shown, and such financial statements have been prepared in conformity with the generally accepted accounting principles in the United States applied on a consistent basis. The schedules included in the Registration Statement present fairly the information required to be stated therein.
Financial Statements
     (x) . Except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package, since the end of the period covered by the latest audited financial statements included in the General Disclosure Package (i) there has been no change, nor any development or event involving a prospective change, in the condition (financial or otherwise), results of operations, business or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, that is material and
No Material Adverse Change in Business
 
adverse (ii) except for a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.22 or as otherwise disclosed in or contemplated by the General Disclosure Package, there has been no dividend or distribution of any kind declared, paid or made by the Company on any class of its capital stock and (iii) except as disclosed in or contemplated by the General Disclosure Package, there has been no material adverse change in the capital stock, long term indebtedness, or net assets of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
     (y) . The Company is not and, after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Securities and the application of the proceeds thereof as described in the General Disclosure Package, will not be, an "investment company" as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the "").
Investment Company Act
Investment Company Act
     (z) . No "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" as such term is defined for purposes of Rule 436(g)(2)(i) has imposed (or has informed the Company that it is considering imposing) any condition (financial or otherwise) on the Company's retaining any rating assigned to the Company or any securities of the Company or (ii) has told the Company that it is considering any of the actions described in Section 7(c)(ii) hereof.
Ratings
     . Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries nor, to the knowledge of the Company, any director or officer of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, is aware of or has taken any action, directly or indirectly, that would result in a violation by any director, officer, agent, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder (the ""), including, without limitation, making use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce corruptly in furtherance of an offer, payment, promise to pay or authorization of the payment of any money, or other property, gift, promise to give, or authorization of the giving of anything of value to any "foreign official" (as such term is defined in the FCPA) or any foreign political party or official thereof or any candidate for foreign political office, in contravention of the FCPA, and the Company, its subsidiaries and, to the knowledge of the Company, its directors and officers, have conducted the business of the Company and its subsidiaries in compliance with the FCPA (other than for any immaterial noncompliance that would not result in a violation of the FCPA), and the Company and its subsidiaries have instituted and maintain policies and procedures designed to ensure, and which are reasonably expected to continue to ensure, continued compliance therewith.
(aa) Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
FCPA
     . The operations of the Company and its subsidiaries are and have been conducted at all times in compliance with applicable financial recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970, as amended, the money laundering statutes of all jurisdictions, and the rules and regulations thereunder, and, to the Company's knowledge, any related or similar rules, regulations or guidelines, issued, administered or enforced by any governmental agency (collectively, the ""), and no action, suit or proceeding by or before any court or governmental agency, authority or body or any arbitrator involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries with respect to the Money Laundering Laws is pending or, to the Company's knowledge, threatened.
(bb) Money Laundering Laws
Money Laundering Laws
     . Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries nor, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent or employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Treasury Department ("").
(cc) OFAC
OFAC
     3. . On the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Company agrees to sell to the several Underwriters, and each of the Underwriters agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the
Purchase, Sale and Delivery of Securities
 
Company, at a purchase price of 98.928% of the principal amount thereof, the respective principal amounts of Securities set forth opposite the names of the Underwriters in Schedule A hereto plus accrued interest from April 4, 2011 to the Closing Date (as hereinafter defined).
     The Company will deliver the Securities to or as instructed by the Representatives for the accounts of the several Underwriters in a form reasonably acceptable to the Representatives against payment of the purchase price by the Underwriters in Federal (same day) funds by wire transfer to an account at a bank acceptable to the Representatives drawn to the order of Analog Devices, Inc. at the office of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, at 9:30 a.m., New York time, on April 4, 2011, or at such other time not later than seven full business days thereafter as the Representatives and the Company determine, such time being herein referred to as the "". For purposes of Rule 15c6-1 under the Exchange Act, the Closing Date (if later than the otherwise applicable settlement date) shall be the settlement date for payment of funds and delivery of all the Securities sold pursuant to the offering. A copy of the Securities so to be delivered or evidence of their issuance will be made available for checking at the above office of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP at least 24 hours prior to the Closing Date.
Closing Date
     4. . It is understood that the several Underwriters propose to offer the Securities for sale to the public as set forth in the Final Prospectus.
Offering by Underwriters
     5. . The Company agrees with the several Underwriters that:
Certain Agreements of the Company
     (a) The Company has filed or will file each Statutory Prospectus (including the Final Prospectus) pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 424(b) not later than the second business day following the earlier of the date it is first used or the execution and delivery of this Agreement. The Company has complied and will comply with Rule 433.
Filing of Prospectuses.
     (b) . For so long as a prospectus relating to the Securities is (or but for the exemption in Rule 172 would be) required to be delivered under the Act by any Underwriter or dealer) the Company will promptly advise the Representatives of any proposal to amend or supplement the Registration Statement or any Statutory Prospectus at any time and will offer the Representatives a reasonable opportunity to comment on any such amendment or supplement; and the Company will also advise the Representatives promptly of (i) the filing of any such amendment or supplement, (ii) any request by the Commission or its staff for any amendment to the Registration Statement, for any supplement to any Statutory Prospectus or for any additional information, (iii) the institution by the Commission of any stop order proceedings in respect of the Registration Statement or the threatening of any proceeding for that purpose and (iv) the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Securities in any jurisdiction or the institution or threatening of any proceedings for such purpose. The Company will use its best efforts to prevent the issuance of any such stop order or the suspension of any such qualification and, if issued, to obtain as soon as possible the withdrawal thereof.
Filing of Amendments; Response to Commission Requests
     (c) . If, at any time when a prospectus relating to the Securities is (or but for the exemption in Rule 172 would be) required to be delivered under the Act by any Underwriter or dealer, any event occurs as a result of which the Final Prospectus as then amended or supplemented would include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, or if it is necessary at any time to amend the Registration Statement or supplement the Final Prospectus to comply with the Act, the Company will promptly notify the Representatives of such event and will promptly prepare and file with the Commission and furnish, at its own expense, to the Underwriters and the dealers and any other dealers upon request of the Representatives, an amendment or supplement which will correct such statement or omission or an amendment which will effect such compliance. Neither the
Continued Compliance with Securities Laws
 
Representatives' consent to, nor the Underwriters' delivery of, any such amendment or supplement shall constitute a waiver of any of the conditions set forth in Section 7 hereof.
     (d) As soon as practicable, but not later than 16 months, after the date of this Agreement, the Company will make generally available to its securityholders an earnings statement covering a period of at least 12 months beginning after the date of this Agreement and satisfying the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Act and Rule 158.
Rule 158.
     (e) . The Company will furnish to the Representatives copies of the Registration Statement, including all exhibits, any Statutory Prospectus, the Final Prospectus and all amendments and supplements to such documents, in each case as soon as available and in such quantities as the Representatives reasonably request. The Company will pay the expenses of printing and distributing to the Underwriters all such documents.
Furnishing of Prospectuses
     (f) . The Company will arrange for the qualification of the Securities for sale and the determination of their eligibility for investmentunder the laws of such jurisdictions as the Representatives designate and will continue such qualifications in effect so long as required for the distribution; provided that the Company shall not be required to qualify to transact business or to take any action that would subject it to general service of process in any such jurisdiction where it is not currently qualified or where it would be subject to taxation as a foreign business.
Blue Sky Qualifications
     (g) . For so long as delivery of a prospectus by an Underwriter or dealer may be (or but for the exception in Rule 172 would be) required under the Act, the Company will furnish to the Representatives and, upon request, to each of the other Underwriters, as soon as practicable after the end of each fiscal year, a copy of its annual report to stockholders for such year as is required to be filed by the Company with the Commission; and the Company will furnish to the Representatives (i) as soon as available, a copy of each report and any definitive proxy statement of the Company filed with the Commission under the Exchange Act or mailed to stockholders, and (ii) from time to time, such other information concerning the Company as the Representatives may reasonably request. However, so long as the Company is subject to the reporting requirements of either Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act and is timely filing reports with the Commission on its Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval system or any successor system (""), it is not required to furnish such reports or statements to the Underwriters.
Reporting Requirements
EDGAR
     (h) . The Company will pay all expenses incident to the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, including but not limited to any filing fees and other expenses (including fees and disbursements of counsel to the Underwriters) incurred in connection with qualification of the Securities for sale under the laws of such jurisdictions as the Representatives designate pursuant to Section 5(f) and the preparation and printing of memoranda relating thereto, any fees charged by investment rating agencies for the rating of the Securities, costs and expenses relating to investor presentations or any "road show" in connection with the offering and sale of the Securities including, without limitation, any travel expenses of the Company's officers and employees and any other expenses of the Company, fees and expenses in connection with the registration of the Securities under the Exchange Act, and expenses incurred in distributing preliminary prospectuses and the Final Prospectus (including any amendments and supplements thereto) to the Underwriters and for expenses incurred for preparing, printing and distributing any Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses to investors or prospective investors. It is understood, however, that, except as provided in this Section 5 and Sections 8 and 10, the Underwriters will pay the fees of their counsel.
Payment of Expenses
     (i) . The Company will use the net proceeds received in connection with this offering in the manner described in the "Use of Proceeds" section of the General Disclosure
Use of Proceeds
 
Package and, except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package, the Company does not intend to use any of the proceeds from the sale of the Securities hereunder to repay any outstanding debt owed to any affiliate of any Underwriter.
     (j) . The Company will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that would constitute or that might reasonably be expected to cause or result in, stabilization or manipulation of the price of any securities of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Securities.
Absence of Manipulation
     (k) The Company will not offer, sell, contract to sell, pledge or otherwise dispose of, directly or indirectly, or file with the Commission a registration statement under the Act relating to United States dollar-denominated debt securities issued or guaranteed by the Company and having a maturity of more than one year from the date of issue, or publicly disclose the intention to make any such offer, sale, pledge, disposition or filing, without the prior written consent of the Representatives for a period beginning on the date hereof and ending on the Closing Date.
Restriction on Sale of Securities.
     6. . (a) . The Company represents and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior consent of the Representatives, and each Underwriter represents and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior consent of the Company and the Representatives, it has not made and will not make any offer relating to the Securities that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or that would otherwise constitute a "free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 405, required to be filed with the Commission. Any such free writing prospectus consented to by the Company and the Representatives is hereinafter referred to as a "." The Company represents that it has treated and agrees that it will treat each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an "issuer free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 433, and has complied and will comply with the requirements of Rules 164 and 433 applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including timely Commission filing where required, legending and record keeping.
Free Writing Prospectuses
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
Permitted Free Writing Prospectus
     (b) . The Company will prepare a final term sheet relating to the Securities, containing only information that describes the final terms of the Securities and otherwise in a form consented to by the Representatives, and will file such final term sheet within the period required by Rule 433(d)(5)(ii) following the date such final terms have been established for the offering of the Securities. Any such final term sheet is an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus and a Permitted Free Writing Prospectus for purposes of this Agreement. The Company also consents to the use by any Underwriter of a free writing prospectus that contains only (i)(x) information describing the preliminary terms of the Securities or their offering or (y) information that describes the final terms of the Securities or their offering and that is included in the final term sheet of the Company contemplated in the first sentence of this subsection or (ii) other information that is not "issuer information," as defined in Rule 433, it being understood that any such free writing prospectus referred to in clause (i) or (ii) above shall not be an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus for purposes of this Agreement.
Term Sheets
     7. . The obligations of the several Underwriters to purchase and pay for the Securities on the Closing Date will be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Company herein (as though made on the Closing Date), to the accuracy of the statements of Company officers made pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the performance by the Company of its obligations hereunder and to the following additional conditions precedent:
Conditions of the Obligations of the Underwriters
     (a) . The Representatives shall have received letters, dated, respectively, the date hereof and the Closing Date, of Ernst & Young LLP, confirming that they are a registered public accounting firm and independent public accountants within the meaning of the Securities Laws and substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto (except that, in any letter dated
Accountants' Comfort Letter
 
the Closing Date, the specified date referred to in Exhibit A hereto shall be a date no more than five days prior to the Closing Date).
     (b) The Final Prospectus shall have been filed with the Commission in accordance with the Rules and Regulations and Section 5(a) hereof. No stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or of any part thereof shall have been issued and no proceedings for that purpose shall have been instituted or, to the knowledge of the Company or any Underwriter, shall be contemplated by the Commission.
Filing of Prospectus.
     (c) . Subsequent to the execution and delivery of this Agreement, there shall not have occurred (i) any change, or any development or event involving a prospective change, in the condition (financial or otherwise), results of operations, business or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, which, in the judgment of the Representatives, is material and adverse and makes it impractical or inadvisable to market the Securities; (ii) any downgrading in the rating of any debt securities of the Company by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" (as defined for purposes of Rule 436(g)), or any public announcement that any such organization has under surveillance or review its rating of any debt securities of the Company (other than an announcement with positive implications of a possible upgrading, and no implication of a possible downgrading, of such rating); (iii) any change in U.S. or international financial, political or economic conditions or currency exchange rates or exchange controls the effect of which is such as to make it, in the judgment of the Representatives, impractical to market or to enforce contracts for the sale of the Securities, whether in the primary market or in respect of dealings in the secondary market; (iv) any suspension or material limitation of trading in securities generally on the New York Stock Exchange, or any setting of minimum or maximum prices for trading on such exchange; (v) or any suspension of trading of any securities of the Company on any exchange or in the over-the-counter market; (vi) any banking moratorium declared by any U.S. federal or New York authorities; (vii) any major disruption of settlements of securities, payment, or clearance services in the United States or any other country where such securities are listed or (viii) any attack on, outbreak or escalation of hostilities or act of terrorism involving the United States, any declaration of war by Congress or any other national or international calamity or emergency if, in the judgment of the Representatives, the effect of any such attack, outbreak, escalation, act, declaration, calamity or emergency is such as to make it impractical or inadvisable to market the Securities or to enforce contracts for the sale of the Securities.
No Material Adverse Change
     (d) . The Representatives shall have received an opinion, dated the Closing Date, of Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP, counsel for the Company, in the form of Exhibit B hereto.
Opinion of Counsel for Company
     (e) The Representatives shall have received an opinion, dated the Closing Date, of Houben Advocaten, Netherlands counsel for the Company, in the form of Exhibit C hereto.
Opinion of Netherlands Counsel for Company.
     (f) The Representatives shall have received an opinion, dated the Closing Date, of Margaret K. Seif, General Counsel of the Company, in the form of Exhibit D hereto.
Opinion of General Counsel of the Company.
     (g) The Representatives shall have received from Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, such opinion or opinions, dated the Closing Date, with respect to such matters as the Representatives may require, and the Company shall have furnished to such counsel such documents as they request for the purpose of enabling them to pass upon such matters.
Opinion of Counsel for Underwriters.
 
     (h) . The Representatives shall have received a certificate, dated the Closing Date, of an executive officer of the Company and a principal financial or accounting officer of the Company in which such officers shall state that: the representations and warranties of the Company in this Agreement are true and correct; the Company has complied with all agreements and satisfied all conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied hereunder at or prior to the Closing Date; no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or, to their knowledge, are contemplated by the Commission; and, subsequent to the date of the most recent financial statements in the General Disclosure Package, there has been no material adverse change, nor any development or event involving a prospective material adverse change, in the condition (financial or otherwise), results of operations, business, properties or prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole except as set forth in the General Disclosure Package or as described in such certificate.
Officer's Certificate
The Company will furnish the Representatives with such conformed copies of such opinions, certificates, letters and documents as the Representatives reasonably request. The Representatives may in their sole discretion waive on behalf of the Underwriters compliance with any conditions to the obligations of the Underwriters hereunder.
     8. . (a) . The Company will indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, its partners, members, directors, officers, employees, agents, affiliates and each person, if any, who controls such Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act (each, an ""), against any and all losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, to which such Indemnified Party may become subject, under the Act, the Exchange Act, other Federal or state statutory law or regulation or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of any material fact contained in any part of the Registration Statement, any Statutory Prospectus, the Final Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, and will reimburse each Indemnified Party for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such Indemnified Party in connection with investigating or defending against any such loss, claim, damage, liability, action, litigation, investigation or proceeding whatsoever (whether or not such Indemnified Party is a party thereto), whether threatened or commenced, and in connection with the enforcement of this provision with respect to any of the above as such expenses are incurred; provided, however, that the Company will not be liable in any such case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage or liability arises out of or is based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement in or omission or alleged omission from any of such documents in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the information described as such in subsection (b) below.
Indemnification and Contribution
Indemnification of Underwriters
Indemnified Party
     (b) . Each Underwriter will severally and not jointly indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each of its directors and each of its officers who signs a Registration Statement and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act (each, an ""), against any losses, claims, damages or liabilities to which such Underwriter Indemnified Party may become subject, under the Act, the Exchange Act, other Federal or state statutory law or regulation or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of any material fact contained in any part of the Registration Statement, any Statutory Prospectus, the Final Prospectus, or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or the alleged omission of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by such Underwriter through the
Indemnification of Company
Underwriter Indemnified Party
 
Representatives specifically for use therein, and will reimburse any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such Underwriter Indemnified Party in connection with investigating or defending against any such loss, claim, damage, liability, action, litigation, investigation or proceeding whatsoever (whether or not such Underwriter Indemnified Party is a party thereto), whether threatened or commenced, based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission as such expenses are incurred, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the following information in the Final Prospectus furnished on behalf of each Underwriter: the concession and reallowance figures appearing in the third paragraph under the caption "Underwriting", the second sentence in the sixth paragraph under the caption "Underwriting", and the information contained in the twelfth and thirteenth paragraphs under the caption "Underwriting".
     (c) . Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the indemnifying party under subsection (a) or (b) above, notify the indemnifying party of the commencement thereof; but the failure to notify the indemnifying party shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have under subsection (a) or (b) above except to the extent that it has been materially prejudiced (through the forfeiture of substantive rights or defenses) by such failure; and provided further that the failure to notify the indemnifying party shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have to an indemnified party otherwise than under subsection (a) or (b) above. In case any such action is brought against any indemnified party and it notifies the indemnifying party of the commencement thereof, the indemnifying party will be entitled to participate therein and, to the extent that it may wish, jointly with any other indemnifying party similarly notified, to assume the defense thereof, with counsel satisfactory to such indemnified party (who shall not, except with the consent of the indemnified party, be counsel to the indemnifying party), and after notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of its election so to assume the defense thereof, the indemnifying party will not be liable to such indemnified party under this Section for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof other than reasonable costs of investigation. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened action in respect of which any indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party unless such settlement (i) includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on any claims that are the subject matter of such action and (ii) does not include a statement as to, or an admission of, fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of an indemnified party.
Actions against Parties; Notification
     (d) . If the indemnification provided for in this Section is unavailable or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party under subsection (a) or (b) above, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to in subsection (a) or (b) above (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other from the offering of the Securities or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) above is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other shall be deemed to be in the same proportion as the total net proceeds from the offering (before deducting expenses) received by the Company bear to the total underwriting discounts and commissions received by the Underwriters. The relative fault shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or the Underwriters and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such untrue statement or omission. The amount paid by an indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to in the first sentence of this subsection (d) shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in connection with investigating or defending any action or claim which is the subject of
Contribution
 
this subsection (d). Notwithstanding the provisions of this subsection (d), no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Securities underwritten by it and distributed to the public were offered to the public exceeds the amount of any damages which such Underwriter has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Underwriters' obligations in this subsection (d) to contribute are several in proportion to their respective underwriting obligations and not joint. The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 8(d) were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in this Section 8(d).
     9. . If any Underwriter or Underwriters default in their obligations to purchase Securities hereunder on the Closing Date and the aggregate principal amount of Securities that such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed to purchase does not exceed 10% of the total principal amount of Securities that the Underwriters are obligated to purchase on the Closing Date, the Representatives may make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the purchase of such Securities by other persons, including any of the Underwriters, but if no such arrangements are made by the Closing Date, the non-defaulting Underwriters shall be obligated severally, in proportion to their respective commitments hereunder, to purchase the Securities that such defaulting Underwriters agreed but failed to purchase on the Closing Date. If any Underwriter or Underwriters so default and the aggregate principal amount of Securities with respect to which such default or defaults occur exceeds 10% of the total principal amount of Securities that the Underwriters are obligated to purchase on the Closing Date and arrangements satisfactory to the Representatives and the Company for the purchase of such Securities by other persons are not made within 36 hours after such default, this Agreement will terminate without liability on the part of any non-defaulting Underwriter or the Company, except as provided in Section 10. As used in this Agreement, the term "Underwriter" includes any person substituted for an Underwriter under this Section. Nothing herein will relieve a defaulting Underwriter from liability for its default.
Default of Underwriters
     10. . The respective indemnities, agreements, representations, warranties and other statements of the Company or its officers and of the several Underwriters set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement will remain in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation, or statement as to the results thereof, made by or on behalf of any Underwriter, the Company or any of their respective representatives, officers or directors or any controlling person, and will survive delivery of and payment for the Securities. If the purchase of the Securities by the Underwriters is not consummated for any reason other than solely because of the termination of this Agreement pursuant to Section 9 hereof or the occurrence of any event specified in clause (iii), (iv), (vi), (vii) or (viii) of Section 7(c) hereof, the Company will reimburse the Underwriters for all out-of-pocket expenses (including fees and disbursements of counsel) reasonably incurred by them in connection with the offering of the Securities, and the respective obligations of the Company and the Underwriters pursuant to Section 8 hereof shall remain in effect. In addition, if any Securities have been purchased hereunder, the representations and warranties in Section 2 and all obligations under Section 5 shall also remain in effect.
Survival of Certain Representations and Obligations
     11. . All communications hereunder will be in writing and, if sent to the Underwriters, will be mailed, delivered or telegraphed and confirmed to the Representatives at Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Eleven Madison Avenue, New York, New York 10010, Attention: IBD Legal, or, if sent to the Company, will be mailed, delivered or telegraphed and confirmed to it at One Technology Way, Norwood, Massachusetts 02062, Attention: General Counsel; provided, however, that any notice to an Underwriter pursuant to Section 8 will be mailed, delivered or telegraphed and confirmed to such Underwriter.
Notices
     12. . This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and the officers and directors and controlling persons referred to in Section 8, and no other person will have any right or obligation hereunder.
Successors
 
     13. . The Representatives will act for the several Underwriters in connection with this financing, and any action under this Agreement taken by the Representatives will be binding upon all the Underwriters.
Representation of Underwriters
     14. . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same Agreement.
Counterparts
     15. The Company acknowledges and agrees that:
Absence of Fiduciary Relationship.
         (a) . The Representatives have been retained solely to act as underwriters in connection with the sale of Securities and that no fiduciary, advisory or agency relationship between the Company and the Representatives has been created in respect of any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the Final Prospectus, irrespective of whether the Representatives have advised or are advising the Company on other matters;
No Other Relationship
         (b) . The price of the Securities set forth in this Agreement was established by the Company following discussions and arms-length negotiations with the Representatives and the Company is capable of evaluating and understanding and understands and accepts the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement;
Arms' Length Negotiations
         (c) . The Company has been advised that the Representatives and their affiliates are engaged in a broad range of transactions which may involve interests that differ from those of the Company and that the Representatives have no obligation to disclose such interests and transactions to the Company by virtue of any fiduciary, advisory or agency relationship; and
Absence of Obligation to Disclose
          (d). The Company waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims it may have against the Representatives for breach of fiduciary duty or alleged breach of fiduciary duty and agrees that the Representatives shall have no liability (whether direct or indirect) to the Company in respect of such a fiduciary duty claim or to any person asserting a fiduciary duty claim on behalf of or in right of the Company, including stockholders, employees or creditors of the Company.
Waiver
     
16. 
Applicable Law
. This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
     The Company hereby submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the Federal and state courts in the Borough of Manhattan in The City of New York in any suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby. The Company irrevocably and unconditionally waives any objection to the laying of venue of any suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby in Federal and state courts in the Borough of Manhattan in The City of New York and irrevocably and unconditionally waives and agrees not to plead or claim in any such court that any such suit or proceeding in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum.
     17. . In accordance with the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)), the Underwriters are required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies their respective clients, including the Company, which information may include the name and address of their respective clients, as well as other information that will allow the Underwriters to properly identify their respective clients.
Patriot Act
 
     If the foregoing is in accordance with the Representatives' understanding of our agreement, kindly sign and return to the Company one of the counterparts hereof, whereupon it will become a binding agreement between the Company and the several Underwriters in accordance with its terms.
 
 
 

Exhibit 5.1
+1 617 526 6000 (t) +1 617 526 5000 (f) wilmerhale.com
March 30, 2011
Analog Devices, Inc. One Technology Way Norwood, Massachusetts 02062
Re:
Registration Statement on Form S-3
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     We have acted as counsel for Analog Devices, Inc., a Massachusetts corporation (the "Company"), in connection with the offer and sale of $375,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 3.00% Notes due 2016 (the "Debt Securities"), pursuant to an underwriting agreement dated as of March 30, 2011 (the "Underwriting Agreement"), between the Company and Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as representatives of the several underwriters named in the Underwriting Agreement. The Debt Securities will be issued pursuant to an indenture dated as of June 30, 2009 between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (the "Trustee"), as supplemented by the supplemental indenture to be dated as of April 4, 2011 (the "Indenture").
     As such counsel, we have assisted in the preparation and filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") of the Company's prospectus supplement dated March 30, 2011 (the "Prospectus Supplement") to the prospectus dated June 25, 2009 (the "Base Prospectus"), each relating to the registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-160215) (the "Registration Statement") filed by the Company with the Commission on June 25, 2009.
     We have examined and relied upon corporate or other proceedings of the Company regarding (i) the authorization of the execution and delivery of the Indenture, the Underwriting Agreement and the issuance of the Debt Securities, (ii) the Registration Statement, (iii) the Base Prospectus, (iv) the Prospectus Supplement, (v) the Underwriting Agreement and (vi) the Indenture. We have also examined and relied upon originals or copies, certified or otherwise identified to our satisfaction, of such other corporate records of the Company, such other agreements and instruments, certificates of public officials, officers of the Company and other persons, and such other documents, instruments and certificates as we have deemed necessary as a basis for the opinions hereinafter expressed.
 
Analog Devices, Inc. March 30, 2011 Page 2
     In our examination of the documents referred to above, we have assumed the genuineness of all signatures, the legal capacity of all individual signatories, the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as originals, the conformity to original documents of all documents submitted to us as copies, the authenticity of such original documents, and the completeness and accuracy of the corporate records of the Company provided to us by the Company. Insofar as this opinion relates to factual matters, we have assumed with your permission without independent investigation that the statements of the Company contained in the Registration Statement are true and correct as to all factual matters stated therein.
     In rendering the opinions set forth below, we have assumed that (i) the Trustee has the power, corporate or other, to enter into and perform its obligations under the Indenture, (ii) the Indenture will be a valid and binding obligation of the Trustee, and (iii) the Trustee shall have been qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended. We have also assumed the due authentication of the Debt Securities by the Trustee, that there will not have occurred, prior to the date of issuance of the Debt Securities, any change in law affecting the validity or enforceability of such Debt Securities and that at the time of the issuance and sale of the Debt Securities, the Board of Directors of the Company (or any committee thereof acting pursuant to authority properly delegated to such committee by the Board of Directors) has not taken any action to rescind or otherwise reduce its prior authorization of the issuance of the Debt Securities.
     We express no opinion herein as to the laws of any jurisdiction other than the state laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, the state laws of the State of New York and the federal laws of the United States of America.
     We have assumed for purposes of our opinions below that no authorization, approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any governmental authority or regulatory body or (to the extent the same is required under any agreement or document binding on it of which an addressee has knowledge, has received notice or has reason to know) any other third party is required for the due execution, delivery or performance by the Company of the Indenture or the Debt Securities or, if any such authorization, approval, consent, action, notice or filing is required, it will have been duly obtained, taken, given or made and will be in full force and effect.
     Our opinions below are qualified to the extent that they may be subject to or affected by (i) applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, usury, fraudulent conveyance or similar laws relating to or affecting the rights or remedies of creditors generally, (ii) statutory or decisional law concerning recourse by creditors to security in the absence of notice or hearing, (iii) duties and standards imposed on
 
Analog Devices, Inc. March 30, 2011 Page 3
creditors and parties to contracts, including, without limitation, requirements of materiality, good faith, reasonableness and fair dealing, and (iv) general equitable principles. Furthermore, we express no opinion as to the availability of any equitable or specific remedy upon any breach of the Indenture or the Debt Securities, or to the successful assertion of any equitable defenses, inasmuch as the availability of such remedies or the success of any equitable defenses may be subject to the discretion of a court. We also express no opinion herein with respect to compliance by the Company with the securities or "blue sky" laws of any state or other jurisdiction of the United States or of any foreign jurisdiction. In addition, we express no opinion and make no statement herein with respect to the antifraud laws of any jurisdiction.
     On the basis of, and subject to, the foregoing, we are of the opinion that when the Debt Securities have been duly executed by the Company, and duly authenticated by the Trustee in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, and delivered to the purchasers thereof against payment of the consideration therefor duly approved by the Company, and subject to the final terms of the Debt Securities complying with then applicable law, not resulting in a default under or a breach of any agreement or instrument binding upon the Company and complying with any requirement or restriction imposed by any court or governmental entity having jurisdiction over the Company, the Debt Securities will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms.
     Please note that we are opining only as to the matters expressly set forth herein, and no opinion should be inferred as to any other matters. This opinion is based upon currently existing statutes, rules, regulations and judicial decisions and is rendered as of the date hereof, and we disclaim any obligation to advise you of any change in any of the foregoing sources of law or subsequent developments in law or changes in facts or circumstances that might affect any matters or opinions set forth herein.
     We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion with the Commission as an exhibit to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K to be filed on or about March 31, 2011, which Form 8-K will be incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement, and to the use of our name therein and in the related Base Prospectus, Preliminary Prospectus Supplement and Prospectus Supplement under the caption "Legal Matters." In giving such consent, we do not hereby admit that we are in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the rules and regulations of the Commission.
 


