FILE:ADI/ADI-8K-20120315161324.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 3.01. Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continue Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing.
On March 13, 2012, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Analog Devices, Inc. (the "Company") approved the voluntary withdrawal of the Company's common stock (the "Common Stock") from listing on the New York Stock Exchange. The Board also approved the listing of the Common Stock on The NASDAQ Global Select Market ("NASDAQ"). The Common Stock is expected to commence trading on NASDAQ on or about April 2, 2012 under the Company's current trading symbol, "ADI". The Company expects that the Common Stock will cease trading on the New York Stock Exchange effective upon the close of market on March 30, 2012.
On March 13, 2012, the Company provided written notice to NYSE and issued a press release announcing that the transfer of the listing of the Common Stock to NASDAQ, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
 
.
Voting Results
At the Annual Meeting of Shareholders of Analog Devices, Inc., held on March 13, 2012, the proposals listed below were submitted to a vote of our shareholders. The proposals are described in our definitive proxy statement for the annual meeting.
Proposal 1  The election of nine nominees to our Board of Directors each for a term of one year.
The nine (9) nominees named in the definitive proxy statement were elected to serve as directors until the 2013 annual meeting. Information as to the vote on each director standing for election is provided below:
 
Proposal 2  The approval of the compensation of our named executive officers, as described in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis, executive compensation tables and accompanying narrative disclosure in our proxy statement.
Our shareholders approved, on an advisory basis, the compensation of our named executive officers. The voting results were as follows:
 
Proposal 3  The ratification of the selection of Ernst & Young LLP as our independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending November 3, 2012.
The shareholders ratified the Company's selection of Ernst & Young as our independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending November 3, 2012. The voting results were as follows:
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
See the Exhibit Index attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
.  Analog Devices, Inc. (ADI) (NYSE: ADI) today announced that it will be transferring its stock exchange listing to The NASDAQ Global Select Market from The New York Stock Exchange. Effective April 2, 2012, ADI shares will begin trading as a NASDAQ-listed security under the symbol "ADI."
NORWOOD, Mass
"NASDAQ is recognized throughout the world for being synonymous with technology and innovation. Not only are the foremost technology companies listed on NASDAQ, but also the exchange employs leading technology to provide excellent service, making it a great fit for ADI," said David Zinsner, vice president of finance and chief financial officer for Analog Devices.
"We are thrilled that Analog Devices is joining NASDAQ. ADI is an innovation leader in analog technology, one of the most critical areas in the new economy. As more electronics go digital, ADI's technology plays an increasingly important role in bridging the real world with the digital world, throughout communications, manufacturing, transportation, and energy. We are proud to welcome a company with such a strong and sustainable technology franchise to NASDAQ," said Bruce Aust, Executive Vice President, Global Corporate Client Group, NASDAQ.
About Analog Devices
Innovation, performance, and excellence are the cultural pillars on which Analog Devices has built one of the longest standing, highest growth companies within the technology sector. Acknowledged industry-wide as the world leader in data conversion and signal conditioning technology, Analog Devices serves over 60,000 customers, representing virtually all types of electronic equipment. Analog Devices is headquartered in Norwood, Massachusetts, with design and manufacturing facilities throughout the world. Analog Devices is included in the S&P 500 Index.


