FILE:ADI/ADI-8K-20120821161114.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
August 21, 2012
Registrants telephone number, including area code: (781) 329-4700
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02.     Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On August 21, 2012, Analog Devices, Inc. (the Registrant) announced its financial results for its fiscal third quarter ended August 4, 2012. The full text of the press release issued by the Registrant concerning the foregoing results is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Registrant, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, unless expressly incorporated by specific reference to such filing. The information in this report, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01.     Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)  Exhibits
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
Analog Devices Reports Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2012 Results
NORWOOD, Mass.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--August 21, 2012--Analog Devices, Inc. (NASDAQ: ADI), a global leader in high-performance semiconductors for signal processing applications, today announced financial results for its third quarter of fiscal year 2012, which ended August 4, 2012.
ADI delivered solid results for the third quarter, with revenue increasing by 1% and diluted EPS increasing by 6% compared to the prior quarter. Profitability and cash flow remained strong, said Jerald G. Fishman, President and CEO. Given the economic headwinds and uncertainty in most regions, we were encouraged by consistent order patterns among customers and distributors and by the resilience of our large and broad-based industrial business, as well as the communications, automotive, and consumer end markets.
Mr. Fishman continued, As a result of higher opening backlog and stable order patterns, we are planning for sequential revenue growth in the fourth quarter. We expect that revenue from the industrial, communications, and automotive end markets will be similar to third quarter levels, in line with typical seasonal patterns. We are expecting sequential revenue growth from our consumer customers as is typical in the fourth quarter and also as a result of a strong new product cycle. In aggregate, we are planning for revenue in the range of $685 million to $715 million for the fourth quarter.
ADI also announced that the Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $0.30 per outstanding share of common stock. The dividend will be paid on September 12, 2012 to all shareholders of record at the close of business on August 31, 2012.
Results for the Third Quarter of Fiscal 2012
Revenue totaled $683 million
Gross margin was 65.6% of revenue
Operating margin was 32% of revenue, excluding restructuring-related expenses
Diluted EPS was $0.56
Cash flow from operations was $138 million, or 20% of revenue
Please refer to the schedules provided for a summary of revenue and earnings, selected balance sheet information, and the cash flow statement for the third quarter of fiscal year 2012, as well as the immediately prior and year-ago quarters. Additional information on revenue by end market and revenue by product type is provided on Schedules D and E. A more complete table covering prior periods is available at investor.analog.com
.
Outlook for the Fourth Quarter of Fiscal 2012
The following statements are based on current expectations. These statements are forward- looking and actual results may differ materially, as a result of, among other things, the important factors discussed at the end of this release. These statements supersede all prior statements regarding our business outlook set forth in prior ADI news releases
Revenue estimated at $685 million to $715 million
Gross margin estimated to be approximately 65%
Operating expenses estimated to be approximately $231 million
Diluted EPS estimated at $0.54 to $0.60
Conference Call Scheduled for 5:00 pm ET
ADI will host a conference call to discuss the third quarter results and short-term outlook today, beginning at 5:00 pm ET. Investors may join via webcast, accessible at investor.analog.com, or by telephone (call 706-634-7193 ten minutes before the call begins and provide the password "ADI.")
A replay will be available almost immediately after the call. The replay may be accessed for up to one week by dialing 855-859-2056 (replay only) and providing the conference ID:17192535, or by visiting investor.analog.com.
Non-GAAP Financial Information
This release includes non-GAAP financial measures that are not in accordance with, nor an alternative to, generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. In addition, these non-GAAP measures are not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles.
Schedule F of this press release provides the reconciliation of the Companys non-GAAP measures to its GAAP measures.
Manner in Which Management Uses the Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Management uses non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating margins, and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share to evaluate the Companys operating performance from continuing operations against past periods and to budget and allocate resources in future periods. These non-GAAP measures also assist management in understanding and evaluating the Companys operating results and trends in the Companys business.
Economic Substance Behind Managements Decision to Use Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The items excluded from the non-GAAP measures were excluded because they are of a non-recurring or non-cash nature.
The following item is excluded from our non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating margin, and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share:
These expenses are incurred in connection with facility closures, consolidation of manufacturing facilities, and other cost reduction efforts. Apart from ongoing expense savings as a result of such items, these expenses and the related tax effects have no direct correlation to the operation of our business in the future.
Restructuring-Related Expenses.
The following item is excluded from our non-GAAP diluted earnings per share:
In the third quarter of fiscal 2012, the Company recorded a one-time $3.4 million tax benefit related to the release of a tax reserve for an expired tax year. We excluded this tax-related item from our non-GAAP measures because it is not associated with the tax expense on our current operating results.
Tax-Related Item.
Why Management Believes the Non-GAAP Financial Measures Provide Useful Information to Investors
Management believes that the presentation of non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating margins, and non-GAAP diluted EPS is useful to investors because it provides investors with the operating results that management uses to manage the Company.
Material Limitations Associated with Use of the Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Analog Devices believes that non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating margins, and non-GAAP diluted EPS have material limitations in that they do not reflect all of the amounts associated with our results of operations as determined in accordance with GAAP and that these measures should only be used to evaluate our results of operations in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures. In addition, our non-GAAP measures may not be comparable to the non-GAAP measures reported by other companies. The Companys use of non-GAAP measures, and the underlying methodology when excluding certain items, is not necessarily an indication of the results of operations that may be expected in the future, or that the Company will not, in fact, record such items in future periods.
Managements Compensation for Limitations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Management compensates for these material limitations in non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating margins, and non-GAAP diluted EPS by also evaluating our GAAP results and the reconciliations of our non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures. Investors should consider our non-GAAP financial measures in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures.
About Analog Devices
Innovation, performance, and excellence are the cultural pillars on which Analog Devices has built one of the longest standing, highest growth companies within the technology sector. Acknowledged industry-wide as the world leader in data conversion and signal conditioning technology, Analog Devices serves over 60,000 customers, representing virtually all types of electronic equipment. Analog Devices is headquartered in Norwood, Massachusetts, with design and manufacturing facilities throughout the world. Analog Devices' common stock is included in the S&P 500 Index.
This release may be deemed to contain forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include, among other things, our statements regarding expected revenue,
earnings per share, operating expenses, gross margin, and other financial results, expected product development and product cycle strength, expected market trends, and expected customer demand and order rates for our products,
that are based on our current expectations, beliefs, assumptions, estimates, forecasts, and projections about our business and the industry and markets in which Analog Devices operates. The statements contained in this release are not guarantees of future performance, are inherently uncertain, involve certain risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict, and do not give effect to the potential impact of any mergers, acquisitions, divestitures, or business combinations that may be announced or closed after the date hereof. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed in such forward-looking statements, and such statements should not be relied upon as representing Analog Devices expectations or beliefs as of any date subsequent to the date of this press release. We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements made by us. Important factors that may affect future operating results include: sovereign debt issues globally, any faltering in global economic conditions or the stability of credit and financial markets, erosion of consumer confidence and declines in customer spending, unavailability of raw materials, services, supplies or manufacturing capacity, changes in geographic, product or customer mix, adverse results in litigation matters, and other risk factors described in our most recent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Our results of operations for the periods presented in this release are not necessarily indicative of our operating results for any future periods. Any projections in this release are based on limited information currently available to Analog Devices, which is subject to change. Although any such projections and the factors influencing them will likely change, we will not necessarily update the information, as we will only provide guidance at certain points during the year. Such information speaks only as of the original issuance date of this release.
Analog Devices and the Analog Devices logo are registered trademarks or trademarks of Analog Devices, Inc. All other trademarks mentioned in this document are the property of their respective owners.
Analog Devices, Third Quarter, Fiscal 2012
Schedule D
Revenue Trends by End Market
The categorization of revenue by end market is determined using a variety of data points including the technical characteristics of the product, the sold to customer information, the "ship to" customer information and the end customer product or application into which our product will be incorporated. As data systems for capturing and tracking this data evolve and improve, the categorization of products by end market can vary over time. When this occurs we reclassify revenue by end market for prior periods. Such reclassifications typically do not materially change the sizing of, or the underlying trends of results within, each end market.
Analog Devices, Third Quarter, Fiscal 2012
Schedule E
Revenue Trends by Product Type
The categorization of our products into broad categories is based on the characteristics of the individual products, the specification of the products and in some cases the specific uses that certain products have within applications. The categorization of products into categories is therefore subject to judgment in some cases and can vary over time. In instances where products move between product categories we reclassify the amounts in the product categories for all prior periods. Such reclassifications typically do not materially change the sizing of, or the underlying trends of results within, each product category.
CONTACT: Analog Devices, Inc. Mr. Ali Husain, 781-461-3282 781-461-3491 (fax)
investor.relations@analog.com


