FILE:ADI/ADI-8K-20120608090827.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Election of New Director
On June 5, 2012, Lisa Su was elected to the Board of Directors of the Company. Ms. Su was also appointed to the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors. In connection with her service on the Board of Directors, Ms. Su will receive an annual cash retainer of $60,000, paid quarterly. In connection with her service on the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors, Ms. Su will also receive an annual cash retainer of $3,000, paid quarterly.
Ms. Su will automatically be granted on July 16, 2012 (or the next succeeding business day that the NASDAQ is open) equity awards under the Company's 2006 Stock Incentive Plan with a market value on the grant date of $123,000, as follows:
 
 
On an annual basis, each incumbent non-employee director is automatically granted: (a) a non-qualified stock option to purchase a number of shares of common stock approved by the Board at an exercise price equal to the closing price of the common stock on the grant date; and (b) a restricted stock unit award for a number of shares of common stock approved by the Board, each on the date of the Company's annual meeting of shareholders (with the number of shares subject to the first annual grant of options and restricted stock units to be pro-rated based on the length of service between the director's initial election date and the date of the annual meeting of shareholders).
Director equity awards vest in full upon the occurrence of a Change in Control Event (as defined in the Company's 2006 Stock Incentive Plan) or the director's death. If the director ceases to serve as a director by reason of his or her disability, as determined by the Board, each RSU will vest in full and each option will continue to vest over its remaining term on the dates it otherwise would have vested if the director's service had not been terminated for disability. In addition, upon the occurrence of a Change in Control Event or in the event of the director's death, disability or retirement after age 60, each vested option will continue to be exercisable for the balance of its term.
A press release related to the election of Ms. Su is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report, and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
NORWOOD, Mass.(BUSINESS WIRE)Analog Devices, Inc. (NASDAQ: ADI), a global leader in high-performance semiconductors for signal processing applications, today announced that Dr. Lisa Su has been elected as a Director of the Company.
Dr. Su currently serves as Senior Vice President and General Manager, Global Business Units, at Advanced Micro Devices (AMD). She served as Senior Vice President and General Manager, Networking and Multimedia at Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. from 2007 to 2011, and prior to that, spent 13 years at IBM in various engineering and business leadership positions. Dr. Su earned bachelors, masters, and doctorate degrees in electrical engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Dr. Su is also a Fellow of the Institute of Electronics and Electrical Engineers (IEEE).
"Lisa is a highly-respected technology executive who brings with her an outstanding record of business execution. Her impressive track record and solid understanding of the semiconductor industry will add substantial value to ADI's Board of Directors, and we look forward to her participation," said Ray Stata, ADI Chairman of the Board.
Dr. Su will serve on the Company's Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors.
About Analog Devices
Innovation, performance, and excellence are the cultural pillars on which Analog Devices has built one of the longest standing, highest growth companies within the technology sector. Acknowledged industry-wide as the world leader in data conversion and signal conditioning technology, Analog Devices serves over 60,000 customers, representing virtually all types of electronic equipment. Analog Devices is headquartered in Norwood, Massachusetts, with design and manufacturing facilities throughout the world. Analog Devices is included in the S&P 500 Index.
CONTACT:
Analog Devices, Inc.
Ali Husain, 781-461-3282
investor.relations@analog.com


