FILE:ADI/ADI-8K-20120924085959.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Compensatory Arrangements - Chief Executive Officer
On September 19, 2012, Analog Devices, Inc. (the "Company") and its Chief Executive Officer ("CEO"), Jerald Fishman, agreed that Mr. Fishman will continue as CEO of Analog Devices following the expiration on October 28, 2012 of the Amended and Restated Employment Agreement (the "Employment Agreement") between the Company and Mr. Fishman. The Employment Agreement will terminate in accordance with its terms, and Mr. Fishman will continue to serve as CEO without an employment contract. Pursuant to this arrangement, commencing on November 5, 2012, the Company will pay Mr. Fishman an annual base salary of $980,000 and annual cash bonuses on substantially the same terms as currently being provided to Mr. Fishman pursuant to the Employment Agreement. In addition, on October 15, 2012, the Company will grant Mr. Fishman an award of 200,000 restricted stock units (RSUs) pursuant to the Company's 2006 Stock Incentive Plan. These RSUs will vest in three equal annual installments, subject to the terms of the Restricted Stock Unit Agreement to be entered into by Mr. Fishman and the Company. This equity grant will be the only equity award made to Mr. Fishman during the three-year term of the grant.
The foregoing description of Mr. Fishman's RSU grant does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Restricted Stock Unit Agreement between Mr. Fishman and Analog Devices filed as Exhibit 10.1 of this Report and incorporated herein by reference.
Appointment of President
On September 19, 2012, the Board of Directors of Analog Devices appointed Vincent Roche as President of Analog Devices, effective November 5, 2012. Mr. Roche, 52, has served as the Company's Vice President, Sales and Strategic Market Segments Group since October 2009. Previously, Mr. Roche was the Company's Vice President, Worldwide Sales since 2001. There are no reportable family relationships or related person transactions involving Analog Devices and Mr. Roche.
In connection with his appointment, commencing on November 5, 2012, the Compensation Committee approved an annual base salary for Mr. Roche of $550,000, and established his annual bonus target percentage under the Analog Devices executive bonus plan at 100% of his annual base salary. In addition, the Company will grant Mr. Roche an award of (i) 144,000 options to purchase Analog Devices common stock at an exercise price equal to the closing price of Analog Devices common stock on October 15, 2012, and (ii) 25,000 restricted stock units (RSUs) pursuant to the Company's 2006 Stock Incentive Plan. Each of these equity awards will be granted on October 15, 2012, and will be subject to the standard terms and conditions of the Company's form of stock option and restricted stock unit agreements, previously filed.
A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Roche's appointment is filed with this Report as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
Jerald G. Fishman
We are pleased to advise you (the "Participant") that Analog Devices, Inc., a Massachusetts corporation (the "Company"), has granted to the Participant that number of Restricted Stock Units ("RSUs") set forth below, subject to the terms and conditions of the Analog Devices, Inc. 2006 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan") and this Global Restricted Stock Unit Agreement, (the "Agreement"). All terms not defined in this Agreement shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan.
 
Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Agreement, the Company has granted to the Participant that number of RSUs (the "Award") effective on the Date of Grant set forth below:
 
Each one (1) RSU shall, if and when it vests in accordance with this Agreement, automatically convert into one (1) share of common stock, US$0.16 2/3 par value, of the Company ("Common Stock") issuable as provided below. The RSUs are subject to the vesting provisions set forth in Section 2, the restrictions on transfer set forth in Section 3 and the right of the Company to retain Shares (as defined below) pursuant to Section 6.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the event the withholding requirements are not satisfied through the withholding of Shares or through the Participant's salary or other amounts payable to the Participant, no Shares will be issued upon vesting of the RSUs unless and until satisfactory arrangements (as determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors) have been made by the Participant with respect to the payment of any Tax-Related Items which the Company and/or the Employer determine, in each of its sole discretion, must be withheld or collected with respect to such RSUs. No fractional Shares will be withheld or issued pursuant to the grant of the RSUs and the issuance of Shares hereunder. By accepting this grant of RSUs, the Participant expressly consents to the withholding of Shares and/or cash as provided for hereunder. All other Tax-Related Items related to the RSUs and any Shares delivered in payment thereof are the Participant's sole responsibility.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Norwood, Mass.  September 20, 2012  Analog Devices, Inc. (NASDAQ: ADI) a global leader in high-performance semiconductors for signal processing applications, today announced that Jerry Fishman will remain as Chief Executive Officer following the expiration of his current contract on October 28, 2012.
"I am more excited than ever about the opportunities available for ADI as our technology becomes critical to so many applications and customers around the world," said Mr. Fishman. "I am appreciative that our Board of Directors continues to place their trust in me and I look forward to continuing to lead our Company and its extraordinarily talented people."
ADI also announced the promotion of Vincent Roche to President of ADI, reporting to Mr. Fishman. As President, Mr. Roche will be responsible for ADI's product development, sales and marketing, and new business development organizations. Mr. Roche's promotion will be effective November 5, 2012, which is the beginning of the Company's next fiscal year.
"Vince is ideally suited to this role, with a very long and distinguished career at ADI," said Mr. Fishman. "Throughout his career at ADI, Vince has demonstrated a highly insightful understanding of our business and is well respected for his knowledge and judgment, and for the relationships he has built with our customers around the world.
"Over the past several years, we have made great progress focusing on the products and markets where we can best leverage our world-class technology, while substantially increasing the profitability of the Company," Mr. Fishman continued. "The next chapter in ADI's progression is to deepen our understanding of our customers' future signal processing needs and link those needs closely with our product development. By combining engineering, sales, and marketing under Vince, we can gain further advantage."
"I am delighted to assume this additional responsibility," said Mr. Roche. "I am very confident that we have the product and technology capabilities and the customer relationships in place to build on our prior successes. I look forward to helping take ADI to the next level of performance."
In addition, ADI announced new roles for long-term executives Robbie McAdam and Dick Meaney. Mr. McAdam has been appointed Executive Vice President and will replace Mr. Roche as head of ADI's Strategic Market Segments organization, which provides systems-level applications expertise and solutions for ADI's key markets. Mr. Meaney will lead the Core Products and Technologies Group, which is responsible for all of ADI's product development programs. Mr. McAdam and Mr. Meaney will report to Mr. Roche in their new roles.
For more information visit investor.analog.com.
About Analog Devices
Innovation, performance, and excellence are the cultural pillars on which Analog Devices has built one of the longest standing, highest growth companies within the technology sector. Acknowledged industry-wide as the world leader in data conversion and signal conditioning technology, Analog Devices serves over 60,000 customers, representing virtually all types of electronic equipment. Analog Devices is headquartered in Norwood, Massachusetts, with design and manufacturing facilities throughout the world. Analog Devices is included in the S&P 500 Index.


