FILE:DO/DO-8K-20051026080035.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported):
                                   
October 26, 2005
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
                                   
(281) 492-5300
     Check the appropriate line below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02.
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On October 26, 2005, Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fiscal quarter and nine-month period ended September 30, 2005. A copy of such press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
     The information furnished in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" with the Securities and Exchange Commission and will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated by reference.
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: October 26, 2005
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Houston, Texas, October 26, 2005  Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. () today reported net income of $82.0 million, or $0.60 per share on a diluted basis, for the third quarter of 2005, compared to net income of $2.9 million, or $0.02 per share on a diluted basis, in the same period a year earlier. Revenue for the third quarter of 2005 was $310.5 million, compared to revenue of $208.2 million for the third quarter of 2004.
NYSE:DO
For the nine months ended September 30, 2005, the Company reported net income of $153.4 million, or $1.14 per share on a diluted basis, compared to a net loss of $18.5 million, or $0.14 per share on a diluted basis for the same period in 2004. Revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2005 was $852.7 million, compared to $577.3 million for the first nine months of 2004.
Results for the third quarter of 2005 reflect the impact of hurricanes and The Company recorded a third quarter after-tax gain of $21.8 million, or $0.16 per diluted share, related to insurance proceeds from the previously reported casualty loss of the 300-ft. jack-up Other damage to the fleet resulted in hurricane related after-tax costs of $2.6 million, or $0.02 per diluted share, which were reported within operating expenses. Exclusive of the , the Company experienced a total of 41.5 days of contractual downtime in the third quarter directly related to the two hurricanes and expects to experience approximately an additional 110 days of contractual downtime in the fourth quarter of 2005 for storm related repairs. At this time, all of the damaged rigs have returned to work at their drilling locations, with the exception of the which is expected to return to service in mid November. In addition, reactivation of the has been delayed by approximately three weeks until mid December.
Katrina
Rita.
Ocean Warwick.
Warwick
Ocean Star,
Ocean New Era
Larry Dickerson, President and Chief Operating Officer, said, "We are happy to report that all of our employees have been accounted for in the aftermath of the storms and feel fortunate to have suffered relatively minor damage to our fleet, with the exception of the . In addition, exclusive of the impacts of the two hurricanes, we are pleased with our improved operating results for the third quarter, which are indicative of the rising dayrates and continuing strength of the worldwide offshore drilling market. We remain confident in our market position, and believe that our current exposure to the increasingly under-supplied jack-up sector in the Gulf of Mexico, as well as to the global semisubmersible market in late 2006 and in 2007, will allow the Company to participate in any future market improvements."
Warwick
 
Diamond Offshore provides contract drilling services to the energy industry around the globe and is a leader in deepwater drilling.
As previously announced, Diamond Offshore will provide a simulcast and rebroadcast of its third quarter 2005 earnings release conference call. The live broadcast of the Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. quarterly conference call will be available online at on October 26, 2005, beginning at 9:00 a.m. Central Time. The online replay will follow immediately and continue for the remainder of the fourth calendar quarter after the original call. Please go to the web site at least 15 minutes before the broadcast to register, download and install any necessary audio software.
www.diamondoffshore.com
Statements in this press release contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning commitments for drilling work or contracts, future dayrates, future contract revenues, the term and start date of future contracts, entry into definitive agreements, consummation of awarded contracts, satisfaction of conditions precedent, future growth in demand for equipment types or in any region, future cash flows, and future contracts. Such statements are inherently subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or projected, including, among others, the risk that a rig may not return to service within the timeframe anticipated for repair, the risk that a notification of contract award, letter of intent, or verbal contract commitment may not result in a binding contract, the risk that a binding contract could be terminated, the risk that the markets for the Company's services will not continue to improve, the risk that full rig utilization may not be achieved during a contract period, or the risk that factors outside of the Company's control may adversely impact the amount of profit realized from a contract. A discussion of additional risk factors that could impact these areas and the Company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the Company's reports and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These factors include, among others, general economic and business conditions, casualty losses, industry fleet capacity, changes in foreign and domestic oil and gas exploration and production activity, competition, changes in foreign, political, social and economic conditions, regulatory initiatives and compliance with governmental regulations, customer preferences and various other matters, many of which are beyond the Company's control. Given these concerns, investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this press release. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement to reflect any change in the Company's expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is based.
 
 
 
 


