FILE:DO/DO-8K-20050830211749.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, DC 20549 ------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): AUGUST 30, 2005 DIAMOND OFFSHORE DRILLING, INC. ------------------------------------------------ (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter) DELAWARE 1-13926 76-0321760 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (State or Other Jurisdiction (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer of Incorporation) Identification No.) 15415 KATY FREEWAY HOUSTON, TEXAS 77094 --------------------------------------------------- (Address of Principal Executive Offices and Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (281) 492-5300 NOT APPLICABLE ----------------------------------------------------------- (Former name or former address, if changed since last report) Check the appropriate line below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 8.01. OTHER EVENTS On August 30, 2005, Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that the jack-up drilling rig Ocean Warwick, which had previously been listed as missing, had been located on Dauphin Island off the coast of Alabama. The press release reported that aerial photos indicate that the rig has sustained significant damage and is aground on the island, and that the Company was working to get personnel to the rig but will not be able to make a complete assessment of the condition of the unit until a crew is able to re-board the rig. Dauphin Island is approximately 66 miles northeast of the rig's work location on Main Pass Block 299 prior to passage of hurricane Katrina. The Warwick is insured for approximately $50 million net of applicable deductibles. No personnel were on board the rig at the time of the storm. Filed herewith is a copy of such press release. Statements in this report that contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, may include, but are not limited to, statements concerning the location of the Company's drilling rigs, related search efforts, insurance, condition and damage assessments, securing the rigs, damages to the Company's drilling rigs and re-boarding the rigs. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements which project, indicate or imply future results and may contain words like "expect," "intend," "plan," "will," "would," "estimated" and "budgeted," among others. Such statements are inherently subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or projected. These factors include, among others, potential damage to or loss of equipment and resulting loss of contracted revenue due to hurricane Katrina, as well as general economic and business conditions, changes in oil and natural gas prices, casualty losses, industry fleet capacity, changes in foreign and domestic oil and gas exploration and production activity, competition, changes in foreign, political, social and economic conditions, regulatory initiatives and compliance with governmental regulations, customer preferences and various other matters, many of which are beyond the Company's control. Given these concerns, investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this report. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement to reflect any change in the Company's expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is based. A further discussion of the risk factors that could impact these areas and the Company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the Company's reports and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 2
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS (c) Exhibits. Exhibit number Description -------------- ----------- 99.1 Press release of August 30, 2005 entitled "Diamond Offshore Reports on Status of Ocean Warwick" 3
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. DIAMOND OFFSHORE DRILLING, INC. By: /s/ William C. Long --------------------------------- William C. Long Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Dated: August 30, 2005 4
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit number Description -------------- ----------- 99.1 Press release of August 30, 2005 entitled "Diamond Offshore Reports on Status of Ocean Warwick"

EXHIBIT 99.1 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: LES VAN DYKE DIRECTOR, INVESTOR RELATIONS (281) 492-5370 DIAMOND OFFSHORE REPORTS ON STATUS OF OCEAN WARWICK Houston, Texas, August 30, 2005 -- Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. (NYSE:DO) today reported that the jack-up drilling rig Ocean Warwick, which had previously been listed as missing, has been located on Dauphin Island off the coast of Alabama. Aerial photos indicate that the rig has sustained significant damage and is aground on the island. Diamond Offshore is working to get personnel to the rig, but will not be able to make a complete assessment of the condition of the unit until a crew is able to re-board the rig. Dauphin Island is approximately 66 miles northeast of the rig's work location on Main Pass Block 299 prior to passage of hurricane Katrina. The Warwick is insured for approximately $50 million net of applicable deductibles. No personnel were on board the rig at the time of the storm. Diamond Offshore provides contract drilling services to the energy industry around the globe and is a leader in deepwater drilling. Statements in this press release may contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and are inherently subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or projected. A discussion of the risk factors that could impact these areas and the Company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the Company's reports and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These factors include, among others, potential damage to or loss of equipment and resulting loss of contracted revenue due to hurricane Katrina, general economic and business conditions, casualty losses, industry fleet capacity, compliance with governmental regulations, and various other matters, many of which are beyond the Company's control. Given these concerns, investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this press release. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement to reflect any change in the Company's expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is based. ####


