FILE:DO/DO-8K-20060313170852.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate line below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 7.01.
Regulation FD Disclosure
     The Registrant hereby incorporates by reference into this Item 7.01 the summary report of the status, as of March 13, 2006, of the offshore drilling rigs of the Registrant attached as Exhibit 99.1, which is being furnished in accordance with Rule 101(e)(1) under Regulation FD and shall not be deemed to be filed.
     Statements in this report that contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the current term, future day-rates, start and end dates and comments concerning future contracts and availability and other aspects of the Registrant's drilling rigs, as well as statements concerning rigs being upgraded or to be upgraded and rigs under construction. Such statements are inherently subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or projected. A discussion of the risk factors that could impact these areas and the Registrant's overall business and financial performance can be found in the Registrant's reports and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These factors include, among others, general economic and business conditions, operating risks, casualty losses, industry fleet capacity, changes in foreign and domestic oil and gas exploration and production activity, competition, changes in foreign, political, social and economic conditions, regulatory initiatives and compliance with governmental regulations, customer preferences and various other matters, many of which are beyond the Registrant's control. Given these concerns, investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of the rig status report, and the Registrant undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
 1 
 
 2 
 
 3 
 
 4 
NOTES:
* Generally, rig utilization rates approach 95-98% during contracted periods; however, utilization rates can be adversely impacted by additional downtime due to unscheduled repairs and maintenance, weather conditions and other factors. **An LOI is subject to customary conditions, including the execution of a definitive agreement and as such may not result in a binding contract.
GOM = Gulf of Mexico


