FILE:DO/DO-8K-20060726060049.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate line below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02.
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On July 26, 2006, Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fiscal quarter and six month period ended June 30, 2006. A copy of such press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
     The information furnished in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated by reference.
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: July 26, 2006
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
Houston, Texas, July 26, 2006  Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. () today reported net income for the second quarter of 2006 of $175.7 million, or $1.27 per share on a diluted basis, compared with net income of $41.3 million, or $0.31 per share on a diluted basis, in the same period a year earlier. Revenues for the second quarter of 2006 were $512.2 million, compared with revenues of $283.4 million for the second quarter of 2005.
NYSE:DO
For the six months ended June 30, 2006, the Company reported net income of $321.0 million, or $2.33 per share on a diluted basis, compared with net income of $71.4 million, or $0.53 per share on a diluted basis, for the same period in 2005. Revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2006 was $959.9 million, compared to $542.2 million for the first six months of 2005.
The improvement in operating results reflects continuing record-high average dayrates and rig utilization for the Company's entire fleet. Currently, approximately 95% of our fleet's available days are contracted or committed through the end of 2006, and about 67% of our fleet's available days are contracted or committed through the end of 2007.
Diamond Offshore provides contract drilling services to the energy industry around the globe and is a leader in deepwater drilling. Commitments represent Letters of Intent that are subject to customary conditions, including the execution of a definitive agreement.
As previously announced, Diamond Offshore will provide a simulcast and rebroadcast of its second-quarter/first-half 2006 earnings release conference call. The live broadcast of our quarterly conference call will be available online at on July 26, 2006, beginning at 9:00 a.m. Central Daylight Savings Time. The online replay will follow immediately and continue for the remainder of the third calendar quarter after the original call. Please go to the web site at least 15 minutes before the broadcast to register, download and install any necessary audio software.
www.diamondoffshore.com
Statements in this press release may contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such statements may include, but are not limited to, statements concerning existing contracts, commitments and backlog, fleet enhancements, access to new markets, future earnings, future cash flows, market conditions, future market improvements, future growth in demand for equipment types or in any region and future contracts. Such statements are inherently subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those
 
anticipated or projected, including, among others, the risk that full rig utilization may not be achieved during a contract period, the risk that the fleet's available days may be reduced by unscheduled downtime, the risk that factors outside of the Company's control may adversely impact the amount of profit realized from a contract, the risk that the markets for the Company's services will not continue to improve, the risk that the Company's market position may deteriorate, or the risk that the Company may not be able to participate fully in any future market improvements. A discussion of additional risk factors that could impact these areas and the Company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the Company's reports and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These factors include, among others, general economic and business conditions, casualty losses, industry fleet capacity, changes in foreign and domestic oil and gas exploration and production activity, competition, changes in foreign, political, social and economic conditions, regulatory initiatives and compliance with governmental regulations, customer preferences and various other matters, many of which are beyond the Company's control. Given these concerns, investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this press release. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement to reflect any change in the Company's expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is based.
 
 
 
 


