FILE:DO/DO-8K-20060208080037.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate line below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02.
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On February 8, 2006, Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fiscal quarter and year ended December 31, 2005. A copy of such press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
     The information furnished in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated by reference.
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
Houston, Texas, February 8, 2006  Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. () today reported net income for the fourth quarter of 2005 of $106.9 million, or $0.78 per share on a diluted basis, compared with net income of $11.3 million, or $0.09 per share on a diluted basis, in the same period a year earlier. Revenues for the fourth quarter of 2005 were $368.3 million, compared with revenues of $237.3 million for the fourth quarter of 2004.
NYSE:DO
For the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company reported net income of $260.3 million, or $1.91 per share on a diluted basis, compared with a net loss of $7.2 million, or $0.06 per share on a diluted basis for the year ended December 31, 2004. Revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005 were $1.2 billion, compared with $814.7 million for the year 2004.
"During 2005, our earnings registered quarterly improvement as conditions in the offshore drilling market became increasingly robust," commented Larry Dickerson, President and Chief Operating Officer. "By employing our capital for upgrades, new-builds and the purchase of existing rigs, we have enhanced our fleet, broadened our access to new markets, boosted our earnings potential and positioned the Company to generate significant cash flow. Virtually all of the fundamental market conditions that defined 2005 appear to remain in place for 2006, and we are confident in our market position and our ability to participate in any future improvements."
Diamond Offshore provides contract drilling services to the energy industry around the globe and is a leader in deepwater drilling.
As previously announced, Diamond Offshore will provide a simulcast and rebroadcast of its fourth quarter/year-end 2005 earnings release conference call. The live broadcast of the Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. quarterly conference call will be available online at on February 8, 2006, beginning at 9:00 a.m. Central Time. The online replay will follow immediately and continue for the remainder of the first calendar quarter after the original call. Please go to the web site at least 15 minutes before the broadcast to register, download and install any necessary audio software.
www.diamondoffshore.com
Statements in this press release contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning fleet enhancements, access to new markets, future earnings, future cash flows, market conditions, future market improvements, future
 
growth in demand for equipment types or in any region and future contracts. Such statements are inherently subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or projected, including, among others, the risk that the markets for the Company's services will not continue to improve, the risk that the Company's market position may deteriorate, the risk that the Company may not be able to participate fully in any future market improvements, the risk that full rig utilization may not be achieved during a contract period, or the risk that factors outside of the Company's control may adversely impact the amount of profit realized from a contract. A discussion of additional risk factors that could impact these areas and the Company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the Company's reports and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These factors include, among others, general economic and business conditions, casualty losses, industry fleet capacity, changes in foreign and domestic oil and gas exploration and production activity, competition, changes in foreign, political, social and economic conditions, regulatory initiatives and compliance with governmental regulations, customer preferences and various other matters, many of which are beyond the Company's control. Given these concerns, investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this press release. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement to reflect any change in the Company's expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is based.
 
 
 
 


