FILE:DO/DO-8K-20080721170708.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported):
                                                            
July 21, 2008
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
                                                            
(281) 492-5300
     Check the appropriate line below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 5.02.
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
(d) On July 21, 2008, the Board of Directors ("Board") of Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. (the "Company") increased the number of directors constituting the entire Board of Directors from eight directors to nine and appointed Mr. Edward Grebow to the Board. The Board determined that Mr. Grebow is an independent director under New York Stock Exchange listing standards and appointed Mr. Grebow to serve on the Company's Audit Committee and to act as its Chairman. Mr. Grebow will receive prorated compensation for his service on the Board in accordance with the Company's standard compensatory arrangements for non-employee directors, which are described under the caption "Director Compensation" in the Company's proxy statement for its 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which description is incorporated herein by reference.
     A copy of the Company's press release announcing Mr. Grebow's appointment is included as an exhibit to this report.
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: July 21, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
Houston, Texas, July 21, 2008  Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. () today announced that it has appointed Mr. Edward Grebow to the Company's Board of Directors. Mr. Grebow's career spans over 30 years in banking and finance. He currently serves as a Managing Director of J.C. Flowers & Co. LLC where he is responsible for analyzing, negotiating and managing bank, insurance company and other financial company acquisitions. During his career, Mr. Grebow has served as President or Chief Executive Officer of JP Morgan Leasefunding Corp.; Chyron Corporation; ULLICO Inc. and Union Labor Life Insurance Co. Mr. Grebow also served on the board of directors of Chyron Corporation and Panavision Inc., where he had significant interaction with outside public accounting firms. Mr. Grebow was appointed by the Governor of the State of New York and confirmed by the State Senate as a member of the New York State Hospital Review and Planning Council, where he served as a member of the Finance Committee of the Council with responsibility for assessing the financial soundness of hospitals and health care institutions in New York. He holds a BBA degree in Accounting and Finance from George Washington University.
NYSE: DO
Diamond Offshore provides contract drilling services to the energy industry around the globe and is a leader in deepwater drilling.


