FILE:DO/DO-8K-20080602162630.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate line below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 5.02.
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
(b), (c). On May 28, 2008, the Board of Directors of Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. (the "Company") named Lawrence R. Dickerson the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company. Mr. Dickerson was formerly President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company. James S. Tisch, formerly Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, will remain Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company and will continue to focus primarily on major strategic decisions. In connection with Mr. Dickerson's being named the Company's Chief Executive Officer, it is expected that his employment agreement will be modified to reflect his new position and that Mr. Tisch will receive the types and amounts of compensation the Company pays its other non-employee directors. The additional biographical and other information concerning Mr. Dickerson required by Item 5.02(c) of Form 8-K was previously reported in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed February 25, 2008 and definitive proxy statement relating to the Company's 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders filed April 2, 2008, and is incorporated herein by reference.
          A copy of the Company's press release announcing these management changes is included as an exhibit to this report.
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: June 2, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
Houston, Texas, May 29, 2008  Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. () announced today that Lawrence R. Dickerson, formerly President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company, has been named President and Chief Executive Officer. James S. Tisch, formerly Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, will remain Chairman of the Company and will continue to focus primarily on major strategic decisions.
NYSE: DO
Mr. Dickerson has been with the company since 1979 and was previously Chief Financial Officer from 1989 until 1998 when he became President and Chief Operating Officer. Additionally, Mr. Dickerson is a past Chairman of both the International Association of Drilling Contractors and National Ocean Industries Association. From 2001 through 2003, Mr. Dickerson served on the U.S. Commission on Ocean Policy.
"We are pleased to recognize Larry's key contributions to Diamond Offshore with this important promotion" stated Mr. Tisch. "As the Company's leader in Houston, Larry has been instrumental in the development of staff and personnel who have delivered outstanding performance in drilling markets around the world. Larry focuses on both operational excellence and enhancing shareholder value."
Diamond Offshore provides contract drilling services to the energy industry around the globe and is a leader in deepwater drilling. Additional information on Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. and access to the Company's SEC filings is available on the Internet at www.diamondoffshore.com.


