FILE:DO/DO-8K-20080917165655.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate line below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 8.01.
Other Events
     On September 15, 2008, Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that tracking devices indicated all of the Company's rigs maintained station during Hurricane Ike, and 10 of 12 units most impacted by the storm appeared to have suffered relatively little or no damage according to reports from start-up crews and visual air inspections. Of the remaining two, visual inspections by air indicated the 350-ft. IC jack-up rig , which was directly in the path of the storm, lost its entire drilling package, including the derrick.
Ocean Tower
     Filed herewith is a copy of such press release.
     Statements in this report that contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, include, but are not limited to, statements concerning initial assessment of damage to rigs following a storm and the amount of time it may take to resume full operations. Such statements are inherently subject to a variety of assumptions, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or projected. A discussion of the risk factors that could impact these areas and the Company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the Company's reports and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These factors include, among others, general economic and business conditions, operating risks, casualty losses, industry fleet capacity, changes in foreign and domestic oil and gas exploration and production activity, competition, changes in foreign, political, social and economic conditions, regulatory initiatives and compliance with governmental regulations, customer preferences and various other matters, many of which are beyond the Company's control. Given these concerns, investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of the press release, and the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement and expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement to reflect any change in the Company's expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is based.
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: September 17, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
Houston, Texas, September 15, 2008  Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. () reported today that tracking devices indicate all of the Company's rigs maintained station during Hurricane Ike, and 10 of 12 units most impacted by the storm appear to have suffered relatively little or no damage according to reports from start-up crews and visual air inspections.
NYSE: DO
Of the remaining two, visual inspections by air indicate the 350-ft. IC jack-up rig , which was directly in the path of the storm, lost its entire drilling package, including the derrick. An assessment team will fly to the today, weather permitting. The jack-up unit is in a Galveston shipyard, but due to access issues has not been inspected.
Ocean Tower
Tower
Ocean Drake
The Company is working to re-crew its rigs and resume operations as quickly as practical.
Diamond Offshore provides contract drilling services to the energy industry around the globe and is a leader in deepwater drilling. Additional information on Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. and access to the Company's SEC filings is available on the Internet at
www.diamondoffshore.com.
Statements in this press release may contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such statements may include, but are not limited to, statements concerning initial assessment of damage to rigs following a storm and the amount of time it may take to resume full operations. Such statements are inherently subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or projected. A discussion of additional risk factors that could impact these areas and the Company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the Company's reports and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These factors include, among others, general economic and business conditions, casualty losses, industry fleet capacity, changes in foreign and domestic oil and gas exploration and production activity, competition, changes in foreign, political, social and economic conditions, regulatory initiatives and compliance with governmental regulations, customer preferences and various other matters, many of
 
which are beyond the Company's control. Given these concerns, investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this press release. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement to reflect any change in the Company's expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is based.


