FILE:DO/DO-8K-20091005161949.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate line below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 8.01.
Other Events
     On October 5, 2009, Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the pricing of an offering of $500 million principal amount of its 5.70% senior unsecured notes due October 15, 2039 pursuant to the Company's shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-157865) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
     Filed herewith is a copy of such press release.
     Statements in this report may contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements may include, without limitation, statements which project, indicate or imply future results and may contain words like "expect," "intend," "plan," "will," "estimated" and "budgeted," among others. Such statements are inherently subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or projected. These factors include, among others, general economic and business conditions, changes in oil and natural gas prices, casualty losses, industry fleet capacity, changes in foreign and domestic oil and gas exploration and production activity, competition, changes in foreign, political, social and economic conditions, regulatory initiatives and compliance with governmental regulations, customer preferences and various other matters, many of which are beyond the Company's control. Given these concerns, investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this report. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement to reflect any change in the Company's expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is based. A further discussion of the risk factors that could impact these areas and the Company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the Company's reports and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: October 5, 2009

Exhibit 12.1
     
Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges:
 

Exhibit 99.1
Houston, Texas, October 5, 2009  Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. () today reported the pricing of $500 million principal amount of the Company's 5.70% senior unsecured notes due October 15, 2039. The notes were offered at 99.344% of the principal amount. Closing of the transaction is scheduled for October 8, 2009, subject to customary closing conditions. The Company intends to use the net proceeds from the sale of the notes for general corporate purposes.
NYSE:DO
The offering was made pursuant to the Company's shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Goldman, Sachs & Co. are the joint book-running managers for the offering. When available, copies of the prospectus supplement and accompanying prospectus for the offering may be obtained from J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. at 212-834-4533 or Goldman, Sachs & Co. at 1-866-471-2526.
This press release does not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy the notes, nor shall there be any sale of any of the notes in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction.
Diamond Offshore provides contract drilling services to the energy industry and is a leader in deepwater drilling. Additional information on Diamond Offshore and access to the Company's SEC filings is available on the Internet at .
www.diamondoffshore.com
Statements contained in this press release which are not historical facts are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and subject to a variety of risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected by management of the Company. A discussion of the important risk factors and other considerations that could materially impact these matters as well as the Company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the Company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and readers of this release are urged to review those reports carefully when considering these forward-looking statements. Copies of these reports are available through the Company's website . Given these risk factors, investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Any such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this press release. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement to reflect any change in the Company's expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is based.
www.diamondoffshore.com


