FILE:DO/DO-8K-20091112060436.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate line below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 7.01.
Regulation FD Disclosure
     Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. (the "Company") hereby incorporates by reference into this Item 7.01 the summary report of the status, as of November 11, 2009, of the Company's offshore drilling rigs attached as Exhibit 99.1, which is being furnished in accordance with Rule 101(e)(1) under Regulation FD and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated by reference.
     Statements in this report that contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the current term, future dayrates, start and end dates and comments concerning future contracts and availability, letters of intent, utilization, surveys, downtime and other aspects of the Company's drilling rigs, as well as statements concerning rigs being upgraded or to be upgraded and the revised contract. Such statements are inherently subject to a variety of assumptions, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or projected. A discussion of the risk factors that could impact these areas and the Company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the Company's reports and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These factors include, among others, general economic and business conditions, operating risks, casualty losses, industry fleet capacity, changes in foreign and domestic oil and gas exploration and production activity, competition, changes in foreign, political, social and economic conditions, regulatory initiatives and compliance with governmental regulations, customer preferences and various other matters, many of which are beyond the Company's control. Given these concerns, investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of the rig status report, and the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement.
Ocean Victory
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: November 11, 2009

Exhibit 99.1
RECENT COMMITMENTS  (See Body of Report For Contract Details/Date Changes and Other Information)
 
2
 
3
 
Note 3.  Dayrate subject to certain potential adjustments that are not expected to be material.
Valiant
 
4
Note 4. In connection with OGX's entry into a one-year contract for the in the low $340's, the dayrate for OGX's two-year contract for the is to be reduced from the low $420's to the low $340's in early Feb. 2010 until the completion of the contract for the in early Feb. 2011 ($420 rate resumes for at that time).
Star/Quest
Ocean Star
Ocean Quest
Ocean Star
Quest
 
5
 
On rig utilization, assume 95% for DP units, 96% for conventionally moored rigs, and 98% for jack-ups.
 
6
 
2010 Estimated Downtime = 644 days
5-year Surveys: Spartan (40); New Era (50); Vanguard (65); Winner (92); Spur (35). Intermediate Surveys: Clipper (40), Columbia (10); Nomad (40). Other: Confidence (7); Lexington (35); Alliance (90); America (109); Guardian (31).
IMPORTANT FOOTNOTES, PLEASE READ:
Survey Costs:
When rigs are undergoing surveys, normal opex applies, plus additional costs. Addl. costs for 2009 for five new 5-year surveys are expected to be approximately: $5-6 million each for Titan, Yatzy, Concord, Champion and $24 million for America.
Mobe Costs:
In addition, we expect to incur approximately $32 million of amortized mobe costs during 2009 ($8 million per quarter). NOTE: Amortized mobe costs are offset by amortized mobe revenues.
 
7
Average Per-Day Rig Operating Costs (in $000's):*
 
Cost/Revenue Footnote:
Contract Drilling Expenses applies to contract drilling expenses ONLY and Reimbursable Expenses
does not include
 
8 
Forward-Looking Statements: The rig status report may contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may project, indicate or imply future results, events, performance or achievements, and may contain or be identified by the words "expect," "intend," "plan," "predict," "anticipate," "estimate," "believe," should, "could," "may," "might," "will," "will be," "will continue," "will likely result," "project," "budget," "forecast," and similar expressions. Statements by the Company in the rig status report that contain forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the current term, future dayrates, start and end dates and comments concerning future contracts and availability, letters of intent, utilization, surveys, downtime and other aspects of the Company's drilling rigs, as well as statements concerning rigs being upgraded or to be upgraded and the revised Ocean Victory contract. Such statements are inherently subject to a variety of assumptions, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or projected. A discussion of the risk factors that could impact these areas and the Company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the Company's reports and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These factors include, among others, general economic and business conditions, contract cancellations, customer bankruptcy, operating risks, casualty losses, industry fleet capacity, changes in foreign and domestic oil and gas exploration and production activity, competition, changes in foreign, political, social and economic conditions, regulatory initiatives and compliance with governmental regulations, customer preferences and various other matters, many of which are beyond the Company's control. Given these concerns, investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of the rig status report, and the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement.


