FILE:DO/DO-8K-20100302125346.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate line below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     On March 2, 2010, Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that the Company has received notifications of award for three term drilling contracts from Petrobras in Brazil. As described in such press release, the commitments for the three floating drilling rigs would generate combined maximum total revenue of approximately $1.4 billion, excluding potential performance bonus payments and any potential contract extensions, and represent at least 11 years of contract drilling backlog. Filed herewith is a copy of such press release.
     Statements in this report that contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, include, but are not limited to, statements regarding commitments for drilling work or contracts, the notifications of award for three term drilling contracts, related contract drilling backlog, potential revenue related to such contracts, potential performance bonuses, future cash flows, the term and start date of future contracts, consummation of awarded contracts, potential contract extensions, future dayrates, mobilizations of rigs, commencement of work, potential conversions of contract periods and rig utilization rates. Such statements are inherently subject to a variety of assumptions, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or projected. A discussion of the risk factors that could impact these areas and the Company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the Company's reports and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These factors include, among others, the risk that a notification of contract award or commitment may not result in a binding contract, the risk that a binding contract could be terminated and the risk that factors outside of the Company's control may adversely impact the amount of profit realized from a contract, as well as general economic and business conditions, changes in oil and natural gas prices, operating risks, casualty losses, industry fleet capacity, changes in foreign and domestic oil and gas exploration and production activity, competition, changes in foreign, political, social and economic conditions, regulatory initiatives and compliance with governmental regulations, customer preferences and various other matters, many of which are beyond the Company's control. Given these concerns, investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this report. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement to reflect any change in the Company's expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is based.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
Houston, Texas, March 2, 2010  Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. () today announced that the Company has received notifications of award for three term drilling contracts from Petrobras in Brazil. The commitments for the three floating drilling rigs would generate combined maximum total revenue of approximately $1.4 billion, excluding potential performance bonus payments and any potential contract extensions, and represent at least 11 years of contract drilling backlog.
NYSE:DO
New Contracts:
Relocation:
 
The rigs and are ultra-deep water semi-submersibles purchased out of bankruptcy by subsidiaries of Diamond Offshore in late 2009. Upon delivery by the shipyard, the Company completed initial commissioning procedures for both rigs.
Valor
Courage
Diamond Offshore provides contract drilling services to the energy industry around the globe and is a leader in deepwater drilling. Maximum contract revenue as stated above assumes 100% rig utilization. Generally, rig utilization rates approach 95-98% during contracted periods; however, utilization rates can be adversely impacted by additional downtime due to unscheduled repairs, maintenance and weather. Additional information on Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. and access to the Company's SEC filings is available on the Internet at .
www.diamondoffshore.com
Statements contained in this press release which are not historical facts are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and subject to a variety of risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected by management of the Company. A discussion of the important risk factors and other considerations that could materially impact these matters as well as the Company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the Company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and readers of this release are urged to review those reports carefully when considering these forward-looking statements. Copies of these reports are available through the Company's website . Given these risk factors, investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Any such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this press release. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement to reflect any change in the Company's expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is based.
www.diamondoffshore.com


