FILE:DO/DO-8K-20100422083030.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate line below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
     On April 22, 2010, Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2010. A copy of such press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
     The information furnished in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated by reference.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: April 22, 2010

Exhibit 99.1
Houston, Texas, April 22, 2010  Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. () today reported net income for the first quarter of 2010 of $290.9 million, or $2.09 per share on a diluted basis, compared with net income of $348.6 million, or $2.51 per share on a diluted basis, in the same period a year earlier. Revenues in the first quarter of 2010 were $859.7 million, compared with revenues of $885.7 million for the first quarter of 2009.
NYSE:DO
In addition, in a related statement today, the Company announced its regular quarterly dividend of $0.125 per share of common stock, and a special dividend of $1.375 per share of common stock. The special dividend represents a reduction of $0.50 per share from the previous special dividend, reflecting current and anticipated industry conditions, including a decline in renewal contract dayrates from peak levels. The Company also considers it prudent at this time to retain cash for potential rig acquisition opportunities and other corporate purposes.
Larry Dickerson, President and CEO, stated, "Since Diamond Offshore began paying a special dividend in January 2006, we have paid out to shareholders total dividends of $23.88 per share, or approximately $3.3 billion. These dividend payments are an important part of our efforts to enhance shareholder value, and our revised special quarterly dividend continues these efforts while maintaining the Company's financial strength and strategic flexibility."
Mr. Dickerson continued, "We believe that the new level of special quarterly dividend can be maintained at least through 2010, although any decision by our Board to declare a special dividend, as well as the amount of any special dividend that may be declared, will be based on the Company's financial position, earnings, earnings outlook, capital spending plans, and other relevant factors at that time.
Diamond Offshore provides contract drilling services to the energy industry and is a leader in deepwater drilling. Additional information on Diamond Offshore and access to the Company's SEC filings is available on the Internet at .
www.diamondoffshore.com
As previously announced, Diamond Offshore will provide a simulcast and rebroadcast of its first quarter 2010 earnings release conference call. The live broadcast of our quarterly conference call will be available online at on April 22, 2010 beginning at 9:00 a.m. Central Daylight Time. The online replay will follow immediately and continue for the remainder of the calendar quarter after the original call. Please go to
www.diamondoffshore.com
 
the web site at least 15 minutes before the broadcast to register, download and install any necessary audio software.
Statements contained in this press release which are not historical facts are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and subject to a variety of risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected by management of the Company. A discussion of the important risk factors and other considerations that could materially impact these matters as well as the Company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the Company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and readers of this release are urged to review those reports carefully when considering these forward-looking statements. Copies of these reports are available through the Company's website . Given these risk factors, investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Any such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this press release. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement to reflect any change in the Company's expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is based.
www.diamondoffshore.com
 
 
 
 


