FILE:DO/DO-8K-20101112100026.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate line below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 7.01.
Regulation FD Disclosure
     Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. (the "Company") hereby incorporates by reference into this Item 7.01 the summary report of the status, as of November 12, 2010, of the Company's offshore drilling rigs attached as Exhibit 99.1, which is being furnished in accordance with Rule 101(e)(1) under Regulation FD and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated by reference.
     Statements in this report that contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the current term, future dayrates, future status, start and end dates and comments concerning future contracts and availability, letters of intent, utilization, surveys, downtime and other aspects of the Company's drilling rigs, as well as statements concerning the moratorium on, or suspension of, certain drilling activities in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and enhanced safety requirements implemented by the U.S. government, related legal proceedings and outcomes thereof, the impact of these and related events on the Company's operations and revenues, the effects of claims of force majeure and the outcomes of discussions with operators with regard thereto, rigs being upgraded or to be upgraded and the revised contract. Such statements are inherently subject to a variety of assumptions, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or projected. A discussion of the risk factors that could impact these areas and the Company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the Company's reports and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These factors include, among others, general economic and business conditions, contract cancellations, customer bankruptcy, operating risks, casualty losses, industry fleet capacity, changes in foreign and domestic oil and gas exploration and production activity, competition, changes in foreign, political, social and economic conditions, regulatory initiatives and compliance with governmental regulations, customer preferences and various other matters, many of which are beyond the Company's control. Given these concerns, investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of the rig status report, and the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement.
Ocean Victory
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: November 12, 2010

     
1 
Exhibit 99.1
RECENT COMMITMENTS  (See Body of Report For Contract Details/Date Changes and Other Information)
On October 12, 2010, the U.S. government lifted the ban on certain drilling activities in the GOM, which had been initially imposed on May 30, 2010 following the Macondo well blowout. All drilling in the GOM is now subject to compliance with enhanced safety requirements set forth in Notices to Lessees 2010-N05 and 2010-N06, both of which were implemented during the drilling ban. Additionally, all drilling in the GOM will be required to comply with the Interim Final Rule to Enhance Safety Measures for Energy Development on the Outer Continental Shelf (Drilling Safety Rule) and the Workplace Safety Rule on Safety and Environmental Management Systems, both of which were issued on September 30, 2010, once they become final. We continue to evaluate these new measures to ensure that our rigs and equipment are in full compliance, where applicable. Additional requirements could be forthcoming based on further recommendations by regulatory agencies investigating the Macondo incident. We are not able to predict the likelihood, nature or extent of additional rulemaking or when the interim rules, or any future rules, could become final. Nor are we able to predict when the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement (BOEM) will issue drilling permits to our customers. We are not able to predict the future impact of these events on our operations. Even with the drilling ban lifted, certain deepwater activities remain suspended until the BOEM resumes its regular permitting of those activities.
Note (1).
 In regard solely to the ATP contract, and for a minimum of the first 240 days of the initial one-year contract period, Contract Drilling Revenue is to be recognized under normal GAAP accrual accounting at $540,000 per day, and additional contract dayrate of $20,000 is to be recognized as interest income over applicable periods reflecting deferred payment plan. The contract calls for $75,000 per day of the $560,000 contract dayrate to be paid on a current basis and the remaining $485,000 per day to be paid pursuant to an overriding royalty interest structure, as discussed in the Company's Form 8-K that was filed on June 3, 2009. Remaining days under the initial one-year contract period will be deferred until approximately the fourth quarter of 2011, when the contract provides that the rig will be utilized by the operator at a dayrate of $540,000 payable in cash.
Note (2). 
Victory
 On September 13, 2010, we received notice of termination of the drilling contract from the operator, Anadarko Petroleum Corporation, on the grounds that the actions of certain governmental authorities, relating to a moratorium on certain drilling activities in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico following the Macondo well blowout, constitute a condition of force majeure under the drilling contract. The operator has also filed suit against us in U.S. District Court in Houston seeking a declaratory judgment that its termination of the drilling contract is warranted under the contract. We do not believe the events cited by the operator come within the definition of force majeure under the drilling contract, and we do not believe that the operator has the right to terminate the drilling contract on this basis. Although we cannot predict with certainty the results of any such litigation, and there can be no assurance as to its ultimate outcome, we intend to vigorously defend this litigation and challenge the operator's attempt to terminate the drilling contract.
Note (3). Monarch
 
2 
     
 
     
3 
 In connection with the relocation of this rig out of the GOM pursuant to this contract, the previous operator paid an early termination fee of $31 million in order to satisfy certain contractual obligations.
Note (4). Endeavor
 Dayrate subject to certain potential adjustments that are not expected to be material.
Note (5). Valiant
 
     
4 
 
5
     
 
6
     
NOTES: Rig utilization rates can be adversely impacted by additional downtime due to unscheduled repairs and maintenance, weather conditions and other factors.
An LOI is subject to customary conditions, including the execution of a definitive agreement and as such may not result in a binding contract.
Options are un-priced and any extension of contract is subject to mutually agreeable terms & conditions unless otherwise indicated.
Mobe revenues (if any) and mobe expenses are deferred, and generally are amortized over the life of the contract. GOM=Gulf of Mexico.
*Nominal water depth (in feet) reflects the current operating water depth capability for each drilling unit. In many cases, individual rigs are capable of drilling, or have drilled, in greater water depths. In all cases, floating rigs are capable of working successfully at greater depths than their nominal depth. On a case by case basis, we may achieve a greater depth capacity by providing additional equipment.
Nominal Water Depth 
On rig utilization, assume 95% for DP units, 96% for conventionally moored rigs, and 98% for jack-ups.
 
     
7
 
Survey Costs: During surveys, normal opex applies, plus additional costs.
Mobe Costs: Amortized mobe costs are generally offset by amortized mobe revenues.
 
     
8
: The rig status report contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may project, indicate or imply future results, events, performance or achievements, and may contain or be identified by the words "expect," "intend," "plan," "predict," "anticipate," "estimate," believe," "should," "could," "may," "might," "will," "will be," "will continue," "will likely result," "project," "budget," "forecast," and similar expressions. Statements by the Company in the rig status report that contain forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the current term, future dayrates, future status, start and end dates, and comments concerning future contracts and availability, letters of intent, utilization, surveys, downtime and other aspects of the Company's drilling rigs, as well as statements concerning the moratorium on, or suspension of, certain drilling activities in the GOM and enhanced safety requirements implemented by the U.S. government, related legal proceedings and outcomes thereof, the impact of these and related events on our operations and revenues, the effects of claims of force majeure and the outcomes of discussions with operators with regard thereto, rigs being upgraded or to be upgraded and the revised Ocean Victory contract. Such statements are inherently subject to a variety of assumptions, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or projected. A discussion of the risk factors that could impact these areas and the Company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the Company's reports and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These factors include, among others, general economic and business conditions, contract cancellations, customer bankruptcy, operating risks, casualty losses, industry fleet capacity, changes in foreign and domestic oil and gas exploration and production activity, competition, changes in foreign, political, social and economic conditions, regulatory initiatives and compliance with governmental regulations, customer preferences and various other matters, many of which are beyond the Company's control. Given these concerns, investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of the rig status report, and the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement.
Forward-Looking Statements


