FILE:DO/DO-8K-20100204070123.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate line below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02.
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On February 4, 2010, Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fiscal quarter and year ended December 31, 2009. A copy of such press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
     The information furnished in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated by reference.
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: February 4, 2010

Exhibit 99.1
Houston, Texas, February 4, 2010  Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. () today reported net income for the fourth quarter of 2009 of $276.1 million, or $1.98 per share on a diluted basis, compared with net income of $293.3 million, or $2.11 per share on a diluted basis, in the same period a year earlier. Revenues in the fourth quarter of 2009 were $890.8 million, compared with revenues of $903.2 million for the fourth quarter of 2008.
NYSE:DO
Results for the fourth quarter of 2009 were adversely impacted by increased tax expense, largely arising from the (i) changing mix of domestic and international earnings during the year (ii) foreign exchange differences which affected the amount of foreign tax credits that could be utilized and (iii) to a lesser degree, an assessment by Brazil related to operations in 2004 and 2005. All of these factors disproportionately affected the fourth quarter. Additionally, results for the quarter were negatively impacted by net pre-tax bad debt expense primarily related to past-due receivables for a rig operating in Egypt. Slightly offsetting these adverse impacts, the Company recorded a net pre-tax gain that resulted from the sale of the jack-up rig .
Ocean Tower
For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company reported net income of $1.4 billion, or $9.89 per share on a diluted basis, compared with net income of $1.3 billion, or $9.42 per share on a diluted basis, for the year ended December 31, 2008. Revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009 were $3.6 billion, compared with $3.5 billion for 2008.
Diamond Offshore provides contract drilling services to the energy industry and is a leader in deepwater drilling. Additional information on Diamond Offshore and access to the Company's SEC filings is available on the Internet at .
www.diamondoffshore.com
As previously announced, Diamond Offshore will provide a simulcast and rebroadcast of its fourth quarter 2009 earnings release conference call. The live broadcast of our quarterly conference call will be available online at on February 4, 2010 beginning at 9:00 a.m. Central Time. The online replay will follow immediately and continue for the remainder of the calendar quarter after the original call. Please go to the web site at least 15 minutes before the broadcast to register, download and install any necessary audio software.
www.diamondoffshore.com
Statements contained in this press release which are not historical facts are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and subject to a variety of risks that could cause
 
actual results to differ materially from those expected by management of the Company. A discussion of the important risk factors and other considerations that could materially impact these matters as well as the Company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the Company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and readers of this release are urged to review those reports carefully when considering these forward-looking statements. Copies of these reports are available through the Company's website . Given these risk factors, investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Any such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this press release. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement to reflect any change in the Company's expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is based.
www.diamondoffshore.com
 
 
 
 


