FILE:DO/DO-8K-20110722090019.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate line below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02.
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
(d) On July 19, 2011, the Board of Directors ("Board") of Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. (the "Company") increased the number of directors constituting the entire Board from nine directors to ten and appointed Ambassador Clifford M. Sobel to the Board. The Board determined that Ambassador Sobel is an independent director under New York Stock Exchange listing standards. Ambassador Sobel will receive prorated compensation for his service on the Board in accordance with the Company's standard compensatory arrangements for non-employee directors, including an annual cash retainer of $50,000 paid to all directors who are not employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or of Loews Corporation, a quarterly award of 1,000 stock appreciation rights in accordance with the terms of the Company's Stock Option Plan, beginning in October 2011, to each director who is not an employee of the Company, and as otherwise described under the caption "Director Compensation" in the Company's proxy statement for its 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which description is incorporated herein by reference except as modified above.
     A copy of the Company's press release announcing Ambassador Sobel's appointment is included as an exhibit to this report.
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: July 22, 2011

Exhibit 99.1
Houston, Texas, July 22, 2011  Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. () today announced that it has appointed Ambassador Clifford M. Sobel to the Company's Board of Directors.
NYSE: DO
Ambassador Sobel served as U.S. Ambassador to the Netherlands from 2001 until 2005 and U.S. Ambassador to Brazil from July 2006 until August 2009. He is presently the Managing Partner of Valor Capital Group LLC, an investment group investing in Brazil. Previously he served as Chairman of Net2Phone, an Internet provider listed on the NASDAQ.
Ambassador Sobel is a member of the Millennium Promise Board, a non-governmental organization supporting the UN Millennium Development Goals, and also serves on the Advisory Boards to the American Military Commander of Europe and NATO, as well as the Command for American Forces for Central and South America.
Diamond Offshore provides contract drilling services to the energy industry and is a leader in deepwater drilling.


