FILE:DO/DO-8K-20110721070117.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate line below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02.
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On July 21, 2011, Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fiscal quarter and six-month period ended June 30, 2011. A copy of such press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
     The information furnished in this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1, is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated by reference.
     Statements in the press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report that are not historical facts contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including, but not limited to, statements regarding future drilling contracts, extensions and commitments, future revenues, future demobilizations and contract amendments and future utilization rates. Such statements are inherently subject to a variety of assumptions, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or projected. A discussion of the risk factors that could impact these areas and the Company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the Company's reports and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These factors include, among others, general economic and business conditions, contract cancellations, customer bankruptcy, operating risks, casualty losses, industry fleet capacity, changes in foreign and domestic oil and gas exploration and production activity, competition, changes in foreign, political, social and economic conditions, regulatory initiatives and compliance with governmental regulations, customer preferences and various other matters, many of which are beyond the Company's control. Given these concerns, investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of such press release, and the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement.
Item 7.01.
Regulation FD Disclosure
     The Company hereby incorporates by reference into this Item 7.01 the summary report of the status, as of July 21, 2011, of the Company's offshore drilling rigs attached as Exhibit 99.2, which is being furnished in accordance with Rule 101(e)(1) under Regulation FD and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated by reference.
     Statements in this Item 7.01 that contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, include, but are not limited to,
Table of Contents
statements regarding the current term, future dayrates, future status, start and end dates and comments concerning future contracts and availability, letters of intent, utilization, surveys, downtime and other aspects of the Company's drilling rigs, as well as any statements concerning legal proceedings and outcomes thereof, the impact of these and related events on the Company's operations and revenues, the effects of claims of force majeure and the outcomes of discussions with operators with regard thereto, rigs being upgraded or to be upgraded, rigs under construction and the revised contract. Such statements are inherently subject to a variety of assumptions, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or projected. A discussion of the risk factors that could impact these areas and the Company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the Company's reports and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These factors include, among others, general economic and business conditions, contract cancellations, customer bankruptcy, operating risks, casualty losses, industry fleet capacity, changes in foreign and domestic oil and gas exploration and production activity, competition, changes in foreign, political, social and economic conditions, regulatory initiatives and compliance with governmental regulations, customer preferences and various other matters, many of which are beyond the Company's control. Given these concerns, investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of the rig status report, and the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement.
Ocean Victory
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
Houston, Texas, July 21, 2011  Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. () today reported net income for the second quarter of 2011 of $266.6 million, or $1.92 per share on a diluted basis, compared with net income of $224.4 million, or $1.61 per share on a diluted basis, in the same period a year earlier. Revenues in the second quarter of 2011 were $889.5 million, compared with revenues of $822.6 million for the second quarter of 2010.
NYSE:DO
For the six months ended June 30, 2011, the Company reported net income of $517.2 million, or $3.72 per share on a diluted basis, compared with net income of $515.2 million, or $3.70 per share on a diluted basis, for the same period in 2010. Revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2011 was $1.7 billion, essentially identical with $1.7 billion for the first six months of 2010.
In addition, in the past 45 days the Company has put in place 10 new agreements that are expected to generate combined maximum total revenue of approximately $1 billion and represent over 14 years of contract drilling backlog. Significant among these agreements:
 
Diamond Offshore provides contract drilling services to the energy industry and is a leader in deepwater drilling.
Maximum contract revenue as stated above assumes 100% rig utilization. Generally, rig utilization rates approach 95-98% during contracted periods; however, utilization rates can be adversely impacted by additional downtime due to unscheduled repairs, maintenance and weather.
Additional information on Diamond Offshore and access to the Company's SEC filings is available on the Internet at .
www.diamondoffshore.com
As previously announced, Diamond Offshore will provide a simulcast and rebroadcast of its second quarter 2011 earnings release conference call. The live broadcast of our quarterly conference call will be available online at on July 21, 2011 beginning at 9:00 a.m. Central Daylight Time. The online replay will follow immediately and continue for the remainder of the calendar quarter after the original call. Please go to the web site at least 15 minutes before the broadcast to register, download and install any necessary audio software.
www.diamondoffshore.com
Statements contained in this press release which are not historical facts are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and subject to a variety of risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected by management of the Company. A discussion of the important risk factors and other considerations that could materially impact these matters as well as the Company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the Company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and readers of this release are urged to review those reports carefully when considering these forward-looking statements. Copies of these reports are available through the Company's website . Given these risk factors, investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Any such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this press release. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement to reflect any change in the Company's expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is based.
www.diamondoffshore.com
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
1 
RECENT COMMITMENTS  (See Body of Report For Contract Details/Date Changes and Other Information)
 In regard solely to the ATP contract, and for a minimum of the first 240 days of the initial one-year contract period, Contract Drilling Revenue is to be recognized under normal GAAP accrual accounting at $540,000 per day, and additional contract dayrate of $20,000 is to be recognized as interest income over applicable periods reflecting deferred payment plan. The contract calls for $75,000 per day of the $560,000 contract dayrate to be paid on a current basis and the remaining $485,000 per day to be paid pursuant to an overriding royalty interest structure, as discussed in the Company's Form 8-K that was filed on June 3, 2009. Remaining days, if any, under the initial one-year contract period will be deferred until approximately the fourth quarter of 2011, when the contract provides that the rig will be utilized by the operator at a dayrate of $540,000 payable in cash.
Note (1).
Victory
 
2 
 Dayrate subject to certain potential adjustments that are not expected to be material.
Note (2). Valiant
 
3 
 
4
All Brazilian contracts include unpriced options
Note (3) 
 
5
All Brazilian contracts include unpriced options
Note (3) 
 
     
6
 
NOTES: Rig utilization rates can be adversely impacted by additional downtime due to unscheduled repairs and maintenance, and other factors.
On rig utilization, assume 95% for DP units, 96% for conventionally moored rigs, and 98% for jack-ups. GOM=Gulf of Mexico.
Options are un-priced and any extension of contract is subject to mutually agreeable terms & conditions unless otherwise indicated.
ALL DAYRATES EXCLUSIVE OF MOBE. Mobe revenues (if any) and mobe expenses are deferred, and generally are amortized over the life of the contract.
 
7
Does Not Include Cold or Hot Stacked Rigs (see final page for cold stacked units).
2012 ESTIMATED SURVEY DOWNTIME = 869 days Special Surveys: Whittington (120); Endeavor (50); Patriot (50); Quest (105); Worker (75); Star (75); Baroness (75); Victory (60); King (35). Intermediate Surveys/UWILD: Guardian (60); Columbia (12); Titan (12); Courage (10); Valor (10). Other Prep/Maintenance: Confidence (60); Rover (60).
Survey Costs: During surveys, normal opex applies, plus additional costs.
Mobe Costs: Amortized mobe costs are generally offset by amortized mobe revenues.
 
8
The rig status report contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may project, indicate or imply future results, events, performance or achievements, and may contain or be identified by the words "expect," "intend," "plan," "predict," "anticipate," "estimate," believe," "should," "could," "may," "might," "will," "will be," "will continue," "will likely result," "project," "budget," "forecast," and similar expressions. Statements by the Company in the rig status report that contain forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the current term, future dayrates, future status, start and end dates, and comments concerning future contracts and availability, letters of intent, utilization, surveys, downtime and other aspects of the Company's drilling rigs, as well as statements concerning related legal proceedings and outcomes thereof, the impact of these and related events on our operations and revenues, the effects of claims of force majeure and the outcomes of discussions with operators with regard thereto, rigs being upgraded or to be upgraded, rigs under construction and the revised Ocean Victory contract. Such statements are inherently subject to a variety of assumptions, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or projected. A discussion of the risk factors that could impact these areas and the Company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the Company's reports and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These factors include, among others, general economic and business conditions, contract cancellations, customer bankruptcy, operating risks, casualty losses, industry fleet capacity, changes in foreign and domestic oil and gas exploration and production activity, competition, changes in foreign, political, social and economic conditions, regulatory initiatives and compliance with governmental regulations, customer preferences and various other matters, many of which are beyond the Company's control. Given these concerns, investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of the rig status report, and the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement.
Forward-Looking Statements:


