FILE:DO/DO-8K-20110328080019.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
     Check the appropriate line below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     As previously reported, in connection with a contract between Diamond Offshore Drilling Limited, a subsidiary of Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. (the "Company"), and Hyundai Heavy Industries Co., Ltd. to build an ultra-deepwater drillship, the Company obtained from Hyundai a fixed-price option for the purchase of a third drillship. The Company initially had the right to exercise such option at any time before the end of the first quarter of 2011. The option period has been extended, and the Company now has the right to exercise such option at any time until May 16, 2011.
     Statements in this report that contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, include, but are not limited to, statements concerning the contract and option and the right to exercise such option. Such statements are inherently subject to a variety of assumptions, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or projected. A discussion of the risk factors that could impact these areas and the Company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the Company's reports and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These factors include, among others, general economic and business conditions, contract cancellation, changes in oil and natural gas prices, operating risks, casualty losses, industry fleet capacity, changes in foreign and domestic oil and gas exploration and production activity, competition, changes in foreign, political, social and economic conditions, regulatory initiatives and compliance with governmental regulations, customer preferences and various other matters, many of which are beyond the Company's control. Given these concerns, investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this report. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement to reflect any change in the Company's expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is based.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: March 25, 2011


