FILE:DO/DO-8K-20110526171355.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
     Check the appropriate line below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.07.
Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
     Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. (the "Company") held its Annual Meeting of Stockholders ("Annual Meeting") on May 23, 2011 in New York, New York. At the Annual Meeting, the holders of 125,037,555 shares of common stock out of 139,027,039 shares entitled to vote as of the record date were represented in person or by proxy, constituting a quorum. The following matters were voted on and adopted by the margins indicated:
     1. To elect nine directors to serve until the Company's 2012 annual meeting of stockholders. The number of votes for, against and abstained and all shares as to which brokers indicated that they did not have the authority to vote ("Broker Non-Votes") with respect to each director were as follows:
     2. To ratify the appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Company's independent auditors for fiscal year 2011:
     3. To approve, by non-binding vote, executive compensation:
 
     4. To recommend, by non-binding vote, the frequency of future stockholder advisory votes on executive compensation:
     In light of the vote of the stockholders on the frequency of future stockholder advisory votes on executive compensation as reported above, the Company's Board of Directors has determined that an advisory vote to approve the compensation of the named executive officers of the Company will be conducted every year, until the next stockholder advisory vote on the frequency of the advisory vote to approve the compensation of the named executive officers of the Company.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: May 26, 2011


