FILE:DO/DO-8K-20111019165813.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate line below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 7.01.
Regulation FD Disclosure
     Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. (the "Company") hereby incorporates by reference into this Item 7.01 the summary report of the status, as of October 19, 2011, of the Company's offshore drilling rigs attached as Exhibit 99.1, which is being furnished in accordance with Rule 101(e)(1) under Regulation FD and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated by reference.
     Statements in this report that contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the current term, future dayrates, future status, start and end dates and comments concerning future contracts and availability, letters of intent, utilization, surveys, downtime and other aspects of the Company's drilling rigs, as well as any statements concerning legal proceedings and outcomes thereof, the impact of these and related events on the Company's operations and revenues, the effects of claims of force majeure and the outcomes of discussions with operators with regard thereto, rigs being upgraded or to be upgraded, rigs under construction and the revised contract. Such statements are inherently subject to a variety of assumptions, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or projected. A discussion of the risk factors that could impact these areas and the Company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the Company's reports and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These factors include, among others, general economic and business conditions, contract cancellations, customer bankruptcy, operating risks, casualty losses, industry fleet capacity, changes in foreign and domestic oil and gas exploration and production activity, competition, changes in foreign, political, social and economic conditions, regulatory initiatives and compliance with governmental regulations, customer preferences and various other matters, many of which are beyond the Company's control. Given these concerns, investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of the rig status report, and the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement.
Ocean Victory
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: October 19, 2011

     
Exhibit 99.1
1
RECENT COMMITMENTS  (See Body of Report For Contract Details/Date Changes and Other Information)
Ocean Columbia
One Well
Ocean Sceptor
612 Days
 In regard solely to the ATP contract, for a minimum of the first 240 days and potentially for all of the initial one-year contract period, Contract Drilling Revenue is to be recognized under normal GAAP accrual accounting at $540,000 per day, and additional contract dayrate of $20,000 is to be recognized as interest income over applicable periods reflecting deferred payment plan. The contract calls for $75,000 per day of the $560,000 contract dayrate to be paid on a current basis and the remaining $485,000 per day to be paid pursuant to an overriding royalty interest structure, as discussed in the Company's Form 8-K that was filed on June 3, 2009. The contract may be extended beyond the initial one-year contract period for such days as are necessary to complete the drilling of a well then in progress, and the dayrate for such days, if any, will be $540,000 payable in cash.
Note (1). Victory
 
     
2
 Dayrate on Total contract subject to certain potential adjustments that are not expected to be material.
Note (2). Valiant
 
     
3
 
4
     
 
     
5
 
     
6
NOTES: Rig utilization rates can be adversely impacted by additional downtime due to unscheduled repairs and maintenance, and other factors.
On rig utilization, assume 95% for DP units, 96% for conventionally moored rigs, and 98% for jack-ups. GOM=Gulf of Mexico.
Options are un-priced and any extension of contract is subject to mutually agreeable terms & conditions unless otherwise indicated.
ALL DAYRATES EXCLUSIVE OF MOBE. Mobe revenues (if any) and mobe expenses are deferred, and generally are amortized over the life of the contract.
* Nominal water depth (in ft.) reflects the rig's current operating water depth capability. Often, rigs are capable of drilling, or have drilled, in greater water depths. In all cases, floating rigs are capable of working successfully at greater depths than their nominal depth. On a case by case basis, we may achieve a greater depth capacity by providing additional equipment.
Nominal Water Depth
 
     
7
 
2012 ESTIMATED SURVEY DOWNTIME = 979 days
Special Surveys: Victory (75); Guardian (70); Endeavor (50); Patriot (50); Whittington (120); Quest (105); Worker (92); Star (92); Baroness (75); King (60).
Intermediate Surveys/UWILD: Columbia (12); Courage (10); Valor (10).
Other Prep/Maintenance: Confidence (60); Yorktown (12); Clipper (10); Scepter (16); Rover (60).
Survey Costs: During surveys, normal opex applies, plus additional costs.
Mobe Costs: Amortized mobe costs are generally offset by amortized mobe revenues.
 
     
8
The rig status report contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933,as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may project, indicate or imply future results, events, performance or achievements, and may contain or be identified by the words "expect," "intend," "plan," "predict," "anticipate," "estimate," believe," "should," "could," "may," "might," "will," "will be," "will continue," "will likely result," "project," "budget," "forecast," and similar expressions. Statements by the Company in the rig status report that contain forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the current term, future dayrates, future status, start and end dates, and comments concerning future contracts and availability, letters of intent, utilization, surveys, downtime and other aspects of the Company's drilling rigs, as well as statements concerning related legal proceedings and outcomes thereof, the impact of these and related events on our operations and revenues, the effects of claims of force majeure and the outcomes of discussions with operators with regard thereto, rigs being upgraded or to be upgraded, rigs under construction and the revised Ocean Victory contract. Such statements are inherently subject to a variety of assumptions, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or projected. A discussion of the risk factors that could impact these areas and the Company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the Company's reports and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These factors include, among others, general economic and business conditions, contract cancellations, customer bankruptcy, operating risks, casualty losses, industry fleet capacity, changes in foreign and domestic oil and gas exploration and production activity, competition, changes in foreign, political, social and economic conditions, regulatory initiatives and compliance with governmental regulations, customer preferences and various other matters, many of which are beyond the Company's control. Given these concerns, investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of the rig status report, and the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement.
Forward-Looking Statements:


