FILE:DO/DO-8K-20110202183427.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate line below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 8.01.
Other Events
     On January 28, 2011, Diamond Offshore Drilling Limited, a subsidiary of Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. (the "Company"), entered into a contract with Hyundai Heavy Industries Co., Ltd. to build a second ultra-deepwater drillship with delivery scheduled for the fourth quarter of 2013. Like its previously announced sister drillship, the new rig will be dynamically-positioned, have a seven ram blow-out preventer, dual activity capability, five mud pumps and a maximum hook-load capacity of 1,250 tons. The unit will be designed for operations in up to 12,000 feet of water. The total cost, including commissioning, spares and project management, is expected to be approximately $590 million and is anticipated to be paid out of cash flow and available funds. The Company has also obtained from Hyundai a fixed-price option for the purchase of a third drillship which the Company has the right to exercise at any time before the end of the first quarter of 2011. On February 2, 2011, the Company issued a press release announcing the drillship order. Filed herewith is a copy of such press release.
     Statements in this report that contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, include, but are not limited to, statements concerning future costs, sources of funds, timing of delivery and future returns. Such statements are inherently subject to a variety of assumptions, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or projected. A discussion of the risk factors that could impact these areas and the Company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the Company's reports and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These factors include, among others, general economic and business conditions, contract cancellation, changes in oil and natural gas prices, operating risks, casualty losses, industry fleet capacity, changes in foreign and domestic oil and gas exploration and production activity, competition, changes in foreign, political, social and economic conditions, regulatory initiatives and compliance with governmental regulations, customer preferences and various other matters, many of which are beyond the Company's control. Given these concerns, investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this report. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement to reflect any change in the Company's expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is based.
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: February 2, 2011

Exhibit 99.1
Houston, Texas, February 2, 2011  Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. () today announced that a subsidiary, Diamond Offshore Drilling Limited, has exercised its option to build a second ultra-deepwater drillship with Hyundai Heavy Industries Co., Ltd. with delivery scheduled for the fourth quarter of 2013. Total cost, including commissioning, spares and project management, is expected to be approximately $590 million and is anticipated to be paid out of cash flow and available funds. Diamond Offshore has also obtained from Hyundai a fixed-price option for the purchase of a third drillship which the Company has the right to exercise at any time before the end of the first quarter of 2011. The two new drillships are planned to be named and .
NYSE:DO
Ocean BlackHawk
Ocean BlackHornet
Like its previously announced sister drillship, the will be dynamically-positioned, have a seven ram blow-out preventer, dual activity capability, five mud pumps and a maximum hook-load capacity of 1,250 tons. The unit will be designed for operations in up to 12,000 feet of water.
BlackHornet
Diamond Offshore President and Chief Executive Officer Larry Dickerson said: "The addition of this second new drillship to our fleet will provide multiple ultra-deepwater options to our customers, who can then perform state of the art drilling with Diamond Offshore's high standards of systems integrity, safety and operational excellence. Including our acquisitions of the and in 2009, we have now purchased, ordered or upgraded seven units with capabilities in 10,000 ft. of water over the last four years. When completed, the new drillship will bring to sixteen the total number of deepwater rigs deployed by Diamond Offshore as we strive to provide returns consistent with our long history of value creation for the Company and our stockholders."
Ocean Courage
Ocean Valor
Diamond Offshore provides contract drilling services to the energy industry and is a leader in deepwater drilling. Additional information on Diamond Offshore and access to the Company's SEC filings is available on the Internet at .
www.diamondoffshore.com
Statements contained in this press release which are not historical facts are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements concerning future costs, sources of funds, timing of delivery and future returns, and are inherently uncertain and subject to a variety of risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected by management of the Company. A discussion of the important risk factors and other considerations that could materially impact these matters as well as the Company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the Company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and readers of this release are urged to
 
review those reports carefully when considering these forward-looking statements. Copies of these reports are available through the Company's website . Given these risk factors, investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Any such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this press release. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement to reflect any change in the Company's expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is based.
www.diamondoffshore.com


