FILE:DO/DO-8K-20110517070102.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
          
(281) 492-5300
     Check the appropriate line below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     On May 17, 2011, Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that a subsidiary of the Company has entered into two term drilling contracts with Anadarko Petroleum Corporation. The contracts, which will utilize the Company's two new-build drillships now on order, are expected to generate combined maximum total revenue of approximately $1.8 billion and represent 10 years of contract drilling backlog.
     The dynamically positioned, ultra-deepwater drillships, and , are each contracted for five years commencing in late 2013 and early 2014, respectively. As previously reported, Hyundai Heavy Industries Co., Ltd. is currently preparing to commence construction of the two drillships at its South Korean shipyard. Filed herewith is a copy of such press release.
Ocean BlackHawk
Ocean BlackHornet
     Statements in this report that contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, include, but are not limited to, statements concerning commitments for drilling work, the two new drilling contracts for future work, related contract drilling backlog, potential revenue related to such contracts, future cash flows, the term and start date of future contracts, consummation of awarded contracts, construction and mobilizations of rigs, commencement of contracted work, construction and future utilization of the drillships currently on order, exploration and development efforts, utilization rates, future demand and future success. Such statements are inherently subject to a variety of assumptions, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or projected. A discussion of the risk factors that could impact these areas and the Company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the Company's reports and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These factors include, among others, general economic and business conditions, contract cancellation, construction risk, delays and disruptions, changes in oil and natural gas prices, operating risks, casualty losses, industry fleet capacity, changes in foreign and domestic oil and gas exploration and production activity, competition, changes in foreign, political, social and economic conditions, regulatory initiatives and compliance with governmental regulations, customer preferences and various other matters, many of which are beyond the Company's control. Given these concerns, investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this report. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement to reflect any change in the Company's expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is based.
 
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: May 17, 2011

Exhibit 99.1
     Houston, Texas, May 17, 2011  Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. () today announced that a subsidiary of the Company has entered into two term drilling contracts with Anadarko Petroleum Corporation. The contracts, which will utilize Diamond Offshore's two new-build drillships now on order, are expected to generate combined maximum total revenue of approximately $1.8 billion and represent 10 years of contract drilling backlog. In addition, Anadarko and Diamond have mutually agreed to dismiss all claims related to the
NYSE:DO
Ocean Monarch.
The dynamically positioned, ultra-deepwater drillships, and , are each contracted for five years commencing in late 2013 and early 2014, respectively. As previously reported, Hyundai Heavy Industries Co., Ltd. is currently preparing to commence construction of the two drillships at its South Korean shipyard.
Ocean BlackHawk
Ocean BlackHornet
Diamond Offshore President and Chief Executive Officer Larry Dickerson said: "We are pleased to place our newest rigs under contract with Anadarko, with whom we have had a successful long-term relationship. We look forward to contributing to Anadarko's exploration and development efforts, working to bring to market energy resources for the world's increasing demand. A first class customer, two state of the art rigs and Diamond Offshore's high operational standards are all part of a formula for success."
Diamond Offshore provides contract drilling services to the energy industry around the globe and is a leader in deepwater drilling.
Maximum contract revenue as stated above assumes 100% rig utilization. Generally, rig utilization rates approach 95-98% during contracted periods; however, utilization rates can be adversely impacted by additional downtime due to unscheduled repairs and maintenance. Additional information on Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. and access to the Company's SEC filings is available on the Internet at .
www.diamondoffshore.com
Statements contained in this press release which are not historical facts are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and subject to a variety of risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected by management of the Company. A discussion of the important risk factors and other considerations that could materially impact these matters as well as the Company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the Company's reports filed with the Securities and
 
Exchange Commission and readers of this release are urged to review those reports carefully when considering these forward-looking statements. Copies of these reports are available through the Company's website . Given these risk factors, investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Any such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this press release. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement to reflect any change in the Company's expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is based.
www.diamondoffshore.com


