FILE:DO/DO-8K-20120719061440.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate line below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 19, 2012, Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fiscal quarter and six-month period ended June 30, 2012. A copy of such press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
The information furnished in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated by reference.
Statements in the press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report that are not historical facts contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including, but not limited to, statements concerning future revenues and backlog, future performance under contract awards and extensions, future operations and dayrates, delivery of the from the shipyard, market outlook and future market conditions, future rig construction and future contracting opportunities. Forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and subject to a variety of assumptions, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or expected by management of the Company. A discussion of the important risk factors and other considerations that could materially impact these matters as well as the Company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the Company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and readers of this report are urged to review those reports carefully when considering these forward-looking statements. These factors include, among others, general economic and business conditions, contract cancellations, customer bankruptcy, operating risks, casualty losses, industry fleet capacity, changes in foreign and domestic oil and gas exploration and production activity, competition, changes in foreign, political, social and economic conditions, regulatory initiatives and compliance with governmental regulations, customer preferences and various other matters, many of which are beyond the Company's control. Given these risk factors, investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of such press release. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement to reflect any change in the Company's expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is based.
Ocean Onyx
 
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
DIAMOND OFFSHORE DRILLING, INC.
By:
 /s/ William C. Long                                    
        William C. Long
        Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
Dated: July 19, 2012
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. () today reported net income for the second quarter of 2012 of $201.5 million, or $1.45 per share on a diluted basis, compared with net income of $266.6 million, or $1.92 per share on a diluted basis, in the same period a year earlier. Revenues in the second quarter of 2012 were $738.2 million, compared with revenues of $889.5 million for the second quarter of 2011.
HOUSTON, July 19, 2012
NYSE:DO
Results for the quarter included an after-tax gain of approximately $50.5 million, or $0.36 per share, related to the sale of five jack-up rigs. These transactions included the sale of the for $38.5 million cash, in addition to the previously announced sales of the , , and . The reduction in the Company's overall effective tax rate for the quarter, compared to the previous quarter, resulted primarily from the low effective tax rate associated with these sales transactions.
Ocean Sovereign
Ocean Heritage
Ocean Drake
Ocean Crusader
Ocean Champion
Since the first quarter of 2012, the Company put in place 14 new agreements that are expected to generate maximum total revenue of approximately $1.1 billion and 10 rig-years of contract drilling backlog. Significant among these awarded contracts are the following:
 
 
 
 
"Our contract announcements reflect the continued strength in deep and mid-water markets," said Larry Dickerson, President and Chief Executive Officer of Diamond Offshore. "In particular, we are pleased with the award for the , our deepwater semisubmersible rig currently under construction. The Company is currently evaluating another potential project that would deliver a rig with enhanced capabilities, similar to the ."
Ocean Onyx
Ocean Onyx
"Over the past several quarters, our results have also benefitted from our ongoing efforts to control costs and reduce unanticipated rig downtime," said Dickerson. "During the second quarter, we continued to execute on these initiatives, which contributed to our strong operating results."
CONFERENCE CALL
Diamond Offshore will host a conference call to discuss first quarter results on Thursday, July 19, 2012 beginning at 9:00 a.m. CDT. A live webcast of the call will be available online on the Company's website, www.diamondoffshore.com. Those interested in participating in the question and answer session should dial 800-247-9979, or 973-321-1100 for international callers. The conference ID number is 93863487. An online replay will also be available on www.diamondoffshore.com following the call.
ABOUT DIAMOND OFFSHORE
Diamond Offshore provides contract drilling services to the energy industry and is a leader in deepwater drilling. Diamond Offshore's fleet of offshore drilling rigs consists of 31 semisubmersibles, seven jack-ups, and one drillship, in addition to four ultra-deepwater drillships and one deepwater semisubmersible currently under construction. For additional information and access to SEC filings, please visit the Company's website at www.diamondoffshore.com. Diamond Offshore is a 50.4% owned subsidiary of Loews Corporation (NYSE: L).
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Maximum contract revenue as stated above assumes 100% rig utilization. Generally, rig utilization rates approach 92-98% during contracted periods; however, utilization rates can be adversely impacted by additional downtime due to unscheduled repairs, maintenance and weather. Additional information on Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. ("the Company") and access to the Company's SEC filings is available on the Internet at www.diamondoffshore.com.
Statements contained in this press release that are not historical facts are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Such statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning future revenues and backlog, future performance under contract awards and extensions, future operations and dayrates, delivery of the from the shipyard, market outlook and future market conditions, future rig construction and future contracting opportunities. Forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and subject to a variety of assumptions, risks and
Ocean Onyx
 
uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or expected by management of the Company. A discussion of the important risk factors and other considerations that could materially impact these matters as well as the Company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the Company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and readers of this press release are urged to review those reports carefully when considering these forward-looking statements. Copies of these reports are available through the Company's website at www.diamondoffshore.com. These factors include, among others, general economic and business conditions, contract cancellations, customer bankruptcy, operating risks, casualty losses, industry fleet capacity, changes in foreign and domestic oil and gas exploration and production activity, competition, changes in foreign, political, social and economic conditions, regulatory initiatives and compliance with governmental regulations, customer preferences and various other matters, many of which are beyond the Company's control. Given these risk factors, investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this press release. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement to reflect any change in the Company's expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is based.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


