FILE:DO/DO-8K-20120202070353.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate line below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On February 2, 2012, Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fiscal quarter and year ended December 31, 2011. A copy of such press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
The information furnished in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated by reference.
Statements in the press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report that are not historical facts contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including, but not limited to, statements regarding future revenues and backlog, future performance under contract awards and extensions, market outlook and future contracting opportunities. Such statements are inherently subject to a variety of assumptions, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or expected. A discussion of the risk factors that could impact these areas and the Company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the Company's reports and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These factors include, among others, general economic and business conditions, contract cancellations, customer bankruptcy, operating risks, casualty losses, industry fleet capacity, changes in foreign and domestic oil and gas exploration and production activity, competition, changes in foreign, political, social and economic conditions, regulatory initiatives and compliance with governmental regulations, customer preferences and various other matters, many of which are beyond the Company's control. Given these concerns, investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of such press release. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement to reflect any change in the Company's expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is based.
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: February 2, 2012
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. () today reported net income for the fourth quarter of 2011 of $188 million, or $1.36 per share on a diluted basis, compared with net income of $242 million, or $1.74 per share on a diluted basis, in the same period a year earlier. Revenues in the fourth quarter of 2011 were $748 million, compared with revenues of $841 million in the prior year fourth quarter.
HOUSTON, February 2, 2012
NYSE:DO
For the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company reported net income of $963 million, or $6.92 per share on a diluted basis, compared with net income of $955 million, or $6.87 per share on a diluted basis, for the year ended December 31, 2010. Revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 were $3,322 million, compared with $3,323 million for 2010.
Results for the fourth quarter of 2011 were positively impacted by lower tax expense partially resulting from the reduction of the Company's liability for uncertain tax positions. This adjustment, along with current year foreign tax expense adjustments, resulted in a fourth quarter effective tax rate of 7.4% and a full year 2011 effective tax rate of 18.4%.
Full year 2011 results benefited from reduced unanticipated equipment downtime, which was lower than the historical average. Results for the fourth quarter, however, were negatively impacted by a higher number of downtime days than in the preceding three quarters, attributable to scheduled rig maintenance and survey downtime.
Since the end of the third quarter, Diamond has received contract awards and extensions that when performed are expected to generate maximum total revenue of approximately $1.2 billion, or approximately 11 rig years of work. These contract awards and extensions have brought the current expected revenue backlog to approximately $8.4 billion.
"The $1.2 billion of revenue backlog we were able to add since the end of the last quarter demonstrates the strong demand in all of our key markets," said Larry Dickerson, President and Chief Executive Officer of Diamond Offshore. "Our newbuild drillships, the and , have long-term contracts beginning in Q4 2013 and Q2 2014. Additionally, given the strong current environment, we think significant opportunity exists for our third newbuild drillship, the , as well as for deepwater units such as our recently announced ."
Ocean BlackHawk
Ocean BlackHornet
Ocean BlackRhino
Ocean Onyx
CONFERENCE CALL
Diamond Offshore will host a conference call to discuss fourth quarter results on Thursday, February 2, 2012 beginning at 9:00 a.m. Central Standard Time. A live webcast of the call will be available online on our Company's website, www.diamondoffshore.com. Those interested in participating in the question and answer session should dial 800-247-9979, or for international callers, 973-321-1100. The conference ID number is 42885774. An online replay will also be available on www.diamondoffshore.com following the call.
ABOUT DIAMOND OFFSHORE
Diamond Offshore provides contract drilling services to the energy industry and is a leader in deepwater drilling. Diamond Offshore's fleet of offshore drilling rigs consists of 32 semisubmersibles, 13 jack-ups, and one drillship, in addition to three ultra-deepwater drillships currently under construction. For additional information and access to SEC filings, please visit the Company's website at www.diamondoffshore.com.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Statements contained in this press release which are not historical facts are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and subject to a variety of risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected by management of the Company. A discussion of the important risk factors and other considerations that could materially impact these matters as well as the Company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the Company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and readers of this release are urged to review those reports carefully when considering these forward-looking statements. Copies of these reports are available through the Company's website www.diamondoffshore.com. Given these risk factors, investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Any such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this press release. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement to reflect any change in the Company's expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is based.
 
 
 
 


