FILE:DO/DO-8K-20121116070132.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate line below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01.
Regulation FD Disclosure
Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. (the "Company") hereby incorporates by reference into this Item 7.01 the summary report of the status, as of November 16, 2012, of the Company's offshore drilling rigs attached as Exhibit 99.1, which is being furnished in accordance with Rule 101(e)(1) under Regulation FD and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated by reference.
Statements in this report that contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the current term, future dayrates, future status, start and end dates and comments concerning future contracts and availability, letters of intent, utilization, surveys, downtime and other aspects of the Company's drilling rigs, as well as any statements concerning legal proceedings and outcomes thereof, the impact of these and related events on the Company's operations and revenues, rigs being upgraded or to be upgraded and rigs under construction. Such statements are inherently subject to a variety of assumptions, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or projected. A discussion of the risk factors that could impact these areas and the Company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the Company's reports and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These factors include, among others, general economic and business conditions, contract cancellations, customer bankruptcy, operating risks, casualty losses, industry fleet capacity, changes in foreign and domestic oil and gas exploration and production activity, competition, changes in foreign, political, social and economic conditions, regulatory initiatives and compliance with governmental regulations, customer preferences and various other matters, many of which are beyond the Company's control. Given these concerns, investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of the rig status report, and the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement.
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: November 16, 2012
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
No new contract commitments
 
 
 
NOTES
refers to the rig's current nominal operating water depth capability. Often, rigs are capable of drilling or have drilled in greater water depths. In all cases, floating rigs are capable of working successfully at greater depths than their nominal depth. On a case by case basis, we may achieve a greater depth capacity by providing additional equipment.
(1.) Water Depth
Additional rig capabilities noted within the column: 15K=15,000 PSI Well-Control System; DP=Dynamically Positioned Rig; IC=Independent-Leg Cantilevered Rig.
(2.)
represents when rig was (or is expected to be) built and originally placed in service or year redelivered with significant enhancements that enabled the rig to be classified within a different floater category than when originally constructed.
(3.) Year Built
only includes downtime periods that as of this report date are, or have been, planned and estimable and do not necessarily reflect actual downtime experienced. in the form of possible mobes for new jobs not yet contracted, possible acceptance testing at new jobs, and unplanned maintenance and repairs. Survey start times may also be accelerated or delayed for various reasons.
(4.) Planned Downtime
Additional
downtime
may
be
experienced
are estimated for 4Q 2012 only. For 2013, "M" denotes planned maintenance exceeding 10 days; "S" denotes a planned survey and associated maintenance.
(5.) Planned Number of Downtime Days
1) , 2) , 3) , 4) , 5) , 6) , 7) , 8) , 9) , 10) , 11) , and 12) .
(6.) The following are expected to undergo Special Surveys during 2013:
Ocean Scepter
Ocean Nomad
Ocean Princess
Ocean Vanguard
Ocean Valiant
Ocean America
Ocean Rover
Ocean Alliance
Ocean Ambassador
Ocean Patriot
completion of
Ocean Quest
completion of
Ocean Worker
General Notes
Assume rates of 92% for DP units, 96% for conventionally moored rigs, and 98% for jack-ups. Rig utilization rates can be adversely impacted by additional downtime due to unscheduled repairs and maintenance, and other factors.
Average Utilization:
should be assumed to be unpriced unless otherwise indicated.
Options
Mobe revenues (if any) and expenses are deferred and amortized over the life of the contract, in most cases. Mobe costs are generally offset by mobe revenues.
All Dayrates Exclude Mobe.
During surveys, normal operating expense will be incurred, plus additional costs.
Survey Costs:
=U.S. Gulf of Mexico
US GOM
 
This report contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may project, indicate or imply future results, events, performance or achievements, and may contain or be identified by the words "expect," "intend," "plan," "predict," "anticipate," "estimate," believe," "should," "could," "may," "might," "will," "will be," "will continue," "will likely result," "project," "budget," "forecast," and similar expressions. Statements by the Company in the rig status report that contain forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the current term, future dayrates, future status, start and end dates, and comments concerning future contracts and availability, letters of intent, utilization, surveys, downtime and other aspects of the Company's drilling rigs, as well as statements concerning related legal proceedings and outcomes thereof, the impact of these and related events on our operations and revenues, rigs being upgraded or to be upgraded and rigs under construction. Such statements are inherently subject to a variety of assumptions, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or projected. A discussion of the risk factors that could impact these areas and the Company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the Company's reports and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These factors include, among others, general economic and business conditions, contract cancellations, customer bankruptcy, operating risks, casualty losses, industry fleet capacity, changes in foreign and domestic oil and gas exploration and production activity, competition, changes in foreign, political, social and economic conditions, regulatory initiatives and compliance with governmental regulations, customer preferences and various other matters, many of which are beyond the Company's control. Given these concerns, investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of the rig status report, and the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement.
Forward-Looking Statements:
 
Page 4 of 4


