FILE:DO/DO-8K-20120814165520.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate line below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01.
Other Events
On August 14, 2012, Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. (the "Company") announced that a subsidiary has entered into a contract with Jurong Shipyard of Singapore to build a moored semisubmersible rig with delivery scheduled for the second quarter of 2014. Total cost for the project is expected to be approximately $370 million, including commissioning, spares and project management, but excluding capitalized interest.
The rig, to be named the , will be capable of operations in water depths up to 6,000 feet. Design specifications also include a variable deck load of 7,000 long tons, a maximum hook-load capacity of two million pounds, a 15K five-ram blowout preventer, crew quarters capacity for 140 personnel, and a deck area among the largest of any semisubmersible rig in the world.
Ocean Apex
Filed herewith is a copy of such press release.
Statements in this report that contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, include, but are not limited to, statements concerning future costs, sources of funds, timing of construction and delivery, rig design and capabilities, future returns and future utilization and profitability. Such statements are inherently subject to a variety of assumptions, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected. A discussion of the risk factors that could impact these areas and the Company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the Company's reports and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These factors include, among others, general economic and business conditions, contract cancellation, changes in oil and natural gas prices, operating risks, casualty losses, industry fleet capacity, changes in foreign and domestic oil and gas exploration and production activity, competition, changes in foreign, political, social and economic conditions, regulatory initiatives and compliance with governmental regulations, customer preferences and various other matters, many of which are beyond the Company's control. Given these concerns, investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this report. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement to reflect any change in the Company's expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is based.
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: August 14, 2012
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. () today announced that a subsidiary has entered into a contract with Jurong Shipyard of Singapore to build a moored semisubmersible rig with delivery scheduled for the second quarter of 2014. Total cost for the project is expected to be approximately $370 million, including commissioning, spares and project management, but excluding capitalized interest.
HOUSTON, August 14, 2012
NYSE:DO
The rig, to be named the , will be capable of operations in water depths up to 6,000 feet. Design specifications also include a variable deck load of 7,000 long tons, a maximum hook-load capacity of two million pounds, a 15K five-ram blowout preventer, crew quarters capacity for 140 personnel, and a deck area among the largest of any semisubmersible rig in the world.
Ocean Apex
"We continue to see significant opportunities for moored deepwater units, as evidenced by the contract recently awarded to the , our other deepwater semisubmersible currently under construction," said Larry Dickerson, President and Chief Executive Officer of Diamond Offshore. "This project marks the continuation of Diamond's ongoing fleet renewal program, which includes four ultra-deepwater drillships and now two deepwater semis currently on order."
Ocean Onyx
"We will construct the utilizing an existing hull from a Diamond Offshore cold stacked unit. Upon delivery, we will have a rig that exceeds the specifications of a fourth-generation newbuild unit; however, it will have been constructed in approximately half the time and for a significantly lower cost. This addition to our fleet is consistent with Diamond Offshore's long-term strategy of enhancing our fleet at attractive capital costs."
Ocean Apex
ABOUT DIAMOND OFFSHORE
Diamond Offshore provides contract drilling services to the energy industry and is a leader in deepwater drilling. Diamond Offshore's fleet of offshore drilling rigs consists of 30 semisubmersibles, seven jack-ups and one drillship, in addition to four ultra-deepwater drillships and two deepwater semisubmersibles currently under construction. For additional information and access to SEC filings, please visit the Company's website at www.diamondoffshore.com. Diamond Offshore is a 50.4% owned subsidiary of Loews Corporation (NYSE: L).
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Statements contained in this press release which are not historical facts are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements concerning future costs, sources of funds, timing of construction and delivery, rig design and capabilities, future returns and future utilization and profitability, and are inherently uncertain and subject to a variety of risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected by management of the Company. A discussion of the important risk factors and other considerations that could materially impact these matters as well as the Company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the Company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and readers of this press release are urged to review those reports carefully when considering these forward-looking statements. Copies of these reports are available through the Company's website . Given these risk factors, investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Any such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this press release. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement to reflect any change in the Company's expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is based.
www.diamondoffshore.com
 


