FILE:DO/DO-8K-20120419061218.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate line below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 19, 2012, Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2012. A copy of such press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
The information furnished in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated by reference.
Statements in the press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report that are not historical facts contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including, but not limited to, statements regarding future performance, market outlook and future contracting opportunities. Such statements are inherently subject to a variety of assumptions, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or expected. A discussion of the risk factors that could impact these areas and the Company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the Company's reports and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These factors include, among others, general economic and business conditions, contract cancellations, customer bankruptcy, operating risks, casualty losses, industry fleet capacity, changes in foreign and domestic oil and gas exploration and production activity, competition, changes in foreign, political, social and economic conditions, regulatory initiatives and compliance with governmental regulations, customer preferences and various other matters, many of which are beyond the Company's control. Given these concerns, investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of such press release. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement to reflect any change in the Company's expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is based.
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: April 19, 2012
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. () today reported net income for the first quarter of 2012 of $185.2 million, or $1.33 per share on a diluted basis, compared with net income of $250.6 million, or $1.80 per share on a diluted basis, in the same period a year earlier. Revenues in the first quarter of 2012 were $768.6 million, compared with revenues of $806.4 million for the first quarter of 2011. The sale of the jack-up rig Ocean Columbia was completed during the quarter, resulting in an after-tax gain of approximately $16 million, or $0.12 per share.
HOUSTON, April 19, 2012
NYSE:DO
"Our ongoing efforts to control costs and maximize operating efficiency, expressed in terms of minimal rig downtime, enabled us to achieve favorable operating results for the quarter," said Larry Dickerson, President and Chief Executive Officer of Diamond Offshore. "Our systems and employees continue to perform for our customers and shareholders."
"Looking ahead, we are optimistic about future contracting opportunities for our fleet, given the continuing market strength in the offshore drilling industry," noted Dickerson.
CONFERENCE CALL
Diamond Offshore will host a conference call to discuss first quarter results on Thursday, April 19, 2012 beginning at 9:00 a.m. CDT. A live webcast of the call will be available online on our Company's website, www.diamondoffshore.com. Those interested in participating in the question and answer session should dial 800-247-9979, or 973-321-1100 for international callers. The conference ID number is 65195830. An online replay will also be available on www.diamondoffshore.com following the call.
ABOUT DIAMOND OFFSHORE
Diamond Offshore provides contract drilling services to the energy industry and is a leader in deepwater drilling. Diamond Offshore's fleet of offshore drilling rigs consists of 32 semisubmersibles, 12 jack-ups, and one drillship, in addition to three ultra-deepwater drillships currently under construction. For additional information and access to SEC filings, please visit the Company's website at www.diamondoffshore.com. Diamond Offshore is a 50.4% owned subsidiary of Loews Corporation (NYSE: L).
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Statements contained in this press release which are not historical facts are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and subject to a variety of risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected by management of the Company. A discussion of the important risk factors and other considerations that could materially impact these matters as well as the Company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the Company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and readers of this release are urged to review those reports carefully when considering these forward-looking statements. Copies of these reports are available through the Company's website www.diamondoffshore.com. Given these risk factors, investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Any such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this press release. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement to reflect any change in the Company's expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is based.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


