FILE:LXK/LXK-8K-20061026155020.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
             
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
o
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 5.02.
 
Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers;
        Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
   
On October 26, 2006, the Board of Directors of Lexmark International, Inc. (the Company) elected Jean-Paul L. Montupet to the Board of Directors as a Class I Director with a term expiring at the 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Mr. Montupet was also appointed to the Compensation and Pension Committee of the Board of Directors.
Mr. Montupet, age 58, is Executive Vice President of Emerson Electric Co. (Emerson), a manufacturer of electrical and electronic equipment and systems and other products for consumer, commercial and industrial markets. He is responsible for the companys industrial automation business and also serves as President of Emerson Europe. Montupet joined Emerson and was named Executive Vice President with its acquisition of Moteurs Leroy Somer SA, where he had been Chairman and Director of North American Operations. Mr. Montupet also serves as a director of PartnerRe Ltd.
A copy of the press release issued by the Company on October 26, 2006 announcing the election of Mr. Montupet to the Board of Directors is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
I
tem 9.01.
 
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
 
Exhibits
Exhibit No.
 
Description of Exhibit
99.1
  
   
Press Release issued by Lexmark International, Inc., dated October 26, 2006.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Exhibit No.
 
Description of Exhibit
99.1
 
   
Press Release issued by Lexmark International, Inc., dated October 26, 2006.

            Exhibit 99.1
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
Lexmark International Board of Directors elects Jean-Paul Montupet as a director
 
 
LEXINGTON, Ky., October 26, 2006 -- Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) today announced that its Board of Directors has elected Jean-Paul L. Montupet, 58, as a new director.
 
Montupet is an executive vice president of St. Louis, Mo.-based Emerson (NYSE: EMR), a $17.3 billion manufacturer of electrical and electronic equipment and systems and other products for consumer, commercial and industrial markets. He is responsible for the companys industrial automation business and also serves as president of Emerson Europe.
 
Montupet has held executive positions with Emerson in Europe, the U.S. and Asia, including as chairman of Emerson Asia Pacific. Montupet joined Emerson and was named an executive vice president in 1990 with its acquisition of Moteurs Leroy Somer SA, where he had been chairman and director of North American operations. He joined Moteurs Leroy Somer in 1981.
 
Montupet
is a member of the Board of Directors of PartnerRe Ltd., an international reinsurance group. He also is a member and former chairman of the board of governors of the National Electrical Manufacturers Association (NEMA).
We are delighted to have Jean-Paul Montupet join the Lexmark Board of Directors and look forward to benefiting from his global business management and industry experience, said Paul J. Curlander, Lexmark chairman and chief executive officer.
About Lexmark
Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) provides businesses and consumers in more than 150 countries with a broad range of printing and imaging products, solutions and
services that help them to be more productive. In 2005, Lexmark reported $5.2 billion in revenue and employed more than 13,000 people globally. Learn how Lexmark can help you get more done at
www.lexmark.com
.
Lexmark
and Lexmark with diamond design are trademarks
of Lexmark International, Inc., registered in the U.S. and/or other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.


