FILE:LXK/LXK-8K-20060501165544.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
           
                                                                                                                                    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
o
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 5.02.
 
Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
On April 27, 2006, the Board of Directors of Lexmark International, Inc. (the Company) elected Kathi P. Seifert to the Board of Directors to fill a vacancy in its Class I Directors with terms expiring at the 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Ms. Seifert was also appointed to the Compensation and Pension Committee of the Board of Directors.
Ms. Seifert, age 57, is Chairman of Pinnacle Perspectives, LLC. Ms. Seifert retired as Executive Vice President of Kimberly-Clark Corporation in 2004, after serving in various marketing positions with the company since 1978. Previously, Ms. Seifert worked in various marketing positions at Procter and Gamble, Beatrice Foods and Fort Howard Paper Company. Ms. Seifert also serves as a director of Albertsons, Inc., Appleton Papers, Inc., Eli Lilly & Company, and Revlon, Inc.
In a separate action, at the Companys 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, the stockholders of the Company reelected Michael J. Maples, Stephen R. Hardis, William R. Fields and Robert Holland, Jr. as Class III Directors with terms expiring at the 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
A copy of the press release issued by the Company on April 27, 2006 announcing the election of Ms. Seifert to the Board of Directors is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
I
tem 9.01.
 
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
 
Exhibits
Exhibit No.
 
Description of Exhibit
99.1
  
   
Press Release issued by Lexmark International, Inc., dated April 27, 2006.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Exhibit No.
 
Description of Exhibit
99.1
 
   
Press Release issued by Lexmark International, Inc., dated April 27, 2006.

Exhibit 99.1
 
Lexmark International Board of Directors elects Kathi P. Seifert as a director
 
LEXINGTON, Ky, April 27, 2006 -- Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) today announced that its Board of Directors has elected Kathi P. Seifert, 56, as a new director.
Seifert retired from Kimberly-Clark Corporation, a global health and hygiene company, in 2004 after a 26-year career with that company. Prior to her retirement, she was the companys executive vice president with responsibility for its global personal care business.
Seifert joined Kimberly-Clark in 1978 and served in several marketing and management positions in connection with both the domestic and international consumer products businesses. Prior to joining Kimberly-Clark, Seifert held management positions at Procter & Gamble, Beatrice Foods and Fort Howard Paper Company.
Seifert is the chairman of Pinnacle Perspectives, LLC, a business consulting company, and serves on the boards of directors of Albertsons, Inc., Appleton, Eli Lilly & Company, and Revlon, Inc., as well as the U.S. Fund for UNICEF, the Wisconsin International Trade Council, and the Fox Cities Performing Arts Center. She holds a bachelor's degree from Valparaiso University.
We are delighted to have Kathi Seifert join the Lexmark Board of Directors and look forward to benefiting from her extensive consumer products and business management experience, said Paul J. Curlander, Lexmark chairman and chief executive officer.
About Lexmark
Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) makes it easier for businesses and consumers to move information between the digital and paper worlds. Since its inception in 1991, Lexmark has become a leading developer, manufacturer and supplier of printing and imaging solutions for customers in more than 150 countries. Lexmark reported $5.2 billion in revenue in 2005, and can be found on the Internet at
www.lexmark.com
.
Lexmark
and Lexmark with diamond design are trademarks
of Lexmark International, Inc., registered in the U.S. and/or other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.


