FILE:LXK/LXK-8K-20061220114214.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
o
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 5.03.
 
Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
On December 20, 2006, the Board of Directors of Lexmark International, Inc. (the Company), upon recommendation of the Corporate Governance and Public Policy Committee, approved an amendment to Article II, Section 2.03 of the Companys By-Laws to adopt a majority vote standard for the election of directors in uncontested elections. The new majority vote standard provides that to be elected, in an uncontested election, a director nominee must receive a majority of the votes cast such that the number of shares voted for the nominee must exceed 50% of the votes cast with respect to that director. In contested elections where the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected, the vote standard will continue to be a plurality of votes cast.
In addition, if a nominee who already serves as a director is not elected, the director shall offer to tender his or her resignation to the Board of Directors. The Corporate Governance and Public Policy Committee will make a recommendation to the Board on whether to accept or reject the resignation, or whether other action should be taken. The Board will act on the Committees recommendation and publicly disclose its decision and the rationale behind it within 90 days from the date of the certification of the election results. The director who tenders his or her resignation will not participate in the recommendation of the Corporate Governance and Public Policy Committee or in the Boards decision. If the failure of a nominee to be elected at the annual meeting results in a vacancy on the Board, that vacancy can be filled by action of the Board.
The amendment to the By-Laws became effective on December 20, 2006 and is attached as Exhibit 3.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 8.01.
 
Other Events.
The Companys press release announcing the adoption of a majority vote standard for director elections is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
I
tem 9.01.
 
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
 
Exhibits
Exhibit No.
 
 
Description of Exhibit
3.1
  
   
   
Amendment No. 2 to Company By-Laws, as Amended and Restated June 22,
 
2000.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Exhibit No.
 
  
Description of Exhibit
3.1  
   
   
 
 
Amendment No. 2 to Company By-Laws, as Amended and Restated June 22,
 
2000.
99.1 
   
   
 
Press Release issued by Lexmark International, Inc., dated December 20, 2006.

Section 1.
 
Amendment to ARTICLE II of By-Laws
. ARTICLE II of the By-Laws is hereby amended by inserting as the second paragraph of Section 2.03.
Election of Directors
the following:
Except as provided in Section 2.12 of this Article, each director shall be elected by the vote of the majority of the votes cast with respect to the director at any meeting for the election of directors at which a quorum is present, provided that if the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected, the directors shall be elected by the vote of a plurality of the shares represented in person or by proxy at any such meeting and entitled to vote on the election of directors. For purposes of this Section, a majority of the votes cast means that the number of shares voted for a director must exceed 50% of the votes cast with respect to that director. If a director is not elected, the director shall offer to tender his or her resignation to the Board. The Corporate Governance and Public Policy Committee will make a recommendation to the Board on whether to accept or reject the resignation, or whether other action should be taken. The Board will act on the Committees recommendation and publicly disclose its decision and the rationale behind it within 90 days from the date of the certification of the election results. The director who tenders his or her resignation will not participate in the recommendation of the Corporate Governance and Public Policy Committee or in the Boards decision.

 Exhibit 99.1
   
  
Lexmark board of directors adopts majority vote standard for election of directors
LEXINGTON, Ky.,
Dec. 20, 2006
-- Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) today announced that its board of directors has amended the companys by-laws to adopt a majority vote standard for the election of directors in uncontested elections.
The adoption of the majority vote standard requires each director to receive a majority of the votes cast with respect to that director. Previously, directors were elected under a plurality vote standard, which meant that the candidates receiving the most votes would be elected without regard to whether those votes constituted a majority of the shares voting at the meeting. Contested elections (in which there are more nominees than directors to be elected) will continue to use the plurality standard.
Under the laws of Delaware, where Lexmark is incorporated, if an incumbent director is not elected, that director continues to serve as a holdover director until the directors successor is duly elected and qualified. To address this potential outcome, the board has also adopted a director resignation policy in the companys by-laws. If an incumbent director is not elected by a majority of the votes cast, the director shall offer his or her resignation to the board. The Corporate Governance and Public Policy Committee would then make a recommendation to the board on whether to accept or reject the resignation, or whether other action should be taken. The board would then publicly disclose its decision and the rationale behind it within 90 days of the certification of the election results.
The new majority vote standard is effective immediately and will be implemented at Lexmarks upcoming Annual Meeting of Stockholders on April 26, 2007.
Additional information about Lexmarks board of directors and corporate governance can be found in the Corporate Governance section of the Investor Relations website at
http://investor.lexmark.com
.
About Lexmark
Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) provides businesses and consumers in more than 150 countries with a broad range of printing and imaging products, solutions and
services that help them to be more productive. In 2005, Lexmark reported $5.2 billion in revenue and employed more than 13,000 people globally. Learn how Lexmark can help you get more done at
www.lexmark.com
.
Lexmark
and Lexmark with diamond design are trademarks
of Lexmark International, Inc., registered in the U.S. and/or other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.


