FILE:LXK/LXK-8K-20070424081237.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
o
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02.
 
  
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 24, 2007, Lexmark International, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release announcing its financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2007. The text of the press release announcing financial results is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information contained in this Current Report shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
The press release contains non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of Regulation G, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a registrants historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of income, balance sheet or statement of cash flows (or equivalent statements) of the issuer; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented. In this regard, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations between the GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures contained in the press release in the financial statements attached thereto and in the Supplemental Information slides on the Companys investor relations website.
 
Item 9.01.
 
  
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)
 
Exhibits
 
Exhibit No.
   
Description of Exhibit
         99.1
 
 
  
 
Press Release issued by Lexmark International, Inc., dated April 24, 2007.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Exhibit No.
 
Description of Exhibit
99.1
 
 
Press Release issued by Lexmark International, Inc., dated April 24, 2007.

  
      Exhibit 99.1
   
   
   
   
 
Lexmark reports first quarter results
LEXINGTON, K
y
.,
 
April 24, 2007
-
Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) today announced financial results for the first quarter of 2007. First-quarter revenue was $1.261 billion, down 1 percent compared to revenue of $1.275 billion last year. First-quarter earnings per share were $0.95. Earnings per share for the first quarter of 2007 would have been $0.96 excluding $0.01 per share restructuring-related charges. First-quarter 2006 earnings per share were $0.78. Earnings per share for the first quarter of 2006 excluding $0.31 per share restructuring-related charges and $0.06 per share pension curtailment gain would have been $1.03.
While our results were in line with the guidance ranges we provided on our January call, we view this as a mixed quarter for Lexmark. Among the factors affecting our results were some strong positives, some challenges, and some investments we believe are necessary to continue to strengthen our competitive position and to position us for long-term growth," said Paul J. Curlander, Lexmark chairman and chief executive officer.
"On the positive side, highlights for the quarter included strong branded unit growth in the key focus segments of color laser, laser all-in-ones, and inkjet all-in-ones. Total branded hardware revenue was up year to year for the fourth straight quarter. We saw good revenue growth in our business market segment in both core hardware and supplies revenue. Branded inkjet units were up year to year, starting to recover after unit declines in 2006. Challenges included OEM unit sales that continued to be weak, declines in inkjet supplies sales, and hardware pricing that was fairly aggressive in both laser and inkjet markets," Curlander said.
"During the quarter we continued to step up our investments in brand development and R&D. Given the strength of our product line, we are now increasing our investment in demand generation in all customer segments. While these investments negatively impact results in the current quarter, we believe we will see the benefit from these investments in the future," said Curlander.
First-quarter 2007 business segment revenue of $737 million grew 7 percent year to year and consumer segment revenue of $523 million declined 11 percent compared to a year ago. First-quarter 2007 gross profit margin was 33.5 percent, the operating expense to revenue ratio was 23.9 percent, and operating income margin was 9.6 percent. First-quarter 2007 results include $2 million net restructuring-related pretax charges. This $2 million net impact is comprised of $1 million in cost of revenue and $1 million in operating expense.
First-quarter 2006 gross profit margin was 31.7 percent, the operating expense to revenue ratio was 22.2 percent, and operating income margin was 9.5 percent. First-quarter 2006 results include $50 million restructuring-related pretax charges and $10 million pretax pension curtailment benefit resulting in a net impact of $19 million in cost of revenue and $21 million in operating expense.
Excluding first-quarter restructuring-related charges and the first-quarter 2006 pension curtailment benefit:
First-quarter net cash provided by operating activities was $87 million. Capital expenditures for the quarter were $49 million. Lexmark repurchased approximately 2.7 million shares of its stock during the quarter for $165 million. The companys remaining share repurchase authorization was about $295 million at quarter end. The company ended the quarter with $443 million in cash and marketable securities.
New products capitalize on important industry dynamics
Today, the company introduced an entire new line of products focused on the rapidly growing color laser segment. The companys new color laser MFP line includes the X782e and the X940e family for business workgroups, and the X500n family for desktop users and smaller workgroups. The Lexmark C780n and the C935dn printer families are designed for business workgroups that need access to high-quality, reliable color printing technology at affordable prices. These new color lasers significantly increase Lexmarks offerings in this important growth segment.
Lexmark continues to receive important industry recognition for its color laser products.
Last week, the company announced that, with the introduction of its 2007 inkjet product line, Lexmark will offer the broadest, most affordable range of wireless printers in the market. The company believes that consumers are embracing wireless networking with the rapid adoption of wireless laptop computers and wireless routers. Demonstrating its commitment to leadership in wireless printing, eight out of Lexmarks 12 new inkjet printers being introduced in 2007 will have wireless capabilities spanning four-in-one, three-in-one and single-function printer categories. Once Lexmarks full 2007 line is available, it will include six inkjet printers with integrated wireless and two with optional wireless capability. Available in the second quarter are the Lexmark X4550 Wireless All-in-One, the Lexmark Z1420 Wireless Color Printer, and the Lexmark X3550 Color All-in-One with wireless as an optional feature. The remaining wireless offerings will be introduced and available later this year.
New solutions leverage Lexmarks deep and proven industry expertise
The Lexmark Education Station announced today helps schools meet the requirements of the No Child Left Behind Act and builds on the companys heritage of providing unique workflow solutions for education. Likewise, the Lexmark Clinical Assistant announced earlier in the quarter delivers Lexmarks proven solutions for the health care industry in a unique way to help nursing and clinical staff with medical records management, physician order routing, card copying, and forms on demand. Both solutions utilize the companys award-winning Lexmark X646dte monochrome laser MFP platform with unique capabilities easily accessed via the companys intuitive eTask touchscreen interface.
Looking forward
In the second quarter of 2007, the company expects revenue to be down in the low- to mid-single digit percentage range year over year. It expects second-quarter 2007 EPS to be in the range of $0.82 to $0.92. EPS in the second quarter of 2006 were $0.74, or $1.09 excluding $0.35 per share restructuring-related charges.
Conference Call
The company will be hosting a conference call with securities analysts today at 8:30 a.m. (EDT). A live broadcast and a complete replay of this call can be accessed from Lexmarks investor relations Web site at
http://in
v
estor.lexmark.com
. If you are unable to connect to the Internet, you can access the call via telephone at 866-406-5369 (outside the U.S. by calling 973-582-2847) or the replay shortly afterward by calling 877-519-4471 (outside the U.S. by calling 973-341-3080) using access code 8650132. The telephone replay of the conference call will be available until 12 noon on Tuesday, May 1, 2007.
Supplemental information slides, including reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, will be available on Lexmarks investor relations Web site prior to the live broadcast.
About Lexmark
Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) provides businesses and consumers in more than 150 countries with a broad range of printing and imaging products, solutions and services that help them to be more productive. In 2006, Lexmark reported $5.1 billion in revenue. Learn how Lexmark can help you get more done at
www.lexmark.com
.
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements in this release which are not historical facts are forward-looking and involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the inability to meet customer product requirements on a cost competitive basis, aggressive pricing from competitors and resellers, entrance into the market of additional competitors focused on printing solutions, market acceptance of new products and pricing programs, the financial failure or loss of business with a key customer, reseller or supplier, increased investment to support product development and marketing, inability to perform under managed print services contracts, decreased supplies consumption, increased competition in the aftermarket supplies business, periodic variables in revenue and profitability, failure to successfully outsource the infrastructure support of information technology systems, failure to manage inventory levels or production capacity, weak economic conditions, unforeseen cost impacts as a result of new legislation, fees on the companys products or litigation costs required to protect the companys rights, inability to obtain and protect the companys intellectual property and defend against claims of infringement and/or anticompetitive conduct, failure to execute planned cost reduction measures, reliance on international production facilities, manufacturing partners and certain key suppliers, disruptions at important points of exit and entry and distribution centers, changes in a countrys political or economic conditions, conflicts among sales channels, the failure of information technology systems, changes in the companys tax provisions or tax liabilities, business disruptions, currency fluctuations, Chinas revaluation of its currency, terrorist acts, acts of war or other political conflicts, or the outbreak of a communicable disease, and other risks described in the companys Securities and Exchange Commission filings. The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
Lexmark
and Lexmark with diamond design are trademarks
of Lexmark International, Inc., registered in the U.S. and/or other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their
respective owners.
 
All prices, features, specifications and capabilities are subject to change without notice.
 
 
 
 


