FILE:LXK/LXK-8K-20071023072556.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 2.02.        Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 23, 2007, Lexmark International, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release announcing its financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2007. The text of the press release announcing financial results is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 2.05.       Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
As part of its ongoing optimization of its cost and expense structure, the Company continually reviews its resources in light of a variety of factors. On October 22, 2007, the Company determined that it would restructure its workforce and consolidate some of its manufacturing capacity. On October 23, 2007, the Company announced a plan (the 2007 Restructuring Plan) which includes:
The 2007 Restructuring Plan is expected to impact approximately 1,650 positions by the end of 2008. Most of the impacted positions are being moved to lower-cost countries. The Company expects the 2007 Restructuring Plan will result in pre-tax charges of approximately $90 million, of which $75 million will require cash. The Company expects the 2007 Restructuring Plan to be substantially completed by the end of 2008. The text of the press release announcing the workforce reduction and additional optimization measures is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01.        Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)  Exhibits
 
       Exhibit No.            Description of Exhibit
 
       99.1                         Press Release issued by Lexmark International, Inc., dated October 23, 2007.
The information contained in this Current Report shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
The press release contains non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of Regulation G, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a registrants historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of income, balance sheet or statement of cash flows (or equivalent statements) of the issuer; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented. In this regard, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations between the GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures contained in the press release in the financial statements attached thereto and in the Supplemental Information slides on the Companys investor relations website.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Exhibit No.      Description of Exhibit
99.1                  Press Release issued by Lexmark International, Inc., dated October 23, 2007.

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
LEXMARK
 
 
 
 
Lexmark reports third quarter results
LEXINGTON, Ky., Oct. 23, 2007 -- Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) today announced financial results for the third quarter of 2007. Third-quarter revenue was $1.195 billion, down 3 percent compared to revenue of $1.235 billion last year. Third-quarter GAAP earnings per share were $0.48. Earnings per share for the third quarter of 2007 would have been $0.60 excluding $0.12 per share for restructuring-related activities.  In the third quarter of 2007, the GAAP provision for income taxes was a benefit of $18 million, reflecting tax benefits due to the finalization of certain tax audits in the quarter and a reduction in the expected full-year tax rate.  Third-quarter 2006 GAAP earnings per share were $0.85.  Earnings per share for the third quarter of 2006 would have been $0.95 excluding $0.10 per share for restructuring-related activities.
Third-quarter 2007 business segment revenue of $728 million grew 5 percent year to year and consumer segment revenue of $468 million declined 13 percent compared to a year ago. Third-quarter 2007 gross profit margin was 27.8 percent, the operating expense to revenue ratio was 26.1 percent, the operating income margin was 1.7 percent, and net earnings were $45 million. Third-quarter 2007 operating income includes $15 million pretax charges in connection with the companys restructuring-related actions.
Third-quarter 2006 gross profit margin was 32.6 percent, the operating expense to revenue ratio was 23.3 percent, the operating income margin was 9.3 percent, and net earnings were $86 million. Third-quarter 2006 results include $13 million restructuring-related pretax charges.
On a non-GAAP basis, excluding third-quarter restructuring-related charges:
The company ended the quarter with $639 million in cash and marketable securities. Third-quarter net cash provided by operating activities was $142 million. Capital expenditures for the quarter were $39 million. Depreciation and amortization in the quarter was $50 million. Lexmark did not repurchase its stock during the third quarter. The companys remaining share repurchase authorization was approximately $295 million at quarter end.
Although our business market segment continues to meet our expectations and our third quarter earnings per share were better than expected, EPS were significantly below a year ago, reflecting the continuation of a very challenging situation in our consumer market segment.  We are taking steps to shift our consumer market segment focus to higher-usage customers and to improve our cost and expense structure.  At the same time, we are committed to continuing our strategic investments in new product development and branding to strengthen our position in growth market segments, said Paul J. Curlander, Lexmark chairman and chief executive officer.
The company announced a restructuring plan today which includes:
These actions are expected to impact approximately 1,650 positions by the end of 2008.  Most of the impacted positions are being moved to lower-cost countries.
The company estimates that these actions will result in pretax costs of approximately $20 million in 2007, and $70 million in 2008. Total savings from the restructuring are expected to be about $40 million in 2008, and to be approximately $60 million annually once these actions are completed.
Legal Partner and Wireless Inkjets Capitalize on Important Industry Dynamics
During the quarter, Lexmark introduced the Lexmark Legal Partner, a laser multifunction product that is customized specifically for the legal industry.  This product, along with the previously announced Education Station and Clinical Assistant, allows Lexmark to capitalize on its extensive research to identify unique document workflow management requirements and trends associated with specific industry verticals in the small and medium business space.
Additions to the new wireless line of inkjet products announced in the third quarter include three full-featured all-in-one printers delivering industry-leading value for small
 
office/home office professionals and combining the flexibility of wireless connectivity, the efficiency of automatic two-sided printing and the convenience of easy installation. Lexmark now offers a full line of the most affordable wireless printers in the market.
Looking Forward
In the fourth quarter of 2007, the company expects revenue to be down in the low- to mid-single digit percentage range year over year. It expects fourth-quarter 2007 GAAP EPS to be in the range of $0.32 to $0.42 per share.   Restructuring-related costs and expenses are expected to be approximately $0.18 per share in the fourth quarter of 2007.  Excluding these restructuring-related costs and expenses, non-GAAP EPS is expected to be in the range of $0.50 to $0.60 per share.  GAAP EPS in the fourth quarter of 2006 were $0.91, or $1.05 excluding $0.14 per share restructuring-related charges.
Conference Call Today
The company will be hosting a conference call with securities analysts today at 8:30 a.m. (EDT).  A live broadcast and a complete replay of this call can be accessed from Lexmarks investor relations Web site at .  If you are unable to connect to the Internet, you can access the call via telephone at 888-693-3477 (outside the U.S. by calling 973-582-2710) or the replay shortly afterward by calling 877-519-4471 (outside the U.S. by calling 973-341-3080) using access code 9323285. This telephone replay of the conference call will be available until noon (EDT) on Tuesday, October 30, 2007.
http://investor.lexmark.com
Supplemental information slides, including reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, will be available on Lexmarks investor relations Web site prior to the live broadcast.
About Lexmark
Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) provides businesses and consumers in more than 150 countries with a broad range of printing and imaging products, solutions and services that help them to be more productive. In 2006, Lexmark reported $5.1 billion in revenue. Learn how Lexmark can help you get more done at .
www.lexmark.com
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements in this release which are not historical facts are forward-looking and involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, periodic variations affecting revenue and profitability, the inability to meet customer product requirements on a cost competitive basis, failure to execute planned cost reduction measures, aggressive pricing from competitors and resellers, entrance into the market of additional competitors focused on printing solutions, market acceptance of new products and pricing programs, the financial failure or loss of business with a key customer, reseller or supplier, increased investment to support product development and marketing, weak economic conditions, inability to perform under managed print services contracts, decreased supplies consumption, increased competition in the aftermarket supplies business, failure to successfully outsource the infrastructure support of information technology systems, failure to manage inventory levels or production capacity, unforeseen cost impacts as a result of new legislation, fees on the companys products or litigation costs required to protect the companys rights, inability to obtain and protect the companys intellectual property and defend against claims of infringement and/or anticompetitive conduct, reliance on international production facilities, manufacturing partners and certain key suppliers, disruptions at important points of exit and entry and distribution centers, changes in a countrys political or economic conditions, conflicts among sales channels, the failure of information technology systems, changes in the companys tax provisions or tax liabilities, business disruptions, currency fluctuations, Chinas revaluation of its currency, terrorist acts, acts of war or other political conflicts, or the outbreak of a communicable disease, and other risks described in the companys Securities and Exchange Commission filings.  The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
Lexmark and Lexmark with diamond design are trademarks of Lexmark International, Inc., registered in the U.S. and/or other countries.  All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.


