FILE:LXK/LXK-8K-20080903150356.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 1.01.          Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
As previously disclosed in a Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 20, 2008, the Board of Directors of Lexmark International, Inc. (the Company) approved the repurchase of an additional $750 million of its Class A Common Stock, raising its share repurchase authority to approximately $1 billion at that time.  The Company now has approximately $613 million of share repurchase authority remaining.
After the close of the markets on August 28, 2008, the Company entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement (ASR Agreement or Agreement) with Citibank, N.A (Citibank).  Pursuant to the terms of the ASR Agreement, the Company will purchase $150 million of the outstanding shares of its Class A Common Stock from Citibank.  The Agreement requires Citibank to deliver to the Company on September 3, 2008, 3,455,285 shares, equal to 85 percent of the shares that would be repurchased at a price of $36.90, the closing price of the Companys Class A Common Stock on August 28, 2008.  The number of shares to be delivered to the Company by Citibank under the Agreement shall be adjusted based on a discount to the average of the daily volume weighted average price of the Companys Class A Common Stock during the term of the Agreement.  If the number of shares to be delivered to the Company is less than the initial delivery of shares by Citibank, the Company may be required to remit shares or cash to Citibank as a result of such adjustment.  The share repurchases are expected to be completed during the fourth quarter of 2008.  The payment of $150 million by the Company to Citibank for the repurchase of shares will be funded from available cash.
The preceding description of the ASR Agreement does not purport to be a complete description and is qualified in its entirety by the ASR Agreement which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and which is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.             Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
Execution Version
Lexmark International, Inc.
One Lexmark Centre Drive
740 West New Circle Road
Lexington, KY  40550
Re:
Accelerated Share Repurchase
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
This letter (the ) sets forth the agreement we have reached with respect to a transaction between Citibank, N.A. (),and Lexmark International, Inc (the ) in relation to shares of the Companys common stock, par value USD 0.01 (the ).
Letter Agreement
Citibank
 
Company
Common Stock
I.  
Definitions
 
As used in this Letter Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
 has the meaning specified in Section XV.
Bankruptcy Code
 has the meaning specified in Section VIII(a).
Cash Tender Termination
 has the meaning specified in Section VIII(b).
Corporate Event Termination
 has the meaning specified in Section IX.
Defaulting Party
 has the meaning specified in Section VIII(c).
Delisting Termination
 means an amount in U.S. dollars specified in Schedule I.
Discount Per Share
 means a Trading Day on which a Market Disruption Event occurs.
Disrupted Day
 has the meaning specified in Section VII(b).
Dividend Event Termination
 means New York Stock Exchange or any successor exchange.
Exchange
 means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
 has the meaning specified in Section VII(a).
Expected Dividend Amount
 has the meaning specified in Section XIV.
Indemnified Party
 means the date specified in Schedule I.
Initial Pricing Period Termination Date
 has the meaning specified in Section II(b).
Initial Settlement Date
 has the meaning specified in Section II(a).
Initial Share Price
 has the meaning specified in Section X(a).
Loss
 
 has the meaning specified in Section X(a).
Loss Notice
 has the meaning specified in Section VI(b).
Loss of Borrow Termination
 means any (i) suspension of or limitation imposed on trading by any exchange or market on which the Common Stock is listed for trading, (ii) event that disrupts or impairs (in the reasonable business judgment of Citibank) the ability of market participants in general to effect transaction in, or obtain market values for, the shares of Common Stock or futures or options contracts relating to the Common Stock or (iii) material decrease, on any Trading Day, in the trading volume for the Common Stock such that in the reasonable business judgment of Citibank it cannot purchase the contemplated number of shares for such Trading Day.
Market Disruption Event
 means 50 basis points per annum based on the closing price per share of Common Stock on the Trading Day immediately preceding the relevant day.
Maximum Borrow Cost
 has the meaning specified in Section IX.
Non-Defaulting Party
 has the meaning specified in Section II(b).
Number of Initial Shares
 has the meaning specified in Section II(a).
Number of Shares
 has the meaning specified in Section III(b).
Payment Amount
 means the period of consecutive Trading Days commencing on the Pricing Period Commencement Date and ending on the Pricing Period Termination Date; that the Pricing Period may be extended by Citibank upon the occurrence of a Market Disruption Event.
Pricing Period
provided
 means August 29, 2008.
Pricing Period Commencement Date
 means the earlier of (a) the Scheduled Pricing Period Termination Date, or (b) any Trading Day occurring on or following the Initial Pricing Period Termination Date and immediately preceding any Trading Day, on which Citibank shall notify the Company, prior to the close of regular trading on the Exchange on such Trading Day, of its intention to terminate the Pricing Period; that, for the avoidance of doubt, any date relating to the termination of the Transaction and designated as such pursuant to Section X of this Letter Agreement shall not be deemed the Pricing Period Termination Date and accordingly the settlement of the Transaction shall be governed by such Section X and not by provisions of Section III of this Letter Agreement.
Pricing Period Termination Date
provided
 has the meaning set forth in Annex B hereto.
Private Placement Agreement
 
 has the meaning set forth in Annex B hereto.
Private Placement Price
 
 has the meaning set forth in Section  III(b).
Private Placement Settlement
 
 has the meaning set forth in Annex B hereto.
Private Securities
 
 has the meaning specified in Annex A hereto.
Prospectus
 has the meaning specified in Section II(a).
Purchase Date
 has the meaning specified in Section II(a).
Purchase Price
 has the meaning set forth in Section  III(b).
Registered Settlement
 has the meaning specified in Annex A hereto.
Registration Statement
 
 means Regulation M under the Exchange Act.
Regulation M
 for any Trading Day equals (i) the Number of Initial Shares, (ii) the cumulative number of shares of Common Stock that Citibank has repurchased to cover its short position in respect of this Transaction.  For the avoidance of doubt, such shares shall be considered repurchased by Citibank as of the Trading Day on which such transactions settle.
Remaining Share Amount
minus
 means Rule 10b-18 under the Exchange Act.
Rule 10b-18
 means, for any Trading Day, the volume-weighted average price at which the Common Stock trades as reported in the composite transactions for the principal U.S. securities exchange on which such Common Stock is then listed on such Trading Day, excluding (i) trades that do not settle regular way, (ii) opening (regular way) reported trades in the consolidated system on such Trading Day, (iii) trades that occur in the last ten minutes before the scheduled close of trading on the Exchange on such Trading Day and ten minutes before the scheduled close of the primary trading in the market where the trade is effected, and (iv) trades on such Trading Day that do not satisfy the requirements of Rule 10b-18(b)(3) of the Exchange Act, as determined in good faith by Citibank.  The Company acknowledges that Citibank may refer to the Bloomberg Page LXK.N <Equity> AQR SEC (or any successor thereto), in its judgment, for such Trading Day to determine the Rule 10b-18 VWAP.
Rule 10b-18 VWAP
 has the meaning specified in Annex A hereto.
SEC
 means the date specified in Schedule I; that, the Scheduled Pricing Period Termination Date may be postponed by Citibank upon the occurrence of a Market Disruption Event on any scheduled Trading Day during the Pricing Period.
Scheduled Pricing Period Termination Date
provided
 means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
 means the fourth Trading Day immediately following the last day of the Pricing Period.
Settlement Date
 means (a) the Purchase Price the Settlement Price, (b) the Number of Initial Shares.
Settlement Number
divided by
minus
 means (i) the average of the Rule 10b-18 VWAP prices for all Trading Days during the Pricing Period (ii) the Discount Per Share.
Settlement Price
minus
 means, as of any date of determination, ten (10) times the Number of Initial Shares minus the number of shares of Common Stock delivered by the Company to Citibank on or prior to such date hereunder (in each case subject to adjustment pursuant to Section VI(b) and VIII).
Share Cap
 means any day (i) other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a Disrupted Day, and (ii) on which the Exchange is open for trading during its regular trading session, notwithstanding the Exchange closing prior to its scheduled closing time.
Trading Day
 means the transaction contemplated by this Letter Agreement.
Transaction
 has the meaning specified in Annex A hereto.
Transfer Agreement
 means a period commencing on the first Trading Day immediately following the last Trading Day of the Pricing Period and ending on the Trading Day on which Citibank completes its purchase of a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Settlement Number, pursuant to Section III(b), and as determined in good faith by Citibank in consultation with the Company.
Valuation Period
II.  
Initial Shares
(a)             Subject to the terms and conditions of this Letter Agreement, the Company agrees to purchase from Citibank, and Citibank will sell to the Company, on the date hereof or on such other Trading Day as the Company and Citibank shall otherwise agree (the ), for a single aggregate price of $150,000,000 (the ), 4,065,041 shares of Common Stock () and, if the Settlement Number is greater than zero, additional number of shares of Common Stock equal to such Settlement Number.  Citibank will hedge this Transaction by entering into a short sale with respect to the Number of Initial Shares effected at the closing price per share of Common Stock on the Purchase Date (the ).  Such purchase, sale and hedge shall be effected in accordance with Citibanks customary procedures.
Purchase.
Purchase Date
Purchase Price
Number of Shares
Initial Share Price
(b)             On the third Trading Day immediately following the Purchase Date (the ), Citibank shall deliver to the Company, a number of Shares equal to the product of (i) 85% and (ii) the Number of Shares (the ), upon payment by the Company of the Purchase Price in U.S. dollars.
Initial Settlement.
Initial Settlement Date
Number of Initial Shares
III.  
Settlement
(a)             If, following the expiration of the Pricing Period, the Settlement Number is greater than zero, on the Settlement Date, Citibank shall transfer to the Company through its agent, for no additional consideration, a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Settlement Number.
Citibank Settlement Obligation.
(b)             If, following the expiration of the Pricing Period, the Settlement Number is less than zero, on the Settlement Date, (i) the Company shall, in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph (b), transfer to Citibank through its agent, for no additional consideration, a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the absolute value of the Settlement Number or, (ii) if the Company so elects pursuant to this paragraph, in lieu of such share delivery, the Company shall make a cash payment to Citibank in an amount equal to the absolute value of the Settlement Number the weighted average purchase price at which Citibank purchases shares of Common Stock equal to the Settlement Number during the Valuation Period (the ), to be paid on the Trading Day immediately following the last day of the Valuation Period; that, for the avoidance of doubt, in accordance with the calculation of the Settlement Number, in calculating any corresponding settlement obligations of the parties, Citibank shall take into consideration the actual payments and deliveries made by the parties on the Initial Settlement Date for the Transaction.  The Company shall notify Citibank in writing of its election (i) to pay the absolute value of the Settlement Number in cash or, (ii) to effect the delivery of the Settlement Number of shares in accordance with Annex A () or Annex B () to this Letter Agreement; that (A) the failure to make an election and notify Citibank in accordance with the preceding sentence with respect to matters described in clause (i), shall constitute an irrevocable election by the Company to deliver shares, and, (B) the failure to make an election and notify Citibank with respect to matters described in clause (ii), shall constitute an election of Private Placement Settlement.
Company Settlement Obligation.
multiplied by
Payment Amount
provided
Registered Settlement
Private Placement Settlement
provided
(c)
 
  
  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Letter Agreement, the Company acknowledges and agrees that, on any day, Citibank (or its agent or affiliate) shall not be obligated to deliver or receive any shares of Common Stock to or from the Company and the Company shall not be entitled to receive any shares of Common Stock if such receipt or delivery would result in Citibank directly or indirectly beneficially owning (as such term is defined for purposes of Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act) at any time in excess of 4.9% of the outstanding shares of Common Stock.  Any purported receipt or delivery of shares of Common Stock shall be void and have no effect to the extent (but only to the extent) that any receipt or delivery of such shares of Common Stock would result in Citibank directly or indirectly so beneficially owning in excess of 4.9% of the outstanding shares of Common Stock.  If, on any day, any delivery or receipt of shares of Common Stock by Citibank (or its agent or affiliate) is not effected, in whole or in part, as a result of this provision, Citibanks and the Companys respective obligations to make or accept such receipt or delivery shall not be extinguished and such receipt or delivery
Delivery Limitation.
 
 
 
shall be effected over time as promptly as Citibank reasonably determines that such receipt or delivery would not result in Citibank directly or indirectly beneficially owning in excess of 4.9% of the outstanding shares of Common Stock.
(d)
 
  
  The Company represents and warrants, as of the Pricing Period Termination Date, that each of its filings under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or other applicable securities laws that are required to be filed have been filed and that, as of the date of this representation, there is no misstatement of material fact contained therein or omission of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading in the circumstances under which they were made.
Company Settlement Representations.
IV.  
Citibank Purchases
(a)
 
  
  During the Pricing Period or, if applicable, the Valuation Period, Citibank (or its agent or affiliate) may purchase shares of Common Stock in connection with this Transaction.  The timing of such purchases by Citibank, the price paid per share of Common Stock pursuant to such purchases and the manner in which such purchases are made, including without limitation whether such purchases are made on any securities exchange or privately, shall be within the sole judgment of Citibank; that, during the Valuation Period, Citibank will use good faith efforts to make all purchases of Common Stock in connection with this Transaction in a manner that would comply with the limitations set forth in clauses (b)(2), (b)(3), (b)(4) and (c) of Rule 10b-18 as if such rule were applicable to such purchases.
Manner of Purchases.
provided
(b)
 
  
  The Company acknowledges and agrees that (i) all purchases pursuant to this Section IV hereunder shall be made in Citibanks sole discretion and for Citibanks own account and (ii) the Company does not have, and shall not attempt to exercise, any influence over how, when or whether to make such purchases, including, without limitation, the price paid per share of Common Stock pursuant to such purchases whether such purchases are made on any securities exchange or privately.  It is the intent of the Company and Citibank that this Transaction comply with the requirements of Rule 10b5-1(c) of the Exchange Act and that this Letter Agreement shall be interpreted to comply with the requirements of Rule 10b5-1(c)(1)(i)(B) and Citibank shall take no action that results in the transaction not so complying with such requirements.
10b5-1 Plan.
(c)
 
  
  In the event that Citibank reasonably concludes in good faith, that it is appropriate with respect to any legal, regulatory or self-regulatory requirements or related policies and procedures (whether or not such requirements, policies or procedures are imposed by law or have been voluntarily adopted by Citibank), or due to any Market Disruption Event, for it to refrain from purchasing Common Stock on any Trading Day during the .  Citibank shall promptly notify the Company upon exercising its rights pursuant to this Section IV(c) and shall subsequently notify the Company in writing on the day Citibank believes that it may resume purchasing Common Stock.  Citibank shall not be required to communicate to the Company the reason for Citibanks exercise of its rights pursuant to this Section IV(c) if Citibank reasonably determines in good faith that disclosing such reason may result in a violation of any legal, regulatory, or self-regulatory requirements or related policies and procedures.
Regulatory Suspension.
Pricing Period, the Pricing Period shall be suspended for such day
V.  
Company Purchases
The Company shall not, purchase any shares of Common Stock on the open market, or enter into any accelerated share repurchase program, or any derivative share repurchase transaction, or other similar transaction, during the Pricing Period and thereafter until all payments or deliveries of shares pursuant to Section III have been made.  During such time, any purchases of Common Stock by the Company shall be made through Citibank or its affiliates, subject to such reasonable conditions as Citibank or such affiliate shall impose, and in compliance with Rule 10b-18 or otherwise in a manner that the Company and Citibank believe is in compliance with applicable requirements.
(including its affiliated purchasers, as defined in Rule 10b-18)
 
without a prior written consent of Citibank,
(or an equivalent interest, or any security convertible into or exchangeable for such shares)
 
VI.  
Borrow Events
 
(a)           .  If at any time during this Transaction, Citibank does not, after using commercially reasonable efforts, successfully borrow Common Stock (up to a number equal to the Remaining Share Amount) on terms that require Citibank to pay or bear costs in connection with such borrow in an amount less than or equal to the Maximum Borrow Cost, then Citibank will act in good faith and in a commercially reasonable manner to (a) make the corresponding adjustment(s), if any, as Citibank determines appropriate (and in consultation with the Company) to account for any excess borrowing costs and (b) determine the effective date(s) of the adjustment(s).
Borrow Cost Increase
 
(b)           .  On any Trading Day, Citibank may elect to terminate () this Transaction, in whole or in part, as the case may be, in the event and pro rata to the extent it is no longer able, after commercially reasonable efforts, to borrow (or maintain a borrowing of), including at a cost that may exceed the Maximum Borrow Cost, shares of Common Stock in an amount equal to the Remaining Share Amount.  Upon the occurrence of a Loss of Borrow Termination, an Event of Default shall be deemed to have occurred with the Company deemed the Defaulting Party and Citibank, the Non-Defaulting Party.
Loss of Borrow Termination
Loss of Borrow Termination
VII.  
Dividend Event
(a)           . If 100% of the aggregate gross cash dividends per share of Common Stock (including any cash extraordinary dividends) declared by the Company and for which the ex-date occurs at any time during the Pricing Period exceeds $0.00 per share of Common Stock (subject to adjustment in accordance with Section VIII) (the ) per calendar quarter, a Dividend Event shall be deemed to have occurred.
Dividend Amount
Expected Dividend Amount
(b)           .  Upon the occurrence of a Dividend Event, on any Trading Day on or after the occurrence of such Dividend Event, Citibank may terminate this Transaction (a ).  Upon the occurrence of a Dividend Event Termination, an Event of Default shall be deemed to have occurred with the Company deemed the Defaulting Party and Citibank, the Non-Defaulting Party.
Dividend Event Termination
Dividend Event Termination
VIII.  
Extraordinary Events
(a)            .  In the event an offer is made to the holders of Common Stock to tender in excess of 15% of the outstanding shares of Common Stock for cash, Citibank may, in its reasonable discretion, (i) adjust the terms of this Transaction, so that (x) the final day of the Pricing Period shall be the earlier of the scheduled final Trading Day of the Pricing Period and the date the tender offer is consummated and (y) for each of the Trading Days in the Pricing Period following the date on which the offer is made, the price used in computing the Settlement Price shall equal the price per share of Common Stock at which the tender offer is to be consummated, where Citibank shall notify the Company in writing as to the terms of any adjustment made pursuant to this Section VIII(a) no later than 5 days after the tender offer is made or (ii) elect to terminate this Transaction (a ).  Upon the occurrence of a Cash Tender Termination, an Event of Default shall be deemed to have occurred with the Company deemed the Defaulting Party and Citibank, the Non-Defaulting Party.
Tender Offers
Cash Tender Termination
(b)            .  In the event of any corporate event involving the Company or the Common Stock not specifically addressed in subsection (a) of this Section VIII (including, without limitation, the announcement of a non-cash dividend, stock split, reorganization, merger, offer to tender Common Stock for consideration other than cash, rights offering, recapitalization or spin-off) or in the event that Citibank, in its reasonable good faith judgment, determines that the adjustments described in subsection (a) of this Section VIII will not result in an equitable adjustment of the terms of this Transaction, Citibank may (i) adjust the terms of this Transaction (including, without limitation, with respect to the Expected Dividend Amount and the number of Trading Days in the Pricing Period) as in the exercise of its good faith judgment it deems appropriate under the circumstances or (ii) elect to terminate this Transaction
Corporate Events
 
 
(a ).  Upon the occurrence of a Corporate Event Termination, an Event of Default shall be deemed to have occurred with the Company deemed the Defaulting Party and Citibank, the Non-Defaulting Party.
Corporate Event Termination
(c)           .  In the event that the Exchange announces that pursuant to the rules of such Exchange, the Common Stock ceases (or will cease) to be listed, traded or publicly quoted on the Exchange for any reason (other than the occurrence of an event addressed in subsections (a) or (b) of this Section VIII) and are not immediately re-listed, re-traded or re-quoted on an exchange or quotation system located in the same country as the Exchange (or, where the Exchange is within the European Union, in any member state of the European Union), Citibank may (i) adjust the terms of this Transaction or (ii) elect to terminate this Transaction (a ).  Upon the occurrence of a Delisting Termination, an Event of Default shall be deemed to have occurred with the Company deemed the Defaulting Party and Citibank, the Non-Defaulting Party.
Delisting
Delisting Termination
IX.  
Events of Default
In addition to events contemplated by Sections VI(b), VII(b) and VIII, the occurrence of any of the following events with respect to a party (such party, the  with respect to such event, and the other party, the ) shall be an Event of Default:
Defaulting Party
Non-Defaulting Party
(a)           .  The failure to make any payment or any delivery of shares pursuant to the terms of the Letter Agreement.
Payment
(b)           .  Any representation or warranty made in this Letter Agreement shall prove to have been false in any material respect at the time it was made, given or reaffirmed.
Breach
(c)           .  The failure to perform or comply in any material respect with any other obligation in this Letter Agreement which failure shall continue for 5 business days after written notice of such failure has been sent to the Defaulting Party.
Performance
(d)           .  (A) The initiation of any case, proceeding or other action (1) under any existing or future law of any jurisdiction, domestic or foreign, relating to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other relief of debtors, seeking to have an order for relief entered with respect to it, or seeking to have itself adjudicated as bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, winding-up, liquidation, dissolution or composition or other relief under bankruptcy or insolvency law with respect to it or its debts or (2) which seeks appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator or other similar official for it or for all or any substantial part of its assets; (B) a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors; (C) the initiation of any case, proceeding or other action of a nature referred to in clause (A) hereof which (1) results in the entry of an order for relief or any such adjudication or appointment with respect to the party or any of its assets or (2) is not dismissed, stayed, discharged or bonded for a period of 5 days; (D) the initiation of any case, proceeding or other action seeking issuance of a warrant of attachment, execution, or similar process against all or any substantial part of its assets, which case, proceeding or other action results in the entry of an order for any such relief which shall not have been vacated, discharged, or stayed or bonded pending appeal within 30 days from the entry thereof; (E) a party shall take any action in furtherance of, or indicating its consent to, approval of, or acquiescence in, any of the acts set forth in clauses (A) - (D) hereof; or (F) either party shall generally not, or shall admit in writing its inability to, pay its debts as they become due.
Insolvency
(e)           .  Any loan or other obligation in respect of borrowed money (whether present or future, contingent or otherwise, as principal or surety or otherwise) of a party in an amount, in excess of $100,000,000 shall have become payable before the due date thereof as a result of acceleration of maturity caused by the occurrence of any event of default thereunder or if any other such loan or obligation shall not be repaid when due, as extended by any applicable grace period specified in the contracts or agreements constituting such loan or obligation.
Cross-Default
 
(f)           .  Any consolidation or amalgamation or merger with or into, or any transfer of all or substantially all its assets (i) to another entity by a party, resulting in the creditworthiness of the surviving or transferee entity being materially weaker than that of the party immediately prior to such action, or (ii) into any person unless the surviving person is the Company or another person formed under the laws of a State of the United States of America and such entity assumes or is responsible, by operation of law, for all obligations of the Company hereunder.
Merger, Consolidation
X.  
Remedies
(a)           .  Upon the occurrence and the continuance of an Event of Default, notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary in this Letter Agreement, the Non-Defaulting Party, upon notice to the Defaulting Party, may, in its sole discretion, immediately terminate this Transaction and, if applicable, purchasing the number of Shares equal to the Remaining Share Amount to cover its short position or adjusting any other term hereof, and may sell, liquidate, offset or take any other action with respect to any short position established or maintained by it in connection with this Transaction.  The Non-Defaulting Party shall act in good faith and in a commercially reasonable manner to determine the amount that such party reasonably in good faith believes to be its total unreimbursed net losses and costs (which may be positive or negative) incurred in connection with the termination of this Letter Agreement (the ) and upon completion of such determination shall deliver to the Defaulting Party a written notice indicating the amount of such Loss (a ).  Such computation shall include any out-of-pocket losses (which may include but not be limited to the difference between the Initial Share Price and the average price at which the shares are purchased during the term of this Transaction (as this Transaction may be terminated early as a result of the operation of this Section X(a)) and loss or cost incurred as a result of its terminating, liquidating, obtaining or reestablishing any hedge or related trading position.  In addition to the foregoing, the Non-Defaulting Party may include in its determination of its Loss hereunder such losses and costs (or gains) in respect of any payment or delivery required to have been made on or before the relevant termination date.  In determining Loss, the Non-Defaulting Party may consider any relevant information, including, without limitation, one or more of the following types of information: (i) quotations (either firm or indicative) for replacement transactions supplied by one or more third parties that may take into account the creditworthiness of the Non-Defaulting Party at the time the quotation is provided and the terms of any relevant documentation, including credit support documentation, between the Non-Defaulting Party and the third party providing the quotation; (ii) information consisting of relevant market data in the relevant market supplied by one or more third parties including, without limitation, relevant rates, prices, yields, yield curves, volatilities, spreads, correlations or other relevant market data in the relevant market; or (iii) information of the types described in clause (i) or (ii) above from internal sources (including any of the Non-Defaulting Partys affiliates) if that information is of the same type used by the Non-Defaulting Party in the regular course of its business for the valuation of similar transactions.  The Non-Defaulting Party will consider, taking into account the standards and procedures described in this paragraph, quotations pursuant to clause (i) above or relevant market data pursuant to clause (ii) above unless the Non-Defaulting Party reasonably believes in good faith that such quotations or relevant market data are not readily available or would produce a result that would not satisfy those standards.  When considering information described in clause (i), (ii) or (iii) above, the Non-Defaulting Party may include costs of funding, to the extent costs of funding are not and would not be a component of the other information being utilized.  Third parties supplying quotations pursuant to clause (i) above or market data pursuant to clause (ii) above may include, without limitation, dealers in the relevant markets, end-users of the relevant product, information vendors, brokers and other sources of market information.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, and without affecting the respective parties obligations to make payments in accordance with Section X(b), upon reasonable written request by the Defaulting Party, the Non-Defaulting Party shall provide a written explanation of any calculation or adjustment made by it in connection with calculation of the Loss, including, where applicable, a reasonable description of the methodology and the basis for such calculation or adjustment in reasonable detail and shall consult with the Defaulting Party with respect to the amount of such Loss, it being understood that the Non-Defaulting Party shall not be obligated to disclose any proprietary models used by it for such calculation.
Settlement Loss Determination
Loss
Loss Notice
any actual or anticipated
 
(b)           .  Upon receipt of a Loss Notice from the Non-Defaulting Party, (i) if the amount determined in accordance with paragraph (a) above is a positive number, then the Defaulting Party
Payments
 
 
shall promptly pay to the Non-Defaulting Party, the amount of such Loss in cash or (ii) if the amount determined in accordance with paragraph (a) above is a negative number, then the Non-Defaulting Party shall promptly pay to the Defaulting Party, the absolute value of the amount of such Loss in cash; that, in the event the Company is the party owing the Loss amount, then this paragraph (b) shall be subject to the terms of paragraphs (c) and (d) below.
provided
(c)
 
  
.  If the Company is the owing party in accordance with paragraph (b) above, upon receipt of a Loss Notice from Citibank as the Non-Defaulting Party, the Company may, in addition to its option to promptly pay to Citibank the amount of such Loss in cash, elect to deliver to Citibank within two Trading Days a number of shares of Common Stock equal to (i) the amount of such Loss (ii) the closing price of the Common Stock on the Exchange for the day upon which the Company receives such Loss Notice, rounded up to the nearest whole share.  Such share delivery is subject to the provisions of the last sentence of Section III(b); that, for the avoidance of doubt, in calculating any settlement obligations of the parties in accordance with this Section X, Citibank shall take into consideration the actual payments and deliveries made by the parties on the Initial Settlement Date for the Transaction; that in no event shall the Company be required to deliver a number of shares of Common Stock that exceeds the then applicable Share Cap.
Loss Settlement Election
divided by
provided
provided,
further
(d)
 
  
.  In addition to the payments set forth in subsections (b) and (c) above, the Defaulting Party agrees to indemnify the Non-Defaulting Party from and against any reasonable expenses (including reasonable external counsel fees and other expenses of collection) it may incur as a result of any default by such party.
Costs and Expenses
XI.  
Representations of the Parties
Each party represents to the other party that:
 
(a)           .  It is duly organized and validly existing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization or incorporation and, if relevant under such laws, in good standing;
Status
 
(b)           .  It has the corporate or other organizational power to execute and deliver this Letter Agreement and to perform its obligations under this Letter Agreement and has taken all necessary action to authorize such execution, delivery and performance;
Powers
 
(c)           .  Such execution, delivery and performance do not violate or conflict with any law applicable to it, any provision of its constitutional documents, any order or judgment of any court or other agency of government applicable to it or any of its assets or any contractual restriction binding on or affecting it or any of its assets;
No Violation or Conflict
 
(d)           .  All governmental and other consents that are required to have been obtained by it with respect to this Letter Agreement have been obtained and are in full force and effect and all conditions of any such consents have been complied with;
Consents
 
(e)           .  Its obligations under this Letter Agreement constitute its legal, valid and binding obligations, enforceable in accordance with its respective terms (subject to applicable bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium or similar laws affecting creditors rights generally and subject, as to enforceability, to equitable principles of general application (regardless of whether enforcement is sought in a proceeding in equity or at law)); and
Obligations Binding
 
(f)           .  No Event of Default (as defined in the Agreement) or event that, with the giving of notice or the passage of time or both, would constitute an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and no such event or circumstance would occur as a result of its entering into or performing its obligations under this Letter Agreement.
Absence of Certain Events
 
 
XII.  
Representations of the Company
 
The Company additionally hereby represents on the Purchase Date to Citibank that:
 
(a)
 
  
.  Its financial condition is such that it has no need for liquidity with respect to its investment in the transactions contemplated by this Letter Agreement and no need to dispose of any portion thereof to satisfy any existing or contemplated undertaking or indebtedness.  Its investments in and liabilities in respect of such transactions, which it understands are not readily marketable, is not disproportionate to its net worth;
Liquidity
(b)
 
  
this Transactionthis Transactionit understands that Citibank has no obligation or intention to register the transactions contemplated by this Letter Agreement under the Securities Act or any state securities law or other applicable federal securities law;
Private Placement
.  It acknowledges that the offer and sale of
to it is intended to be exempt from registration under the Securities Act, by virtue of Section 4(2) thereof.  Accordingly, the Company represents and warrants to Citibank that (i) it is an accredited investor as that term is defined in Regulation D as promulgated under the Securities Act, (ii) it is entering into
for its own account and without a view to the distribution or resale thereof, and
 
(c)
 
  
understands that no obligations of Citibank to it hereunder will be entitled to the benefit of deposit insurance and that such obligations will not be guaranteed by any affiliate of Citibank or any governmental agency;
No Deposit Insurance
.  It
(d)
 
  
.  IT UNDERSTANDS THAT THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED BY THIS AGREEMENT ARE SUBJECT TO COMPLEX RISKS THAT MAY ARISE WITHOUT WARNING AND MAY AT TIMES BE VOLATILE AND THAT LOSSES MAY OCCUR QUICKLY AND IN UNANTICIPATED MAGNITUDE AND IS WILLING TO ACCEPT SUCH TERMS AND CONDITIONS AND ASSUME (FINANCIALLY AND OTHERWISE) SUCH RISKS;
Assumption of Risk
(e)
 
  
.  Each of its filings under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, or other applicable securities laws that are required to be filed have been filed and that, as of the respective dates thereof, there is no misstatement of material fact contained therein or omission of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading
Compliance with Filing Requirements
(f)
 
  
is not entering into this Letter Agreement on the basis of, and is not aware of, any material non-public information with respect to the Common Stock or in anticipation of, in connection with, or to facilitate, a distribution of its securities, a self tender offer or a third-party tender offer;
Material Non-Public Information
.  It
(g)
 
  
is not entering into any transaction to create, and will not engage in any other securities or derivatives transactions to create, actual or apparent trading activity in the Common Stock (or any security convertible into or exchangeable for Common Stock) or to raise or depress or to manipulate the price of the Common Stock (or any security convertible into or exchangeable for Common Stock);
No Manipulation
.  It
(h)
 
 
 
has not and will not directly or indirectly violate any applicable law, rule or regulation (including, without limitation, the Securities Act and the Exchange Act) in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Letter Agreement;
Compliance with Securities Laws
.  It
(i)
 
  
.  The transactions contemplated by this Letter Agreement and any repurchase of Common Stock by the Company in connection with such transactions are pursuant to a publicly announced share repurchase program that has been approved by its Board of Directors and any such repurchase has been or will when so required be publicly disclosed in its periodic filings under the Exchange Act and its financial statements and notes thereto and, at the time of making this representation, such transactions are not subject to any internal policy or procedure of the Company which would prohibit the Company from effecting any transactions in the shares of Common Stock at such time;
Required Company Approvals
 
(j)
 
  
.  The Company is not on the date hereof, and will not be during the term of the transactions contemplated by this Letter Agreement, engaged in a distribution, as such term is used in Regulation M under the Exchange Act, that would preclude purchases by the Company of the Common Stock or cause the Company to violate any law, rule or regulation with respect to such purchases;
Regulation M
(k)
 
  
.  It is not relying, and has not relied upon, Citibank with respect to the legal, accounting, tax or other implications of this Letter Agreement and that it has conducted its own analyses of the legal, accounting, tax and other implications of this Letter Agreement.  Further, ; and
Non-Reliance
or any of its affiliates
 
it acknowledges and agrees that neither Citibank nor any affiliate of Citibank has acted as its advisor in any capacity in connection with this Letter Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby.  The Company is entering into this Letter Agreement with a full understanding of all of the terms and risks hereof (economic and otherwise), has adequate expertise in financial matters to evaluate those terms and risks and is capable of assuming (financially and otherwise) those risks
(l)
 
  
.  It understands and acknowledges that Citibank and its affiliates may from time to time effect transactions for their own account or the account of customers and hold positions in securities or options on securities of the Company and that Citibank and its affiliates may continue to conduct such transactions during the Pricing Period and the Valuation Period.
Acknowledgement of Citibank Activity
XIII.  
Agreements of the Company
(a)
 
  
.  The Company agrees that while this Letter Agreement is in effect, it shall cause (i) the number of authorized shares of Common Stock (ii) the number of outstanding shares of Common Stock (iii) the number of shares of Common Stock reserved for other purposes (iv) without duplication of clause (iii), the aggregate maximum number of shares of Common Stock deliverable under warrants, options, swaps, forwards, convertible or exchangeable securities or other similar transactions, agreements or instruments issued by the Company or to which the Company is a party that provide for physical or net share settlement or otherwise may require the issuance of shares of Common Stock by the Company, to exceed the then applicable Share Cap.  At the conclusion of the Pricing Period, the Company will have a sufficient number of treasury shares or duly authorized but unissued shares of Common Stock available to satisfy its obligations with respect to this Transaction, such shares of Common Stock to be fully paid and nonassessable and free of preemptive and other rights.  The Company agrees that a failure by the Company to comply with the preceding sentence shall be an Event of Default hereunder with respect to the Company without regard to any grace period that would otherwise be applicable.
Authorized Shares
minus
minus
minus
(b)
 
  
.  The Company acknowledges and agrees that this Letter Agreement is not intended to convey to Citibank rights against the Company hereunder that are senior to the claims of common stockholders in any U.S. bankruptcy proceedings of the Company; provided, however, that nothing herein shall limit or shall be deemed to limit Citibanks right to pursue remedies in the event of a breach by the Company of its obligations and agreements with respect to this Letter Agreement; and provided further that in pursuing a claim against the Company in the event of a bankruptcy, insolvency or dissolution with respect to Company, Citibanks rights hereunder shall rank on a parity with the rights of a holder of shares of Common Stock enforcing similar rights under a contract involving shares of Common Stock.
Nature of Rights
(c)
 
  
.  The Company agrees that the material terms of this Transaction (and any other similar transactions), and the consequences of such transactions on the financial condition and results of operations of the Company, will be disclosed by the Company in accordance with all rules, regulations, accounting principles (including EITF Issue No. 00-19) and laws applicable to the Company in its periodic filings under the Exchange Act and its financial statements and notes thereto.
Disclosure
           
(d)
Corporate Event Notification
.  During the Pricing Period, the Company shall (i) notify Citibank prior to the opening of trading in the Common Stock on any day on which the Company makes, or expects to be made, any public announcement (as defined in Rule 165(f) under the Securities Act) of any merger, acquisition, or similar transaction involving a recapitalization relating to the Company (other than
 
 
any such transaction in which the consideration consists solely of cash and there is no valuation period), (ii) promptly notify Citibank following any such announcement that such announcement has been made, and (iii) promptly deliver to Citibank following the making of any such announcement a certificate indicating (A) the Companys average daily Rule 10b-18 purchases (as defined in Rule 10b-18) during the three full calendar months preceding the date of the announcement of such transaction and (B) the Companys block purchases (as defined in Rule 10b-18) effected pursuant to paragraph (b)(4) of Rule 10b-18 during the three full calendar months preceding the date of the announcement of such transaction.  In addition, the Company shall promptly notify Citibank of the earlier to occur of the completion of such transaction and the completion of the vote by target shareholders.  The Company acknowledges that any such public announcement may cause the Pricing Period to be suspended pursuant to Section IV(c).  Accordingly, the Company acknowledges that its actions in relation to any such announcement or transaction must comply with the standards set forth in Section IV(a).
XIV.  
Indemnification
The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless Citibank, its affiliates and its assignees and their respective directors, officers, employees, agents and controlling persons (Citibank and each such person being an ) from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and liabilities, joint or several, to which such Indemnified Party may become subject, and relating to or arising out of the transactions contemplated by this Letter Agreement, and will reimburse any Indemnified Party for all expenses (including reasonable counsel fees and expenses) as they are incurred in connection with the investigation of, preparation for or defense or settlement of any pending or threatened claim or any action, suit or proceeding arising therefrom, whether or not such Indemnified Party is a party thereto and whether or not such claim, action, suit or proceeding is initiated or brought by or on behalf of the Company.  The Company will not be liable under the foregoing indemnification provision to the extent that any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense is found in a nonappealable judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted from Citibanks breach of a material term of this Letter Agreement, willful misconduct or negligence.  If for any reason the foregoing indemnification is unavailable to any Indemnified Party or insufficient to hold harmless any Indemnified Party, then the Company shall contribute, to the maximum extent permitted by law (but only to the extent that such harm was not caused by Citibanks breach of a material term of this Letter Agreement, willful misconduct or negligence), to the amount paid or payable by the Indemnified Party as a result of such loss, claim, damage or liability.  The Company also agrees that no Indemnified Party shall have any liability to the Company or any person asserting claims on behalf of or in right of the Company in connection with or as a result of any matter referred to in this Letter Agreement except to the extent that any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses incurred by the Company result from the breach of a material term of this Letter Agreement, or the Indemnified Partys negligence or willful misconduct.  The provisions of this Section XIV shall survive completion of the transactions contemplated by this Letter Agreement and shall inure to the benefit of any permitted assignee of Citibank.
Indemnified Party
XV.  
Miscellaneous
(a)           .  Notwithstanding any provision of this Letter Agreement, or any other agreement between the parties, to the contrary, the obligations of the Company under this Letter Agreement are not secured by any collateral.
No Collateral
(b)           .  EACH OF THE COMPANY AND CITIBANK HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES (ON ITS OWN BEHALF AND, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ON BEHALF OF ITS STOCKHOLDERS) ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY ACTION, PROCEEDING OR COUNTERCLAIM (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE) ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS LETTER AGREEMENT OR THE ACTIONS OF CITIBANK OR ITS AFFILIATES IN THE NEGOTIATION, PERFORMANCE OR ENFORCEMENT HEREOF.
Waiver of Trial by Jury
 
 
(c)           .  THIS LETTER AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REFERENCE TO THE CHOICE OF LAW RULES THEREOF.
Governing Law
(d)           .  THE PARTIES HERETO IRREVOCABLY SUBMIT TO THE EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK AND THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK IN CONNECTION WITH ALL MATTERS RELATING HERETO AND WAIVE ANY OBJECTION TO THE LAYING OF VENUE IN, AND ANY CLAIM OF INCONVENIENT FORUM WITH RESPECT TO, THESE COURTS.
Submission to Jurisdiction
(e)           .  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, (i) Citibank acknowledges that this Letter Agreement may be intended to produce U.S. federal income tax benefits for the Company and (ii) the Company and Citibank hereby agree that (A) the Company is not obligated to Citibank to keep confidential from any and all persons or otherwise limit the use of any aspect of this Letter Agreement relating to the structure or tax aspects thereof, and (B) Citibank does not assert any claim of proprietary ownership in respect of any such aspect of this Letter Agreement.
Non-Confidentiality
(f)           .  The parties hereto intend for (i) the Transaction hereunder to be a securities contract and a swap agreement as defined in the Bankruptcy Code (Title 11 of the United States Code) (the ), and the parties hereto are entitled to the protections afforded by, among other Sections, Sections 362(b)(6), 362(b)(17), 362(o), 546, 555, 560 and 561 of the Bankruptcy Code; (ii) a partys right to liquidate, terminate or accelerate the Transaction and to exercise any other remedies upon the occurrence of any Event of Default, a Loss of Borrow Termination, a Dividend Event Termination, a Cash Tender Termination, a Corporate Event Termination or a Delisting Termination under this Letter Agreement with respect to the other party to constitute a contractual right within the meaning of the Bankruptcy Code; (iii) all transfers of cash, securities or other property under or in connection with the Transaction are transfers made by or to (or for the benefit of) a master netting agreement participant, a financial institution, a financial participant, a forward contract merchant or a swap participant, (each as defined in the Bankruptcy Code) within the meaning of Sections 546(e), 546(f), 546(g) and 546(j) of the Bankruptcy Code; (iv) all obligations under or in connection with the Transaction represent obligations in respect of termination values, payment amounts or other transfer obligations within the meaning of Section 362, 560 and 561 of the Bankruptcy Code; and (v) each of the parties hereto to be a swap participant and financial participant within the meaning of Sections 101(53C) and 101(22A) of the Bankruptcy Code.
Bankruptcy Code
Bankruptcy Code
(g)           .  The rights and duties under this Letter Agreement may not be assigned or transferred by either party hereto without the prior written consent of the other party hereto; , , that Citibank may assign its obligation to deliver or receive delivery of Common Stock hereunder to any of its affiliates without the prior written consent of the Company.  Upon any such assignment Citibank shall indemnify the Company from and against any loss, cost or expense relating to the failure of such affiliate to perform its delivery obligation.
Assignment and Transfer
provided
however
(h)           .  To the extent any calculation, adjustment or determination is required to be made by Citibank hereunder, Citibank shall make any such calculation, adjustment, or determination in good faith.
Calculations
(i)           .  Unless otherwise specified, notices under this Letter Agreement may be made by telephone, to be confirmed in writing to the address below.  Changes to the Notices must be made in writing.
Notices
(i)           If to the Company:
Lexmark International, Inc.
One Lexmark Centre Drive
740 West New Circle Road
Lexington, KY  40550
 
 
Attn:  Richard Pelini
Telephone:  (859) 232-5108
Facsimile:  (859) 232-5137
(ii)           If to Citibank:
Citibank, N.A.
390 Greenwich Street, 5 Floor
th
New York, NY 10013
Attn:  Equity Derivatives
Telephone: (212) 723-7362
Facsimile: (212) 723-8328
 
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by signing and returning to us the enclosed duplicate of this Letter Agreement.
Very truly yours,
CITIBANK, N.A.
By: 
   /s/Jason Shrednick 
   
Name: Jason Shrednick
Authorized Representative
 Acknowledged and agreed to as of
   
 the date first above written,
   
 LEXMARK INTERNATIONAL, INC.
   
 
 


