FILE:LXK/LXK-8K-20080328121039.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
On March 24, 2008, the Compensation and Pension Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Compensation Committee") granted long-term incentive award opportunities pursuant to the 2008-2010 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "2008-2010 LTIP" or the "Plan").  The 2008-2010 LTIP is intended to reward the achievement of specific financial objectives over a three-year performance period.  Under the 2008-2010 LTIP, certain executives, including five of the Company's Named Executive Officers (which officers were determined by reference to the Companys Proxy Statement dated March 24, 2008), are eligible to receive a cash award at the end of the three-year performance period based on the achievement of certain financial objectives.  The Compensation Committee has established Operating Income and Cash Cycle Days as the performance goals for the 2008 through 2010 performance period.  At the end of the three-year performance period, if there is no calculated payout based on the Operating Income and Cash Cycle Days attainment, an additional calculation comparing the Companys Return on Invested Capital ("ROIC") with that of its peer companies over the same three-year period will be made.  If the Companys ROIC meets or exceeds the median of the three-year average return on invested capital of the Companys designated peer companies for 2010 which are included in the S&P Technology Index, then funding at the Minimum level will occur.
In the event of an executives death, disability or retirement ("disability" and "retirement," each as defined in the Plan) during the three-year performance period, a prorated portion of the actual attainment as of the end of the calendar year in which the death, disability or retirement occurs will be paid to the executive or his or her estate.  Except in the event of death, disability or retirement, the executive must be employed at the end of the three-year performance period to receive a payout, if any, under the Plan.
The Compensation Committee may exercise negative discretion in determining any payout to an executive under the 2008-2010 LTIP applying any factors that it deems appropriate in its sole discretion under the circumstances.
The Minimum, Target and Maximum award opportunities for each of the Named Executive Officers receiving an award are set forth in the following table:
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


