FILE:LXK/LXK-8K-20080722073624.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02.                                Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 22, 2008, Lexmark International, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2008. The text of the press release announcing the financial results and the Supplemental Information Slides providing additional financial information are furnished herewith as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
Item 2.05.                                Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
The Company announced a plan to enhance the efficiency of its inkjet cartridge manufacturing operations on July 22, 2008 (the 2008 Restructuring Plan or the
Plan). The 2008 Restructuring Plan will result in the closure of one of the Companys inkjet supplies manufacturing facilities in Mexico.
The Plan is expected to impact approximately 650 positions by the end of 2008 with most of the impacted positions being moved to a lower-cost country. The Company estimates that the 2008 Restructuring Plan will result in pre-tax charges of approximately $24 million, of which $8 million will require cash. The Company expects the Plan to be substantially completed by the end of 2008. The text of the press release announcing the workforce reduction and facility closure is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.                               Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)   Exhibits
Exhibit No.                Description of Exhibit
 
 
 
The information contained in this Current Report shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
The press release contains non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of Regulation G, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a registrants historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of income, balance sheet or statement of cash flows (or equivalent statements) of the issuer; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented. In this regard, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations between the GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures contained in the press release in the financial statements attached thereto and in the Supplemental Information Slides posted on the Companys investor relations website, each of which are filed herewith as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Exhibit No.             Description of Exhibit

 
                          
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
               
 
 
 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Investor Contact:
John Morgan
(859) 232-5568
jmorgan@lexmark.com
Media Contact:
Todd Hastings
(859) 232-6012
thasting@lexmark.com
Lexmark reports second quarter results
LEXINGTON, Ky., July 22, 2008  Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) today announced financial results for the second quarter of 2008. Second-quarter revenue was $1.14 billion, down 6 percent compared to revenue of $1.21 billion last year. Second-quarter GAAP earnings per share were $0.89. Earnings per share for the second quarter of 2008 would have been $0.96 excluding $0.07 per share for restructuring-related activities. Second-quarter 2007 GAAP earnings per share were $0.67. Earnings per share for the second quarter of 2007 would have been $0.65 excluding $0.02 per share net benefit for restructuring-related activities.
During the second quarter we continued the strategic shift that we started in late 2007. EPS grew year to year in 2Q and we had good cash generation performance. Overall, we have more work to do to continue to implement our strategy and to drive growth in higher usage segments, said Paul J. Curlander, Lexmark chairman and chief executive officer. A key element is the introduction of industry-leading products and technology, which has enabled us to win some important large enterprise accounts recently and resulted in our new Professional Series and Home and Student Series inkjet products announced yesterday.
Second-quarter 2008 business segment revenue of $763 million grew 4 percent year to year. Consumer segment revenue of $376 million declined 21 percent compared to a year ago primarily due to the strategic changes announced last October and the slowdown in the inkjet market. Second-quarter 2008 gross profit margin was 36.6 percent, operating expense was $316 million, the operating income margin was 8.9 percent, operating income was $101 million and net earnings were $84 million. Second-quarter 2008 operating income includes $9 million pretax charges in connection with the companys restructuring-related actions.
Second-quarter 2007 gross profit margin was 30.6 percent, operating expense was $305 million, the operating income margin was 5.4 percent, operating income was $66 million, and net earnings were $64 million. Second-quarter 2007 operating income included $5 million restructuring-related pretax charges.
On a non-GAAP basis, excluding restructuring-related charges, second-quarter 2008:
 
 
The company ended the quarter with $1.328 billion in cash and current marketable securities. Second-quarter net cash provided by operating activities was $135 million. Capital expenditures for the quarter were $53 million. Depreciation and amortization in the quarter was $45 million. Lexmark repurchased $158 million (4.5 million shares) of stock during the second quarter. The companys remaining share repurchase authorization was approximately $887 million at quarter end.
Lexmark announced a plan today to enhance the efficiency of its inkjet cartridge manufacturing operations by further consolidating manufacturing capacity for the companys inkjet supplies. This restructuring plan is for the closure of one of the companys inkjet supplies manufacturing facilities in Mexico. This action is expected to impact approximately 650 positions by the end of 2008. Most of the impacted positions are being moved to a lower-cost country. The company estimates that this 2008 action will result in total pretax cost of approximately $24 million ($8 million cash cost), with an approximate $20 million impact in 2008. Pretax cost of $3 million impacted second-quarter 2008 results. Total savings from this restructuring are expected to be about $9 million annually beginning in 2009.
Rec
ent Win Demonstrates Strength of Lexmarks Large Enterprise V
alue
P
roposition
Lexmark has signed a five-year, multimillion dollar contract with Washington Mutual, one of the leading consumer and small business banks in the U.S. As part of the contract, Lexmark Global Services will manage more than 25,000 devices throughout WaMus 2,300 financial centers and 37 back-office locations in the U.S. and will also provide consulting services to optimize the workflow processes, carbon footprint and printing infrastructure in each location.
Significant Recent Industry Recognition for Lexmarks Products
Lexmark continued to receive numerous awards for its color laser, color laser multifunction products (MFPs), mono laser MFPs, inkjet all-in-ones (AIOs), and print management software from leading test laboratories:
Color laser and color laser MFPs
 
 
 
Inkjet AIOs
Mono Laser MFPs
Print Management Software
New Inkjets Expand Lexmarks Reach into Higher-Usage Segments
Lexmark continued to raise the bar for inkjet features, functionality and performance with the introduction yesterday of six new AIOs, further enhancing and expanding the company's presence in higher-page generation target segments. The new Lexmark Professional Series X4975, X6675 and X7675 AIOs, with prices ranging from $149.99 to $199.99, were specifically designed to meet the needs of small-business and small office-home office (SOHO) professionals who demand wireless printing capability, along with exceptional speed, quality, reliability, and ease of use. Lexmarks Professional Series AIOs include features that help users reduce the cost of operation and minimize environmental impact, such as wireless connectivity, high-yield cartridges and integrated two-sided printing.
2
2
3
The new Lexmark X4950, X5650 and X6650, with prices ranging from $99.99to$149.99, complement and extend the range of Lexmarks Home and Student AIO Series. These three new devices join an impressive lineup of fully featured yet affordable AIOs that meet the unique needs of family and student users, offering fast and easy installation and high-yield cartridge options. The X4950 and X6650 also offer wireless connectivity.
2
 
2
3
Looking Forward
In the third quarter of 2008, the company expects revenue to be down in the mid- to high-single digit percentage range year over year. It expects third-quarter 2008 GAAP EPS to be in the range of $0.25 to $0.35 per share. Restructuring-related costs and expenses are expected to be approximately $0.28 per share in the third quarter of 2008. Excluding these restructuring-related costs and expenses, non-GAAP EPS are expected to be in the range of $0.53 to $0.63 per share. GAAP EPS in the third quarter of 2007 were $0.48, or $0.60 excluding $0.12 per share for restructuring-related activities.
Conference Call Today
The company will be hosting a conference call with securities analysts today at 8:30 a.m. (EDT). A live broadcast and a complete replay of this call can be accessed from Lexmarks investor relations Web site at . If you are unable to connect to the Internet, you can access the call via telephone at 888-693-3477 (outside the U.S. by calling 973-582-2710) or the replay shortly afterward by calling 800-642-1687 (outside the U.S. by calling 706-645-9291) using access code 54879148. This telephone replay of the conference call will be available through Tuesday, July 29, 2008.
http://investor.lexmark.com
Supplemental information slides, including reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, will be available on Lexmarks investor relations Web site prior to the live broadcast.
 
 
 
About Lexmark
Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) provides businesses and consumers in more than 150 countries with a broad range of printing and imaging products, solutions and services that help them to be more productive. In 2007, Lexmark reported $5.0 billion in revenue. Learn how Lexmark can help you get more done at .
www.lexmark.com
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements in this release which are not historical facts are forward-looking and involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, weak economic conditions, aggressive pricing from competitors and resellers, inability to be successful in the higher-usage segments of the inkjet market, the financial failure or loss of business with a key customer or reseller including loss of retail shelf placements, disruptions at important points of exit and entry and distribution centers, market acceptance of new products and pricing programs, periodic variations affecting revenue and profitability, the inability to meet customer product requirements on a cost competitive basis, failure to execute planned cost reduction measures, entrance into the market of additional competitors focused on printing solutions, increased investment to support product development and marketing, inability to perform under managed print services contracts, decreased supplies consumption, increased competition in the aftermarket supplies business, failure to successfully outsource the infrastructure support of information technology systems, failure to manage inventory levels or production capacity, unforeseen cost impacts as a result of new legislation, changes in the companys tax provisions or tax liabilities, fees on the companys products or litigation costs required to protect the companys rights, inability to obtain and protect the companys intellectual property and defend against claims of infringement and/or anticompetitive conduct, reliance on international production facilities, manufacturing partners and certain key suppliers, changes in a countrys political or economic conditions, conflicts among sales channels, the failure of information technology systems, business disruptions, currency fluctuations, terrorist acts, acts of war or other political conflicts, or the outbreak of a communicable disease, and other risks described in the companys Securities and Exchange Commission filings. The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
Lexmark and Lexmark with diamond design are trademarks of Lexmark International, Inc., registered in the U.S. and/or other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
All prices, features, specifications and capabilities are subject to change without notice.
ComputerBild Testsieger: Lexmark X9575 in ComputerBild Ausgabe 11/2008, Testergebnis: gut
1
All prices are estimated street prices in U.S. dollars  actual prices may vary.
2
802.11 b/g/n wireless network required for all wireless functions. Subject to the range and capabilities of your wireless router and access to electricity.
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


