FILE:LXK/LXK-8K-20080214163945.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
On February 14, 2008, the Company reported that on January 30, 2008 a fire occurred in one of the Company's sub-contracted distribution centers.  While we are still assessing what can be recovered, we believe we suffered a loss of inventory on inkjet products in the range of $18M to $25M, substantially all of which is inkjet hardware.  We believe that except for a $1M deductible, this loss will be covered by insurance.  Although there could be some impact to our revenue in the quarter as we work to restock the inventory, we currently do not believe that there will be a material adverse impact to earnings in the quarter due to this disruption.
This report shall not be deemed an admission as to the materiality of any information contained herein that is required to be disclosed solely by Regulation FD.
The information contained in this Current Report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Statements contained in this report which are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  Forward-looking statements are made based upon management's current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects upon the Company.  There can be no assurance that future developments affecting the Company will be those anticipated by management, and there are a number of factors that could adversely affect the Company's future operating results or cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from the estimates or expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements, such factors including, without limitation, the factors set forth in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.  The Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


