FILE:LXK/LXK-8K-20090113072507.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.05.                                Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
As part of its ongoing optimization of its cost and expense structure, on January 13, 2009, Lexmark International, Inc. (the Company) announced a restructuring plan (the 2009 Restructuring Plan).  The Company continually reviews its resources in light of a variety of factors, and has determined that it will restructure its workforce through elimination of certain functions on a worldwide basis.
The 2009 Restructuring Plan is expected to impact about 375 positions through the end of 2009.  The Company estimates the 2009 Restructuring Plan will result in total pre-tax charges of approximately $45 million, all of which will require cash.  Pre-tax charges of approximately $20 million will be recognized in the fourth quarter of 2008.  The Company expects the 2009 Restructuring Plan to be substantially completed by the end of 2009.  The Company currently estimates total annual cost savings as a result of the 2009 Restructuring Plan to be approximately $40 million in 2009 and $50 million thereafter.  The text of the press release announcing the 2009 Restructuring Plan is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 7.01.                                Regulation FD Disclosure
On January 13, 2009, Lexmark International, Inc. issued a press release revising its financial outlook for the fourth quarter of 2008 and announcing a 2009 Restructuring Plan.  The text of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.                                Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The information contained in this Current Report shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
The press release contains non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of Regulation G, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a registrants historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of income,
balance
 
 
sheet or statement of cash flows (or equivalent statements) of the issuer; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented. In this regard, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
Statements in this Current Report on Form 8-K which are not historical facts are forward-looking and involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to economic uncertainty and deteriorating worldwide economic conditions, including unprecedented financial market disruption; restrictions on credit globally; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; credit risk associated with the Companys customers, channel partners, and investment portfolio; aggressive pricing from competitors and resellers; excessive inventory for the Company and/or its reseller channel; failure to manage inventory levels or production capacity; inability to be successful in the higher-usage segments of the inkjet market; the financial failure or loss of business with a key customer or reseller including loss of retail shelf placements; market acceptance of new products and pricing programs; increased investment to support product development and marketing; periodic variations affecting revenue and profitability; the inability to meet customer product requirements on a cost competitive basis; failure to implement the workforce reductions in all of the various geographies affected and execute planned cost reduction measures; possible changes in the size and components of the expected restructuring costs, charges, and savings; entrance into the market of additional competitors focused on printing solutions; inability to perform under managed print services contracts; decreased supplies consumption; increased competition in the aftermarket supplies business; unforeseen cost impacts as a result of new legislation; changes in the companys tax provisions or tax liabilities; fees on the companys products or litigation costs required to protect the companys rights; inability to obtain and protect the companys intellectual property and defend against claims of infringement and/or anticompetitive conduct; reliance on international production facilities, manufacturing partners and certain key suppliers; changes in a countrys political conditions; conflicts among sales channels; the failure of information technology systems; disruptions at important points of exit and entry and distribution centers; business disruptions; terrorist acts; acts of war or other political conflicts; or the outbreak of a communicable disease; and other risks described in the companys Securities and Exchange Commission filings. The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Lexmark announces revised fourth quarter 2008 financial outlook, 2009 Restructuring Plan
LEXINGTON, Ky., Jan. 13, 2009  Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) announced that the weakening global economic environment impacted Lexmarks fourth quarter 2008 operating performance, which will be lower than expected.
The company currently expects its fourth quarter revenue to decline about 17 percent year over year. As compared to the company's October 2008 fourth quarter guidance of a revenue decline in the low to mid teens range, revenue has been negatively impacted by lower laser and inkjet hardware unit sales and currency rate shifts during the quarter.
The companys earnings per share for the quarter have been impacted by several factors including:
Lexmark now expects fourth quarter GAAP EPS to be in the range of $0.19 to $0.24 per share. Fourth quarter restructuring related charges will be about $0.52 per share, or about $0.22 per share higher than expected in the October 2008 guidance primarily due to this 2009 Restructuring Plan. The companys fourth quarter results are expected to include a tax benefit of about $0.30 per share. EPS excluding restructuring related charges are now expected to be $0.71 to $0.76 with the lower operating income impact being offset by the tax benefit. This compares to the October 2008 guidance range for EPS excluding restructuring of $0.70 to $0.80.
The 2009 Restructuring Plan is expected to impact about 375 positions. The company expects the 2009 Restructuring Plan will result in pre-tax charges of approximately $45 million. Restructuring charges in the fourth quarter of 2008 related to the 2009 Restructuring Plan were $20 million. Lexmark expects the 2009 Restructuring Plan to be substantially completed by the end of 2009 and currently expects total annualized cost savings of $50 million when completed, with approximately $40 million in savings in 2009.
Looking ahead, the company expects some of the same factors that impacted the fourth quarter to also impact the first quarter of 2009. In the first quarter the company currently expects a revenue decline in the mid to high teens percentage range, and GAAP
 
 
 
 
earnings per share to be around $0.52 to $0.62, or $0.65 to $0.75 excluding $0.13 restructuring related charges.
Conference Call Today
The company will be hosting a conference call with securities analysts today at 8:30 a.m. (EST). A live broadcast and a complete replay of this call can be accessed from Lexmark's investor relations Web site at http://investor.lexmark.com. If you are unable to connect to the Internet, you can access the call via telephone at 888-693-3477 (outside the U.S. by calling 973-582-2710) or the replay shortly afterward by calling 800-642-1687 (outside the U.S. by calling 706-645-9291) using access code 80631998. This telephone replay of the conference call will be available through Jan. 20, 2009.
Upon completion of this conference call, the company will have no comment on its fourth quarter results, first quarter guidance or restructuring until its earnings announcement scheduled for Tuesday, Jan. 27, 2009.
Upcoming Fourth Quarter Earnings Announcement Information
Lexmark plans to announce fourth quarter 2008 earnings on Tuesday, Jan. 27, 2009. A conference call is scheduled for 8:30 a.m. (EST) that morning. The live audio broadcast can be accessed from Lexmark's investor relations Web site at http://investor.lexmark.com. Shortly after the call on Jan. 27, 2009, a replay will be available on the investor relations Web site or by telephone at 800-642-1687 (outside the U.S. by calling 706-645-9291) using access code 80314259. This telephone replay of the conference call will be available through Feb. 3, 2009.
About Lexmark
Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) provides businesses and consumers in more than 150 countries with a broad range of printing and imaging products, solutions and services that help them to be more productive. In 2007, Lexmark reported $5.0 billion in revenue. Learn how Lexmark can help you get more done at .
www.lexmark.com
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements in this release which are not historical facts are forward-looking and involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, weak economic conditions, aggressive pricing from competitors and resellers, inability to be successful in the higher-usage segments of the inkjet market, the financial failure or loss of business with a key customer or reseller including loss of retail shelf placements, disruptions at important points of exit and entry and distribution centers, market acceptance of new products and pricing programs, periodic variations affecting revenue and profitability, the inability to meet customer product requirements on a cost competitive basis, failure to execute planned cost reduction measures, entrance into the market of additional competitors focused on printing solutions, increased investment to support product development and marketing, inability to perform under managed print services contracts, ability of customers to terminate managed print services agreements for convenience prior to the expiration of the contract period, decreased supplies consumption, increased competition in the aftermarket supplies business, failure to successfully outsource the infrastructure support of information technology systems, failure to manage inventory levels or production capacity, unforeseen cost impacts as a result of new legislation, fees on the companys products or litigation costs required to protect the companys rights, inability to obtain and protect the companys intellectual property and defend against claims of infringement and/or anticompetitive conduct, reliance on international production facilities, manufacturing partners and certain key suppliers, changes in a countrys political or economic conditions, conflicts among sales channels, the failure of information technology systems, changes in the companys tax provisions or tax liabilities, business disruptions, currency fluctuations, terrorist acts, acts of war or other political conflicts, or the outbreak of a communicable disease, and other risks described in the companys Securities and Exchange Commission filings. The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
Lexmark and Lexmark with diamond design are trademarks of Lexmark International, Inc., registered in the U.S. and/or other countries.  All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.


