FILE:LXK/LXK-8K-20091020070836.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02.                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 20, 2009, Lexmark International, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2009. The text of the press release announcing the financial results and the Supplemental Information Slides providing additional financial information are furnished herewith as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 2.05.                      Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
As part of Lexmarks ongoing plans to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of all of our operations, the company announced additional restructuring actions today.  The company continues its focus on refining its selling and service organization, reducing its general and administrative expenses, consolidating its cartridge manufacturing capacity, and enhancing the efficiency of its supply chain infrastructure. The actions taken will reduce cost and expense across the organization, with a focus in manufacturing and supply chain, service delivery overhead, marketing and sales support, corporate overhead and development positions as well as reducing cost through consolidation of facilities in supply chain and cartridge manufacturing.  The company expects these actions to be principally complete by the end of the first quarter of 2011.
These October 2009 actions are expected to impact about 825 positions worldwide and will result in total pre-tax charges of approximately $120 million with approximately $55 million to be incurred in 2009, and $65 million in 2010  2011.  The company incurred $33 million in charges related to this restructuring in 3Q09.  The company expects the total cash cost of this plan to be approximately $105 million.
Lexmark expects these October 2009 actions to generate savings of approximately $2 million in 2009, $70 million in 2010 and ongoing savings beginning in 2011 of approximately $110 million.  These ongoing savings should be split approximately 60% to operating expense and 40% to cost of goods sold.  Ongoing cash savings of approximately $105 million are expected beginning in 2011.
Item 9.01.                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)      Exhibits
   Exhibit No.                   Description of Exhibit
The information contained in this Current Report shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act) or
 
 
 
 
 
otherwise subject to the liability of that section, or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
The press release contains non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of Regulation G, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a registrants historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of income, balance sheet or statement of cash flows (or equivalent statements) of the issuer; or includes amounts, or
is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented. In this regard, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations between the GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures contained in the press release in the financial statements attached thereto and in the Supplemental Information Slides posted on the Companys investor relations website, each of which are filed herewith as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Exhibit No.                      Description of Exhibit
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Lexmark reports third quarter results
LEXINGTON, Ky., October 20, 2009 Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) today announced financial results for the third quarter of 2009. Third quarter revenue of $958 million increased 6 percent sequentially compared to the second quarter of 2009 and decreased 15 percent compared to the same quarter last year.
Third quarter GAAP earnings per share were $0.13. Excluding $0.52 per share for restructuring-related activities which includes $0.34 per share for the additional restructuring-related activities the company is announcing today, earnings per share for the third quarter of 2009 would have been $0.65. Third quarter 2008 GAAP earnings per share were $0.42. Earnings per share for the third quarter of 2008 would have been $0.63 excluding $0.21 per share for restructuring-related activities.
Stronger than expected customer demand drove good sequential growth for Lexmark, exceeding our expectations in the third quarter, said Paul J. Curlander, Lexmark chairman and chief executive officer.
We also continued to improve the fundamentals of the business with well received new product introductions in both the inkjet and laser segments. We continued significant expense reductions now totaling $180 million year to date and today announced additional expense and cost actions. We delivered a strong sequential increase in our cash flow, and our overall financial position remains strong with over $900 million in cash and current marketable securities, Curlander added.
 
Third quarter Printing Solutions and Services Division revenue of $654 million was up 5 percent sequentially compared to the second quarter of 2009 and declined 14 percent year to year. Imaging Solutions Division revenue of $304 million was up 8 percent sequentially compared to the second quarter of 2009 and declined 18 percent compared to a year ago.
 
 
 
In the third quarter of 2009:
On a non-GAAP basis, excluding restructuring-related charges, in the third quarter of 2009:
The company ended the quarter with $909 million in cash and current marketable securities. Third quarter net cash provided by operating activities was $147 million. Capital expenditures for the quarter were $51 million. Depreciation and amortization in the quarter was $52 million.
New Lasers Broaden, Strengthen Laser Workgroup Lineup
Earlier this month, Lexmark announced ten new color and monochrome laser devices further strengthening and broadening Lexmark's workgroup line to meet a wider range of customer needs. This announcement includes the introduction of another industry first with a new solutions-ready, touch screen laser printer. Lexmark's T656dne monochrome laser printer is the industry's first single-function monochrome A4 (8.5 inch x 11 inch) laser printer with a touch screen, providing businesses with large workgroups the ability to tap into a powerful solutions platform. The innovative features and advanced workflow capabilities of the Lexmark T656dne enable Lexmark to penetrate a new category of higher price point monochrome single function laser printers.
The laser products and solutions announced by Lexmark over the past year represent the most extensive series of laser product introductions in the companys history. These new models have dramatically increased the breadth and strength of Lexmarks laser printer-based solutions and services offerings, better positioning the company to secure high value product installations to capture profitable supplies and services annuities in print-intensive workgroup environments.
Lexmark Announces Additional Restructuring Actions
Lexmark is announcing additional restructuring initiatives designed to streamline its world-wide organization to improve operating efficiencies and effectiveness. The company continues to focus on refining its selling and service organization, reducing its general and administrative expenses, consolidating its cartridge manufacturing capacity, and enhancing the efficiency of its supply chain infrastructure. These moves will allow
 
 
 
the company to better deal with the challenging worldwide economic conditions that continue to exist.  Once completed, the initiatives will improve the companys operating fundamentals and position the company to capitalize on long-term growth opportunities.
This October 2009 plan includes reductions primarily in the areas of manufacturing and supply chain, service delivery overhead, marketing and sales support, corporate overhead, and development. The company expects these actions to be principally complete by the end of the first quarter of 2011.
These October 2009 actions are expected to impact about 825 positions worldwide and will result in total pre-tax charges of approximately $120 million with approximately $33 million incurred in the third quarter of 2009. Lexmark expects these October 2009 actions will generate savings of approximately $70 million in 2010 and ongoing savings of $110 million beginning in 2011 with approximately 60 percent impacting operating expense and 40 percent impacting cost of goods sold.
Looking Forward
In the fourth quarter of 2009, the company currently expects revenue to be up slightly sequentially and GAAP earnings per share to be around $0.11 to $0.21, or $0.50 to $0.60 excluding $0.39 restructuring-related charges. GAAP earnings per share in the fourth quarter of 2008 were $0.23, or $0.75 excluding $0.52 per share for restructuring-related activities.
Conference Call Today
The company will be hosting a conference call with securities analysts today at 8:30 a.m. (EDT). A live broadcast and a complete replay of this call can be accessed from Lexmarks investor relations Web site at . If you are unable to connect to the Internet, you can access the call via telephone at 888-693-3477 (outside the U.S. by calling 973-582-2710) using access code 31868965.
http://investor.lexmark.com
Supplemental information slides, including reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, will be available on Lexmarks investor relations Web site prior to the live broadcast.
 
About Lexmark
Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) provides businesses of all sizes with a broad range of printing and imaging products, solutions and services that help them to be more productive. In 2008, Lexmark sold products in over 150 countries and reported $4.5 billion in revenue. Learn how Lexmark can help you get more done at .
www.lexmark.com
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements in this release which are not historical facts are forward-looking and involve risks and uncertainties which may cause the companys actual results or performance to be materially different from the results or performance expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Factors that may impact such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, continued economic uncertainty related to the severity and duration of the worldwide recession; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; inability to be successful in the higher-usage segments of the inkjet market; the financial failure or loss of business with a key customer or reseller, including loss of retail shelf placements; market acceptance of new products and pricing programs; increased investment to support product development and marketing; periodic variations affecting revenue and profitability; excessive inventory for the Company and/or its reseller channel; failure to manage inventory levels or production capacity; restrictions on credit globally; credit risk associated with the Companys customers, channel partners, and investment portfolio; aggressive pricing from competitors and resellers; the inability to meet customer product requirements on a cost competitive basis; failure to execute planned cost reduction measures; possible changes in the size of expected restructuring costs, charges, and savings; entrance into the market of additional competitors focused on printing solutions; inability to perform under managed print services contracts; decreased supplies consumption;
 
 
 
increased competition in the aftermarket supplies business; unforeseen cost impacts as a result of new legislation; changes in the Companys tax provisions or tax liabilities; fees on the Companys products or litigation costs required to protect the Companys rights; inability to obtain and protect the Companys intellectual property and defend against claims of infringement and/or anticompetitive conduct; reliance on international production facilities, manufacturing partners and certain key suppliers; changes in a countrys political conditions; conflicts among sales channels; the failure of information technology systems; disruptions at important points of exit and entry and distribution centers; business disruptions; terrorist acts; acts of war or other political conflicts; or the outbreak of a communicable disease; and other risks described in the companys Securities and Exchange Commission filings. The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
Lexmark and Lexmark with diamond design are trademarks of Lexmark International, Inc., registered in the U.S. and/or other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix 1
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


