FILE:LXK/LXK-8K-20090127073548.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02.                     Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On January 27, 2009, Lexmark International, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2008. The text of the press release announcing the financial results and the Supplemental Information Slides providing additional financial information are furnished herewith as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.                    Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)   Exhibits
Exhibit No.              Description of Exhibit
The information contained in this Current Report shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
The press release contains non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of Regulation G, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a registrants historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of income, balance sheet or statement of cash flows (or equivalent statements) of the issuer; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented. In this regard, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations between the GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures contained in the press release in the financial statements attached thereto and in the Supplemental Information Slides posted on the Companys investor relations website, each of which are filed herewith as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Exhibit No.                                Description of Exhibit

 
 
Exhibit 99.1
 
Investor Contact:
John Morgan
(859) 232-5568
jmorgan@lexmark.com
Media Contact:
Jerry Grasso
(859) 232-3546
ggrasso@lexmark.com
Lexmark reports fourth quarter and full year results
Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) today announced financial results for the fourth quarter of 2008. The companys fourth quarter 2008 revenue and operating income were negatively impacted by global economic weakness and significant currency rate shifts. Fourth quarter revenue was $1.08 billion, down 17 percent compared to revenue of $1.31 billion last year.
LEXINGTON,
Ky
.,
 
Jan. 27, 2009 
 
Fourth quarter GAAP earnings per share of $0.23 include a net benefit in the companys provision for income taxes of $0.29 per share. Excluding $0.52 per share for restructuring-related activities, earnings per share for the fourth quarter of 2008 would have been $0.75. Fourth quarter 2007 GAAP earnings per share were $1.04. Earnings per share for the fourth quarter of 2007 would have been $1.29 excluding $0.25 per share for restructuring-related activities.
In response to the current market conditions, Lexmark continues to take actions that will reduce our fixed infrastructure and business support costs, which are projected to generate savings of over $100 million in 2009, said Paul J. Curlander, Lexmark chairman and chief executive officer.  We have a conservative capital structure, a solid balance sheet, with nearly $1 billion in cash and current marketable securities, and a long history of good cash generation, all of which positions us well to prudently invest in the future and successfully compete.
In addition, we continue to focus on helping our customers generate significant savings in their output costs through our growing managed print services business and innovative, award-winning products, Curlander said.
Fourth quarter business segment revenue of $718 million declined 10 percent year to year. Consumer segment revenue of $366 million declined 28 percent compared to a year ago.
 
In the fourth quarter of 2008:
 
 
 
On a non-GAAP basis, excluding restructuring-related charges, in the fourth quarter of 2008:
The company ended the quarter with $973 million in cash and current marketable securities. Fourth quarter net cash provided by operating activities was $53 million. Capital expenditures for the quarter were $67 million. Depreciation and amortization in the quarter was $53 million. Lexmark repurchased $122.5 million (5.2 million shares) of stock during the fourth quarter. The companys remaining share repurchase authorization was approximately $491 million at quarter end.
Full-year Results
2008 revenue was $4.53 billion, down 9 percent compared to revenue of $4.97 billion in 2007. 2008 business segment revenue declined 1 percent to $2.98 billion, and consumer segment revenue declined 22 percent to $1.55 billion. 2008 GAAP earnings per share were $2.69. Excluding $0.86 per share restructuring-related charges, earnings per share would have been $3.55.  2007 GAAP earnings per share were $3.14. 2007 earnings per share would have been $3.50 excluding $0.36 per share restructuring-related charges.
 
 
2008 net cash provided by operating activities was $482 million, marking the companys seventh consecutive year in excess of $450 million. Capital expenditures for the year were $218 million. Depreciation and amortization in 2008 was $205 million. The company repurchased approximately 17.5 million shares of its stock during the year for $555 million.
New Lasers Earn Nearly 70 Industry Awards and Accolades in Quarter
Each of the 38 laser models announced in October 2008 was the recipient of a product award from a third party reviewer of document imaging equipment. These new laser models when combined have earned nearly 70 industry awards and broad recognition from top technology publications and testing houses. Additionally during the quarter,
 
 
Lexmark received channel recognition for the companys industry solutions. Accolades for the quarter include:
Monochrome Lasers
Color Lasers
MFPs
Channel Solutions
Inkjet Products Continue to Receive Top Honors
Lexmark's 2008 Professional and Home and Student Series inkjet all-in-ones (AIOs) continued to receive awards and honors from industry-leading publications around the world:
Looking Forward
Looking ahead, the company expects some of the same factors that impacted the fourth quarter to also impact the first quarter of 2009. In the first quarter, the company currently expects a revenue decline in the mid to high teens percentage range, and GAAP earnings per share to be around $0.52 to $0.62, or $0.65 to $0.75 excluding $0.13
 
restructuring-related charges. GAAP EPS in the first quarter of 2008 were $1.07, or $1.16 excluding $0.09 per share for restructuring-related activities.
Conference Call Today
The company will be hosting a conference call with securities analysts today at 8:30 a.m. (EST). A live broadcast and a complete replay of this call can be accessed from Lexmarks investor relations Web site at . If you are unable to connect to the Internet, you can access the call via telephone at 888-693-3477 (outside the U.S. by calling 973-582-2710) or the replay shortly afterward by calling 800-642-1687 (outside the U.S. by calling 706-645-9291) using access code 80314259. This telephone replay of the conference call will be available through Feb. 3, 2009.
http://investor.lexmark.com
Supplemental information slides, including reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, will be available on Lexmarks investor relations Web site prior to the live broadcast.
About Lexmark
Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) provides businesses and consumers in more than 150 countries with a broad range of printing and imaging products, solutions and services that help them to be more productive. In 2008, Lexmark reported $4.5 billion in revenue. Learn how Lexmark can help you get more done at .
www.lexmark.com
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements in this release which are not historical facts are forward-looking and involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, economic uncertainty and deteriorating worldwide economic conditions, including unprecedented financial market disruption; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; excessive inventory for the Company and/or its reseller channel; failure to manage inventory levels or production capacity; restrictions on credit globally; credit risk associated with the Companys customers, channel partners, and investment portfolio; aggressive pricing from competitors and resellers; inability to be successful in the higher-usage segments of the inkjet market; the financial failure or loss of business with a key customer or reseller, including loss of retail shelf placements; market acceptance of new products and pricing programs; increased investment to support product development and marketing; periodic variations affecting revenue and profitability; the inability to meet customer product requirements on a cost competitive basis; failure to implement workforce reductions and execute planned cost reduction measures; possible changes in the size of expected restructuring costs, charges, and savings; entrance into the market of additional competitors focused on printing solutions; inability to perform under managed print services contracts; decreased supplies consumption; increased competition in the aftermarket supplies business; unforeseen cost impacts as a result of new legislation; changes in the Companys tax provisions or tax liabilities; fees on the Companys products or litigation costs required to protect the Companys rights; inability to obtain and protect the Companys intellectual property and defend against claims of infringement and/or anticompetitive conduct; reliance on international production facilities, manufacturing partners and certain key suppliers; changes in a countrys political conditions; conflicts among sales channels; the failure of information technology systems; disruptions at important points of exit and entry and distribution centers; business disruptions; terrorist acts; acts of war or other political conflicts; or the outbreak of a communicable disease; and other risks described in the companys Securities and Exchange Commission filings. The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
Lexmark and Lexmark with diamond design are trademarks of Lexmark International, Inc., registered in the U.S. and/or other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
 
 
 

 
                                                                                                                                                                     0;                                                                                                                                                                          & #160;                               Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


