FILE:LXK/LXK-8K-20090828160211.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
This Form 8-K/A amends the Form 8-K filed by Lexmark International, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the Company) on August 21, 2009, to reflect an increase from $275 million to $300 million in the maximum amount available to the Company under the revolving credit facility.  Other than as described below, the disclosure contained in this Form 8-K/A is in addition to, and does not supersede or replace, the disclosure contained in the original Form 8-K filed on August 21, 2009.
Item 1.01.              Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On August 26, 2009, the Company exercised its option (the Accordion Option) to increase the maximum amount available under the 3-year Credit Agreement (the Credit Agreement), effective as of August 17, 2009, by and among the Company, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Bank of America, N.A. as Syndication Agent, and Citibank, N.A. and SunTrust Bank as Co-Documentation Agents and each other institutional lender signatory thereto. The Credit Agreement, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K/A, is incorporated herein by reference.  A summary of the terms of the Credit Agreement was contained in the Companys Form 8-K filed on August 21, 2009.
The Company exercised its Accordion Option under the Credit Agreement by entering into two Commitment and Acceptance Agreements (the Commitment Agreements), effective as of August 26, 2009. The Commitment Agreements increase the available revolving credit facility under the Credit Agreement from $275 million to $300 million, and Schedule 2.01 of the Credit Agreement, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.2, has been amended to reflect the additional commitments. All other terms of the Credit Agreement remain the same. The foregoing summary of the terms of each Commitment Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to said Commitment Agreements, which are filed as Exhibits 10.3 and 10.4 to this Current Report on Form 8-K/A, and are incorporated herein by reference.
As of the filing date of this Current Report, there are no loans or letters of credit outstanding under the Credit Agreement.
The information provided under Item 1.01 of this report is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
Item 9.01.             Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)      Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
EXECUTION COPY
Reference is made to the Credit Agreement dated as of August 17, 2009 (as amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the ) among Lexmark International, Inc. (the ), the financial institutions party thereto (the ), and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. in its capacity as contractual representative for the Lenders (the ).  Terms defined in the Credit Agreement are used herein with the same meaning.
Credit Agreement
Borrower
Lenders
Agent
Pursuant to Section 2.20 of the Credit Agreement, the Borrower has requested an increase in the Aggregate Commitment from $275,000,000 to $300,000,000.  Such increase in the Aggregate Commitment is to become effective on the date (the ) which is the later of (i) August 26, 2009 and (ii) the date on which the conditions precedent set forth in Section 2.20 in respect of such increase have been satisfied.  In connection with such requested increase in the Aggregate Commitment, the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and Banco Bradesco S.A.  New York Branch (the ) hereby agree as follows:
Effective Date
Accepting Bank
1.           Effective as of the Effective Date, the Accepting Bank shall become a party to the Credit Agreement as a Lender and shall have all of the rights and obligations of a Lender thereunder and shall thereupon have a Commitment under and for purposes of the Credit Agreement in an amount equal to the amount set forth opposite the Accepting Banks name on the signature page hereof.
2.           The Accepting Bank hereby (i) confirms that it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement, together with copies of the financial statements and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Commitment and Acceptance Agreement; (ii) agrees that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Credit Agreement; (iii) appoints and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such action as contractual representative on its behalf and to exercise such powers under the Credit Agreement as are delegated to the Agent by the terms thereof, together with such powers as are reasonably incidental thereto; and (iv) agrees that it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Credit Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
3.           The Borrower hereby represents and warrants that as of the date hereof and as of the Effective Date, (a) all representations and warranties under Article III of the Credit Agreement shall be true and correct in all material respects as though made on such date (except for representations and warranties for which exceptions thereto have been disclosed in writing to the Administrative Agent and which have been approved in writing by the Required Lenders or expressly relate to an earlier specified date) and (b) no event shall have occurred and then be continuing which constitutes a Default or an Event of Default.
4.  THIS COMMITMENT AND ACCEPTANCE AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
 
 
 
5.  This Commitment and Acceptance Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
 
2 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Commitment and Acceptance Agreement to be executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the date first above written.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.4
EXECUTION COPY
Reference is made to the Credit Agreement dated as of August 17, 2009 (as amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the ) among Lexmark International, Inc. (the ), the financial institutions party thereto (the ), and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. in its capacity as contractual representative for the Lenders (the ).  Terms defined in the Credit Agreement are used herein with the same meaning.
Credit Agreement
Borrower
Lenders
Agent
Pursuant to Section 2.20 of the Credit Agreement, the Borrower has requested an increase in the Aggregate Commitment from $275,000,000 to $300,000,000.  Such increase in the Aggregate Commitment is to become effective on the date (the ) which is the later of (i) August 26, 2009 and (ii) the date on which the conditions precedent set forth in Section 2.20 in respect of such increase have been satisfied.  In connection with such requested increase in the Aggregate Commitment, the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and Bank of America, N.A. (the ) hereby agree as follows:
Effective Date
Accepting Bank
1.           Effective as of the Effective Date, the Commitment of the Accepting Bank under the Credit Agreement shall be increased from $45,000,000 to the amount set forth opposite the Accepting Banks name on the signature page hereof.
2.           The Borrower hereby represents and warrants that as of the date hereof and as of the Effective Date, (a) all representations and warranties under Article III of the Credit Agreement shall be true and correct in all material respects as though made on such date (except for representations and warranties for which exceptions thereto have been disclosed in writing to the Administrative Agent and which have been approved in writing by the Required Lenders or expressly relate to an earlier specified date) and (b) no event shall have occurred and then be continuing which constitutes a Default or an Event of Default.
3.  THIS COMMITMENT AND ACCEPTANCE AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
4.  This Commitment and Acceptance Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Commitment and Acceptance Agreement to be executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the date first above written.


