FILE:LXK/LXK-8K-20100202073034.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02.                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On February 2, 2010, Lexmark International, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2009. The text of the press release announcing the financial results and the Supplemental Information Slides providing additional financial information are furnished herewith as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)      Exhibits
   Exhibit No.                       Description of Exhibit
The information contained in this Current Report shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
The press release contains non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of Regulation G, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a registrants historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of income, balance sheet or statement of cash flows (or equivalent statements) of the issuer; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented. In this regard, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations between the GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures contained in the press release in the financial statements attached thereto and in the Supplemental Information Slides posted on the Companys investor relations website, each of which are filed herewith as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Exhibit No.                      Description of Exhibit

Exhibit 99.1
 
Lexmark reports fourth quarter and full year results
LEXINGTON, Ky., Feb. 2, 2010 Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) today announced financial results for the fourth quarter of 2009. Fourth quarter revenue of $1.07 billion increased 12 percent sequentially compared to the third quarter of 2009 and decreased 1 percent compared to the same quarter last year.
Fourth quarter GAAP earnings per share were $0.76. Excluding $0.40 per share for restructuring-related activities, earnings per share for the fourth quarter of 2009 would have been $1.16. Fourth quarter 2008 GAAP earnings per share were $0.23. Earnings per share for the fourth quarter of 2008 would have been $0.75 excluding $0.52 per share for restructuring-related activities.
"Lexmarks fourth quarter results were significantly better than anticipated, reflecting strong sequential improvements in customer demand, which were enhanced by the strength of the new products we introduced over the past year, said Paul J. Curlander, Lexmark's chairman and chief executive officer.
"During the quarter, we continued to strengthen our business model through the implementation of our restructuring and expense reductions, which delivered over $200 million of expense savings in 2009. These actions, along with the increased customer demand, helped us to deliver strong sequential and year over year improvements in operating income and cash flow. Our ongoing financial position remains strong with over $1.1 billion in cash and current marketable securities," Curlander said.
 
Fourth quarter Printing Solutions and Services Division revenue of $748 million grew 14 percent sequentially compared to the third quarter of 2009 and grew 4 percent year to year. Imaging Solutions Division revenue of $325 million grew 7 percent sequentially compared to the third quarter of 2009 and declined 11 percent compared to a year ago.
 
 
 
The company ended the quarter with over $1.1 billion in cash and current marketable securities. Fourth quarter net cash provided by operating activities was $257 million. Capital expenditures for the quarter were $45 million. Depreciation and amortization in the quarter was $56 million.
In the fourth quarter of 2009:
On a non-GAAP basis, excluding restructuring-related charges, in the fourth quarter of 2009:
Full-year Results
2009 revenue was $3.88 billion, down 14 percent compared to 2008. 2009 Printing Solutions and Services Division revenue declined 12 percent to $2.62 billion, and Imaging Solutions Division revenue declined 19 percent to $1.26 billion.
2009 GAAP earnings per share were $1.86. Excluding $1.40 per share restructuring-related charges, earnings per share would have been $3.26. 2008 GAAP earnings per share were $2.69. 2008 earnings per share would have been $3.55 excluding $0.86 per share restructuring-related charges.
2009 net cash provided by operating activities was $402 million, marking the companys 17 consecutive year of positive cash generation and 8 consecutive year over $400 million. Capital expenditures for the year were $242 million. Depreciation and amortization for the year was $214 million.
th
th
 
 
 
New Products Strengthen Presence in Target Segments
The laser products and solutions announced by Lexmark over the past 15 months represent the most extensive series of laser product introductions in the companys history. These new models have dramatically increased the breadth and strength of Lexmarks laser printer-based devices, solutions and services offerings, better positioning the company to secure high value product installations to capture profitable supplies and services annuities in print-intensive workgroup environments.
In 2009, Lexmarks lasers won more than three times as many laser awards in the U.S. as any of its competitors. Throughout the year the company continued to see good growth in its managed print services business as it continues to help enterprise customers lower their costs, improve their document-based processes and reduce their environmental footprint due to printing.
1
In 2009, Lexmark continued moving the deployment of its award-winning inkjet technology upstream to a higher page generating, business focused customer set. Lexmark significantly expanded its retail footprint in the office superstore and regional consumer electronics store segments in North America. In the third quarter, the company launched a line of higher end all-in-ones focused on meeting the needs of small to medium-sized businesses. Lexmarks inkjet products became the second most awarded line in the U.S. in 2009, a significant improvement over 2008, reflecting the ongoing evolution and improvement in Lexmarks new inkjet products. Notably, the Lexmark Platinum Pro905 was recently named a CES Engineering Innovation Honoree.
1
Looking Forward
In the first quarter of 2010, the company currently expects revenue to be up slightly year on year and GAAP earnings per share to be around $0.64 to $0.74, based on an effective tax rate of 24 percent, or $0.80 to $0.90 excluding $0.16 per share restructuring-related charges. GAAP earnings per share in the first quarter of 2009 were $0.75 with an effective tax rate of 16 percent, or $0.89 excluding $0.14 per share for restructuring-related activities.
Conference Call Today
The company will be hosting a conference call with securities analysts today at 8:30 a.m. (EST). A live broadcast and a complete replay of this call can be accessed from Lexmarks investor relations Web site at . If you are unable to connect to the Internet, you can access the call via telephone at 888-693-3477 (outside the U.S. by calling 973-582-2710) using access code 51974057.
http://investor.lexmark.com
Supplemental information slides, including reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, will be available on Lexmarks investor relations Web site prior to the live broadcast.
 
About Lexmark
Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) provides businesses of all sizes with a broad range of printing and imaging products, solutions and services that help them to be more productive. In 2009, Lexmark sold products in more than 150 countries and reported $3.9 billion in revenue. Learn how Lexmark can help you get more done at .
www.lexmark.com
 
 
 
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements in this release which are not historical facts are forward-looking and involve risks and uncertainties which may cause the companys actual results or performance to be materially different from the results or performance expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Factors that may impact such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, continued volatility of the global economy, inability to be successful in the Companys transition to higher-usage segments of the inkjet market; failure to execute planned cost reduction measures; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; the financial failure or loss of business with a key customer or reseller, including loss of retail shelf placements; market acceptance of new products and pricing programs; increased investment to support product development and marketing; periodic variations affecting revenue and profitability; excessive inventory for the Company and/or its reseller channel; failure to manage inventory levels or production capacity; credit risk associated with the Companys customers, channel partners, and investment portfolio; aggressive pricing from competitors and resellers; the inability to meet customer product requirements on a cost competitive basis; possible changes in the size of expected restructuring costs, charges, and savings; entrance into the market of additional competitors focused on printing solutions; inability to perform under managed print services contracts; decreased supplies consumption; increased competition in the aftermarket supplies business; unforeseen cost impacts as a result of new legislation; changes in the Companys tax provisions or tax liabilities; fees on the Companys products or litigation costs required to protect the Companys rights; inability to protect the Companys intellectual property rights and defend against claims of infringement and/or anticompetitive conduct; reliance on international production facilities, manufacturing partners and certain key suppliers; changes in a countrys political conditions; conflicts among sales channels; the failure of information technology systems; disruptions at important points of exit and entry and distribution centers; business disruptions; terrorist acts; acts of war or other political conflicts; or the outbreak of a communicable disease; and other risks described in the companys Securities and Exchange Commission filings. The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
Lexmark and Lexmark with diamond design are trademarks of Lexmark International, Inc., registered in the U.S. and/or other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
Based on internal assessments of leading U.S. tech publications and test laboratories.
1
For more information, see the and the .
"Lexmark" Facebook page
"LexmarkNews" Twitter feed
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LEXMARK INTERNATIONAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


