FILE:LXK/LXK-8K-20100427073338.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02.                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 27, 2010, Lexmark International, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release announcing its financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2010. The text of the press release announcing the financial results and the Supplemental Information Slides providing additional financial information are furnished herewith as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)      Exhibits
   Exhibit No.                       Description of Exhibit
The information contained in this Current Report shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
The press release contains non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of Regulation G, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a registrants historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of income, balance sheet or statement of cash flows (or equivalent statements) of the issuer; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented. In this regard, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations between the GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures contained in the press release in the financial statements attached thereto and in the Supplemental Information Slides posted on the Companys investor relations website, each of which are filed herewith as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Exhibit No.                      Description of Exhibit

Exhibit 99.1
Lexmark reports first quarter results
LEXINGTON, Ky.,Apr. 27, 2010  Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) today announced financial results for the first quarter of 2010. First quarter revenue of $1.04 billion increased 10 percent compared to the same quarter last year. First quarter revenue declined 3 percent sequentially from the fourth quarter of 2009.
 
First quarter GAAP earnings per share were $1.20. Excluding $0.15 per share for restructuring-related activities, earnings per share for the first quarter of 2010 would have been $1.35. First quarter 2009 GAAP earnings per share were $0.75. Earnings per share for the first quarter of 2009 would have been $0.89 excluding $0.14 per share for restructuring-related activities.
"Lexmark's first quarter results were significantly better than expected, reflecting strong customer demand for our hardware and supplies products," said Paul J. Curlander, Lexmark chairman and chief executive officer.
"In addition to improved market conditions, these strong results were also driven by the many actions we've taken over the last two years to expand and strengthen our product line, to advance our solutions and managed print services business, and to reduce our cost and expense infrastructure," Curlander added.
First quarter Printing Solutions and Services Division (PSSD) revenue of $717 million grew by 20 percent and Imaging Solutions Division (ISD) revenue of $326 million declined 6 percent year to year. Sequentially compared to the fourth quarter of 2009, PSSD revenue declined by 4 percent and ISD revenue grew slightly.
The company ended the quarter with over $1.2 billion in cash and current marketable securities. First quarter net cash provided by operating activities of $146 million compared to an $86 million use of cash in the same quarter last year. Capital expenditures for the quarter were $43 million. Depreciation and amortization in the quarter was $46 million.
 
 
 
In the first quarter of 2010:
On a non-GAAP basis, excluding restructuring-related charges, in the first quarter of 2010:
Recent Managed Print Services (MPS) wins highlight Lexmarks competitive strength
During the first quarter, Lexmark and Cummins Inc. announced a multimillion dollar, global MPS agreement for a period of five-and-one-half years. The agreement includes the deployment of color and monochrome laser printers and multifunction products (MFPs) and the management and maintenance of those devices throughout 33 locations worldwide. A second phase of the agreement, underway now, includes extending the Lexmark platform to an additional 40 countries worldwide. "Cummins conducted an extensive review of output technology and services providers and ultimately chose Lexmark because of the company's deep experience with driving large scale and complex global print management initiatives," said Bruce Smith, director of Computing Services at Cummins. Lexmark has already replaced Cummins existing fleet of competitors devices with new Lexmark equipment around the world.
Also during the first quarter, BB&T Corporation awarded an exclusive, five-year MPS contract to Lexmark. Lexmark was evaluated and selected in a strategic sourcing event from among many other printing and imaging providers. As part of the agreement, Lexmark will standardize and optimize the number and type of output devices throughout BB&Ts 1,800+ retail branches and at its headquarters. Lexmark expects to reduce the total number of devices at BB&T from 30,000 competitive devices to approximately 10,000 new Lexmark laser printers and multifunction MFPs in support of the company's cost savings and business initiatives. Lexmarks extensive managed print services capabilities and experience became clear to BB&T during this print optimization project, said Ken Hernandez of Enterprise Spend Management at BB&T. We selected Lexmark because of the companys thought leadership and the clear experience they have to drive this type of initiative successfully. Lexmarks strong technology offering and competitive pricing make them the right choice for BB&T.
New professional series inkjet focused on needs of business users
As part of the companys ongoing strategic shift to focus its inkjet technology on the needs of higher usage business customers, Lexmark introduced a new addition to its award-winning line of professional all-in-one (AIO) inkjet printers during the first quarter. Pinnacle, priced at $299.99, was announced at the Fifth Annual Small Business Summit 2010, where it was immediately awarded a 2010 Hot Tech Demo Award. Like the other Professional Series AIOs in Lexmarks line, Pinnacle is designed to help small to medium-sized businesses increase productivity while saving them time and valuable resources. Additionally, Pinnacle features 4-in-1 capability, a Web-connected, easy-to-navigate 4.3 inch capacitive touch screen, and as highlighted in Lexmarks recently launched national advertising campaign, the worlds lowest-cost black ink.
1
2
3
 
 
 
Looking Forward
In the second quarter of 2010, the company currently expects revenue to be up in the mid to high-single digit percentage range year on year and GAAP earnings per share to be around $0.71 to $0.81, based on an effective tax rate of 23 percent, or $0.85 to $0.95 excluding $0.14 per share for restructuring-related activities. GAAP earnings per share in the second quarter of 2009 were $0.22 with an effective tax rate of 18 percent, or $0.55 excluding $0.33 per share for restructuring-related activities.
Conference Call Today
The company will be hosting a conference call with securities analysts today at 8:30 a.m. (EDT). A live broadcast and a complete replay of this call can be accessed from Lexmarks investor relations Web site at . If you are unable to connect to the Internet, you can access the call via telephone at 888-693-3477 (outside the U.S. by calling 973-582-2710) using access code 68757279.
http://investor.lexmark.com
Supplemental information slides, including reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, will be available on Lexmarks investor relations Web site prior to the live broadcast.
 
About Lexmark
Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) provides businesses of all sizes with a broad range of printing and imaging products, solutions and services that help them to be more productive. In 2009, Lexmark sold products in more than 150 countries and reported approximately $4 billion in revenue. Learn how Lexmark can help you get more done at .
www.lexmark.com
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements in this release which are not historical facts are forward-looking and involve risks and uncertainties which may cause the companys actual results or performance to be materially different from the results or performance expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Factors that may impact such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, continued volatility of the global economy, inability to be successful in the Companys transition to higher-usage segments of the inkjet market; failure to execute planned cost reduction measures; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; the financial failure or loss of business with a key customer or reseller, including loss of retail shelf placements; market acceptance of new products and pricing programs; increased investment to support product development and marketing; periodic variations affecting revenue and profitability; excessive inventory for the Company and/or its reseller channel; failure to manage inventory levels or production capacity; credit risk associated with the Companys customers, channel partners, and investment portfolio; aggressive pricing from competitors and resellers; the inability to meet customer product requirements on a cost competitive basis; possible changes in the size of expected restructuring costs, charges, and savings; entrance into the market of additional competitors focused on printing solutions; inability to perform under managed print services contracts; decreased supplies consumption; increased competition in the aftermarket supplies business; unforeseen cost impacts as a result of new legislation; changes in the Companys tax provisions or tax liabilities; fees on the Companys products or litigation costs required to protect the Companys rights; inability to protect the Companys intellectual property rights and defend against claims of infringement and/or anticompetitive conduct; reliance on international production facilities, manufacturing partners and certain key suppliers; changes in a countrys political conditions; conflicts among sales channels; the failure of information technology systems; disruptions at important points of exit and entry and distribution centers; business disruptions; terrorist acts; acts of war or other political conflicts; or the outbreak of a communicable disease; and other risks described in the companys Securities and Exchange Commission filings. The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
Lexmark and Lexmark with diamond design are trademarks of Lexmark International, Inc., registered in the U.S. and/or other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
All prices are estimated street prices in U.S. dollars  actual prices may vary.
1
Internet access, computer and router required. Does not have Internet browser capability. Not all displayed content can be printed.
2
Based on 105XL black ink cartridge's $4.99 MSRP in US dollars and an average yield of 510 standard pages, estimated in accordance with ISO/IEC 24711. Actual yields vary based on images printed and other factors. Lowest black ink cost claim based on comparison with other inkjet all-in-ones original black ink cartridge MSRPs as of January 2010.
3
For more information, see the and the .
"Lexmark" Facebook page
"LexmarkNews" Twitter feed
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


