FILE:LXK/LXK-8K-20100727072345.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02.                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 27, 2010, Lexmark International, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2010. The text of the press release announcing the financial results is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)      Exhibits
   Exhibit No.                        Description of Exhibit
The information contained in this Current Report shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
The press release contains non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of Regulation G, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a registrants historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of income, balance sheet or statement of cash flows (or equivalent statements) of the issuer; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented. In this regard, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations between the GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures contained in the press release in the financial statements attached thereto, which is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and in the Supplemental Information Slides posted on the Companys investor relations website.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Exhibit No.                        Description of Exhibit

Exhibit 99.1
Lexmark reports second quarter results
LEXINGTON, Ky.,July 27, 2010  Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) today announced financial results for the second quarter of 2010. Second quarter GAAP revenue of $1.03 billion increased 14 percent compared to the same quarter last year.
 
Second quarter GAAP earnings per share were $1.07. Excluding $0.16 per share for restructuring-related and acquisition-related adjustments, earnings per share for the second quarter of 2010 would have been $1.23. Second quarter 2009 GAAP earnings per share were $0.22. Earnings per share for the second quarter of 2009 would have been $0.55 excluding $0.33 per share for restructuring-related adjustments.
"Lexmark's second quarter results were significantly better than expected, driven by double-digit growth in both hardware and supplies revenue, as well as operating income margin expansion," said Paul J. Curlander, Lexmark chairman and chief executive officer.
"This strong performance is a reflection of our improved product lines, continued growth in managed print services, the shift in our inkjet focus to business customers, and our ongoing strong growth in workgroup lasers and higher end inkjet products
," Curlander added.
Second quarter Printing Solutions and Services Division (PSSD) revenue of $752 million grew 20 percent year to year, Imaging Solutions Division (ISD) revenue of $275 million declined 2 percent year to year, and all other GAAP revenue was $6 million, or $8 million excluding acquisition-related adjustments.
The company ended the quarter with $1.0 billion in cash and current marketable securities. Second quarter net cash provided by operating activities of $91 million compared to $84 million in the same quarter last year. Capital expenditures for the quarter were $37 million. Depreciation and amortization in the quarter was $47 million.
 
 
 
 
In the second quarter of 2010:
On a non-GAAP basis, excluding restructuring-related and acquisition-related adjustments, in the second quarter of 2010:
Perceptive Software Acquisition Completed
During the second quarter, Lexmark completed the acquisition of Perceptive Software in a cash transaction for $280 million. Perceptive Software is a leading provider of Enterprise Content Management (ECM) software and solutions, with significant industry experience in the higher education, healthcare and government segments. Perceptive Softwares ImageNow software platform enables a broad range of industry-specific and cross-industry workflow solutions. A key strength and differentiator of its ECM software platform is the ability to be quickly and easily configured, and integrated with a large number of ERP, CRM and line-of-business applications. Perceptive Software retains its current name and operates as a stand-alone software business within Lexmark.
Strategic benefits of the acquisition include:
 
Through the acquisition of Perceptive Software, Lexmark adds a complementary software business that is aligned with its existing industry-focused value proposition. This acquisition enables Lexmark to immediately participate in the adjacent, growing market segment of ECM software solutions. It also provides additional revenue streams that are not paper usage dependent.
 
Lexmark Awarded $127 Million Agreement With Social Security Administration
Also during the second quarter, Lexmark announced that it has been awarded a five-year blanket purchase agreement (BPA) for the purchase of monochrome and color laser printers and multifunction products (MFPs) by the Social Security Administration (SSA). The estimated value of the BPA is expected to reach $127 million. The Lexmark printers and MFPs will be used for general office printing and other output requirements by more than 62,000 employees in SSAs 1,500 U.S. and other worldwide locations.
 
 
 
Looking Forward
In the third quarter of 2010, the company currently expects revenue to be up in the mid to high-single digit percentage range year on year and GAAP earnings per share to be around $0.70 to $0.80, based on an effective tax rate of 24 percent, or $0.90 to $1.00 excluding $0.20 per share for restructuring-related and acquisition-related adjustments. GAAP earnings per share in the third quarter of 2009 were $0.13, or $0.65 excluding $0.52 per share for restructuring-related adjustments.
Conference Call Today
The company will be hosting a conference call with securities analysts today at 8:30 a.m. (EDT). A live broadcast and a complete replay of this call can be accessed from Lexmarks investor relations Web site at . If you are unable to connect to the Internet, you can access the call via telephone at 888-693-3477 (outside the U.S. by calling 973-582-2710) using access code 87739060.
http://investor.lexmark.com
Supplemental information slides, including reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, will be available on Lexmarks investor relations Web site prior to the live broadcast.
 
About Lexmark
Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) provides businesses of all sizes with a broad range of printing and imaging products, software, solutions and services that help them to be more productive. In 2009, Lexmark sold products in more than 170 countries and reported approximately $4.0 billion in revenue. Learn how Lexmark can help you get more done at .
www.lexmark.com
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements in this release which are not historical facts are forward-looking and involve risks and uncertainties which may cause the companys actual results or performance to be materially different from the results or performance expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Factors that may impact such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, continued volatility of the global economy, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; inability to be successful in the Companys transition to higher-usage segments of the inkjet market; inability to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the Perceptive Software acquisition; failure to execute planned cost reduction measures; the financial failure or loss of business with a key customer or reseller, including loss of retail shelf placements; market acceptance of new products and pricing programs; increased investment to support product development and marketing; periodic variations affecting revenue and profitability; excessive inventory for the Company and/or its reseller channel; failure to manage inventory levels or production capacity; credit risk associated with the Companys customers, channel partners, and investment portfolio; aggressive pricing from competitors and resellers; the inability to meet customer product requirements on a cost competitive basis; possible changes in the size of expected restructuring costs, charges, and savings; entrance into the market of additional competitors focused on printing solutions; inability to perform under managed print services contracts; decreased supplies consumption; increased competition in the aftermarket supplies business; unforeseen cost impacts as a result of new legislation; changes in the Companys tax provisions or tax liabilities; fees on the Companys products or litigation costs required to protect the Companys rights; inability to protect the Companys intellectual property rights and defend against claims of infringement and/or anticompetitive conduct; reliance on international production facilities, manufacturing partners and certain key suppliers; changes in a countrys political conditions; conflicts among sales channels; the failure of information technology systems; disruptions at important points of exit and entry and distribution centers; business disruptions; terrorist acts; acts of war or other political conflicts; or the outbreak of a communicable disease; and other risks described in the companys Securities and Exchange Commission filings. The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
Lexmark and Lexmark with diamond design are trademarks of Lexmark International, Inc., registered in the U.S. and/or other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
For more information, see the and the .
"Lexmark" Facebook page
"LexmarkNews" Twitter feed
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LEXMARK INTERNATIONAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
 
 
 
 
 
LEXMARK INTERNATIONAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES


