FILE:LXK/LXK-8K-20101026072010.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02.                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 26, 2010, Lexmark International, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2010. The text of the press release announcing the financial results is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)      Exhibits
   Exhibit No.                       Description of Exhibit
The information contained in this Current Report shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
The press release contains non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of Regulation G, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a registrants historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of income, balance sheet or statement of cash flows (or equivalent statements) of the issuer; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented. In this regard, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Pursuant to the req uirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations between the GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures contained in the press release in the financial statements attached thereto, which is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and in the Supplemental Information Slides posted on the Companys investor relations website.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Exhibit No.                      Description of Exhibit

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Lexmark reports third quarter results
LEXINGTON, Ky.,Oct. 26, 2010  Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) today announced financial results for the third quarter of 2010. Third quarter GAAP revenue of $1.020 billion increased from $958 million in the same quarter last year.
 
 
 
 
Third quarter GAAP earnings per share were $0.90. Excluding $0.19 per share for restructuring-related and acquisition-related adjustments, earnings per share for the third quarter of 2010 would have been $1.09. Third quarter 2009 GAAP earnings per share were $0.13. Earnings per share for the third quarter of 2009 would have been $0.65 excluding $0.52 per share for restructuring-related adjustments.
Lexmarks third quarter earnings were better than expected with ongoing good revenue growth, strong earnings growth and strong cash flow, said Paul Rooke, Lexmark president and chief executive officer.
These results were driven by our improved product lines, continued growth in managed print services, and ongoing strong growth in workgroup lasers and higher end inkjet products, added Rooke.
Third quarter Printing Solutions and Services Division (PSSD) revenue of $731 million grew 12 percent year to year, Imaging Solutions Division (ISD) revenue of $274 million declined 10 percent year to year, and all other GAAP revenue was $14 million, or $20 million excluding acquisition-related adjustments.
The company ended the quarter with $1.1 billion in cash and current marketable securities. Third quarter net cash provided by operating activities was $130 million. Capital expenditures for the quarter were $28 million. Depreciation and amortization in the quarter was $51 million.
In the third quarter of 2010:
 
 
 
 
 
On a non-GAAP basis, excluding restructuring-related and acquisition-related adjustments, in the third quarter of 2010:
New Smart Devices Strengthen Lexmark's Workgroup Color Lineup
Earlier this month, Lexmark announced a significant expansion of its workgroup color devices with the introduction of the new Lexmark X792 family of color laser multifunction products (MFPs), Lexmark C792 family of color laser printers and the Lexmark X925 and C925 Series of A3 (11-inch x 17-inch)/ledger color offerings. An intuitive color touch screen that enables customers to access and manage their documents faster and with greater flexibility highlights each device.
Concurrently, the company also announced , a new browser-based device management software solution that enables IT administrators to have better visibility into proactively managing their fleets of printing devices.
Markvision Enterprise
Lexmarks Newest, Web-Connected All-In-One (AIO) Inkjet Printer
Recently, Lexmark introduced Lexmark Genesis, a unique device that extends the companys line of inkjet AIOs by targeting professionals, small business and home office customers who are looking for innovative technology that is productive, while also being bold and stylish.
 
 
 
Through its built-in innovative Flash Scan camera technology, the Lexmark Genesis delivers blazing scanning speeds that enable the AIO to deliver an instant scan preview to the color  touch screen and to transfer a page from document to digital in as few as three seconds.
4
The Web-connected device is equipped with sophisticated features and functionality, including the 4.3-inch capacitive color touch screen that is also available on Lexmarks other award-winning AIOs, the Platinum, Pinnacle and Interact.
5
The Lexmark Genesis also features the companys Vizix print technology, which uses separate ink cartridges to enable greater speed and produces high quality print output at an economical replacement cost for customers.
Yesterday, Lexmark announced the availability of its Software Developers Kit (SDK) platform, to enable third-party developers to help expand the companys inkjet AIO base of applications, known as SmartSolutions. SmartSolutions expand traditional inkjet AIOs from a print, scan, copy and fax-based functionality  to a work station that is empowered with productivity enhancing, Web-connected software applications for small business and home office customers.
Looking Forward
In the fourth quarter of 2010, the company currently expects low single digit revenue growth, and GAAP earnings per share to be around $0.86 to $0.96, or $1.03 to $1.13 excluding $0.17 per share for restructuring-related and acquisition-related adjustments. GAAP earnings per share in the fourth quarter of 2009 were $0.76, or $1.16 excluding $0.40 per share for restructuring-related adjustments.
Conference Call Today
The company will be hosting a conference call with securities analysts today at 8:30 a.m. (EDT). A live broadcast and a complete replay of this call can be accessed from Lexmarks investor relations Web site at . If you are unable to connect to the Internet, you can access the call via telephone at 888-693-3477 (outside the U.S. by calling 973-582-2710) using access code 16906162.
http://investor.lexmark.com
Supplemental information slides, including reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, will be available on Lexmarks investor relations Web site prior to the live broadcast.
 
About Lexmark
Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) provides businesses of all sizes with a broad range of printing and imaging products, software, solutions and services that help them to be more productive. In 2009, Lexmark sold products in more than 170 countries and reported approximately $4.0 billion in revenue. Learn how Lexmark can help you get more done at .
www.lexmark.com
 "Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements in this release which are not historical facts are forward-looking and involve risks and uncertainties which may cause the companys actual results or performance to be materially different from the results or performance expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Factors that may impact such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, continued volatility of the global economy, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; inability to be successful in the Companys transition to higher-usage segments of the inkjet market; inability to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the Perceptive Software acquisition; market acceptance of new products and pricing programs; increased investment to su pport product development and marketing; failure to execute planned cost reduction measures; the financial failure or loss of business with a key customer or reseller, including loss of retail shelf placements; periodic variations affecting revenue and profitability; excessive inventory for the Company and/or its reseller channel; failure to manage inventory levels or production capacity; credit risk associated with the Companys customers, channel partners, and investment portfolio; aggressive pricing from competitors and resellers; the inability to meet customer product requirements on a cost competitive basis; possible changes in the size of expected restructuring costs, charges, and savings; entrance into the market of additional competitors focused on printing solutions; inability to perform under managed print services contracts; decreased supplies consumption; increased competition in the aftermarket supplies business; unforeseen cost impacts as a result of new legislation; changes in the Compan ys tax provisions or tax liabilities; fees on the Companys products or
 
 
 
litigation costs required to protect the Companys rights; inability to protect the Companys intellectual property rights and defend against claims of infringement and/or anticompetitive conduct; reliance on international production facilities, manufacturing partners and certain key suppliers; changes in a countrys political conditions; conflicts among sales channels; the failure of information technology systems; disruptions at important points of exit and entry and distribution centers; business disruptions; terrorist acts; acts of war or other political conflicts; or the outbreak of a communicable disease; and other risks described in the companys Securities and Exchange Commission filings. The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
 
Lexmark and Lexmark with diamond design are trademarks of Lexmark International, Inc., registered in the U.S. and/or other countries.  Vizix is a trademark of Lexmark International, Inc.  All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
All prices, features, specifications and capabilities are subject to change without notice.
 Class defined as A4 color laser MFPs with U.S. street prices between $3,000 to $5,000 that have a base model and print speeds between 30 to 50 pages per minute.
1
Class defined as A4 color laser printers with U.S. street prices between $1,199 to $2,499 that have a base model and print speeds between 30 to 50 pages per minute.
2
Class defined as color A3 single function laser and LED printers with U.S. street prices between $1,000 to $3,000.
3
Scanning a one page document or photo on USB-connected All-In-One Printer using a PC with the Lexmark Printer Home Interfaces PDF or Photo function. Actual scan time may vary based on factors such as PC performance and operating system, use of wireless connections and use of document edit/character recognition function.
4  
Internet access, computer and router required. Does not have Internet browser capability. Not all displayed content can be printed.
5  
For more information on Lexmark, see the and the .
"Lexmark" Facebook page
"LexmarkNews" Twitter feed
 
 
 


