FILE:LXK/LXK-8K-20110426073131.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02.                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 26, 2011, Lexmark International, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release announcing its financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2011. The text of the press release announcing the financial results is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)      Exhibits
   Exhibit No.                       Description of Exhibit
 
The information contained in this Current Report shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
The press release contains non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of Regulation G, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a registrants historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of income, balance sheet or statement of cash flows (or equivalent statements) of the issuer; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented. In this regard, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations between the GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures contained in the press release in the financial statements attached thereto, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and in the Earnings Presentation Slides posted on the Companys investor relations website at http://investor.lexmark.com.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Exhibit No.                      Description of Exhibit
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Lexmark reports first quarter 2011 results
LEXINGTON, Ky.,April 26, 2011  Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) today announced financial results for the first quarter of 2011.
 
Despite the near-term marketplace and transitional challenges we faced this quarter, Lexmarks strategic focus areas grew as we continue to execute our long-term strategy of targeting higher usage, higher growth areas of the business market, said Paul Rooke, Lexmark president and chief executive officer.  Yesterdays product announcements advance Lexmarks position in two rapidly growing segments; workgroup color lasers and enterprise content management.
 
Lexmarks strong balance sheet, good liquidity and long history of solid cash generation position us well to continue to compete successfully and to invest in strategic initiatives aimed at delivering improved shareholder value, added Rooke.
 
First Quarter 2011 Results
GAAP revenue for the first quarter of 2011 of $1.034 billion declined 1 percent from the same quarter last year.
GAAP earnings per share for the first quarter of 2011 were $1.04. Excluding $0.10 per share for restructuring-related and acquisition-related adjustments, earnings per share for the first quarter of 2011 would have been $1.14. GAAP earnings per share for the first quarter of 2010 were $1.20. Earnings per share for the first quarter of 2010 would have been $1.35 excluding $0.15 per share for restructuring-related adjustments.
In the first quarter, hardware revenue declined 12 percent year on year, supplies revenue was about flat, and Software and Other revenue grew 44 percent, or 50 percent excluding acquisition-related adjustments.
Imaging Solutions and Services (ISS) revenue of $1.015 billion declined 3 percent in the first quarter compared to the same period last year. Perceptive Software revenue in the first quarter was $19 million, or $21 million excluding acquisition-related adjustments.
First quarter 2011 GAAP results:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
First quarter 2011 non-GAAP results, excluding restructuring-related and acquisition-related adjustments:
In the first quarter of 2011, net cash provided by operating activities was $85 million, capital expenditures were $36 million, and depreciation and amortization was $51 million. The company ended the quarter with $1.3 billion in cash and current marketable securities.
New Offerings Target Strategic Growth Areas
Recently, Lexmark announced new hardware and software offerings that strengthen its position in two strategic growth areas, workgroup color lasers and document workflow solutions. Lexmark again gained market share in 2010 in its key segment of branded workgroup devices due to a strong focus on developing innovative hardware technology that integrates seamlessly with intelligent software solutions  enabling customers to save time and money.
Lexmark X548 Color Laser MFP Family
The addition yesterday of the is aligned squarely with Lexmarks strategy to provide disruptive A4 (8.5-inch x 11-inch) technology to business customers through smart devices. Designed for the rapidly growing mid-size workgroup segment, the deliver the performance, capabilities, solutions and security features representative of more costly devices  but with a smaller footprint and at an affordable price point. Accentuated by a sophisticated, 7-inch color touch screen, the Lexmark X548 color laser MFP family comes standard with pre-loaded, time-saving applications and can be customized with tailored workflows based on unique business needs.
Lexmark X548 color laser multifunction product (MFP) family
Lexmark X548de and X548dte
Lexmark Solutions Platform
During the first quarter, Lexmark announced .  This bundled solution gives users the flexibility to access and print from any enabled MFP on their companys global network. It also enhances security by holding jobs in the print queue until they are released by the user, eliminating unclaimed documents. Once a user authenticates at the device, Lexmark My e-Task presents a personalized user interface including personal shortcuts and workflow icons. Lexmark Accounting provides organizations with a complete view of printing practices and the ability to identify areas where print volumes are higher than desired. This trio of solutions is delivered on the , premise based technology developed solely by Lexmark.
Lexmark Print Release with My e-Task and Lexmark Accounting
Lexmark Solutions Platform
 
Lexmark Back-Office ECM Solutions
Enterprise Content Management (ECM) solutions expand Lexmarks growth opportunities around the globe by leveraging Perceptive Softwares ImageNow platform  further integrating the two
 
 
 
 
 
companies technologies to provide customers with a more comprehensive, end-to-end content management solution to capture, manage and access key information within their businesses.
Yesterday, Lexmark debuted three back-office end-to-end solutions that accelerate the flow of information and enable companies to improve both compliance and productivity. These solutions decrease paperwork, boost efficiency and reduce risk and compliance issues for human resources, accounting and travel reimbursement departments.
 
Perceptive Softwares ImageNow
Also during the quarter, Perceptive Software announced version 6.6 of its award winning ImageNow software. Perceptive Softwares new 64-bit server architecture provides a more robust platform for the company to target and compete for larger enterprise deployments.
Looking Forward
In the second quarter of 2011, the company currently expects a low single-digit percentage decline in revenue year on year and GAAP earnings per share to be around $0.89 to $0.99, or $1.00 to $1.10 excluding $0.11 per share for restructuring-related and acquisition-related adjustments. GAAP earnings per share in the second quarter of 2010 were $1.07, or $1.23 excluding $0.16 per share for restructuring-related and acquisition-related adjustments.
Conference Call Today
The company will be hosting a conference call with securities analysts today at 8:30 a.m. (EDT). A live broadcast and a complete replay of this call can be accessed from Lexmarks investor relations website at . If you are unable to connect to the Internet, you can access the call via telephone at 888-693-3477 (outside the U.S. by calling 973-582-2710) using access code 58100121.
http://investor.lexmark.com
Lexmarks earnings presentation slides, including reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, will be available on Lexmarks investor relations website prior to the live broadcast.
 
 
About Lexmark
Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) provides businesses of all sizes with a broad range of printing and imaging products, software, solutions and services that help customers to print less and save more. Perceptive Software, a stand-alone software business within Lexmark, is a leading provider of enterprise content management software that helps organizations easily manage the entire lifecycle of their documents and content, simplifying their business processes, and fueling greater operational efficiency. In 2010, Lexmark sold products in more than 170 countries and reported more than $4 billion in revenue.
 
 
 
To learn more about Lexmark, please visit . For more information on Perceptive Software, please visit .
www.lexmark.com
www.perceptivesoftware.com
For more information on Lexmark, see the and follow us on Twitter at .
Lexmark Facebook page
www.twitter.com/lexmarknews
For more information on Perceptive Software, see the and follow them on Twitter at .
Perceptive Software Facebook page
www.twitter.com/perceptivesw
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements in this release which are not historical facts are forward-looking and involve risks and uncertainties which may cause the companys actual results or performance to be materially different from the results or performance expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Factors that may impact such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, volatility of the global economy, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; inability to be successful in the Companys transition to higher-usage segments of the inkjet market; reliance on international production facilities, manufacturing partners and certain key supplier; inability to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the Companys business combinations, including the Perceptive Software acquisition; market acceptance of new products and pricing programs; increased investment to support product development and marketing; the financial failure or loss of business with a key customer or reseller, including loss of retail shelf placements; periodic variations affecting revenue and profitability; excessive inventory for the Company and/or its reseller channel; failure to manage inventory levels or production capacity; credit risk associated with the Companys customers, channel partners, and investment portfolio; aggressive pricing from competitors and resellers; the inability to develop new products and enhance existing products to meet customer needs on a cost competitive basis; possible changes in the size of expected restructuring costs, charges, and savings; entrance into the market of additional competitors focused on printing solutions and software solutions, including enterprise content management solutions; inability to perform under managed print services contracts; decreased supplies consumption; increased competition in the aftermarket supplies business; unforeseen cost impacts as a result of new legislation; changes in the Companys tax provisions or tax liabilities; fees on the Companys products or litigation costs required to protect the Companys rights; inability to obtain and protect the Companys intellectual property rights and defend against claims of infringement and/or anticompetitive conduct; the outcome of litigation or regulatory proceedings to which the Company may be a party; the inability to attract, retain and motivate key employees;  changes in a countrys political or economic conditions; conflicts among sales channels; the failure of information technology systems; disruptions at important points of exit and entry and distribution centers; business disruptions; terrorist acts; acts of war or other political conflicts; or the outbreak of a communicable disease; and other risks described in the companys Securities and Exchange Commission filings. The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
Lexmark and Lexmark with diamond design are trademarks of Lexmark International, Inc., registered in the U.S. and/or other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
All features, specifications and capabilities are subject to change without notice.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


