FILE:LXK/LXK-8K-20110726073032.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02.                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 26, 2011, Lexmark International, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2011. The text of the press release announcing the financial results is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)      Exhibits
   Exhibit No.                       Description of Exhibit
The information contained in this Current Report shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
The press release contains non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of Regulation G, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a registrants historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of income, balance sheet or statement of cash flows (or equivalent statements) of the issuer; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented. In this regard, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations between the GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures contained in the press release in the financial statements attached thereto, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and in the Earnings Presentation Slides posted on the Companys investor relations website at http://investor.lexmark.com.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Exhibit No.                      Description of Exhibit

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Lexmark reports record EPS for the second quarter 2011
LEXINGTON, Ky.,July 26, 2011  Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) today announced financial results for the second quarter of 2011.
 
Record EPS, a very strong operating income margin, and better than expected revenue performance highlighted Lexmarks second quarter financial results, said Paul Rooke, Lexmark chairman and chief executive officer. We saw continued revenue growth in our strategic focus areas with core supplies at a double digit rate, and managed print services at a rate of more than 25 percent.
 
We also announced new software solutions and strengthened our workgroup color lineup to help business customers capture, manage and access their content more easily and affordably, stated Rooke. Lexmark continues to maintain a strong financial position with a solid balance sheet, good liquidity and a long history of cash generation, and we remain focused on increasing shareholder value.
 
Second Quarter 2011 Results
For the second quarter of 2011, both GAAP revenue of $1.044 billion and non-GAAP revenue of $1.045 billion grew 1 percent compared with the same quarter last year.
GAAP earnings per share for the second quarter of 2011 were $1.27. Excluding $0.10 per share for restructuring-related and acquisition-related adjustments, earnings per share for the second quarter of 2011 would have been $1.36. GAAP earnings per share for the second quarter of 2010 were $1.07. Earnings per share for the second quarter of 2010 would have been $1.23 excluding $0.16 per share for restructuring-related and acquisition-related adjustments.
In the second quarter, Supplies revenue grew 3 percent year on year, Hardware revenue declined 9 percent, and Software and Other revenue grew 33 percent, or 30 percent excluding acquisition-related adjustments.
Imaging Solutions and Services (ISS) revenue of $1.020 billion declined less than 1 percent in the second quarter compared to the same period last year. Perceptive Software revenue in the second quarter was $24 million, or $25 million excluding acquisition-related adjustments,
 
 
 
compared to $6.4 million, or $8.4 million excluding acquisition-related adjustments, in the second quarter of 2010.
(1)
Second Quarter 2011 GAAP Results:
Second Quarter 2011 Non-GAAP Results, Excluding Restructuring-Related and Acquisition-Related Adjustments:
In the second quarter of 2011, net cash provided by operating activities was $94 million, capital expenditures were $34 million, and depreciation and amortization was $53 million. The company ended the quarter with $1.3 billion in cash and current marketable securities.
Lexmarks New Branch Bank and Mobile Printing Solutions Advance Companys Capture-Manage-Access Strategy
Further demonstrating the companys leadership and innovation in the financial vertical, Lexmark announced its newest end-to-end software solution for branch banks jointly developed by Lexmark and Perceptive Software. The Lexmark Branch Capture Solution is a powerful tool that enables financial institutions to automate paper-based workflows and eliminate much of the pain associated with tasks such as loan processing and new account openings, while enabling the branch to electronically capture, manage and access paperwork associated with day-to-day activities.
Lexmark also recently announced its Mobile Print Application for Android-based mobile devices. Lexmarks enterprise-class application enables easy-to-use mobile printing for knowledge workers across the enterprise without adding additional servers. Lexmarks Mobile Print Application for Android-based tablets will be available later this year.
Lexmark Announced New Products for High Usage Color Workgroup Segment
Lexmark recently announced new smart color devices aimed at increasing productivity for heavy-usage workgroups and departments in mid-sized businesses and large enterprises. The Lexmark X950 color multifunction product (MFP) Series and the Lexmark C950 color printer are solutions-enabled devices that enhance the companys award winning color lineup and strengthen Lexmarks position in the important color workgroup market segment.
Lexmarks Enterprise Strength Reflected in Recent Customer Wins
Lexmark recently became the manufacturer of choice for a national workgroup and color laser printer bid sourced by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The contract calls for the
 
 
 
potential placement of more than 20,000 Lexmark workgroup monochrome and color laser printers throughout 260 VA locations, including outpatient clinics in the U.S.
TBC Corporation, one of the largest marketers of automotive replacement tires and services, recently named Lexmark as its managed print services (MPS) provider, awarding the company a three-year contract to improve and optimize its printing environment and reduce print output costs throughout its more than 800 U.S. retail tire and automotive maintenance stores and Wholesale Division.
Looking Forward
In the third quarter of 2011, the company currently expects revenue to be flat to down in the low single digit percentage range year on year. GAAP earnings per share in the third quarter of 2011 are expected to be around $0.86 to $0.96, or $0.94 to $1.04 excluding $0.08 per share for restructuring-related and acquisition-related adjustments. GAAP earnings per share in the third quarter of 2010 were $0.90, or $1.09 excluding $0.19 per share for restructuring-related and acquisition-related adjustments.
Conference Call Today
The company will be hosting a conference call with securities analysts today at 8:30 a.m. (EDT). A live broadcast and a complete replay of this call can be accessed from Lexmarks investor relations website at . If you are unable to connect to the Internet, you can access the call via telephone at 888-693-3477 (outside the U.S. by calling 973-582-2710) using access code 78820474.
http://investor.lexmark.com
Lexmarks earnings presentation slides, including reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, will be available on Lexmarks investor relations website prior to the live broadcast.
 
 
About Lexmark
Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) provides businesses of all sizes with a broad range of printing and imaging products, software, solutions and services that help customers to print less and save more. Perceptive Software, a stand-alone software business within Lexmark, is a leading provider of enterprise content management software that helps organizations easily manage the entire lifecycle of their documents and content, simplifying their business processes, and fueling greater operational efficiency. In 2010, Lexmark sold products in more than 170 countries and reported more than $4 billion in revenue.
To learn more about Lexmark, please visit . For more information on Perceptive Software, please visit .
www.lexmark.com
www.perceptivesoftware.com
For more information on Lexmark, see the and follow us on Twitter at .
Lexmark Facebook page
www.twitter.com/lexmarknews
For more information on Perceptive Software, see the and follow them on Twitter at .
Perceptive Software Facebook page
www.twitter.com/perceptivesw
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements in this release which are not historical facts are forward-looking and involve risks and uncertainties which may cause the companys actual results or performance to be materially different from the results or performance expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Factors that may impact such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, volatility of the global economy, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; inability to be successful in the Companys transition to higher-usage segments of the inkjet market; reliance on international production facilities, manufacturing partners and certain key supplier; inability to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the Companys business combinations, including the Perceptive Software acquisition; market acceptance of new products and pricing programs; increased investment to support product development and marketing; the financial failure or loss of business with a key customer or reseller, including loss of retail shelf placements; periodic variations affecting revenue and profitability; excessive inventory for the
 
 
 
 
Company and/or its reseller channel; failure to manage inventory levels or production capacity; credit risk associated with the Companys customers, channel partners, and investment portfolio; aggressive pricing from competitors and resellers; the inability to develop new products and enhance existing products to meet customer needs on a cost competitive basis; possible changes in the size of expected restructuring costs, charges, and savings; entrance into the market of additional competitors focused on printing solutions and software solutions, including enterprise content management solutions; inability to perform under managed print services contracts; decreased supplies consumption; increased competition in the aftermarket supplies business; unforeseen cost impacts as a result of new legislation; changes in the Companys tax provisions or tax liabilities; fees on the Companys products or litigation costs required to protect the Companys rights; inability to obtain and protect the Companys intellectual property rights and defend against claims of infringement and/or anticompetitive conduct; the outcome of litigation or regulatory proceedings to which the Company may be a party; the inability to attract, retain and motivate key employees;  changes in a countrys political or economic conditions; conflicts among sales channels; the failure of information technology systems; disruptions at important points of exit and entry and distribution centers; business disruptions; terrorist acts; acts of war or other political conflicts; or the outbreak of a communicable disease; and other risks described in the companys Securities and Exchange Commission filings. The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
Lexmark and Lexmark with diamond design are trademarks of Lexmark International, Inc., registered in the U.S. and/or other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
All features, specifications and capabilities are subject to change without notice.
  Perceptive Software financial results for the second quarter of 2010 reflects only the period from June 8 to June 30, 2010.
1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


