FILE:LXK/LXK-8K-20110802164959.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 1.01.  Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
As previously disclosed in a Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 20, 2008, the Board of Directors of Lexmark International, Inc. (the Company) approved the repurchase of an additional $750 million of its Class A Common Stock, raising its share repurchase authority to approximately $1 billion at that time.  After entering into the transaction described below, the Company now has approximately $366 million of share repurchase authority remaining.
After the close of the markets on July 28, 2011, the Company entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement (ASR Agreement) with Citibank, N.A. (Citibank).  Pursuant to the terms of the ASR Agreement, the Company will purchase $125 million of the outstanding shares of its Class A Common Stock from Citibank.  The ASR Agreement requires Citibank to deliver to the Company on August 2, 2011, 3,134,219 shares, equal to 85 percent of the shares that would be repurchased at a price of $33.90, the closing price of the Companys Class A Common Stock on July 28, 2011.  The number of shares to be delivered to the Company by Citibank under the ASR Agreement shall be adjusted based on a discount to the average of the daily volume weighted average price of the Companys Class A Common Stock during the term of the ASR Agreement.  If the number of shares to be delivered to the Company is less than the initial delivery of shares by Citibank, the Company may be required to remit shares or cash to Citibank as a result of such adjustment.  The share repurchases are expected to be completed during the second half of 2011.  The payment of $125 million by the Company to Citibank for the repurchase of shares will be funded from available U.S. cash.
The foregoing description of the ASR Agreement does not purport to be a complete description and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the ASR Agreement which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, and which is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
As part of a general corporate governance review at its meeting on July 28, 2011, the Board of Directors of the Company, upon the recommendation of the Corporate Governance and Public Policy Committee, approved an amendment to Article VIII of the Companys By-Laws to add a new Section 8.12 to establish the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for resolving derivative actions and claims alleging a violation of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, the Companys Restated Certificate of Incorporation or By-Laws, a breach of fiduciary duties or any claim governed by Delaware law under the internal affairs doctrine, unless the Board of Directors otherwise consents in writing to the selection of an alternative forum.
The foregoing description of the amendment to the By-Laws does not purport to be a complete description and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amendment and Restatement of the By-Laws, which is filed as Exhibit 3.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, and which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On August 2, 2011, the Company issued a press release announcing the resumption of its share repurchase program.  The text of the press release announcing the resumption of the Companys share repurchase program is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)      Exhibits
             
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
SECTION
   
PAGE
ARTICLE I
 
ARTICLE II
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                                                                      
SECTION
PAGE
ARTICLE III
ARTICLE IV
ARTICLE V
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
SECTION
PAGE
ARTICLE VI
   
   
ARTICLE VII
 
ARTICLE VIII
ARTICLE IX
 
ARTICLE X
 
 
 
Section 1.01.  .  The annual meeting of the stockholders of Lexmark International, Inc. (the "Corporation") for the election of Directors and for the transaction of such other business as properly may come before such meeting shall be held at such place, either within or without the State of Delaware, and at 10:00 A.M. local time on the last Thursday in April (or, if such day is a legal holiday, then on the next succeeding business day), or at such other date and hour, as may be fixed from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors and set forth in the notice or waiver of notice of the meeting.  [Sections 211(a), (b).] *
Annual Meetings
Section 1.02.  .  Special meetings of the stockholders may be called at any time by the Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer (or, in the event of the absence or disability of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer, by the President or, in the event of his absence or disability, by the Chief Operating Officer or, in the event of his absence or disability, by the Chief Financial Officer or, in the event of his absence or disability, any Vice President designated by the Chief Executive Officer to act in the event of his absence or disability), or by the Board of Directors. Such special meetings of the stockholders shall be held at such places, within or without the State of Delaware, as shall be specified in the respective notices or waivers of notice thereof.  [Section 211(d).]
Special Meetings
                                    
 
 
 
 
 Section 1.03.    The Secretary or any Assistant Secretary shall cause written notice of the place, date and hour of each meeting of the stockholders, and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which such meeting is called, to be given personally or by mail, not less than ten nor more than 60 days prior to the meeting, to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting.  If such notice is mailed, it shall be deemed to have been given to a stockholder when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to the stockholder at his address as it appears on the record of stockholder of the Corporation, or, if he shall have filed with the Secretary of the Corporation a written request that notices to him be mailed to some other address, then directed to him at such other address.  Such further notice shall be given as may be required by law.
   
  
  
Notice of Meetings; Waiver.
 
No notice of any meeting of stockholders need be given to any stockholder who submits a signed waiver of notice, whether before or after the meeting.  Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the stockholders need be specified in a written waiver of notice.  The attendance of any stockholder at a meeting of stockholders shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except when the stockholder attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business on the ground that the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.  [Sections 222, 229.]
   
 
   
Section 1.04.  .  Except as otherwise required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the presence in person or by proxy of the holders of record of a majority of the shares entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at such meeting.  [Section 216.]
Quorum
Section 1.05.  .  If, pursuant to Section 5.05 of these By-Laws, a record date has been fixed, every holder of record of shares entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be entitled to one vote for each share outstanding in his name on the books of the Corporation at the close of business on such record date.  If no record date has been fixed, then every holder of record of shares entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be entitled to one vote for each share of stock standing in his name on the books of the Corporation at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice of the meeting is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held.  Except as otherwise required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the vote of a majority of the shares represented in person or by proxy at any meeting at which a quorum is present shall be sufficient for the transaction of any business at such meeting.  [Sections 212(a), 216.]
Voting
Section 1.06.  .  No vote of the stockholders need be taken by written ballot or conducted by inspectors of election, unless otherwise required by law.  Any vote which need not be taken by ballot may be conducted in any manner approved by the meeting.
Voting by Ballot
2 
 
 
Section 1.07.  .  If a quorum is not present at any meeting of the stockholders, the stockholders present in person or by proxy shall have the power to adjourn any such meeting from time to time until a quorum is present.  Notice of any adjourned meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation need not be given if the place, date and hour thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken, that if the adjournment is for more than 30 days, or if after the adjournment a new record date for the adjourned meeting is fixed pursuant to Section 5.05 of these By-Laws, a notice of the adjourned meeting, conforming to the requirements of Section 1.03 of these By-Laws, shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting.  At any adjourned meeting at which a quorum is present, any business may be transacted that might have been transacted on the original date of the meeting.  [Section 222(c).]
Adjournment
provided
Section 1.08.  .  Any stockholder entitled to vote at any meeting of the stockholders or to express consent to or dissent from corporate action without a meeting may, by a written instrument signed by such stockholder or his attorney-in-fact, authorize another person or persons to vote at any such meeting and express such consent or dissent for him by proxy.  No such proxy shall be voted or acted upon after the expiration of three years from the date of such proxy, unless such proxy provides for a longer period.  Every proxy shall be revocable at the pleasure of the stockholder executing it, except in those cases where applicable law provides that a proxy shall be irrevocable.  A stockholder may revoke any proxy which is not irrevocable by attending the meeting and voting in person or by filing an instrument in writing revoking the proxy or by filing another duly executed proxy bearing a later date with the Secretary. [Section 212(b), (c).]
Proxies
Section 1.09.  .  At every meeting of stockholders the presiding officer shall be the Chairman, or in the event of his absence or disability, the Chief Executive Officer or, in the event of his absence or disability, a presiding officer chosen by a majority of the stockholders present in person or by proxy.  The Secretary, or in the event of his absence or disability, the Assistant Secretary, if any, or if there be no Assistant Secretary, in the absence of the Secretary, an appointee of the presiding officer, shall act as Secretary of the meeting.  The order of business and all other matters of procedure at every meeting of stockholders may be determined by such presiding officer.
Organization; Procedure
Section 1.10.  .  To the fullest extend permitted by law, whenever the vote of stockholders at a meeting thereof is required or permitted to be taken for or in connection with any corporate action, such action may be taken without a meeting, without prior notice and without a vote of stockholders, if a consent or consents in writing, setting forth the action so taken, shall be signed by the holders of outstanding stock having not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take such action at a meeting at which all shares entitled to vote thereon were present and voted and shall be delivered to the Corporation by delivery to its registered office in the State of Delaware, its principal
Consent of Stockholders in Lieu of Meeting
3 
 
 
place of business, or an officer or agent of the Corporation having custody of the book in which proceedings of meetings of stockholders are recorded.  Delivery made to the Corporation's registered office shall be by hand or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested.
Every written consent shall bear the date of signature of each stockholder or member who signs the consent and no written consent shall be effective to take the corporate action referred to therein unless, within 60 days of the earliest dated consent delivered in the manner required by law to the Corporation, written consents signed by a sufficient number of holders or members to take action are delivered to the Corporation by delivery to its registered office in the State of Delaware, its principal place of business, or an officer or agent of the Corporation having custody of the book in which proceedings of meetings of stockholders are recorded.  Delivery made to the Corporation's registered office shall be by hand or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested.  [Section 228.]
Section 1.11.  .
Notice of Nominations and Business
(a)  Generally.  Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the Corporation and the proposal of business to be transacted by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of the stockholders (i) pursuant to the Corporation's notice with respect to such meeting, (ii) by or at the direction of the Board or (iii) by any stockholder of record of the Corporation who was a stockholder of record at the time of the giving of the notice provided for in Section 1.11(b), who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who has complied with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 1.11.  A stockholder proceeding under this Section 1.11 shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to matters set forth in this Section 1.11.  Nothing in this Section 1.11 shall be deemed to affect any rights of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act.
(b)  Procedures.
(i)  For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting of the stockholders by a stockholder pursuant to Section 1.11(a)(iii), (A) the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary, (B) such business must be a proper matter for stockholder action under the Delaware Corporation Law, (C) if the stockholder, or the beneficial owner on whose behalf any such proposal or nomination is made, has provided the Corporation with a Solicitation Notice, as that term is defined below, such stockholder or beneficial owner must, in the case of a proposal, have delivered a proxy statement and form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporation's voting shares required under applicable law to carry any such proposal, or, in the case of a nomination or nominations, have delivered a proxy
4 
 
 
statement and form of proxy to holders of a percentage of the Corporation's voting shares reasonably believed by such stockholder or beneficial holder to be sufficient to elect the nominee or nominees proposed to be nominated by such stockholder, and must, in either case, have included in such materials the Solicitation Notice, and (D) if no Solicitation Notice relating thereto has been timely provided pursuant to this Section 1.11, the stockholder or beneficial owner proposing such business or nomination must not have solicited a number of proxies sufficient to have required the delivery of such a Solicitation Notice under this Section 1.11.
To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation in the City of Lexington, State of Kentucky, not less than 60 days nor more than 120 days prior to the first anniversary (the "Anniversary") of the date on which the Corporation first mailed its proxy materials for the preceding year's annual meeting of the stockholders; provided, however, that if the date of the annual meeting is advanced more than 30 days prior to or delayed by more than 30 days after the Anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered not later than the close of business on the later of (i) the 90 day prior to such annual meeting or (ii) the 10 day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made.
th
th
Such stockholder's notice shall set forth (a) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as Director all information relating to such person as would be required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for the election of such nominees as Directors pursuant to Regulation 14A of the Exchange Act, and such person's written consent to serve as Director if elected; (b) as to any other business that the stockholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting of the stockholders, a brief description of such business, the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting and any material interest in such business of such stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; (c) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made, (i) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner, (ii) the class and number of shares of the Corporation that are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner, and (iii) whether either such stockholder or beneficial owner intends to deliver a proxy statement and form of proxy to holders of, in the case of a proposal, at least the percentage of the Corporation's voting shares required under applicable law to carry the proposal or, in the case of a nomination or nominations, a sufficient number of holders of the Corporation's voting shares to elect such nominee or nominees (an affirmative statement of such intent, a "Solicitation Notice").
 
5 
 
(ii)  If the number of Directors to be elected to the Board of Directors is increased and there is no public announcement naming all of the nominees for Director or specifying the size of the increased Board made by the Corporation at least 70 days prior to the Anniversary, this Section 1.11(b)(ii) shall govern.  In this case a stockholder's notice required by these By-Laws shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation in the City of Lexington, State of Kentucky not later than the close of business on the 10 day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation.
th
(iii)  Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of the stockholders as shall have been brought before the special meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting. Nominations of persons for election to the Board may be made at a special meeting of the stockholders at which Directors are to be elected pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (A) by or at the direction of the Board or (B) by any stockholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this paragraph, who shall be entitled to vote at the special meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 1.11.  Nominations by stockholders of persons for election to the Board may be made at such a special meeting of the stockholders if the stockholders' notice required by Section 1.11(b)(i) shall be delivered to the Secretary at the general offices of the Corporation in the City of Lexington, State of Kentucky not later than the close of business on the later of the 90 day prior to such special meeting or the 10 day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board to be elected at such special meeting.
th
th
(iv)  Only persons nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 1.11 shall be eligible to serve as Directors and only such business shall be conducted at an annual or special meeting of the stockholders as shall have been brought before the annual or special meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section.  The Chairman of the meeting shall have the power and the duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the annual or special meeting has been made in accordance with the procedures set forth in these By-Laws and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with these By-Laws, to declare that such defective proposed business or nomination shall not be presented for stockholder action at the annual or special meeting and shall be disregarded.
(c)  For purposes of this Section, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or a comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
6 
 
 
ARTICLE II
Section 2.01. .  Except as may otherwise be provided by law, by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these By-Laws, the property, affairs and business of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board of Directors and the Board of Directors may exercise all the powers of the Corporation.  [Section 141(a).]
General Powers
Section 2.02.  .  The number of Directors constituting the entire Board of Directors shall be determined in accordance with the Certificate of Incorporation.  Each Director (whenever elected) shall hold office until his successor has been duly elected and qualified, or until his earlier death, resignation or removal.  [Section 141(b).]
Number and Term of Office
Section 2.03.  .  The Board of Directors shall be divided into three classes, designated Classes I, II and III, which shall be as nearly equal in number as possible.  Directors of Class I shall be elected at any time on and after the date of filing of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware to hold office for an initial term expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2001.  Directors of Class II shall be elected at any time on and after the date of filing of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware to hold office for an initial term expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2002.  Directors of Class III shall be elected at any time on and after the date of filing of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware to hold office for an initial term expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2003.  At each annual meeting of stockholders commencing with the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2001, the respective successors of the Directors whose terms are expiring shall be elected for terms expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders held in the third succeeding year.  The holders of a majority of the shares then entitled to vote at an election of Directors may remove any Director or the entire Board of Directors, but only for cause.
Election of Directors
Except as provided in Section 2.12 of this Article, each director shall be elected by the vote of the majority of the votes cast with respect to the director at any meeting for the election of directors at which a quorum is present, provided that if the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected, the directors shall be elected by the vote of a plurality of the shares represented in person or by proxy at any such meeting and entitled to vote on the election of directors.  For purposes of this Section, a majority of the votes cast means that the number of shares voted for a director must exceed 50% of the votes cast with respect to that director.  If a director is not elected, the director shall offer to tender his or her resignation to the Board.  The Corporate Governance and Public Policy Committee will make a recommendation to the Board on whether to accept or reject the resignation, or whether other action should be
7 
 
 
taken.  The Board will act on the Committees recommendation and publicly disclose its decision and the rationale behind it within 90 days from the date of the certification of the election results.  The director who tenders his or her resignation will not participate in the recommendation of the Corporate Governance and Public Policy Committee or in the Boards decision.
Section 2.04. .  The annual meeting of the Board of Directors for the purpose of electing officers and for the transaction of such other business as may come before the meeting shall be held as soon as possible following adjournment of the annual meeting of the stockholders at the place of such annual meeting of the stockholders.  Notice of such annual meeting of the Board of Directors need not be given.  The Board of Directors from time to time may by resolution provide for the holding of regular meetings (in addition to such annual meeting) and fix the place (which may be within or without the State of Delaware) and the date and hour of such meetings.  Notice of regular meetings need not be given, , however, that if the Board of Directors shall fix or change the time or place of any regular meeting, notice of such action shall be mailed promptly, or sent by telecopier, telegram, radio or cable, to each Director who shall not have been present at the meeting at which such action was taken, addressed to him at his usual place of business, or shall be delivered to him personally, , however, that the Chairman shall have the authority to change the time or place of any regular meeting fixed by the Board of Directors by providing notice to each Director in the manner specified for calling a special meeting pursuant to Section 2.05 of these By-Laws.  Notice of such action need not be given to any Director who attends the first regular meeting after such action is taken without protesting the lack of notice to him, prior to or at the commencement of such meeting, or to any Director who submits a signed waiver of notice, whether before or after such meeting.  [Section 141(g).]
Annual and Regular Meetings
provided
provided
further
Section 2.05.  .  Special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held whenever called by the Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer or, in the event of the absence or disability of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer, by the President or, in the event of his absence or disability, by the Chief Operating Officer or, in the event of his absence or disability, by the Chief Financial Officer or, in the event of his absence or disability, any other Vice President who has been designated by the Chief Executive Officer to act in the event of his absence or disability, at such place (within or without the State of Delaware), date and hour as may be specified in the respective notices or waivers of notice of such meetings.  Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called on 24 hours' notice, if notice is given to each Director personally or by telephone, telecopy or telegram, or on five days' notice, if notice is mailed to each Director, addressed to him at his usual place of business.  Notice of any special meeting need not be given to any Director who attends  such meeting without protesting the lack of notice to him, prior to or at the commencement of such meeting, or to any Director who submits a signed waiver of notice, whether before or after such meeting, and any business may be transacted thereat.  [Sections 141(g), 229.]
Special Meetings; Notice
8 
 
 
Section 2.06.  .  At all meetings of the Board of Directors, the presence of a majority of the total number of Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.  Except as otherwise required by law, the vote of a majority of the Directors present at any meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors.  [Section 141(b).]
Quorum; Voting
Section 2.07.  .  A majority of the Directors present, whether or not a quorum is present, may adjourn any meeting of the Board of Directors to another time or place.  No notice need be given of any adjourned meeting unless the time and place of the adjourned meeting are not announced at the time of adjournment, in which case notice conforming to the requirements of Section 2.05 of these By-Laws shall be given to each Director.
Adjournment
Section 2.08.  .  Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board of Directors consent thereto in writing, and such writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors.  [Section 141(f).]
Action Without a Meeting
Section 2.09.  .  To the extent consistent with applicable law, the Certificate of Incorporation and these By-Laws, the Board of Directors may adopt such rules and regulations for the conduct of meetings of the Board of Directors and for the management of the property, affairs and business of the Corporation as the Board of Directors may deem appropriate.  The Directors shall act only as a Board, and the individual Directors shall have no power as such.
Regulations; Manner of Acting
Section 2.10.  .  Members of the Board of Directors may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this provision shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.  [Section 141(i).]
Action by Telephonic Communications
Section 2.11.  .  Any Director may resign at any time by delivering a written notice of resignation, signed by such Director, to the Chief Executive Officer or the Secretary.  Unless otherwise specified therein, such resignation shall take effect upon delivery.  [Section 141(b).]
Resignations
Section 2.12.  .  If any vacancies shall occur in the Board of Directors, by reason of death, resignation, removal or otherwise, or if the authorized number of Directors shall be increased, the Directors then in office shall continue to act, and such vacancies and newly created Directorships may be filled by a majority of the Directors then in office, although less than a quorum.  A Director elected to fill a vacancy or a newly created Directorship shall hold office until the next election of the class for which such Director shall have been chosen, and until
Vacancies and Newly Created Directorships
 
9 
 
his successor has been elected and qualified or until his earlier death, resignation or removal.  Any such vacancy or newly created Directorship may also be filled at any time by vote of the stockholders.  [Section 223.]
Section 2.13.    A Director, or a member of any Committee designated by the Board of Directors shall, in the performance of his duties, be fully protected in relying in good faith upon the records of the Corporation and upon information, opinions, reports or statements presented to the Corporation by any of the Corporation's officers or employees, or Committees designated by the Board of Directors, or by any other person as to the matters the member reasonably believes are within such other person's professional or expert competence and who has been selected with reasonable care by or on behalf of the Corporation.  [Section 141(e).]
Reliance on Accounts and Reports, etc.
Section 2.14.  .  The amount, if any, which each Director shall be entitled to receive as compensation for his services as a Director shall be fixed from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors, that no Director who is an officer or employee of the Corporation shall be entitled to receive any compensation for his services as a Director (although he shall be entitled to be reimbursed for any reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with his service as a Director).  [Section 141(h).]
Compensation
provided
Section 3.01.  .  The Board of Directors may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the whole Board, designate one or more committees, including an Executive Committee, a Finance and Audit Committee, a Compensation and Pension Committee and a Corporate Governance and Public Policy Committee.  The Board of Directors may designate such other committees as it may from time to time determine.  Each such committee shall serve for such term, consist of such number of Directors and have and may exercise, during intervals between meetings of the Board of Directors, such duties, functions and powers, as the Board of Directors may from time to time lawfully prescribe.  Each committee shall fix its own rules of procedure and shall meet at such times and places and upon such call or notice as shall be provided by such rules.  Each committee shall keep a record of its acts and proceedings, and all action of the committee shall be reported to the Board of Directors at the next meeting of the Board.  [Section 141(c).]
How Constituted
Section 3.02.  .  Alternate members of the committees prescribed by this Article may be designated by the Board of Directors from among the Directors to serve as occasion may require.  Whenever a quorum cannot be secured for any meeting of any such committee from among the regular members thereof and
Alternates
 
10 
 
designated alternatives, the member or members of such committee present at such meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board to act at the meeting in the place of such absent or disqualified member.
Section 3.03.  .  During the intervals between the meetings of the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the property, affairs and business of the Corporation.  Each other committee of the Board of Directors, except as otherwise provided in this Article III, shall have and may exercise such powers of the Board of Directors as may be provided by resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors.  The Executive Committee shall have and may exercise such other powers and authority as designated and modified by the Board of Directors from time to time.
Executive Committee
Section 3.04.  . The Finance and Audit Committee shall be comprised of Directors who are independent of management and the Corporation and who are financially literate. The Finance and Audit Committee shall assist the Board of Directors in fulfilling its oversight and monitoring responsibilities in matters relating to corporate accounting and reporting practices, financial controls, capital structure, the borrowing and repayment of funds by the Corporation, and other matters relating to the preparation of audited financial statements of the Corporation.  The Finance and Audit Committee shall have and may exercise such other powers and authority as designated and modified by the Board of Directors from time to time.
Finance and Audit Committee
Section 3.05.  .  The Compensation and Pension Committee shall assure that the Company has a competitive executive compensation program in order to attract and retain qualified executives and to provide incentives to management of the Corporation for the attainment of the Corporation's goals and objectives.  The Compensation and Pension Committee is also responsible for periodically reviewing and approving the Corporation's pension plan, 401(k) savings plan and employee stock purchase plan.  The Compensation and Pension Committee shall have and may exercise such other powers and authority as designated and modified by the Board of Directors from time to time.
Compensation and Pension Committee
Section 3.06.  .  The Corporate Governance and Public Policy Committee shall provide counsel to the Board of Directors with respect to corporate governance issues, including Board and Committee organization, membership, and function, and shall act in an advisory capacity to the Board and the Corporation's management on public policy issues.  The Corporate Governance and Public Policy Committee also shall nominate persons for election to the Board and shall consider nominees recommended by stockholders.  The Corporate Governance and Public Policy Committee shall have and may exercise such other powers and authority as designated and modified by the Board of Directors from time to time.
Corporate Governance and Public Policy Committee
 
11 
 
Section 3.07.  .  Except as may be otherwise provided in the resolution creating any committee of the Board of Directors, at all meetings of such committee the presence of members (or alternate members) constituting a majority of the total authorized membership of such committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.  The act of the majority of the members present at any meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of such committee.  Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of any such committee may be taken without a meeting, if all members of such committee shall consent to such action in writing and such writing or writings are filed with the minutes of the proceedings of such committee.  The members of any such committee shall act only as a committee, and the individual members of such committee shall have no power as such.  [Section 141(c).]
Quorum and Manner of Acting
Section 3.08.  .  Members of any committee of the Board of Directors may participate in a meeting of such committee by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this provision shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.  [Section 141(i).]
Action by Telephonic Communications
Section 3.09.  .  In the absence or disqualification of a member of any committee of the Board of Directors, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member.  [Section 141(c).]
Absent or Disqualified Members
Section 3.10.  .  Any member (and any alternate member) of any committee of the Board of Directors may resign at any time by delivering a written notice of resignation, signed by such member, to the Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer.  Unless otherwise specified therein, such resignation shall take effect upon delivery.
Resignations
Section 3.11.  .  Any member (and any alternate member) of any committee of the Board of Directors may be removed at any time, either for or without cause, by resolution adopted by a majority of the whole Board of Directors.
Removal
Section 3.12.  .  If any vacancy shall occur in any committee of the Board of Directors, by reason of disqualification, death, resignation, removal or otherwise, the remaining members (and any alternate members) shall continue to act, and any such vacancy may be filled by the Board of Directors.
Vacancies
12 
 
 
Section 4.01.  .  The officers of the Corporation shall be elected by the Board of Directors and shall consist of a Chairman, a Chief Executive Officer, a President, a Chief Operating Officer, a Chief Financial Officer, one or more Executive Vice Presidents, Vice Presidents, a Secretary and a Treasurer.  The Board of Directors also may elect one or more additional officers and one or more Assistant Secretaries and Assistant Treasurers in such numbers as the Board of Directors may determine.  The Board of Directors may appoint such other officers and agents as it may deem appropriate, and such other officers and agents shall hold their offices for such terms and shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as may be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors.  The Board of Directors from time to time may delegate to any officer or agent the power to appoint subordinate officers or agents and to prescribe their respective rights, terms of office, authorities and duties.  Any such officer or agent may remove any such subordinate officer or agent appointed by him, for or without cause. Any number of offices may be held by the same person.  No officer need be a Director of the Corporation.  [Section 142(a), (b).]
Number
Section 4.02.  .  Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, the officers of the Corporation shall be elected by the Board of Directors at the annual meeting of the Board of Directors, and shall be elected to hold office until the next succeeding annual meeting of the Board of Directors.  In the event of the failure to elect officers at such annual meeting, officers may be elected at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors.  Each officer shall hold office until his successor has been elected and qualified, or until his earlier death, resignation or removal.  [Section 142(b).]
Election
Section 4.03.  . The salaries of all officers of the Corporation, who have been designated as executive officers under Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, shall be fixed by the Board of Directors and the salaries of all corporate agents shall be fixed by the Chief Executive Officer.
Salaries
Section 4.04.  .  Any officer may be removed for or without cause at any time by the Board of Directors.  Any corporate agent may be removed for or without cause at any time by the Chief Executive Officer or the Board of Directors.  Any officer or corporate agent may resign at any time by delivering a written notice of resignation, signed by such officer, to the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer.  Unless otherwise specified therein, such resignation shall take effect upon delivery.  Any vacancy occurring in any office of the Corporation by death, resignation, removal or otherwise, shall be filled by the Board of Directors.  [Section 142(b), (e).]
Removal and Resignation; Vacancies
Section 4.05.  .  The officers of the Corporation shall have such authority and shall exercise such powers and perform such
Authority and Duties of Officers
 
13 
 
duties as may be specified in these By-Laws, except that in any event each officer shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as may be required by law.  [Section 142(a).]
Section 4.06.  .  The Chairman will have general supervision and control of the policies, business and affairs of the Corporation, subject to the control and authority of the Board of Directors.  The Chairman shall develop the agenda for and preside at all meetings of the stockholders, the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee at which he is present.  The Chairman shall have the authority to change existing officers' titles and to appoint additional officers of the Corporation as he shall determine in his sole and absolute discretion.
The Chairman
Section 4.07.  .  The Chief Executive Officer shall preside, in the event of the absence or disability of the Chairman, at all meetings of the stockholders and Directors at which he is present, shall be the chief executive officer of the Corporation, shall have general control and supervision of the policies and long-term strategies of the Corporation (subject to the authority of the Board of Directors), shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Board of Directors are carried into effect and shall work with Board of Directors to ensure their consent with matters relating to the Corporation's governance.  The Chief Executive Officer shall be responsible for the financial success of the Corporation and shall assure the development of long-term strategic plans and objectives with respect to the Corporation.  He shall manage and administer the Corporation's business and affairs and shall also perform all duties and exercise all powers usually pertaining to the office of a chief executive officer of a corporation.  The Chief Executive Officer shall have the authority to sign, in the name and on behalf of the Corporation, checks, orders, contracts, leases, notes, drafts and other documents and instruments in connection with the business of the Corporation, and together with the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, conveyances of real estate and other documents and instruments to which the seal of the Corporation is affixed.  The Chief Executive Officer shall have the authority and responsibility to develop management and to cause the employment or appointment of such employees and agents of the Corporation to support the strategies and operating plans of the Corporation, as the conduct of the business of the Corporation may require, to fix their compensation, and to remove or suspend any employee or agent elected or appointed by the Chief Executive Officer or the Board of Directors.  The Chief Executive Officer shall build and maintain relationships with outside investors and customers and reflect the Corporation's values through public relations.  The Chief Executive Officer shall perform the duties and have the powers of the President if there is a vacancy in that office, and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors or the Chairman may from time to time prescribe.
The Chief Executive Officer
Section 4.08.  .  The President shall, in the event of the absence of disability of the Chief Executive Officer, perform the duties of the Chief Executive Officer (subject to the authority of the Board of Directors to designate some other person as temporary Chief Executive Officer), shall manage and administer the
The President
 
14 
 
Corporation's business and affairs and shall also perform all duties and exercise all powers usually pertaining to the office of the President.  The President shall have the authority to sign, in the name and on behalf of the Corporation, checks, orders, contracts, leases, notes and drafts and other documents and instruments in connection with the business of the Corporation, and together with the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, conveyances of real estate and other documents and instruments to which the seal of the Corporation is affixed.  The President shall perform the duties and have the powers of the Chief Operating Officer if there is a vacancy in that office, and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors, the Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer shall from time to time prescribe.
Section 4.09.  .  The Chief Operating Officer shall, in the event of the absence or disability of the President, perform the duties of the President (subject to the authority of the Board of Directors to designate some other person as temporary President), and shall have general control and supervision of the divisions of the Corporation and shall also perform all duties and exercise all powers usually pertaining to the office of the Chief Operating Officer.  The Chief Operating Officer shall have the authority to sign in the name and on behalf of the Corporation, checks, orders, contracts, leases, notes, drafts, and other documents and instruments in connection with the business of the Corporation.  The Chief Operating Officer shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors, the Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer shall from time to time prescribe.
The Chief Operating Officer
Section 4.10.  .  The Chief Financial Officer shall be the chief financial officer of the Corporation.  He shall report to the Chief Executive Officer and shall be responsible for reviewing and recommending financial policy to the Board of Directors, and for analysis and reporting of the financial results of the Corporation to the Board of Directors.  He shall direct and supervise all tax and internal audit functions of the Corporation.  He will also be responsible for review, coordination and general supervision of all of the foregoing functions for subsidiaries of the Corporation.  He shall perform such other duties and exercise such other powers as may be assigned or delegated to him by the Chief Executive Officer or the Board of Directors.
The Chief Financial Officer
Section 4.11. .  The Treasurer shall report to the Chief Financial Officer, and shall have the following powers and duties:
The Treasurer
(a)  He shall have charge and supervision over and be responsible for the moneys, securities, receipts and disbursements of the Corporation, and shall keep or cause to be kept full and accurate records of all receipts of the Corporation.
(b)  He shall cause the moneys and other valuable effects of the Corporation to be deposited in the name and to the credit of the Corporation in such banks or trust companies or with such bankers or other depositaries as shall be selected in accordance with Section 8.05 of these By-Laws.
15 
 
 
(c)  He shall cause the moneys of the Corporation to be disbursed by checks or drafts (signed as provided in Section 8.06 of these By-Laws) upon the authorized depositaries of the Corporation and cause to be taken and preserved proper vouchers for all moneys disbursed.
(d)  He may sign (unless an Assistant Treasurer or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary shall have signed) certificates representing stock of the Corporation the issuance of which shall have been authorized by the Board of Directors.
(e)  He shall be responsible for and supervise the Corporation's insurance program.
(f)  He shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to him by the Chief Financial Officer.
Section 4.12.  .  The Secretary shall have the following powers and duties:
The Secretary
              (a)  He shall keep or cause to be kept a record of all the proceedings of the meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors in books provided for that purpose.
(b)  He shall cause all notices to be duly given in accordance with the provisions of these By-Laws and as required by law.
(c)  Whenever any committee of the Board of Directors shall be appointed pursuant to a resolution of the Board of Directors, he shall furnish a copy of such resolution to the members of such committee.
(d)  He shall be the custodian of the records and of the seal of the Corporation and cause such seal (or a facsimile thereof) to be affixed to all certificates representing shares of the Corporation prior to the issuance thereof and to all instruments the execution of which on behalf of the Corporation under its seal shall have been duly authorized in accordance with these By-Laws, and when so affixed he may attest the same.
(e)  He shall properly maintain and file all books, reports, statements, certificates and all other documents and records required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws.
(f)  He shall have charge of the stock books and ledgers of the Corporation and shall cause the stock and transfer books to be kept in such manner as to show at any time the number of shares of stock of the Corporation of each class issued
16 
 
 
and outstanding, the names (alphabetically arranged) and the addresses of the holders of record of such shares, the number of shared held by each holder and the date as of which each became such holder of record.
(g)  He shall sign (unless the Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer or Assistant Secretary shall have signed) certificates representing shares of the Corporation the issuance of which shall have been authorized by the Board of Directors.
(h)  He shall perform, in general, all duties incident to the office of secretary and such other duties as may be specified in these By-Laws or as may be assigned to him from time to time by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer.
Section 5.01.  .  The shares of the Corporation shall be represented by certificates, that the Board of Directors may provide by resolution or resolutions that some or all of any or all classes or series of the stock the Corporation shall be uncertificated shares.  Any such resolution shall not apply to shares represented by a certificate until each certificate is surrendered to the Corporation.  Notwithstanding the adoption of such a resolution by the Board of Directors, every holder of stock in the Corporation represented by certificates and upon request every holder of uncertificated shares shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by, or in the name of the Corporation, by the Chief Executive Officer or a Vice President, and by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, representing the number of shares registered in certificate form.  Such certificate shall be in such form as the Board of Directors may determine, to the extent consistent with applicable law, the Certificate of Incorporation and these By-Laws.  [Section 158.]
Certificates of Stock, Uncertificated Shares
provided
Section 5.02.  .  Any or all of the signatures on the certificate referred to in Section 5.01 of these By-Laws may be a facsimile, engraved or printed, to the extent permitted by law.  In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed, or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon, a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if he were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.  [Section 158.]
Signatures; Facsimile
Section 5.03.  .  The Board of Directors may direct that a new certificate be issued in place of any certificate theretofore issued by the Corporation alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, upon delivery to the Board of Directors of an affidavit of the owner or owners of such certificate, setting forth such allegation.  The Board of Directors may require the owner of such lost, stolen
Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Certificates
 
17 
 
or destroyed certificate, or his legal representative, to give the Corporation a bond sufficient to indemnify it against any claim that may be made against it on account of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of any such certificate or the issuance of any such new certificate.  [Section 167.]
Section 5.04.  .  Upon surrender to the Corporation or the transfer agent of the Corporation of a certificate for shares, duly endorsed or accompanied by appropriate evidence of succession, assignment or authority to transfer, the Corporation shall issue a new certificate to the person entitled thereto, cancel the old certificate and record the transaction upon its books.  Within a reasonable time after the transfer of uncertificated stock, the Corporation shall send to the registered owner thereof a written notice containing the information required to be set forth or stated on certificates pursuant to Sections 151, 156, 202(a) or 218(a) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.  Subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation and these By-Laws, the Board of Directors may prescribe such additional rules and regulations as it may deem appropriate relating to the issue, transfer and registration of shares of the Corporation.  [Section 151.]
Transfer of Stock
Section 5.05.  .  In order to determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date on which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which shall not be more than 60 nor less than ten days before the date of such meeting.  If no record date is fixed by the Board of Directors, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held.  A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting, , however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
Record Date
provided
In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which date shall not be more than ten days after the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors.  If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, when no prior action by the Board of Directors is required by law, shall be the first date on which a signed written consent setting forth the action taken or proposed to be taken is delivered to the Corporation by delivery to its registered office in the State of Delaware, its principal place of business, or an officer or agent of the Corporation having custody of the book in which proceedings of meetings of stockholders are record.  Delivery made to the Corporation's registered office shall be by
18 
 
 
hand or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested.  If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors and prior action by the Board of Directors is required by law, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution taking such prior action.
In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights of the stockholders entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock, or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted, and which record date shall be not more than 60 days prior to such action.  If no record date is fixed, the record date for determining stockholders for any such purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto.  [Section 213.]
Section 5.06.  .  Prior to due surrender of a certificate for registration of transfer, the Corporation may treat the registered owner as the person exclusively entitled to receive dividends and other distributions, to vote, to receive notice and otherwise to exercise all the rights and powers of the owner of the shares represented by such certificate, and the Corporation shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or legal claim to or interest in such shares on the part of any other person, whether or not the Corporation shall have notice of such claim or interests.  Whenever any transfer of shares shall be made for collateral security, and not absolutely, it shall be so expressed in the entry of the transfer if, when the certificates are presented to the Corporation for transfer or uncertificated shares are requested to be transferred, both the transferor and transferee request the Corporation to do so.  [Section 159.]
Registered Stockholders
Section 5.07.  .  The Board of Directors may appoint one or more transfer agents and one or more registrars, and may require all certificates representing shares to bear the signature of any such transfer agents or registrars.
Transfer Agent and Registrar
Section 6.01.  .  The Corporation shall indemnify and hold harmless, to the full extent authorized by the Delaware Corporation Law, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than said law permitted the corporation to provide prior to such amendment), or by other applicable law as then in effect, any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action,
Nature of Indemnity
 
19 
 
suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact that he is or was or has agreed to become a Director, officer or corporate agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving or has agreed to serve at the request of the Corporation as a Director, officer or corporate agent, of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise, or by reason of any action alleged to have been taken or omitted in such capacity, and may indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to such an action, suit or proceeding by reason of the fact that he is or was or has agreed to become an employee or agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving or has agreed to serve at the request of the Corporation as an employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him or on his behalf in connection with such action, suit or proceeding and any appeal therefrom, if he acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding had no reasonable cause to believe his conduct was unlawful; except that in the case of an action or suit by or in the right of the Corporation to procure a judgment in its favor () such indemnification shall be limited to expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by such person in the defense or settlement of such action or suit, and () no indemnification shall be made in respect of any claim, issue or matter as to which such person shall have been adjudged to be liable to the Corporation unless and only to the extent that the Delaware Court of Chancery or the court in which such action or suit was brought shall determine upon application that, despite the adjudication of liability but in view of all the circumstances of the case, such person is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnity for such expenses which the Delaware Court of Chancery or such other court shall deem proper.
a
b
The termination of any action, suit or proceeding by judgment, order settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption that the person did not act in good faith and in a manner which he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had reasonable cause to believe that his conduct was unlawful.  [Sections 145(a), (b).]
nolo
contendere
Section 6.02.  .  To the extent that a Director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation has been successful on the merits or otherwise in defense of any action, suit or proceeding referred to in Section 6.01 of these By-Laws or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, he shall be indemnified against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection therewith.  [Section 145(c).]
Successful Defense
Section 6.03.  .  Any indemnification of a Director or officer of the Corporation under Section 6.01 of these By-Laws (unless ordered by a court) shall be made by the Corporation unless a determination is made that indemnification of the Director or officer is not proper in the
Determination That Indemnification Is Proper
20 
 
 
circumstances because he has not met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in Section 6.01 of these By-Laws.  Any indemnification of an employee or agent of the Corporation under Section 6.01 of these By-Laws (unless ordered by a court) may be made by the Corporation upon a determination that indemnification of the employee or agent is proper in the circumstances because he has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in Section 6.01 of these By-Laws.  Any such determination shall be made () by the Board of Directors by a majority vote of a quorum consisting of Directors who were not parties to such action, suit or proceeding, or () if such a quorum is not obtainable, or, even if obtainable a quorum of disinterested Directors so directs, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion, or () by the stockholders.  [Section 145(d).]
a
b
c
Section 6.04.  .  Expenses (including attorneys' fees) incurred by a Director or officer in defending any civil, criminal, administrative or investigative action, suit or proceeding shall be paid by the Corporation in advance of the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of the Director or officer to repay such amount if it shall ultimately be determined that he is not entitled to be indemnified by the Corporation as authorized in this Article VI.  Such expenses (including attorneys' fees) incurred by other employees and agents may be so paid upon such terms and conditions, if any, as the Board of Directors deems appropriate.  The Board of Directors may authorize the Corporation's counsel to represent such Director, officer, employee or agent in any action, suit or proceeding, whether or not the Corporation is a party to such action, suit or proceeding.  [Section 145(e).]
Advance Payment of Expenses
Section 6.05.  .  Any indemnification of a Director or officer of the Corporation under Sections 6.01 and 6.02 of these By-Laws, or advance of costs, charges and expenses to a Director or officer under Section 6.04 of these By-Laws, shall be made promptly, and in any event within 30 days, upon the written request of the Director or officer.  If a determination by the Corporation that the Director or officer is entitled to indemnification pursuant to this Article VI is required, and the Corporation fails to respond within 60 days to a written request for indemnity, the Corporation shall be deemed to have approved such request.  If the Corporation denies a written request for indemnity or advance of expenses, in whole or in part, or if payment in full pursuant to such request is not made within 30 days, the right to indemnification or advances as granted by this Article VI shall be enforceable by the Director or officer in any court of competent jurisdiction.  Such person's costs and expenses incurred in connection with successfully establishing his right to indemnification, in whole or in part, in any such action shall also be indemnified by the Corporation.  It shall be a defense to any such action (other than an action brought to enforce a claim for the advance of costs, charges and expenses under Section 6.04 of these By-Laws where the required undertaking, if any, has been received by the Corporation) that the claimant has not met the standard of conduct set forth in Section 6.01 of these By-Laws, but the burden of proving such defense shall be on the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, its independent legal counsel, and its
Procedure for Indemnification of Directors and Officers
 
21 
 
stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the claimant is proper in the circumstances because he has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in Section 6.01 of these By-Laws, nor the fact that there has been an actual determination by the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, its independent legal counsel, and its stockholders) that the claimant has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that the claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct.
Section 6.06.  .  The foregoing indemnification provisions shall be deemed to be a contract between the Corporation and each Director, officer, employee and agent who serves in any such capacity at any time while these provisions as well as the relevant provisions of the Delaware Corporation Law are in effect and any repeal or modification thereof shall not affect any right or obligation then existing with respect to any state of facts then or previously existing or any action, suit or proceeding previously or thereafter brought or threatened based in whole or in part upon any such state of facts.  Such a "contract right" may not be modified retroactively without the consent of such Director, officer, employee or agent.
Survival; Preservation of Other Rights
The indemnification by this Article VI shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which those indemnified may be entitled under any by-law, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested Directors or otherwise, both as to action in his official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding such office, and shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a Director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such a person.  [Section 145(f), (j).]
provided
Section 6.07.  .  The Corporation shall purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was or has agreed to become a Director or officer of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a Director or officer of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any liability asserted against him and incurred by him or on his behalf in any such capacity, or arising out of his status as such, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify him against such liability under the provisions of this Article VI, that such insurance is available on acceptable terms, which determination shall be made by a vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors.
Insurance
provided
Section 6.08.  .  If this Article VI or any portion hereof shall be invalidated on any ground by any court of competent jurisdiction, then the Corporation shall nevertheless indemnify each Director or officer and may indemnify each employee or agent of the Corporation as to costs, charges and expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement with respect to any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, including an action by or in the right of the Corporation, to the fullest extent permitted by any applicable portion of this Article VI that shall not have been invalidated and to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.
Severability
22 
 
 
Section 7.01.  .  The registered office of the Corporation in the State of Delaware shall be located at Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle.
Registered Office
Section 7.02.  .  The Corporation may maintain offices or places of business at such other locations within or without the State of Delaware as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine or as the business of the Corporation may require.
Other Offices
Section 8.01.  .  Subject to any applicable provisions of law and the Certificate of Incorporation, dividends upon the shares of the Corporation may be declared by the Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors and any such dividend may be paid in cash, property or shares of the Corporation's Capital Stock.
Dividends
A member of the Board of Directors, or a member of any Committee designated by the Board of Directors shall be fully protected in relying in good faith upon the records of the Corporation and upon such information, opinions, reports or statements presented to the Corporation by any of its officers or employees, or Committees of the Board of Directors, or by any other person as to matters the Director reasonably believes are within such other person's professional or expert competence and who has been selected with reasonable care by or on behalf of the Corporation, as to the value and amount of the assets, liabilities and/or net profits of the Corporation, or any other facts pertinent to the existence and amount of surplus or other funds from which dividends might properly be declared and paid.  [Sections 172, 173.]
Section 8.02.  .  There may be set aside out of any funds of the Corporation available for dividends such sum or sums as the Board of Directors from time to time, in its absolute discretion, thinks proper as a reserve or reserves to meet contingencies, or for equalizing dividends, or for repairing or maintaining any property of the Corporation or for such other purpose as the Board of Directors shall think conducive to the interest of the Corporation, and the Board of Directors may similarly modify or abolish any such reserves.  [Section 171.]
Reserves
Section 8.03.  .  The Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Financial Officer,
Execution of Instruments
 
23 
 
any Vice President, the Secretary or the Treasurer may enter into any contract or execute and deliver any instrument in the name and on behalf of the Corporation.  The Board of Directors or the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Operating Officer or the Chief Financial Officer may authorize any other officer or agent to enter into any contract or execute and deliver any instrument in the name and on behalf of the Corporation.  Any such authorization may be general or limited to specific contracts or instruments.
Section 8.04.  .  No loan shall be contracted on behalf of the Corporation, and no evidence of indebtedness shall be issued in its name, unless authorized by the Board of Directors, the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Operating Officer or the Chief Financial Officer. Such authorization may be general or confined to specific instances.  Loans so authorized may be effected at any time for the Corporation from any bank, trust company or other institution, or from any firm, corporation or individual.  All bonds, debentures, notes and other obligations or evidences of indebtedness of the Corporation issued for such loans shall be made, executed and delivered as the Board of Directors or the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Operating Officer or the Chief Financial Officer shall authorize.  When so authorized by the Board of Directors or the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Operating Officer or the Chief Financial Officer, any part of or all the properties, including contract rights, assets, business or good will of the Corporation, whether then owned or thereafter acquired, may be mortgaged, pledged, hypothecated or conveyed or assigned in trust as security for the payment of such bonds, debentures, notes and other obligations or evidences of indebtedness of the Corporation, and of the interest thereon, by instruments executed and delivered in the name of the Corporation.
Corporate Indebtedness
Section 8.05.  Any funds of the Corporation may be deposited from time to time in such banks, trust companies or other depositaries as may be determined by the Board of Directors, the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, or by such officers or agents as may be authorized by the Board of Directors or the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Operating Officer or the Chief Financial Officer to make such determination.
Deposits
.  
Section 8.06.  .  All checks or demands for money and notes of the Corporation shall be signed by such officer or officers or such agent or agents of the Corporation, and in such manner, as the Board of Directors, the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer or the President from time to time may determine.
Checks
Section 8.07.  .  To the extent authorized by the Board of Directors or by the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, any other Vice President, the Secretary or the Treasurer or any other officers designated by the Board of Directors or the Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer, may sell, transfer, endorse and assign any
Sale, Transfer, etc. of Securities
 
24 
 
shares of stock, bonds or other securities owned by or held in the name of the Corporation, and may make, execute and deliver in the name of the Corporation, under its corporate seal, any instruments that may be appropriate to effect any such sale, transfer, endorsement or assignment.
Section 8.08.  .  Unless otherwise determined by resolution of the Board of Directors, each of the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, and the Chief Financial Officer shall have full power and authority on behalf of the Corporation to attend any meeting of stockholders of any corporation in which the Corporation may hold stock, and to act, vote (or execute proxies to vote) and exercise in person or by proxy all other rights, powers and privileges incident to the ownership of such stock.  Such officers acting on behalf of the Corporation shall have full power and authority to execute any instrument expressing consent to or dissent from any action of any such corporation without a meeting.  The Board of Directors may be resolution from time to time confer such power and authority upon any other person or persons.
Voting as Stockholder
Section 8.09.  .  The fiscal year of the Corporation shall commence on the first day of January of each year (except for the Corporation's first fiscal year which shall commence on the date of incorporation) and shall terminate in each case on December 31.
Fiscal Year
Section 8.10.  .  The seal of the Corporation shall be circular in form and shall contain the name of the Corporation, the year of its incorporation and the words "Corporate Seal" and "Delaware".  The form of such seal shall be subject to alteration by the Board of Directors.  The seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed, affixed or reproduced, or may be used in any other lawful manner.
Seal
Section 8.11.  .  Except to the extent otherwise required by law, the books and records of the Corporation shall be kept at such place or places within or without the State of Delaware as may be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors.
Books and Records; Inspection
Section 8.12.  .  Unless the Board of Directors consents in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware shall be the sole and exclusive forum for (a) any derivative action or proceeding brought on behalf of the Corporation, (b) any action asserting a claim of a violation of the Corporations Restated Certificate of Incorporation or By-laws or a breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation to the Corporation or the Corporations stockholders, (c) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, or (d) any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine, in each such case subject to said Court of Chancery having personal jurisdiction over the indispensable parties named as defendants therein.
Establishing Forum for Certain Actions
 
25
 
Section 9.01.  .  These By-Laws may be amended, altered or repealed.
Amendment
(a)  by resolution adopted by a majority of the Board of Directors at any special or regular meeting of the Board if, in the case of such special meeting only, notice of such amendment, alteration or repeal is contained in the notice or waiver of notice of such meeting; or
(b)  at any regular or special meeting of the stockholders if, in the case of such special meeting only, notice of such amendment, alteration or repeal is contained in the notice or waiver of notice of such meeting.  [Section 109(a).]
Section 10.01.  .  In the event of any conflict between the provisions of these By-Laws as in effect from time to time and provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation as in effect from time to time, the provisions of such Certificate of Incorporation shall be controlling.
Construction
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
26

 
Exhibit 10.1
Execution Version
Lexmark International, Inc.
One Lexmark Centre Drive
740 West New Circle Road
Lexington, KY  40550
       July 28, 2011
Re:
Accelerated Share Repurchase
Ladies and Gentlemen:
This letter (the ) sets forth the agreement we have reached with respect to a transaction between Citibank, N.A. (),and Lexmark International, Inc (the ) in relation to shares of the Companys common stock, par value USD 0.01 (the ).
Letter Agreement
Citibank
 
Company
Common Stock
I.  
Definitions
As used in this Letter Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
 
 
 has the meaning specified in Section XV.
Bankruptcy Code
 has the meaning specified in Section VIII(a).
Cash Tender Termination
 has the meaning specified in Section VIII(b).
Corporate Event Termination
 has the meaning specified in Section IX.
Defaulting Party
 has the meaning specified in Section VIII(c).
Delisting Termination
 means an amount in U.S. dollars specified in Schedule I.
Discount Per Share
 
 means a Trading Day on which a Market Disruption Event occurs.
Disrupted Day
 has the meaning specified in Section VII(b).
Dividend Event Termination
 means New York Stock Exchange or any successor exchange.
Exchange
 means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
 
 has the meaning specified in Section VII(a).
Expected Dividend Amount
 has the meaning specified in Section XIV.
Indemnified Party
 means the date specified in Schedule I.
Initial Pricing Period Termination Date
 has the meaning specified in Section II(b).
Initial Settlement Date
 has the meaning specified in Section II(a).
Initial Share Price
 has the meaning specified in Section X(a).
Loss
 has the meaning specified in Section X(a).
Loss Notice
 
 
 
 
      has the meaning specified in Section VI(b).
   
Loss of Borrow Termination
 means any (i) suspension of or limitation imposed on trading by any exchange or market on which the Common Stock is listed for trading, (ii) event that disrupts or impairs (in the reasonable business judgment of Citibank) the ability of market participants in general to effect transaction in, or obtain market values for, the shares of Common Stock or futures or options contracts relating to the Common Stock or (iii) material decrease, on any Trading Day, in the trading volume for the Common Stock such that in the reasonable business judgment of Citibank it cannot purchase the contemplated number of shares for such Trading Day.
Market Disruption Event
 means 50 basis points per annum based on the closing price per share of Common Stock on the Trading Day immediately preceding the relevant day.
Maximum Borrow Cost
 has the meaning specified in Section IX.
Non-Defaulting Party
 has the meaning specified in Section II(b).
Number of Initial Shares
 has the meaning specified in Section II(a).
Number of Shares
 has the meaning specified in Section III(b).
Payment Amount
 means the period of consecutive Trading Days commencing on the Pricing Period Commencement Date and ending on the Pricing Period Termination Date; that the Pricing Period may be extended by Citibank upon the occurrence of a Market Disruption Event.
Pricing Period
provided
 means August 1, 2011.
Pricing Period Commencement Date
 means the earlier of (a) the Scheduled Pricing Period Termination Date, or (b) any Trading Day occurring on or following the Initial Pricing Period Termination Date and immediately preceding any Trading Day, on which Citibank shall notify the Company, prior to the close of regular trading on the Exchange on such Trading Day, of its intention to terminate the Pricing Period; that, for the avoidance of doubt, any date relating to the termination of the Transaction and designated as such pursuant to Section X of this Letter Agreement shall not be deemed the Pricing Period Termination Date and accordingly the settlement of the Transaction shall be governed by such Section X and not by provisions of Section III of this Letter Agreement.
Pricing Period Termination Date
provided
 has the meaning set forth in Annex B hereto.
Private Placement Agreement
 
 has the meaning set forth in Annex B hereto.
Private Placement Price
 
 has the meaning set forth in Section  III(b).
Private Placement Settlement
 
 has the meaning set forth in Annex B hereto.
Private Securities
 
 has the meaning specified in Annex A hereto.
Prospectus
 has the meaning specified in Section II(a).
Purchase Date
 has the meaning specified in Section II(a).
Purchase Price
 has the meaning set forth in Section  III(b).
Registered Settlement
 has the meaning specified in Annex A hereto.
Registration Statement
 means Regulation M under the Exchange Act.
Regulation M
 
 
 
 
 for any Trading Day equals (i) the Number of Initial Shares, (ii) the cumulative number of shares of Common Stock that Citibank has repurchased to cover its short position in respect of this Transaction.  For the avoidance of doubt, such shares shall be considered repurchased by Citibank as of the Trading Day on which such transactions settle.
Remaining Share Amount
minus
 means Rule 10b-18 under the Exchange Act.
Rule 10b-18
 means, for any Trading Day, the volume-weighted average price at which the Common Stock trades as reported in the composite transactions for the principal U.S. securities exchange on which such Common Stock is then listed on such Trading Day, excluding (i) trades that do not settle regular way, (ii) opening (regular way) reported trades in the consolidated system on such Trading Day, (iii) trades that occur in the last ten minutes before the scheduled close of trading on the Exchange on such Trading Day and ten minutes before the scheduled close of the primary trading in the market where the trade is effected, and (iv) trades on such Trading Day that do not satisfy the requirements of Rule 10b-18(b)(3) of the Exchange Act, as determined in good faith by Citibank.  The Company acknowledges that Citibank may refer to the Bloomberg Page LXK.N <Equity> AQR SEC (or any successor thereto), in its judgment, for such Trading Day to determine the Rule 10b-18 VWAP.
Rule 10b-18 VWAP
 has the meaning specified in Annex A hereto.
SEC
 means the date specified in Schedule I; that, the Scheduled Pricing Period Termination Date may be postponed by Citibank upon the occurrence of a Market Disruption Event on any scheduled Trading Day during the Pricing Period.
Scheduled Pricing Period Termination Date
provided
 means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
 means the third Trading Day immediately following the last day of the Pricing Period.
Settlement Date
 means (a) the Purchase Price the Settlement Price, (b) the Number of Initial Shares.
Settlement Number
divided by
minus
 means (i) the average of the Rule 10b-18 VWAP prices for all Trading Days during the Pricing Period (ii) the Discount Per Share.
Settlement Price
minus
 means, as of any date of determination, ten (10) times the Number of Initial Shares minus the number of shares of Common Stock delivered by the Company to Citibank on or prior to such date hereunder (in each case subject to adjustment pursuant to Section VI(b) and VIII).
Share Cap
 means any day (i) other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a Disrupted Day, and (ii) on which the Exchange is open for trading during its regular trading session, notwithstanding the Exchange closing prior to its scheduled closing time.
Trading Day
 means the transaction contemplated by this Letter Agreement.
Transaction
 has the meaning specified in Annex A hereto.
Transfer Agreement
 means a period commencing on the first Trading Day immediately following the last Trading Day of the Pricing Period and ending on the Trading Day on which Citibank completes its purchase of a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Settlement Number, pursuant to Section III(b), and as determined in good faith by Citibank in consultation with the Company.
Valuation Period
II.  
Initial Shares
 
 
 
 
 (a)             Subject to the terms and conditions of this Letter Agreement, the Company agrees to purchase from Citibank, and Citibank will sell to the Company, on the date hereof or on such other Trading Day as the Company and Citibank shall otherwise agree (the ), for a single aggregate price of $125,000,000 (the ), 3,687,316 shares of Common Stock () and, if the Settlement Number is greater than zero, additional number of shares of Common Stock equal to such Settlement Number.  Citibank will hedge this Transaction by entering into a short sale with respect to the Number of Initial Shares effected at the closing price per share of Common Stock on the Purchase Date (the ).  Such purchase, sale and hedge shall be effected in accordance with Citibanks customary procedures.
    
Purchase.
Purchase Date
Purchase Price
Number of Shares
Initial Share Price
(b)             On the third Trading Day immediately following the Purchase Date (the ), Citibank shall deliver to the Company, a number of Shares equal to the product of (i) 85% and (ii) the Number of Shares (the ), upon payment by the Company of the Purchase Price in U.S. dollars.
Initial Settlement.
Initial Settlement Date
Number of Initial Shares
III.  
Settlement
(a)             If, following the expiration of the Pricing Period, the Settlement Number is greater than zero, on the Settlement Date, Citibank shall transfer to the Company through its agent, for no additional consideration, a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Settlement Number.
Citibank Settlement Obligation.
(b)             If, following the expiration of the Pricing Period, the Settlement Number is less than zero, on the Settlement Date, (i) the Company shall, in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph (b), transfer to Citibank through its agent, for no additional consideration, a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the absolute value of the Settlement Number or, (ii) if the Company so elects pursuant to this paragraph, in lieu of such share delivery, the Company shall make a cash payment to Citibank in an amount equal to the absolute value of the Settlement Number the weighted average purchase price at which Citibank purchases shares of Common Stock equal to the Settlement Number during the Valuation Period (the ), to be paid on the Trading Day immediately following the last day of the Valuation Period; that, for the avoidance of doubt, in accordance with the calculation of the Settlement Number, in calculating any corresponding settlement obligations of the parties, Citibank shall take into consideration the actual payments and deliveries made by the parties on the Initial Settlement Date for the Transaction.  The Company shall notify Citibank in writing of its election (i) to pay the absolute value of the Settlement Number in cash or, (ii) to effect the delivery of the Settlement Number of shares in accordance with Annex A () or Annex B () to this Letter Agreement; that (A) the failure to make an election and notify Citibank in accordance with the preceding sentence with respect to matters described in clause (i), shall constitute an irrevocable election by the Company to deliver shares, and, (B) the failure to make an election and notify Citibank with respect to matters described in clause (ii), shall constitute an election of Private Placement Settlement.
Company Settlement Obligation.
multiplied by
Payment Amount
provided
Registered Settlement
Private Placement Settlement
provided
  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Letter Agreement, the Company acknowledges and agrees that, on any day, Citibank (or its agent or affiliate) shall not be obligated to deliver or receive any shares of Common Stock to or from the Company and the Company shall not be entitled to receive any shares of Common Stock if such receipt or delivery would result in Citibank directly or indirectly beneficially owning (as such term is defined for purposes of Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act) at any time in excess of 4.9% of the outstanding shares of Common Stock.  Any purported receipt or delivery of shares of Common Stock shall be void and have no effect to the extent (but only to the extent) that any receipt or delivery of such shares of Common Stock would result in Citibank directly or indirectly so beneficially owning in excess of 4.9% of the outstanding shares of Common Stock.  If, on any day, any delivery or receipt of shares of Common Stock by Citibank (or its agent or affiliate) is not effected, in whole or in part, as a result of this provision, Citibanks and the Companys respective obligations to make or accept such receipt or delivery shall not be extinguished and such receipt or delivery shall be effected over time as promptly as Citibank reasonably determines that such receipt or delivery
   (c)
   
   
Delivery Limitation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
would not result in Citibank directly or indirectly beneficially owning in excess of 4.9% of the outstanding shares of Common Stock.
(d)
 
  
  The Company represents and warrants, as of the Pricing Period Termination Date, that each of its filings under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or other applicable securities laws that are required to be filed have been filed and that, as of the date of this representation, there is no misstatement of material fact contained therein or omission of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading in the circumstances under which they were made.
Company Settlement Representations.
IV.  
Citibank Purchases
(a)
 
  
  During the Pricing Period or, if applicable, the Valuation Period, Citibank (or its agent or affiliate) may purchase shares of Common Stock in connection with this Transaction.  The timing of such purchases by Citibank, the price paid per share of Common Stock pursuant to such purchases and the manner in which such purchases are made, including without limitation whether such purchases are made on any securities exchange or privately, shall be within the sole judgment of Citibank; that, during the Valuation Period, Citibank will use good faith efforts to make all purchases of Common Stock in connection with this Transaction in a manner that would comply with the limitations set forth in clauses (b)(2), (b)(3), (b)(4) and (c) of Rule 10b-18 as if such rule were applicable to such purchases.
Manner of Purchases.
provided
(b)
 
  
  The Company acknowledges and agrees that (i) all purchases pursuant to this Section IV hereunder shall be made in Citibanks sole discretion and for Citibanks own account and (ii) the Company does not have, and shall not attempt to exercise, any influence over how, when or whether to make such purchases, including, without limitation, the price paid per share of Common Stock pursuant to such purchases whether such purchases are made on any securities exchange or privately.  It is the intent of the Company and Citibank that this Transaction comply with the requirements of Rule 10b5-1(c) of the Exchange Act and that this Letter Agreement shall be interpreted to comply with the requirements of Rule 10b5-1(c)(1)(i)(B) and Citibank shall take no action that results in the transaction not so complying with such requirements.
10b5-1 Plan.
(c)
 
  
  In the event that Citibank reasonably concludes in good faith, that it is appropriate with respect to any legal, regulatory or self-regulatory requirements or related policies and procedures (whether or not such requirements, policies or procedures are imposed by law or have been voluntarily adopted by Citibank), or due to any Market Disruption Event, for it to refrain from purchasing Common Stock on any Trading Day during the .  Citibank shall promptly notify the Company upon exercising its rights pursuant to this Section IV(c) and shall subsequently notify the Company in writing on the day Citibank believes that it may resume purchasing Common Stock.  Citibank shall not be required to communicate to the Company the reason for Citibanks exercise of its rights pursuant to this Section IV(c) if Citibank reasonably determines in good faith that disclosing such reason may result in a violation of any legal, regulatory, or self-regulatory requirements or related policies and procedures.
Regulatory Suspension.
Pricing Period, the Pricing Period shall be suspended for such day
V.  
Company Purchases
The Company shall not, purchase any shares of Common Stock on the open market, or enter into any accelerated share repurchase program, or any derivative share repurchase transaction, or other similar transaction, during the Pricing Period and thereafter until all payments or deliveries of shares pursuant to Section III have been made.  During such time, any purchases of Common Stock by the Company shall be made through Citibank or its affiliates, subject to such reasonable conditions as Citibank or such affiliate shall impose, and in compliance with Rule 10b-18 or otherwise in a manner that the Company and Citibank believe is in compliance with applicable requirements.
(including its affiliated purchasers, as defined in Rule 10b-18) 
 
without a prior written consent of Citibank
,
(or an equivalent interest, or any security convertible into or exchangeable for such shares)
 
 
 
 
 
 
VI.  
Borrow Events
 
(a)           .  If at any time during this Transaction, Citibank does not, after using commercially reasonable efforts, successfully borrow Common Stock (up to a number equal to the Remaining Share Amount) on terms that require Citibank to pay or bear costs in connection with such borrow in an amount less than or equal to the Maximum Borrow Cost, then Citibank will act in good faith and in a commercially reasonable manner to (a) make the corresponding adjustment(s), if any, as Citibank determines appropriate (and in consultation with the Company) to account for any excess borrowing costs and (b) determine the effective date(s) of the adjustment(s).
Borrow Cost Increase
 
(b)           .  On any Trading Day, Citibank may elect to terminate () this Transaction, in whole or in part, as the case may be, in the event and pro rata to the extent it is no longer able, after commercially reasonable efforts, to borrow (or maintain a borrowing of), including at a cost that may exceed the Maximum Borrow Cost, shares of Common Stock in an amount equal to the Remaining Share Amount.  Upon the occurrence of a Loss of Borrow Termination, an Event of Default shall be deemed to have occurred with the Company deemed the Defaulting Party and Citibank, the Non-Defaulting Party.
Loss of Borrow Termination
Loss of Borrow Termination
VII.  
Dividend Event
(a)           . If 100% of the aggregate gross cash dividends per share of Common Stock (including any cash extraordinary dividends) declared by the Company and for which the ex-date occurs at any time during the Pricing Period exceeds $0.00 per share of Common Stock (subject to adjustment in accordance with Section VIII) (the ) per calendar quarter, a Dividend Event shall be deemed to have occurred.
Dividend Amount
Expected Dividend Amount
(b)           .  Upon the occurrence of a Dividend Event, on any Trading Day on or after the occurrence of such Dividend Event, Citibank may terminate this Transaction (a ).  Upon the occurrence of a Dividend Event Termination, an Event of Default shall be deemed to have occurred with the Company deemed the Defaulting Party and Citibank, the Non-Defaulting Party.
Dividend Event Termination
Dividend Event Termination
VIII.  
Extraordinary Events
(a)            .  In the event an offer is made to the holders of Common Stock to tender in excess of 15% of the outstanding shares of Common Stock for cash, Citibank may, in its reasonable discretion, (i) adjust the terms of this Transaction, so that (x) the final day of the Pricing Period shall be the earlier of the scheduled final Trading Day of the Pricing Period and the date the tender offer is consummated and (y) for each of the Trading Days in the Pricing Period following the date on which the offer is made, the price used in computing the Settlement Price shall equal the price per share of Common Stock at which the tender offer is to be consummated, where Citibank shall notify the Company in writing as to the terms of any adjustment made pursuant to this Section VIII(a) no later than 5 days after the tender offer is made or (ii) elect to terminate this Transaction (a ).  Upon the occurrence of a Cash Tender Termination, an Event of Default shall be deemed to have occurred with the Company deemed the Defaulting Party and Citibank, the Non-Defaulting Party.
Tender Offers
Cash Tender Termination
(b)            .  In the event of any corporate event involving the Company or the Common Stock not specifically addressed in subsection (a) of this Section VIII (including, without limitation, the announcement of a non-cash dividend, stock split, reorganization, merger, offer to tender Common Stock for consideration other than cash, rights offering, recapitalization or spin-off) or in the event that Citibank, in its reasonable good faith judgment, determines that the adjustments described in subsection (a) of this Section VIII will not result in an equitable adjustment of the terms of this Transaction, Citibank may (i) adjust the terms of this Transaction (including, without limitation, with respect to the Expected Dividend Amount and the number of Trading Days in the Pricing Period) as in the exercise of its good faith judgment it deems appropriate under the circumstances or (ii) elect to terminate this Transaction (a ).  Upon the occurrence of a Corporate Event Termination, an Event of
Corporate Events
Corporate Event Termination
 
 
 
 
Default shall be deemed to have occurred with the Company deemed the Defaulting Party and Citibank, the Non-Defaulting Party.
(c)           .  In the event that the Exchange announces that pursuant to the rules of such Exchange, the Common Stock ceases (or will cease) to be listed, traded or publicly quoted on the Exchange for any reason (other than the occurrence of an event addressed in subsections (a) or (b) of this Section VIII) and are not immediately re-listed, re-traded or re-quoted on an exchange or quotation system located in the same country as the Exchange (or, where the Exchange is within the European Union, in any member state of the European Union), Citibank may (i) adjust the terms of this Transaction or (ii) elect to terminate this Transaction (a ).  Upon the occurrence of a Delisting Termination, an Event of Default shall be deemed to have occurred with the Company deemed the Defaulting Party and Citibank, the Non-Defaulting Party.
Delisting
Delisting Termination
IX.  
Events of Default
In addition to events contemplated by Sections VI(b), VII(b) and VIII, the occurrence of any of the following events with respect to a party (such party, the  with respect to such event, and the other party, the ) shall be an Event of Default:
Defaulting Party
Non-Defaulting Party
(a)           .  The failure to make any payment or any delivery of shares pursuant to the terms of the Letter Agreement.
Payment
(b)           .  Any representation or warranty made in this Letter Agreement shall prove to have been false in any material respect at the time it was made, given or reaffirmed.
Breach
(c)           .  The failure to perform or comply in any material respect with any other obligation in this Letter Agreement which failure shall continue for 5 business days after written notice of such failure has been sent to the Defaulting Party.
Performance
(d)           .  (A) The initiation of any case, proceeding or other action (1) under any existing or future law of any jurisdiction, domestic or foreign, relating to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other relief of debtors, seeking to have an order for relief entered with respect to it, or seeking to have itself adjudicated as bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, winding-up, liquidation, dissolution or composition or other relief under bankruptcy or insolvency law with respect to it or its debts or (2) which seeks appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator or other similar official for it or for all or any substantial part of its assets; (B) a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors; (C) the initiation of any case, proceeding or other action of a nature referred to in clause (A) hereof which (1) results in the entry of an order for relief or any such adjudication or appointment with respect to the party or any of its assets or (2) is not dismissed, stayed, discharged or bonded for a period of 5 days; (D) the initiation of any case, proceeding or other action seeking issuance of a warrant of attachment, execution, or similar process against all or any substantial part of its assets, which case, proceeding or other action results in the entry of an order for any such relief which shall not have been vacated, discharged, or stayed or bonded pending appeal within 30 days from the entry thereof; (E) a party shall take any action in furtherance of, or indicating its consent to, approval of, or acquiescence in, any of the acts set forth in clauses (A) - (D) hereof; or (F) either party shall generally not, or shall admit in writing its inability to, pay its debts as they become due.
Insolvency
(e)           .  Any loan or other obligation in respect of borrowed money (whether present or future, contingent or otherwise, as principal or surety or otherwise) of a party in an amount, in excess of $100,000,000 shall have become payable before the due date thereof as a result of acceleration of maturity caused by the occurrence of any event of default thereunder or if any other such loan or obligation shall not be repaid when due, as extended by any applicable grace period specified in the contracts or agreements constituting such loan or obligation.
Cross-Default
      f)           .  Any consolidation or amalgamation or merger with or into, or any transfer of all or substantially all its assets (i) to another entity by a party, resulting in the
   
(
Merger, Consolidation
 
 
 
creditworthiness of the surviving or transferee entity being materially weaker than that of the party immediately prior to such action, or (ii) into any person unless the surviving person is the Company or another person formed under the laws of a State of the United States of America and such entity assumes or is responsible, by operation of law, for all obligations of the Company hereunder.
X.  
Remedies
(a)           .  Upon the occurrence and the continuance of an Event of Default, notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary in this Letter Agreement, the Non-Defaulting Party, upon notice to the Defaulting Party, may, in its sole discretion, immediately terminate this Transaction and, if applicable, purchasing the number of Shares equal to the Remaining Share Amount to cover its short position or adjusting any other term hereof, and may sell, liquidate, offset or take any other action with respect to any short position established or maintained by it in connection with this Transaction.  The Non-Defaulting Party shall act in good faith and in a commercially reasonable manner to determine the amount that such party reasonably in good faith believes to be its total unreimbursed net losses and costs (which may be positive or negative) incurred in connection with the termination of this Letter Agreement (the ) and upon completion of such determination shall deliver to the Defaulting Party a written notice indicating the amount of such Loss (a ).  Such computation shall include any out-of-pocket losses (which may include but not be limited to the difference between the Initial Share Price and the average price at which the shares are purchased during the term of this Transaction (as this Transaction may be terminated early as a result of the operation of this Section X(a)) and loss or cost incurred as a result of its terminating, liquidating, obtaining or reestablishing any hedge or related trading position.  In addition to the foregoing, the Non-Defaulting Party may include in its determination of its Loss hereunder such losses and costs (or gains) in respect of any payment or delivery required to have been made on or before the relevant termination date.  In determining Loss, the Non-Defaulting Party may consider any relevant information, including, without limitation, one or more of the following types of information: (i) quotations (either firm or indicative) for replacement transactions supplied by one or more third parties that may take into account the creditworthiness of the Non-Defaulting Party at the time the quotation is provided and the terms of any relevant documentation, including credit support documentation, between the Non-Defaulting Party and the third party providing the quotation; (ii) information consisting of relevant market data in the relevant market supplied by one or more third parties including, without limitation, relevant rates, prices, yields, yield curves, volatilities, spreads, correlations or other relevant market data in the relevant market; or (iii) information of the types described in clause (i) or (ii) above from internal sources (including any of the Non-Defaulting Partys affiliates) if that information is of the same type used by the Non-Defaulting Party in the regular course of its business for the valuation of similar transactions.  The Non-Defaulting Party will consider, taking into account the standards and procedures described in this paragraph, quotations pursuant to clause (i) above or relevant market data pursuant to clause (ii) above unless the Non-Defaulting Party reasonably believes in good faith that such quotations or relevant market data are not readily available or would produce a result that would not satisfy those standards.  When considering information described in clause (i), (ii) or (iii) above, the Non-Defaulting Party may include costs of funding, to the extent costs of funding are not and would not be a component of the other information being utilized.  Third parties supplying quotations pursuant to clause (i) above or market data pursuant to clause (ii) above may include, without limitation, dealers in the relevant markets, end-users of the relevant product, information vendors, brokers and other sources of market information.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, and without affecting the respective parties obligations to make payments in accordance with Section X(b), upon reasonable written request by the Defaulting Party, the Non-Defaulting Party shall provide a written explanation of any calculation or adjustment made by it in connection with calculation of the Loss, including, where applicable, a reasonable description of the methodology and the basis for such calculation or adjustment in reasonable detail and shall consult with the Defaulting Party with respect to the amount of such Loss, it being understood that the Non-Defaulting Party shall not be obligated to disclose any proprietary models used by it for such calculation.
Settlement Loss Determination
Loss
Loss Notice
any actual or anticipated
 
(b)           .  Upon receipt of a Loss Notice from the Non-Defaulting Party, (i) if the amount determined in accordance with paragraph (a) above is a positive number, then the Defaulting Party shall promptly pay to the Non-Defaulting Party, the amount of such Loss in cash or (ii) if the amount determined in accordance with paragraph (a) above is a negative number, then the Non-Defaulting Party
Payments
 
 
 
 
shall promptly pay to the Defaulting Party, the absolute value of the amount of such Loss in cash; that, in the event the Company is the party owing the Loss amount, then this paragraph (b) shall be subject to the terms of paragraphs (c) and (d) below.
provided
 
(c)
 
  
.  If the Company is the owing party in accordance with paragraph (b) above, upon receipt of a Loss Notice from Citibank as the Non-Defaulting Party, the Company may, in addition to its option to promptly pay to Citibank the amount of such Loss in cash, elect to deliver to Citibank within two Trading Days a number of shares of Common Stock equal to (i) the amount of such Loss (ii) the closing price of the Common Stock on the Exchange for the day upon which the Company receives such Loss Notice, rounded up to the nearest whole share.  Such share delivery is subject to the provisions of the last sentence of Section III(b); that, for the avoidance of doubt, in calculating any settlement obligations of the parties in accordance with this Section X, Citibank shall take into consideration the actual payments and deliveries made by the parties on the Initial Settlement Date for the Transaction; that in no event shall the Company be required to deliver a number of shares of Common Stock that exceeds the then applicable Share Cap.
Loss Settlement Election
divided by
provided
provided,
further
 
(d)
 
  
.  In addition to the payments set forth in subsections (b) and (c) above, the Defaulting Party agrees to indemnify the Non-Defaulting Party from and against any reasonable expenses (including reasonable external counsel fees and other expenses of collection) it may incur as a result of any default by such party.
Costs and Expenses
XI.  
Representations of the Parties
Each party represents to the other party that:
 
(a)           .  It is duly organized and validly existing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization or incorporation and, if relevant under such laws, in good standing;
Status
 
(b)           .  It has the corporate or other organizational power to execute and deliver this Letter Agreement and to perform its obligations under this Letter Agreement and has taken all necessary action to authorize such execution, delivery and performance;
Powers
 
(c)           .  Such execution, delivery and performance do not violate or conflict with any law applicable to it, any provision of its constitutional documents, any order or judgment of any court or other agency of government applicable to it or any of its assets or any contractual restriction binding on or affecting it or any of its assets;
No Violation or Conflict
 
(d)           .  All governmental and other consents that are required to have been obtained by it with respect to this Letter Agreement have been obtained and are in full force and effect and all conditions of any such consents have been complied with;
Consents
 
(e)           .  Its obligations under this Letter Agreement constitute its legal, valid and binding obligations, enforceable in accordance with its respective terms (subject to applicable bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium or similar laws affecting creditors rights generally and subject, as to enforceability, to equitable principles of general application (regardless of whether enforcement is sought in a proceeding in equity or at law)); and
Obligations Binding
 
(f)           .  No Event of Default (as defined in the Agreement) or event that, with the giving of notice or the passage of time or both, would constitute an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and no such event or circumstance would occur as a result of its entering into or performing its obligations under this Letter Agreement.
Absence of Certain Events
 
 
 
 
 
XII.  
Representations of the Company
 
The Company additionally hereby represents on the Purchase Date to Citibank that:
 
(a)
 
 
 
.  Its financial condition is such that it has no need for liquidity with respect to its investment in the transactions contemplated by this Letter Agreement and no need to dispose of any portion thereof to satisfy any existing or contemplated undertaking or indebtedness.  Its investments in and liabilities in respect of such transactions, which it understands are not readily marketable, is not disproportionate to its net worth;
Liquidity
(b)
 
  
this Transactionthis Transactionit understands that Citibank has no obligation or intention to register the transactions contemplated by this Letter Agreement under the Securities Act or any state securities law or other applicable federal securities law;
Private Placement
. 
 It acknowledges that the offer and sale of
 to it is intended to be exempt from registration under the Securities Act, by virtue of Section 4(2)
thereof.  Accordingly, the Company represents and warrants to Citibank that (i) it is an accredited investor as that term is defined in Regulation D as promulgated under the Securities Act, (ii) it is entering into
 for its own account and without a view to the distribution or resale thereof, and
 
(c)
 
  
understands that no obligations of Citibank to it hereunder will be entitled to the benefit of deposit insurance and that such obligations will not be guaranteed by any affiliate of Citibank or any governmental agency;
No Deposit Insurance
.  It
(d)
 
  IT UNDERSTANDS THAT THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED BY THIS AGREEMENT ARE SUBJECT TO COMPLEX RISKS THAT MAY ARISE WITHOUT WARNING AND MAY AT TIMES BE VOLATILE AND THAT LOSSES MAY OCCUR QUICKLY AND IN UNANTICIPATED MAGNITUDE AND IS WILLING TO ACCEPT SUCH TERMS AND CONDITIONS AND ASSUME (FINANCIALLY AND OTHERWISE) SUCH RISKS;
 
 
Assumption of Risk
.
(e)
 
  
.  Each of its filings under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, or other applicable securities laws that are required to be filed have been filed and that, as of the respective dates thereof, there is no misstatement of material fact contained therein or omission of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading
Compliance with Filing Requirements
(f)
 
  
is not entering into this Letter Agreement on the basis of, and is not aware of, any material non-public information with respect to the Common Stock or in anticipation of, in connection with, or to facilitate, a distribution of its securities, a self tender offer or a third-party tender offer;
Material Non-Public Information
. 
 It
(g)
 
  
is not entering into any transaction to create, and will not engage in any other securities or derivatives transactions to create, actual or apparent trading activity in the Common Stock (or any security convertible into or exchangeable for Common Stock) or to raise or depress or to manipulate the price of the Common Stock (or any security convertible into or exchangeable for Common Stock);
No Manipulation
. 
 It
(h)
 
  
has not and will not directly or indirectly violate any applicable law, rule or regulation (including, without limitation, the Securities Act and the Exchange Act) in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Letter Agreement;
Compliance with Securities Laws
.  It
(i)
 
  
.  The transactions contemplated by this Letter Agreement and any repurchase of Common Stock by the Company in connection with such transactions are pursuant to a publicly announced share repurchase program that has been approved by its Board of Directors and any such repurchase has been or will when so required be publicly disclosed in its periodic filings under the Exchange Act and its financial statements and notes thereto and, at the time of making this representation, such transactions are not subject to any internal policy or procedure of the Company which would prohibit the Company from effecting any transactions in the shares of Common Stock at such time;
Required Company Approvals
 
 
 
 
 
(j)
 
  
.  The Company is not on the date hereof, and will not be during the term of the transactions contemplated by this Letter Agreement, engaged in a distribution, as such term is used in Regulation M under the Exchange Act, that would preclude purchases by the Company of the Common Stock or cause the Company to violate any law, rule or regulation with respect to such purchases;
Regulation M
(k)
 
  
.  It is not relying, and has not relied upon, Citibank with respect to the legal, accounting, tax or other implications of this Letter Agreement and that it has conducted its own analyses of the legal, accounting, tax and other implications of this Letter Agreement.  Further, ; and
Non-Reliance
or any of its affiliates
 
it acknowledges and agrees that neither Citibank nor any affiliate of Citibank has acted as its advisor in any capacity in connection with this Letter Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby.  The Company is entering into this Letter Agreement with a full understanding of all of the terms and risks hereof (economic and otherwise), has adequate expertise in financial matters to evaluate those terms and risks and is capable of assuming (financially and otherwise) those risks
(l)
 
  
.  It understands and acknowledges that Citibank and its affiliates may from time to time effect transactions for their own account or the account of customers and hold positions in securities or options on securities of the Company and that Citibank and its affiliates may continue to conduct such transactions during the Pricing Period and the Valuation Period.
Acknowledgement of Citibank Activity
XIII.  
Agreements of the Company
(a)
 
  
.  The Company agrees that while this Letter Agreement is in effect, it shall cause (i) the number of authorized shares of Common Stock (ii) the number of outstanding shares of Common Stock (iii) the number of shares of Common Stock reserved for other purposes (iv) without duplication of clause (iii), the aggregate maximum number of shares of Common Stock deliverable under warrants, options, swaps, forwards, convertible or exchangeable securities or other similar transactions, agreements or instruments issued by the Company or to which the Company is a party that provide for physical or net share settlement or otherwise may require the issuance of shares of Common Stock by the Company, to exceed the then applicable Share Cap.  At the conclusion of the Pricing Period, the Company will have a sufficient number of treasury shares or duly authorized but unissued shares of Common Stock available to satisfy its obligations with respect to this Transaction, such shares of Common Stock to be fully paid and nonassessable and free of preemptive and other rights.  The Company agrees that a failure by the Company to comply with the preceding sentence shall be an Event of Default hereunder with respect to the Company without regard to any grace period that would otherwise be applicable.
Authorized Shares
minus
minus
minus
(b)
  
 
.  The Company acknowledges and agrees that this Letter Agreement is not intended to convey to Citibank rights against the Company hereunder that are senior to the claims of common stockholders in any U.S. bankruptcy proceedings of the Company; provided, however, that nothing herein shall limit or shall be deemed to limit Citibanks right to pursue remedies in the event of a breach by the Company of its obligations and agreements with respect to this Letter Agreement; and provided further that in pursuing a claim against the Company in the event of a bankruptcy, insolvency or dissolution with respect to Company, Citibanks rights hereunder shall rank on a parity with the rights of a holder of shares of Common Stock enforcing similar rights under a contract involving shares of Common Stock.
Nature of Rights
(c)
 
  
.  The Company agrees that the material terms of this Transaction (and any other similar transactions), and the consequences of such transactions on the financial condition and results of operations of the Company, will be disclosed by the Company in accordance with all rules, regulations, accounting principles (including EITF Issue No. 00-19) and laws applicable to the Company in its periodic filings under the Exchange Act and its financial statements and notes thereto.
Disclosure
         
(d)
   
 
Corporate Event Notification
.  During the Pricing Period, the Company shall (i) notify Citibank prior to the opening of trading in the Common Stock on any day on which the Company makes, or expects to be made, any public announcement (as defined in Rule 165(f) under the Securities Act) of any merger, acquisition, or similar transaction involving a recapitalization relating to the Company (other than
 
 
 
 
any such transaction in which the consideration consists solely of cash and there is no valuation period), (ii) promptly notify Citibank following any such announcement that such announcement has been made, and (iii) promptly deliver to Citibank following the making of any such announcement a certificate indicating (A) the Companys average daily Rule 10b-18 purchases (as defined in Rule 10b-18) during the three full calendar months preceding the date of the announcement of such transaction and (B) the Companys block purchases (as defined in Rule 10b-18) effected pursuant to paragraph (b)(4) of Rule 10b-18 during the three full calendar months preceding the date of the announcement of such transaction.  In addition, the Company shall promptly notify Citibank of the earlier to occur of the completion of such transaction and the completion of the vote by target shareholders.  The Company acknowledges that any such public announcement may cause the Pricing Period to be suspended pursuant to Section IV(c).  Accordingly, the Company acknowledges that its actions in relation to any such announcement or transaction must comply with the standards set forth in Section IV(a).
XIV.  
Indemnification
The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless Citibank, its affiliates and its assignees and their respective directors, officers, employees, agents and controlling persons (Citibank and each such person being an ) from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and liabilities, joint or several, to which such Indemnified Party may become subject, and relating to or arising out of the transactions contemplated by this Letter Agreement, and will reimburse any Indemnified Party for all expenses (including reasonable counsel fees and expenses) as they are incurred in connection with the investigation of, preparation for or defense or settlement of any pending or threatened claim or any action, suit or proceeding arising therefrom, whether or not such Indemnified Party is a party thereto and whether or not such claim, action, suit or proceeding is initiated or brought by or on behalf of the Company.  The Company will not be liable under the foregoing indemnification provision to the extent that any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense is found in a nonappealable judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted from Citibanks breach of a material term of this Letter Agreement, willful misconduct or negligence.  If for any reason the foregoing indemnification is unavailable to any Indemnified Party or insufficient to hold harmless any Indemnified Party, then the Company shall contribute, to the maximum extent permitted by law (but only to the extent that such harm was not caused by Citibanks breach of a material term of this Letter Agreement, willful misconduct or negligence), to the amount paid or payable by the Indemnified Party as a result of such loss, claim, damage or liability.  The Company also agrees that no Indemnified Party shall have any liability to the Company or any person asserting claims on behalf of or in right of the Company in connection with or as a result of any matter referred to in this Letter Agreement except to the extent that any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses incurred by the Company result from the breach of a material term of this Letter Agreement, or the Indemnified Partys negligence or willful misconduct.  The provisions of this Section XIV shall survive completion of the transactions contemplated by this Letter Agreement and shall inure to the benefit of any permitted assignee of Citibank.
Indemnified Party
XV.  
Miscellaneous
(a)           .  Notwithstanding any provision of this Letter Agreement, or any other agreement between the parties, to the contrary, the obligations of the Company under this Letter Agreement are not secured by any collateral.
No Collateral
(b)           .  EACH OF THE COMPANY AND CITIBANK HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES (ON ITS OWN BEHALF AND, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ON BEHALF OF ITS STOCKHOLDERS) ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY ACTION, PROCEEDING OR COUNTERCLAIM (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE) ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS LETTER AGREEMENT OR THE ACTIONS OF CITIBANK OR ITS AFFILIATES IN THE NEGOTIATION, PERFORMANCE OR ENFORCEMENT HEREOF.
Waiver of Trial by Jury
 
 
 
 
                                (c)           .  THIS LETTER AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REFERENCE TO THE CHOICE OF LAW RULES THEREOF.
   
   
  
Governing Law
(d)           .  THE PARTIES HERETO IRREVOCABLY SUBMIT TO THE EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK AND THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK IN CONNECTION WITH ALL MATTERS RELATING HERETO AND WAIVE ANY OBJECTION TO THE LAYING OF VENUE IN, AND ANY CLAIM OF INCONVENIENT FORUM WITH RESPECT TO, THESE COURTS.
Submission to Jurisdiction
(e)           .  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, (i) Citibank acknowledges that this Letter Agreement may be intended to produce U.S. federal income tax benefits for the Company and (ii) the Company and Citibank hereby agree that (A) the Company is not obligated to Citibank to keep confidential from any and all persons or otherwise limit the use of any aspect of this Letter Agreement relating to the structure or tax aspects thereof, and (B) Citibank does not assert any claim of proprietary ownership in respect of any such aspect of this Letter Agreement.
Non-Confidentiality
(f)           .  The parties hereto intend for (i)   the Transaction hereunder to be a securities contract and a swap agreement as defined in the Bankruptcy Code (Title 11 of the United States Code) (the ), and the parties hereto are entitled to the protections afforded by, among other Sections, Sections 362(b)(6), 362(b)(17), 362(o), 546, 555, 560 and 561 of the Bankruptcy Code; (ii) a partys right to liquidate, terminate or accelerate the Transaction and to exercise any other remedies upon the occurrence of any Event of Default, a Loss of Borrow Termination, a Dividend Event Termination, a Cash Tender Termination, a Corporate Event Termination or a Delisting Termination under this Letter Agreement with respect to the other party to constitute a contractual right within the meaning of the Bankruptcy Code; (iii) all transfers of cash, securities or other property under or in connection with the Transaction are transfers made by or to (or for the benefit of) a master netting agreement participant, a financial institution, a financial participant, a forward contract merchant or a swap participant, (each as defined in the Bankruptcy Code) within the meaning of Sections 546(e), 546(f), 546(g) and 546(j) of the Bankruptcy Code; (iv) all obligations under or in connection with the Transaction represent obligations in respect of termination values, payment amounts or other transfer obligations within the meaning of Section 362, 560 and 561 of the Bankruptcy Code; and (v)   each of the parties hereto to be a swap participant and financial participant within the meaning of Sections 101(53C) and 101(22A) of the Bankruptcy Code.
Bankruptcy Code
Bankruptcy Code
(g)           .  The rights and duties under this Letter Agreement may not be assigned or transferred by either party hereto without the prior written consent of the other party hereto; , , that Citibank may assign its obligation to deliver or receive delivery of Common Stock hereunder to any of its affiliates without the prior written consent of the Company.  Upon any such assignment Citibank shall indemnify the Company from and against any loss, cost or expense relating to the failure of such affiliate to perform its delivery obligation.
Assignment and Transfer
provided
however
(h)           .  To the extent any calculation, adjustment or determination is required to be made by Citibank hereunder, Citibank shall make any such calculation, adjustment, or determination in good faith.
Calculations
(i)           .  Unless otherwise specified, notices under this Letter Agreement may be made by telephone, to be confirmed in writing to the address below.  Changes to the Notices must be made in writing.
Notices
(i)             If to the Company:
Lexmark International, Inc.
One Lexmark Centre Drive
740 West New Circle Road
Lexington, KY  40550
 
 
 
 
 
Attn:  Bruce Frost
Telephone:  (859) 232-3645
Facsimile:  (859) 232-5137
(ii)           If to Citibank:
Citibank, N.A.
390 Greenwich Street, 3 Floor
rd
New York, NY 10013
Attn:  Equity Derivatives
Telephone: (212) 723-7623
Facsimile: (212) 723-8328
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by signing and returning to us the enclosed duplicate of this Letter Agreement.
Very truly yours,
CITIBANK, N.A.
By:                                                       
/s/ Herman Hirsch
Name: Herman Hirsch
Authorized Representative
Acknowledged and agreed to as of
the date first above written,
LEXMARK INTERNATIONAL, INC.
By:                                                                            
/s/ Bruce J. Frost                                                                   
Name: Bruce J. Frost
Title: Treasurer
 
 
 
 
 
 
In accordance with Section III(b) or X of the Letter Agreement, if the Company elects Registered Settlement, then the Company shall effect such delivery in compliance with the following:
(a)  The Company agrees to take all actions within its control, including, without limitation, the procedures set forth in subsection (f) below, to make available to Citibank and its affiliates an effective registration statement under the Securities Act and one or more prospectuses as necessary to allow Citibank and its affiliates to comply with the applicable prospectus delivery requirements (the ) for the resale by Citibank and its affiliates of the shares of Common Stock delivered by the Company hereunder (the ), such Registration Statement to be effective and Prospectus to be current on each Trading Day in any Valuation Period and until all such resales by Citibank (or its affiliates) have been settled.  It is understood that the Registration Statement and Prospectus may cover a number of shares of Common Stock equal to all shares to be delivered by the Company hereunder (the ).  Citibank shall provide, by a reasonable time in advance, such information regarding Citibank and its affiliates as shall be required to be included in the Prospectus.  The Company shall pay the applicable registration fee and all costs in connection with the preparation of the Registration Statement and the Prospectus including, without limitation, the cost of printing the Prospectus.  In addition, the Company agrees to take all actions reasonably requested by Citibank to facilitate the disposition of the Shares, including all actions set forth in subsection (f) below.
Prospectus
Registration Statement
Shares
(b)  The Company represents, on each day described in subsection (a), that each of its filings under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or other applicable securities laws that are required to be filed have been filed and that, as of the date of this representation and as supplemented by any information provided by the Company to Citibank in connection with sales on a private placement basis pursuant to subsection (e) below, there is no misstatement of material fact contained therein or omission of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading.
(c)  The Company agrees to provide to Citibank and its affiliates on (or, if requested by Citibank, reasonably in advance of) the final Trading Day of the Pricing Period or other date the number of shares of Common Stock to be delivered is determined, opinions of counsel, comfort letters, officers certificates and such other documents as may be reasonably requested by Citibank.  The Company also agrees that Citibank and its affiliates shall be entitled to perform such diligence as Citibank may reasonably request in advance of such date and the results thereof must be reasonably satisfactory to Citibank.  The Company agrees to reimburse Citibank for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses it incurs in connection with such diligence and otherwise in connection with the preparation of the Registration Statement and Prospectus (or any offering document for sales on a private placement basis pursuant to subsection (e) below), including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and expenses of one outside counsel to Citibank incurred in connection therewith.
   
 
(d)  The Company shall, prior to the start of the applicable Valuation Period, enter into an agreement (the ) with Citibank in connection with the public resale of the Shares by Citibank or its affiliates substantially similar to underwriting agreements entered into by Citibank with respect to equity securities; the Transfer Agreement shall include, without limitation, provisions substantially similar to those contained in such underwriting agreements relating to the indemnification of, and contribution in connection with the liability of, Citibank and its affiliates.
Transfer Agreement
(e)  If on any date during the period referred to in subsection (a) the requirements of subsection (a), (c) or (d) are not satisfied (determined without regard to whether the cause is  within the control of the Company) or the representations and warranties contained herein with respect to the Company (including, without limitation, in subsection (b)) are not true and correct,
 
 
 
 
 
 
(i)           the Company shall immediately notify Citibank thereof;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In accordance with Section III(b) or X of the Letter Agreement, if the Company elects Private Placement Settlement, then the Company shall effect such delivery in compliance with the following:
 
(a)           The Company shall afford Citibank (the ) a reasonable opportunity to conduct a due diligence investigation with respect to the Company customary in scope for private offerings of such type of securities (including, without limitation, the availability of senior management to respond to questions regarding the business and financial condition of the Company and the right to have made available to them for inspection all financial and other records, pertinent corporate documents and other information reasonably requested by them).
Private Securities
 
(b)           Prior to or contemporaneously with the determination of the Private Placement Price (as described below), the Company shall enter into an agreement (a ) with Citibank (or any affiliate of Citibank designated by Citibank) providing for the purchase and resale by Citibank (or such affiliate) in a private placement (or other transaction exempt from registration under the Securities Act) of the Private Securities, which agreement shall be on commercially reasonable terms and in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Citibank (or such affiliate) and (without limitation of the foregoing) shall:
Private Placement Agreement
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(d)           Citibank shall notify the Company of the number of Private Securities required to be delivered by the Company and the Private Placement Price by 6:00 p.m. on the day such price is determined.
 
(e)           The Company agrees not to take or cause to be taken any action that would make unavailable either (i) the exemption set forth in Section 4(2) of the Securities Act, for the sale of any Private Securities by the Company to Citibank or (ii) an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act reasonably acceptable to Citibank for resales of Private Securities by Citibank.
 
(f)           The Company expressly agrees and acknowledges that the public disclosure of all material information relating to the Company is within the Companys control and that the Company shall promptly so disclose all such material information during the period from the first Trading Day in the Valuation Period to and including the final Settlement Date.
 
(g)           The Company agrees to use its best efforts to make any filings required to be made by it with the SEC, any securities exchange or any other regulatory body with respect to the transaction contemplated hereby and the issuance of the Private Securities.

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
Lexmark announces resumption of share repurchase program
Enters into an initial transaction to repurchase $125 million worth of shares
it has resumed its share repurchase program authorized by its Board of Directors in May 2008. The company anticipates repurchasing $250 million of its outstanding shares in the second half of 2011.
LEXINGTON, K
y
.,
 
Aug. 2
, 2011  Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE:
L
XK) toda
y
announced
Lexmark remains focused on driving value for our shareholders, said Paul Rooke, Lexmark chairman and chief executive officer. Our balance sheet and cash flow remain strong, which gives us the flexibility to continue to invest in strategic acquisitions to grow our software and solutions business, while at the same time return excess U.S. cash to our shareholders through our share repurchase program.
 
The company signed an initial accelerated share repurchase agreement to repurchase $125 million of outstanding shares on July 28, 2011. Following this initial $125 million transaction, the company has approximately $366 million of share repurchase authority remaining under the share repurchase program, which has no expiration date.
The payment of the anticipated $250 million repurchase of shares for the second half of 2011 will be funded from available U.S. cash.
Under this program, the company may make additional repurchases of shares in both open market and privately negotiated transactions. The repurchase authorization provides management with the flexibility to make purchases at its discretion without target price or timetable constraints. The share repurchase authorization also does not obligate the company to acquire any specific number of shares in any period, and may be modified, suspended or discontinued at any time without notice to shareholders.
About Lexmark
Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) provides businesses of all sizes with a broad range of printing and imaging products, software, solutions and services that help customers to print less and save more. Perceptive Software, a stand-alone software business within Lexmark, is a leading provider of enterprise content management software that helps organizations easily manage the entire lifecycle of their documents and content, simplifying their business processes, and fueling greater operational efficiency. In 2010, Lexmark sold products in more than 170 countries and reported more than $4 billion in revenue.
To learn more about Lexmark, please visit . For more information on Perceptive Software, please visit .
www.lexmark.com
www.perceptivesoftware.com
For more information on Lexmark, see the and follow us on Twitter at .
Lexmark Facebook page
www.twitter.com/lexmarknews
 
 
 
For more information on Perceptive Software, see the and follow them on Twitter at .
Perceptive Software Facebook page
www.twitter.com/perceptivesw


