FILE:LXK/LXK-8K-20110201072814.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02.                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On February 1, 2011, Lexmark International, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2010. The text of the press release announcing the financial results is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)      Exhibits
    Exhibit No.                       Description of Exhibit
The information contained in this Current Report shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
The press release contains non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of Regulation G, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a registrants historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of income, balance sheet or statement of cash flows (or equivalent statements) of the issuer; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented. In this regard, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations between the GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures contained in the press release in the financial statements attached thereto, which is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and in the Earnings Presentation Slides posted on the Companys investor relations website at http://investor.lexmark.com.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Exhibit No.                      Description of Exhibit

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Lexmark reports full year and fourth quarter 2010 results
LEXINGTON, Ky.,Feb. 1, 2011  Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) today announced financial results for the full year and fourth quarter of 2010.
 
2010 was a very good year for Lexmark, said Paul Rooke, Lexmark president and chief executive officer.  We grew revenue 9 percent driven by a record performance in laser revenue, significantly expanded our operating margins, and generated cash flow of more than half a billion dollars.
 
Lexmarks managed print services continued to experience rapid growth as we earned the business of some of the worlds largest companies, leveraging our industry leading, cloud-based fleet management software tools. Additionally, our acquisition of Perceptive Software, a leader in enterprise content management software, extends our value and represents another key step in growing software and services to help businesses of all sizes save time and money, added Rooke.
 
Full Year 2010 Results
GAAP revenue of $4.200 billion grew 8 percent year on year driven by record laser revenue of $3.006 billion, up 15 percent year to year.
GAAP earnings per share for 2010 were $4.28. Excluding $0.68 per share for restructuring-related and acquisition-related adjustments, earnings per share for 2010 would have been $4.96. GAAP earnings per share for 2009 were $1.86. Earnings per share for 2009 would have been $3.26 excluding $1.40 per share for restructuring-related adjustments.
Hardware revenue of $1.062 billion grew 13 percent in 2010. Supplies revenue of $2.915 billion grew 6 percent in 2010. Software and Other revenue was $223 million, or $236 million excluding acquisition-related adjustments.
 
 
 
Imaging Solutions and Services (ISS) revenue of $4.162 billion grew 7 percent in 2010. Perceptive Software revenue in 2010 (June 8  Dec. 31, 2010) was $37 million, or $50 million excluding acquisition-related adjustments.
2010 GAAP full year results:
2010 non-GAAP full year results, excluding restructuring-related and acquisition-related adjustments:
The company ended the year with $1.2 billion in cash and current marketable securities. Net cash provided by operating activities was $520 million in 2010. Capital expenditures were $161 million for the year. Depreciation and amortization was $198 million in 2010.
Fourth Quarter 2010 Results
GAAP revenue for the fourth quarter of 2010 of $1.104 billion increased 3 percent from the same quarter last year driven by record laser revenue of $806 million, up 8 percent year to year.
GAAP earnings per share for the fourth quarter of 2010 were $1.10. Excluding $0.19 per share for restructuring-related and acquisition-related adjustments, earnings per share for the fourth quarter of 2010 would have been $1.29. GAAP earnings per share for the fourth quarter of 2009 were $0.76. Earnings per share for the fourth quarter of 2009 would have been $1.16 excluding $0.40 per share for restructuring-related adjustments.
Hardware revenue grew 3 percent year on year in the fourth quarter. Supplies revenue grew 1 percent year on year in the fourth quarter. Software and Other revenue grew 42 percent, or 53 percent excluding acquisition-related adjustments.
ISS revenue of $1.088 billion grew 1 percent in the fourth quarter compared to the same period last year. Perceptive Software revenue in the fourth quarter was $17 million, or $22 million excluding acquisition-related adjustments.
 
 
 
Fourth quarter 2010 GAAP results:
Fourth quarter 2010 non-GAAP results, excluding restructuring-related and acquisition-related adjustments:
In the fourth quarter of 2010, net cash provided by operating activities was $153 million, capital expenditures were $53 million, and depreciation and amortization was $54 million.
ISS Leads in Combined U.S. Laser and Inkjet Awards
Lexmark continued its leadership position in combined U.S. laser and inkjet awards in 2010 - a testament to the strength and innovation of the companys product offering.  Lexmark earned 24 percent of the awards in 2010 while its next closest competitor earned 13 percent.
Better Buys for Business, a leading independent evaluator of document imaging equipment, endorsed the productivity features and intuitive interfaces of Lexmark's newest workgroup color devices with its prestigious annual award. Each of Lexmark's workgroup color devices launched this past October - the C792, X792, C925 and X925 families - has been recognized with a 2010 Innovative Product of the Year Award.
In the fourth quarter,
Also during the fourth quarter, Lexmark garnered three distinguished Pick of the Year Awards from Buyers Laboratory Inc. (BLI), a leading independent testing lab for office equipment:
In January, Lexmark was also named an International CES Innovations 2011 Design and Engineering Awards Honoree for the Genesis all-in-one inkjet printer. The award is sponsored by the Consumer Electronics Association (CEA), the producer of the International CES, the worlds largest consumer technology tradeshow.
 
 
 
Perceptive Software Receives Notable Industry Recognition
Perceptive Software was ranked the No. 2 document management and imaging vendor in the healthcare industry in the 2010 Top 20 Best in KLAS Awards: Software and Professional Services. KLAS is a research and consulting firm that specializes in monitoring and reporting the performance of information technology vendors in the healthcare field.
Perceptive Software also attained a notable Pick of the Year Award from BLI for "Outstanding Enterprise Content Management Solution," which recognized the ImageNow 6.5 software for its innovative features and flexibility to be customized precisely to meet an organization's needs.
Looking Forward
In the first quarter of 2011, the company currently expects about 1 percent revenue growth year on year and GAAP earnings per share to be around $1.08 to $1.18, or $1.18 to $1.28 excluding $0.10 per share for restructuring-related and acquisition-related adjustments. GAAP earnings per share in the first quarter of 2010 were $1.20, or $1.35 excluding $0.15 per share for restructuring-related adjustments.
Conference Call Today
The company will be hosting a conference call with securities analysts today at 8:30 a.m. (EST). A live broadcast and a complete replay of this call can be accessed from Lexmarks investor relations website at . If you are unable to connect to the Internet, you can access the call via telephone at 888-693-3477 (outside the U.S. by calling 973-582-2710) using access code 37169394.
http://investor.lexmark.com
Lexmarks earnings presentation slides, including reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, will be available on Lexmarks investor relations website prior to the live broadcast.
 
 
About Lexmark
Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) provides businesses of all sizes with a broad range of printing and imaging products, software, solutions and services that help customers to print less and save more. Perceptive Software, a stand-alone software business within Lexmark, is a leading provider of enterprise content management software that helps organizations effortlessly manage the entire lifecycle of their documents and content, simplifying their business processes, and fueling greater operational efficiency. In 2010, Lexmark sold products in more than 170 countries and reported more than $4 billion in revenue.
To learn more about Lexmark, please visit . For more information on Perceptive Software, please visit .
www.lexmark.com
www.perceptivesoftware.com
For more information on Lexmark, see the and follow us on Twitter at .
Lexmark Facebook page
www.twitter.com/lexmarknews
For more information on Perceptive Software, see the and follow them on Twitter at .
Perceptive Software Facebook page
www.twitter.com/perceptivesw
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements in this release which are not historical facts are forward-looking and involve risks and uncertainties which may cause the companys actual results or performance to be materially different from the results or performance expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Factors that may impact such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, volatility of the global economy, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; inability to be successful in the Companys transition to higher-usage segments of the inkjet market; inability to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the Perceptive Software acquisition; market acceptance of new products and pricing programs; increased investment to support product
 
 
 
development and marketing; the financial failure or loss of business with a key customer or reseller, including loss of retail shelf placements; periodic variations affecting revenue and profitability; excessive inventory for the Company and/or its reseller channel; failure to manage inventory levels or production capacity; credit risk associated with the Companys customers, channel partners, and investment portfolio; aggressive pricing from competitors and resellers; the inability to develop new products and enhance existing products to meet customer needs; the inability to meet customer product requirements on a cost competitive basis; possible changes in the size of expected restructuring costs, charges, and savings; entrance into the market of additional competitors focused on printing solutions and software solutions, including enterprise content management solutions; inability to perform under managed print services contracts; decreased supplies consumption; increased competition in the aftermarket supplies business; unforeseen cost impacts as a result of new legislation; changes in the Companys tax provisions or tax liabilities; fees on the Companys products or litigation costs required to protect the Companys rights; inability to protect the Companys intellectual property rights and defend against claims of infringement and/or anticompetitive conduct; reliance on international production facilities, manufacturing partners and certain key suppliers; changes in a countrys political conditions; conflicts among sales channels; the failure of information technology systems; disruptions at important points of exit and entry and distribution centers; business disruptions; terrorist acts; acts of war or other political conflicts; or the outbreak of a communicable disease; and other risks described in the companys Securities and Exchange Commission filings. The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
Lexmark and Lexmark with diamond design are trademarks of Lexmark International, Inc., registered in the U.S. and/or other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
 
 
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
(In Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)
 
 
 
 
 


