FILE:LXK/LXK-8K-20110428164617.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
On April 28, 2011, the Board of Directors (the Board) of Lexmark International, Inc. (the Company) approved the recommendations of the Corporate Governance and Public Policy Committee of the Board that the size of the Board be increased from 12 to 13 directors and that Mr. W. Roy Dunbar be elected to the Board as a Class III Director with a term expiring at the 2012 Annual Meeting.
In connection with his election as a director, Mr. Dunbar was appointed to the Corporate Governance and Public Policy Committee. There are no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Dunbar and any other person pursuant to which he was selected as a director. There are no transactions involving the Company and Mr. Dunbar that the Company would be required to report pursuant to Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
Mr. Dunbar will receive compensation for his service as a member of the Board in accordance with the Companys standard compensation arrangements for non-employee directors, which are summarized in the Description of Compensation Payable to Non-Employee Directors, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Companys Form 8-K filing on February 24, 2011, and which is incorporated herein by reference.
In accordance with the Companys customary practice, the Company is entering into an indemnification agreement with Mr. Dunbar, which requires the Company to indemnify him against certain liabilities that may arise as a result of his status or service as director.  The indemnification protection commences on the date of a directors election to the Board and continues through the later of ten years after the directors termination of service or the final termination of any Proceeding (as defined in the Agreement) then pending in which the director is granted rights of indemnification or advancement of expenses or any Proceeding commenced by the director seeking indemnification or advancement of expenses.  The foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by the full text of the form of Indemnification Agreement, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Companys Form 8-K on July 22, 2010, and which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
The Companys Annual Meeting of Stockholders was held on April 28, 2011. A total of 66,783,206 shares of the Company's Class A Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, were present or represented by proxy at the meeting, representing 84.48% of the Company's shares outstanding as of the February 28, 2011 record date.
At said Annual Meeting, the proposals submitted for a vote of stockholders and the related results are as follows:
The terms of office of each of Paul J. Curlander, William R. Fields, Stephen R. Hardis, Robert Holland, Jr., Michael J. Maples, Jean-Paul L. Montupet, and Kathi P. Seifert as directors of the Company, continued after the meeting, although Dr. Curlander will retire, effective April 30, 2011, and the size of the Board with the election of Mr. Dunbar will be reduced to 12 directors.
 
 
 
The ratification of the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) as the Companys independent registered public accounting firm for the Companys fiscal year ending December 31, 2011. The stockholders ratified the appointment of PwC by the following votes:
In accordance with the voting results on this item, the Board has determined to hold an advisory vote on executive compensation every year until the next stockholder vote on the frequency of stockholder votes on the compensation of the Companys named executive officers. A stockholder vote on the frequency of stockholder votes on the compensation of the Companys named executive officer is required to be held at least once every six years.
 
              
A copy of the press release issued by the Company on April 28, 2011, announcing the election of Mr. Dunbar to the Board and the results of the Annual Meeting of Stockholders is attached as Exhibit 99.1, and is incorporated herein by reference.
                   
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Lexmark International, Inc.
(Registrant)
April 28, 2011
By:
/s/ Robert J. Patton                                                
 
   
Robert J. Patton
Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
 
 
 

 
 
Lexmark International announces results of the 2011 annual meeting stockholder vote
 
Board of Directors elects W. Roy Dunbar as a director
 
LEXINGTON, Ky., April 28, 2011 -- Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) today held its annual meeting of stockholders in Shawnee, Kan., home of , a Lexmark company.
Perceptive Software
 
Lexmark announced that its stockholders, as recommended by the Companys Board of Directors:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After the meeting, the Companys Board of Directors approved one year as the frequency for conducting future advisory votes on executive compensation.
 
The Board of Directors also elected W. Roy Dunbar to serve as a new director with a term expiring at the 2012 annual meeting of stockholders.
 
Dunbar is the chairman of private companies engaged in renewable energy and green construction, prior to which he served as chairman and chief executive officer of Network Solutions from 2008 to 2009. From 2004 to 2008, he was president, global technology and operations at Mastercard International, Inc. From 1990 to 2004, he held a number of senior level positions with Eli Lilly & Company including president, intercontinental region, and vice president and chief information officer. Dunbar is also a member of the board of directors of Humana, Inc. and iGate Corporation.
 
We are delighted to have Mr. Dunbar join the Lexmark Board of Directors, said Paul Rooke, Lexmark chairman and chief executive officer. In addition to Mr. Dunbars strong
 
--more--
 
 
 
 
 
operating and board experience, he brings a strong strategic perspective from several key industries and represents an important customer demographic, chief information officer, for our growing enterprise value proposition of workflow solutions, software and services.
 
About Lexmark
Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) provides businesses of all sizes with a broad range of printing and imaging products, software, solutions and services that help customers to print less and save more. Perceptive Software, a stand-alone software business within Lexmark, is a leading provider of enterprise content management software that helps organizations easily manage the entire lifecycle of their documents and content, simplifying their business processes, and fueling greater operational efficiency. In 2010, Lexmark sold products in more than 170 countries and reported more than $4 billion in revenue.
To learn more about Lexmark, please visit
www.lexmark.com
. For more information on Perceptive Software, please visit
www.perceptivesoftware.com
.
For more information on Lexmark, see the and follow us on .
Lexmark Facebook page
Twitter
For more information about Perceptive Software, please visit the companys and profiles.
Facebook
Twitter
 
Lexmark and Lexmark with diamond design are trademarks of Lexmark International, Inc., registered in the U.S. and/or other countries.  All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.


