FILE:LXK/LXK-8K-20111025073022.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02.                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 25, 2011, Lexmark International, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2011. The text of the press release announcing the financial results is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)      Exhibits
   Exhibit No.                       Description of Exhibit
The information contained in this Current Report shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
The press release contains non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of Regulation G, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a registrants historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of income, balance sheet or statement of cash flows (or equivalent statements) of the issuer; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented. In this regard, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations between the GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures contained in the press release in the financial statements attached thereto, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and in the Earnings Presentation Slides posted on the Companys investor relations website at http://investor.lexmark.com.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Exhibit No.                      Description of Exhibit

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
Lexmark reports third quarter results
LEXINGTON, Ky.,Oct. 25, 2011  Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) today announced financial results for the third quarter of 2011.
 
Our revenue growth for the quarter was once again stronger than expected, highlighted by core growth of 10 percent year on year driven by a double digit increase in high end hardware, supplies and managed print services, said Paul Rooke, Lexmark chairman and chief executive officer. Lexmark remains committed to driving value for our shareholders, demonstrated by our recent actions including the repurchase of $125 million of Lexmark stock in the third quarter and the planned repurchase of another $125 million in fourth quarter; the acquisition of Pallas Athena; and the introduction of our enterprise-focused, cloud-based, mobile Print Release solution.
Our acquisition of Pallas Athena and investment in the BPM market demonstrates Lexmarks continued focus on strategic acquisitions of technologies that strengthen our unique portfolio of leading end-to-end fleet management and business process solutions, added Rooke. We expect this to be attractive to our global enterprise customers and help expand both our managed print services and Perceptive Software offerings.
Third Quarter 2011 Results
For the third quarter of 2011, revenue of $1.035 billion grew 1 percent compared with the same quarter last year.
Third quarter 2011 earnings per share were unfavorably impacted by discrete tax items of $0.06 per share. Third quarter 2010 earnings per share were favorably impacted by discrete tax items of $0.04 per share.
GAAP earnings per share for the third quarter of 2011 were $0.86. Excluding $0.09 per share for restructuring-related and acquisition-related adjustments, earnings per share for the third quarter of 2011 would have been $0.95. GAAP earnings per share for the third quarter of 2010 were $0.90. Earnings per share for the third quarter of 2010 would have been $1.09 excluding $0.19 per share for restructuring-related and acquisition-related adjustments.
 
 
 
In the third quarter, Hardware revenue grew 2 percent, Supplies revenue was about flat, and Software and Other revenue grew 15 percent, or 5 percent excluding acquisition-related adjustments.
Imaging Solutions and Services (ISS) revenue of $1.012 billion grew 1 percent in the third quarter compared to the same period last year. Perceptive Software revenue in the third quarter of $23 million grew 57 percent, or 15 percent excluding acquisition-related adjustments.
Third quarter 2011 GAAP results:
Third quarter 2011 non-GAAP results, excluding restructuring-related and acquisition-related adjustments:
The company ended the third quarter of 2011 with $1.2 billion in cash and current marketable securities. In the third quarter, net cash provided by operating activities was $48 million, capital expenditures were $41 million, and depreciation and amortization was $54 million. On August 2, 2011, the company announced the resumption of its share repurchase program. The company indicated that it anticipated repurchasing $250 million of its shares during the second half of 2011. Lexmark repurchased approximately 4.1 million of its shares during the third quarter for $125 million. The company anticipates completing the remaining $125 million during the fourth quarter of 2011.The companys remaining share repurchase authorization was about $366 million at quarter end.
Lexmark Acquires Pallas Athena
Last week, Lexmark announced the acquisition of Netherlands-based Pallas Athena in a cash transaction, valued at approximately $50.2 million. The Dutch company will become a part of Perceptive Software, a stand-alone business unit within Lexmark.
Pallas Athena is a leading provider of BPM, DOM and process mining software, with significant industry experience in the insurance, government and life sciences segments. Pallas Athenas software products enable a broad range of BPM capabilities, which include dynamic case management and customer communications management. Key differentiators of its software products include ease of implementation and an intuitive user interface.
The rapidly growing BPM software market is closely adjacent to Perceptive Softwares existing enterprise content management (ECM) market. By bringing these closely aligned technologies together, Lexmark will further strengthen its industry-leading fleet management solutions and services with a broader range of workflow solutions that are more functional, and easier to implement and use than existing tools available in the market today.
 
 
 
Lexmarks Cloud-Based Print Release Solution Enables Mobile Printing from Anywhere
Last week, Lexmark announced its enterprise-class, cloud-based solution with the Lexmark Mobile Printing App, which is designed for Apple iOS and Android smartphones and tablets. The solution enables employees, using a hosted deployment, to submit print jobs directly to the print queue and release them at any hosted Print Release enabled output device.  Print Release can be hosted in the cloud via a Software as a Service (SaaS) model or on premise. The hosted deployment allows IT administrators to scale their Lexmark Print Release solution quickly without the need to invest in new IT infrastructure, all while enabling comprehensive mobile printing capabilities across the fleet.
Print Release
1
2
The Lexmark Print Release solution can also be configured to allow employees to print from any email-enabled mobile device, including a BlackBerry, by simply attaching the document to an email and sending it to their corporate Print Release email account.
Perceptive Software Driving Growth in Healthcare Vertical
Perceptive Software continues to expand its healthcare clinical customer base, having signed several new hospitals that will integrate ImageNow with their core health information systems. Two of the new healthcare customers include Piedmont Healthcare in Atlanta and the University of Chicago Medical Center. Perceptive customers continue to choose the company's solutions based upon their deep integration with health information systems from industry leading companies such as Cerner, Epic and MEDITECH.
Looking Forward
In the fourth quarter of 2011, the company currently expects revenue to decline in the mid-single digit range year on year. GAAP earnings per share in the fourth quarter of 2011 are expected to be around $1.02 to $1.12, or $1.15 to $1.25 excluding $0.13 per share for restructuring-related and acquisition-related adjustments. GAAP earnings per share in the fourth quarter of 2010 were $1.10, or $1.29 excluding $0.19 per share for restructuring-related and acquisition-related adjustments. The company continues to expect its effective tax rate for 2011 will be 23 percent.
Conference Call Today
The company will be hosting a conference call with securities analysts today at 8:30 a.m. (EDT). A live broadcast and a complete replay of this call can be accessed from Lexmarks investor relations website at . If you are unable to connect to the Internet, you can access the call via telephone at 888-693-3477 (outside the U.S. by calling 973-582-2710) using access code 12620499.
http://investor.lexmark.com
Lexmarks earnings presentation slides, including reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, will be available on Lexmarks investor relations website prior to the live broadcast.
 
 
About Lexmark
Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) provides businesses of all sizes with a broad range of printing and imaging products, software, solutions and services that help customers to print less and save more. Perceptive Software, a stand-alone software business within Lexmark, is a leading provider of enterprise content management software that helps organizations easily manage the entire lifecycle of their documents and content, simplifying their business processes, and fueling greater operational efficiency. In 2010, Lexmark sold products in more than 170 countries and reported more than $4 billion in revenue.
To learn more about Lexmark, please visit . For more information on Perceptive Software, please visit .
www.lexmark.com
www.perceptivesoftware.com
For more information on Lexmark, see the and follow us on .
Lexmark Facebook page
Twitter
 
 
 
For more information about Perceptive Software, please visit the companys and profiles.
Facebook
Twitter
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements in this release which are not historical facts are forward-looking and involve risks and uncertainties which may cause the companys actual results or performance to be materially different from the results or performance expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Factors that may impact such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, volatility of the global economy, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; reliance on international production facilities, manufacturing partners and certain key suppliers; inability to be successful in the Companys transition to higher-usage segments of the inkjet market; inability to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the Companys business combinations, including the Perceptive Software and Pallas Athena acquisitions; market acceptance of new products and pricing programs; increased investment to support product development and marketing; the financial failure or loss of business with a key customer or reseller, including loss of retail shelf placements; periodic variations affecting revenue and profitability; excessive inventory for the Company and/or its reseller channel; failure to manage inventory levels or production capacity; credit risk associated with the Companys customers, channel partners, and investment portfolio; aggressive pricing from competitors and resellers; the inability to develop new products and enhance existing products to meet customer needs on a cost competitive basis; entrance into the market of additional competitors focused on printing solutions and software solutions, including enterprise content management and business process management solutions; inability to perform under managed print services contracts; decreased supplies consumption; increased competition in the aftermarket supplies business; possible changes in the size of expected restructuring costs, charges, and savings; unforeseen cost impacts as a result of new legislation; changes in the Companys tax provisions or tax liabilities; fees on the Companys products or litigation costs required to protect the Companys rights; inability to obtain and protect the Companys intellectual property rights and defend against claims of infringement and/or anticompetitive conduct; the outcome of litigation or regulatory proceedings to which the Company may be a party; the inability to attract, retain and motivate key employees;  changes in a countrys political or economic conditions; conflicts among sales channels; the failure of information technology systems; disruptions at important points of exit and entry and distribution centers; business disruptions; terrorist acts; acts of war or other political conflicts; or the outbreak of a communicable disease; and other risks described in the companys Securities and Exchange Commission filings. The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
Lexmark and Lexmark with diamond design are trademarks of Lexmark International, Inc., registered in the U.S. and/or other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
All product features, specifications and capabilities are subject to change without notice.
Sending a print job from the Lexmark Mobile Printing App requires iPhone 3G or newer, devices running iOS 4.2 or later, or Android devices running version 2.1 or newer.
1
Lexmark Embedded Solutions Framework supported print devices or non-Lexmark PCL/PostScript printers equipped with a card reader and connected through a Lexmark Print Release Appliance
2
(Lexmark N7020e).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix 1


