FILE:LXK/LXK-8K-20111019151147.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 1.01                      Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On October 18, 2011, Lexmark International Technology S.A. (LITSA), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Lexmark International, Inc. (Lexmark), a Delaware corporation, Pal-Wave B.V. (Pal-Wave) and Consilience Beheer B.V. (Consilience) entered into an Agreement for the Sale and Purchase of all of the issued and outstanding shares in Pallas Athena Holdings B.V. (Pallas Athena), a private limited liability company organized under the laws of the Netherlands (the Stock Purchase Agreement).  Pursuant to the Stock Purchase Agreement, Pal-Wave and Consilience, subject to the terms and conditions of the Stock Purchase Agreement, sold 100% of their shares in Pallas Athena to LITSA, effective as of October 18, 2011 (the Completion Date).
Pursuant to the Stock Purchase Agreement, LITSA acquired Pallas Athena,a leading provider of business process management, document output management and process mining software, for total cash consideration of approximately $50.2 million.  Ten percent of the Purchase Price will be placed in escrow for a period of eighteen (18) months following the Completion Date to secure indemnification obligations of Pal-Wave and Consilience relating to the accuracy of representations and warranties and the satisfaction of covenants.  Each of LITSA, Pal-Wave and Consilience has made customary representations and warranties and covenants in the Stock Purchase Agreement.
 
The foregoing description of the Stock Purchase Agreement is only a summary, does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Stock Purchase Agreement, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 8.01.  Other Events.
On October 18, 2011, Lexmark issued a press release announcing the acquisition of Pallas Athena.  The text of the press release announcing the acquisition of Pallas Athena is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)           Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Lexmark International, Inc.
(Registrant)
October 19, 2011
By:
/s/ Robert J. Patton                                                            
 
Robert J. Patton
Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CONTENTS
 
Clause                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Page
 
 
Signatories                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               19 
 
Schedule
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex
 
 
2 
 
 
 
is made on 18 October 2011,
THIS AGREEMENT
 
 
:
BETWEEN
 
 
 
 
The parties and are individually also referred to as a and together as the .
(1)
(2)
Seller
Sellers
 
:
BACKGROUND
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
as follows:
IT IS AGREED
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
                                agreement. The Notary shall hold and/or pay the other parts of the Closing Amounts in accordance with the Notary Letter;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An amount of EUR 2,987,093.99 (the ) shall be paid out of the Purchase Price into the Escrow Account at Completion, subject to the terms and conditions of the Escrow Agreement, as additional security for the satisfaction of the Sellers' obligations towards the Purchaser under any Sellers' Warranty or for claims under Clause subject to the relevant terms and conditions set out in Clause . The Escrow Amount shall be kept and discharged of by the Escrow Agent (as defined in the Escrow Agreement) under the terms and subject to the conditions of the Escrow Agreement.
Escrow Amount
13
13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
                
 
 
 
 
to the extent that, at Completion, the Purchaser or its advisers were or should have been aware of such Warranty Breach, because the facts and circumstances giving rise thereto:
 
 
 
It being understood however that the Due Diligence Investigation and the Disclosed Information will not in any way limit the Purchaser's rights to claim for a Warranty Breach set out in paragraphs 1, 2.1, 2.4 up to and including 2.8, 3, 4.2 and 5.1 of (Sellers' Warranties), to which no disclosure, limitation or qualification or any duty for the Purchaser to investigate, shall apply.
Schedule 5Part 1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
except in respect of a claim of which the Purchaser gives written notice to the Sellers before that relevant date and has started legal proceedings within six months after service of this written notice.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10
 
 
then the Purchaser shall, on receipt of the Third Party Sum by it or the relevant Group Company, repay to that Seller an amount equal to the lower of (i) the Excess Recovery and (ii) the Damages Payment, after deducting (in either case) all costs incurred by the Purchaser or the relevant Group Company in recovering that sum and any taxation payable by the Purchaser or any Group Company by virtue of its receipt.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12
 
 
 
 
 
 
disregarding any financial interest of a person in securities which are listed or traded on any generally recognised market if that person, the Seller and any person connected with him or them (the ) are together interested in securities which amount to less than 1% of the issued securities of that class and which, in all circumstances, carry less than 1% of the voting rights (if any) attaching to the issued securities of that class, and provided that none of the Investors is involved in the management or supervision of the business of the issuer of the relevant securities or of any person connected with it other than by the exercise of voting rights attaching to the securities; and
Investors
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Piet Joubertstraat 4
7315 AV Apeldoorn
PO box 747, 7300 AS Apeldoorn
Fax: +31 (0)553685311
marked for the attention of: Mr. G.K. Slof
e-mail: [intentionally omitted]
e-mail: [intentionally omitted]
 
 
 
14
 
 
 
Lexmark International Technology S.A.
marked for the attention of: Mr. K. Wagener
20, Route de Pr-Bois, ICC Building, Bloc A
1215 Genve, Switzerland
Fax: +41 22 710 7749
e-mail [intentionally omitted]
 
or at any such other address, fax number or e-mail of which it shall have given notice for this purpose to the other parties under this Clause . Any notice or other communication sent by post shall be sent by recorded delivery post () (if the place of destination is in the same country as its country of origin) or by overnight courier (if its destination is elsewhere).
16
aangetekende post met ontvangstbevestiging
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On or after Completion each of the parties shall, at its own cost and expense, execute and do (or procure to be executed and done by any other necessary party) all such deeds, documents, acts and things as another party to this agreement may from time to time reasonably require in order to give full effect to this agreement.
 
 
No party may assign any of its rights or transfer any of its obligations under this agreement or any interest therein without the prior written consent of the other parties, provided that the Purchaser may assign to any of its Affiliates.
 
 
 
 
15
 
 
 
bank:                                 ABN Amro in Hofstraat 161, Apeldoorn
IBAN code:                      [intentionally omitted]
account number:             [intentionally omitted]
account name:                 Pal-Wave B.V.
 
for any payment to be made to Consilience:
bank:                                 Deutsche Bank Veluwe-Twente, Prins Willem Alexanderlaan 701,7311 ST Apeldoorn
IBAN code:                      [intentionally omitted]
account number:             [intentionally omitted]
account name:                 Consilience Beheer B.V.
 
or such other account as the Sellers shall, not less than 3 (three) Business Days before the date on which payment is due, have specified by giving notice to the Purchaser and the Notary;
 
bank:                                 Citibank London
                                          
336 Strand London WC2R 1HB UK
IBAN code:                      [intentionally omitted]
account number:             [intentionally omitted]
account name:                 Lexmark International Technology S.A.
 
or such other account as the Purchaser shall, not less than 3 (three) Business Days before the date on which payment is due, have specified by giving notice to the Sellers; and
 
bank:                                 ABN AMRO Bank
IBAN code:                      [intentionally omitted]
account name:                 Allen & Overy LLP Notarissen Derdengelden Kwaliteitsrekening
account number:             [intentionally omitted]
with reference to:            Mr. R.J. Lijdsman, project Pittsburgh, 0080766-0000005
 
or such other account as the Notary shall, not less than 3 (three) Business Days before the date on which payment is due, have specified by giving notice to the other parties to this agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
16
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
any such illegal, invalid or unenforceable provision shall be replaced by a legal, valid and enforceable provision which, given the contents and purpose of this agreement is, to the greatest extent possible, similar to that of the original provision.
 
 
 
 
 
Delay in exercising or non-exercise of any such right is not a waiver of that right.
 
 
 
The parties waive their rights, if any, to in whole or in part annul, rescind or dissolve (including any ) this agreement. The parties waive their rights to request in whole or in part the annulment, rescission, dissolution or cancellation of this agreement, including (but not limited to) on the basis of articles 7:17 () and 6:228 () of the Dutch Civil Code. Furthermore, parties waive their rights, if any, to in whole or in part seek the alteration of this agreement pursuant to article 6:230 of the Dutch Civil Code. In the event of a breach of this agreement, parties agree that Purchaser shall also be entitled to claim specific performance (), except in respect of Warranty Claims in respect of which Purchaser may only claim damages.
gehele dan wel partile ontbinding en vernietiging
conformiteit
dwaling
nakoming
 
 
 
17
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The language of this agreement and the transactions envisaged by it is English and all notices, demands, requests, statements, certificates or other documents or communications shall be in English unless otherwise agreed. This agreement contains translated elements from the Dutch Civil Code and other Netherlands legislation; interpretation of the text and purpose of this agreement will always take place on the basis of the Dutch legal terminology as inserted in the text and in accordance with Dutch case law.
 
has been signed by the parties (or their duly authorised representatives) on the date stated at the beginning of this agreement.
THIS AGREEMENT
 
18 
 
 
SIGNATORIES
 
SIGNED by: Mr. J.P.W. Hoogenbosch                                                                           ) /s/ J.P.W. Hoogenbosch
For and on behalf of.                                                                 
Consilience Beheer B.V
SIGNED by: G.K.S. Beheer en Consultancy B.V.                                                           ) /s/ G.K. Slof
Represented by: Mr. G.K. Slof                                                                 
For and on behalf of
Pal-Wave B.V.
SIGNED by: Mr. K. Wagener (with power of attorney)                                                ) /s/ K. Wagener
For and on behalf of
Lexmark International Technology S.A.
 
For the purpose of Clause
14
as Indirect Shareholders:
 
SIGNED by: /s/ P. Berens                                                                                                   ) Mr. P. Berens
SIGNED by: /s/ J. Hoogland                                                                                               ) Mr. J. Hoogland
SIGNED by: /s/ R.N. Remmert De Vries                                                                            ) Mr. R.N. Remmert De Vries
SIGNED by: /s/ J. Hoogenbosch                                                                                       ) Mr. J. Hoogenbosch
 
 
19
 
 
 
 
                              SCHEDULE 1  
 
                              
                            THE COMPANY
 
 
 
20 
 
 
 
                SCHEDULE 2                                
 
THE SUBSIDIARIES AND PARTICIPATION
 
    PART 1                      
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                              
THE SUBSIDIARIES
 
 
 
 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
24 
 
 
                    PART 2                      
 
THE PARTICIPATION
 
 
 
 
 
 
25 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE 3                                
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
             
 
                                                 DRAFT DEED OF TRANSFER
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
PART 1                      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
           
 
SHARES IN THE COMPANY
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
         
 
 
DEED OF TRANSFER OF SHARES
(Pallas Athena Holdings B.V.)
 
 
 
 
This [eighteenth] day of October two thousand and eleven, there appeared before me, Robert Jan Jozef Lijdsman, civil law notary in Amsterdam:
 
 
 
26
 
 
 
 
                 office address at Piet Joubertstraat 4, 7315 AV Apeldoorn and registered with the Commercial Register under number 08077638 (); and
Pal-Wave
 
The aforementioned proxies appear from three written powers of attorney, copies of which are attached to this deed ().
Annexes
 
The persons appearing declared the following:
RECITALS:
 
NOW THEREFORE, THE TRANSFERORS AND THE TRANSFEREE HAVE AGREED AS FOLLOWS:
Article 1.
 
Transfer.
Article 2.
 
Purchase Price.
The Transferee has paid the purchase price for the Shares to the Transferors as described in Article 3 of the Agreement. The Transferors hereby give full discharge for the payment made.
Article 3.
 
Previous Acquisition of the Shares.
The Transferors have declared to have acquired the Shares as follows:
 
 
 
27
 
 
 
Article 4.
 
Costs.
All costs connected with the preparation of this deed shall be for the account of the Transferee.
Article 5.
 
Dissolution ().
'ontbinding'
The Transferors and the Transferee waive the right to dissolve the agreement laid down in this deed or to demand dissolution thereof.
Article 6.
 
Civil Law Notary.
The civil law notary who executes this deed is a civil law notary holding office with Allen & Overy LLP, the Transferee's legal adviser. The Transferors and the Transferee hereby acknowledge that they have been informed of the existence of the Ordinance Containing Rules of Professional Conduct and Ethics () of the Royal Professional Organisation of Civil Law Notaries () and explicitly agree and acknowledge (i) that Allen & Overy LLP may advise and act on behalf of the Transferee with respect to this deed, and any agreements or any disputes related to or resulting from this deed, and (ii) that the civil law notary holding office with Allen & Overy LLP executes this deed.
'Verordening beroeps- en gedragsregels'
'Koninklijke Notarile Beroepsorganisatie'
 
Finally, the Company has declared:
The Company hereby acknowledges the transfer of the Shares effected by this deed and shall register the same in its register of shareholders.
 
Close.
The persons appearing are known to me, civil law notary.
This deed was executed in Amsterdam on the date first above written. Before reading out, a concise summary and an explanation of the contents of this deed were given to the persons appearing. The persons appearing then declared that they had taken note of and agreed to the contents of this deed and did not want the complete deed to be read to them. Thereupon, after limited reading, this deed was signed by the persons appearing and by me, civil law notary.
(Follow signatures)
 
 
28 
 
 
                 PART 2                      
 
SHARES IN FUTURA
 
DEED OF TRANSFER OF SHARES
(Futura Technology B.V.)
 
 
 
This [eighteenth] day of October two thousand and eleven, there appeared before me, Robert Jan Jozef Lijdsman, civil law notary in Amsterdam:
 
The aforementioned proxies appear from three written powers of attorney attached to this deed ().
Annexes
 
The persons appearing declared the following:
 
 
 
29
 
 
RECITALS:
 
NOW THEREFORE, THE TRANSFEROR AND THE TRANSFEREE HAVE AGREED AS FOLLOWS:
Article 7.
 
Transfer.
Article 8.
 
Purchase Price.
The Transferee has paid the purchase price for the Shares to the Transferor as described in Article 2 of the Agreement. The Transferor hereby give full discharge for the payment made.
Article 9.
 
Previous Acquisition of the Shares.
The Transferor has declared to have acquired the Shares by participation in the capital of the Company after incorporation, pursuant to a deed of issuance of shares executed on the nineteenth day of February two thousand and eight before R.H.J. van de Wouw, civil law notary in Eindhoven.
Article 10.
 
Costs.
All costs connected with the preparation of this deed shall be for the account of the Transferee.
Article 11.
 
Dissolution ().
'ontbinding'
The Transferor and the Transferee waive the right to dissolve the agreement laid down in this deed or to demand dissolution thereof.
Article 12.
 
Civil Law Notary.
The civil law notary who executes this deed is a civil law notary holding office with Allen & Overy LLP, Lexmark International Technology S.A.'s legal adviser. The Transferor and the Transferee hereby acknowledge that they have been informed of the existence of the Ordinance Containing Rules of Professional Conduct and Ethics () of the Royal Professional Organisation of Civil Law Notaries () and explicitly agree and acknowledge (i) that Allen & Overy LLP may advise and act on behalf of Lexmark International Technology S.A. with respect to this deed, and any agreements or any disputes related to or resulting from this deed, and (ii) that the civil law notary holding office with Allen & Overy LLP executes this deed.
'Verordening beroeps- en gedragsregels'
'Koninklijke Notarile Beroepsorganisatie'
 
 
30
 
 
 
Finally, the Company has declared:
The Company hereby acknowledges the transfer of the Shares effected by this deed and shall register the same in its register of shareholders.
 
Close.
 
The persons appearing are known to me, civil law notary.
 
This deed was executed in Amsterdam on the date first above written. Before reading out, a concise summary and an explanation of the contents of this deed were given to the persons appearing. The persons appearing then declared that they had taken note of and agreed to the contents of this deed and did not want the complete deed to be read to them. Thereupon, after limited reading, this deed was signed by the persons appearing and by me, civil law notary.
(Follow signatures)
 
 
31 
 
 
 
                              SCHEDULE 4                                
 
DISCLOSED INFORMATION
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
32 
 
 
                               SCHEDULE 5                                
 
WARRANTIES
 
                      PART 1                      
 
     SELLERS' WARRANTIES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
33
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
34
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
35
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
36
 
 
 
 
 
        excluding:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Companys working capital is managed in accordance with the Companys past practices, policies and procedures in terms of receivables/credit management and terms, payables management and terms with regard to the management of other working capital items.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
37
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
38
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No Group Company has granted any power of attorney or similar authority which remains in force other then those set out in the Disclosure Information.
 
 
None of the Sellers nor any Indirect Shareholder is concerned in any business (within the meaning set out in Clause ) which is competitive or likely to be competitive with the business of any Group Company.
13
 
 
Each Group Company is adequately insured against risks normally insured against by companies carrying on business similar as those carried on by that Group Company.
 
 
Each Dutch Group Company has complied with all relevant requirements of Data Protection Legal Requirements and has given all required notifications to the Dutch Data Protection Authority or from any other data protection regulator in any other relevant jurisdiction related to its activities with respect to personal data.
 
 
 
 
 
 
39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
40
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
41
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
43 
 
 
                 PART 2                      
 
PURCHASER'S WARRANTIES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
44 
 
 
                SCHEDULE 6                                
 
                                                                                                                                          INTERPRETATION
 
 
 
means the consolidated balance sheet and consolidated profit and loss account as at () the Accounts Date of the Group Companies;
Accounts
per
 
 
means 31 July 2011;
Accounts Date
 
 
means in relation to any person or entity, any direct or indirect subsidiary or direct or indirect holding company of that person or entity and any other direct or indirect subsidiary of such holding company;
Affiliate
 
 
means any pension, lump sum, gratuity, payment, (deferred) compensation, payment of expenses, bonus or incentive benefit, or other benefit similar to any of these, given or to be given on or following leaving employment, retirement (including early retirement), death, ill-health, injury or disablement or in anticipation of leaving employment or after leaving employment or after death, or be given on or in anticipation of or in connection with any change in the nature of the employment of the employee concerned;
Benefit
 
 
means a day (other than a Saturday or Sunday) on which banks are generally open in The Netherlands for normal business;
Business Day
 
 
has the meaning ascribed to it in ;
Closing Amounts
Annex 3
 
 
has the meaning set out in recital and as further set forth in ;
Company
(A)
Schedule 1
 
 
means completion of the sale and purchase of the Shares in accordance with this agreement;
Completion
 
 
means 18 October 2011;
Completion Date
 
 
has the meaning ascribed to it in the introductions;
Consilience
 
 
has the meaning ascribed to it in subclause ;
Current Accounts Debt
7.3
 
 
has the meaning ascribed to it in subclause ;
Damages Payment
11.6(a)
 
 
means the data room of project Pittsburgh, a copy of which is attached as DVD in ;
Data Room
Schedule 4
 
 
has the meaning ascribed to it in ;
Debt Amounts
Annex 3
 
 
has the meaning ascribed to it in subclause ;
Deferring Party
4.4
 
 
has the meaning ascribed to it in subclause ;
Disclosed Information
8.2
 
 
means Deutsche Bank Nederland N.V.;
Deutsche Bank
 
 
has the meaning ascribed to it in subclause ;
Deutsche Bank Existing Debt
7.3
 
 
has the meaning ascribed to it in subclause ;
Due Diligence Investigation
8.1(a)
 
 
45
 
 
 
 
means 00h01 (CET) 1 August 2011;
Effective Date
 
 
has the meaning ascribed to it in ;
Employee loans
Annex 3
 
 
means the agreement between the Purchaser, the Sellers and the Escrow Agent (as defined therein) in relation to the Escrow Amount;
Escrow Agreement
 
 
has the meaning ascribed to it in Clause ;
Escrow Amount
6
 
has the meaning ascribed to it in subclause ;
     Excess Recovery
   
11.6(d)
 
means a matter is disclosed in a manner that is reasonably sufficient to appreciate the actual or potential consequences of the matter in question from a review of the relevant documents and in respect of Disclosed Information made available in the Data Room is included in such sections thereof where such information can reasonably be expected. The parties acknowledge and agree that when reference is made to a document or a particular part of a document, but the document itself has not been provided to the Purchaser or its advisors as part of the Data Room, such matter or reference and document or particular part of a document shall not be deemed to have been disclosed to the Purchaser.
     Fairly Disclosed
   
prima facie
 
 
means Futura Technology B.V.;
Futura
 
 
means the notarial deed to be executed by the Notary substantially in the form attached hereto in ;
Futura
Deed of Transfer
Schedule 3Part 2
 
 
means the amount held in escrow as set out in the escrow agreement between Tikapo Holding B.V., the Company and the escrow agent;
Futura Escrow Amount
 
 
means the purchase price to be paid for the acquisition of the Futura Shares, being an amount of EUR 2,310,397;
Futura Purchase Price
 
 
 
means any: (a) nation, country, city, town, village, district, or other jurisdiction of any nature; (b) federal, state, local, municipal, foreign, or other government; (c) governmental or quasi-governmental authority of any nature (including any governmental agency, branch, department, official, or entity and any court or other tribunal); (d) multinational organisation or body; or (e) body exercising, or entitled to exercise any administrative, executive, judicial, legislative, police, regulatory, or taxing authority or other power of any nature;
Governmental Body
 
 
means the Company and the Subsidiaries and means any of them;
Group Companies
Group Company
 
 
means the Purchaser and/or any of the Group Companies;
Indemnified Party
 
 
means Messr. P. Berens, J. Hoogland, R.N. Remmert De Vries and J. Hoogenbosch;
Indirect Shareholders
 
 
means any form of bankruptcy, liquidation, receivership, administration, arrangement or scheme with creditors, moratorium, interim or provisional supervision by the court or court appointee, whether in the jurisdiction of the place of incorporation or in any other jurisdiction, whether in or out of court;
Insolvency Proceedings
 
 
means in relation to any Seller that Seller's direct or indirect holding companies and any shareholder in those direct or indirect holding companies and any principal, sponsor, adviser or manager of such shareholder;
Interested Person
 
 
 
46
 
 
 
has the meaning ascribed to it in Clause ;
Investors
14.2
 
 
has the meaning ascribed to it in ;
Key Employees
Annex 2
 
 
means any requirement, order, constitution, law, ordinance, regulation, statute, or treaty of a Governmental Body;
Legal Requirement
 
 
means any permit, authorisation, exemption, licence, consent, approval, registration, recognition, notification or permission;
Licence
 
 
means a civil law notary () of Allen & Overy LLP Amsterdam;
Notary
notaris
 
 
means the notary letter as attached as ;
Notary Letter
Annex 4
 
 
means the notarial deed to be executed by the Notary substantially in the form attached hereto in ;
PA Deed of Transfer
Schedule 3Part 1
 
 
means the companies in which the Company directly or indirectly owns a share interest, of which the names and details are listed in ;
Participation
Schedule 2Part 2
 
 
means the 49% shareholding of the Company in the capital of Futura, with a nominal value of EUR 50 per Participation Share as per the Completion Date;
Participation Shares
 
 
means the nine issued and outstanding priority shares in the capital of the Company with a nominal value of EUR 0.10 each as per the Completion Date;
Priority Shares
 
 
has the meaning ascribed to it in subclause ;
Purchase Price
3.1
 
 
has the meaning ascribed to it in the introduction;
Purchaser
 
 
means the Purchaser and any and all of its Affiliates at any time, but excluding the Group Companies;
Purchaser's Group
 
 
means Allen & Overy LLP of Apollolaan 15, 1077 AB Amsterdam, The Netherlands;
Purchaser's Lawyers
 
 
means any: security right () or other limited right (); attachment (); qualitative obligation; retention of title, right of retention; personal right of enjoyment or use; licence; royalty obligations; beneficial ownership rights; option; right of first option; right of first refusal or any other restriction of any kind on use, voting, transfer, receipt of income or exercise of any other attribute of ownership, whether following from public or private law and any rights to acquire any of the above;
Restriction
zekerheidsrecht
beperkt recht
beslag
 
 
means all and each of the schemes, arrangements, agreements, customs, practices or policies identified in the Data Room and Scheme means any of the Schemes;
Schemes
 
 
means any circumstance whether known or unknown and whether attributable to the Sellers or not, which causes any of the Sellers' Warranties to be untrue or misleading on the date of this agreement, or any other breach of any of Sellers' obligations or undertakings pursuant to or in connection with this agreement or any related documents;
Sellers Breach
 
 
means Wave and Consilience together and means either of them;
Sellers
Seller
 
 
means the Sellers and in relation to each Seller, any and all of its Affiliates but excluding the Group Companies;
Sellers' Group
 
 
 
47
 
 
 
means the representations and warranties on the part of the Sellers listed in ;
Sellers' Warranties
Schedule 5Part 1
 
 
means all the issued and outstanding shares in the capital of the Company with a nominal value of EUR 0.10 each as per the Completion Date, excluding the Priority Shares;
Shares
 
 
has the meaning ascribed to it in ;
Shareholder Loans
Annex 3
 
 
means all the companies in which the Company directly or indirectly owns a share interest, of which the names and details are listed in ;
Subsidiaries
Schedule 2Part 1
 
 
means the issued and outstanding share capital of each of the respective Subsidiaries owned by any Group Company as set out in ;
Subsidiary Shares
Schedule 2Part 2
 
 
means all the software, computer hardware, network and telecommunications equipment that are used by any Group Company in connection with the operation of the business of any Group Company as currently conducted;
Systems
 
      Taxation
   
means all forms of taxation, duties, imposts and levies, of any country or jurisdiction, whether arising by way of a primary liability or by way of a secondary liability, including income tax (including income tax or amounts equivalent to or in respect of income tax required to be deducted or withheld from or accounted for in respect of any payment), corporation tax, advance corporation tax, capital gains tax, capital tax, dividend tax, inheritance tax, value added tax, customs and other import or export duties, excise duties, stamp duty reserve tax, wage tax, social security,
 
or other similar contributions
or
liabilities on the basis of article 24, 39 and 43 of the Tax Collection Act 1990 (
Invorderingswet 1990
), and any interest, penalty, surcharge or fine relating thereto;
 
 
means any transaction, event, act or omission and any transaction, event, act or omission deemed to have occurred for Taxation purposes.
Tax
Transaction
 
 
means TDS IT Consulting GmbH;
TDS
 
 
has the meaning ascribed to it in subclause ;
TDS Existing Debt
7.2
 
 
has the meaning ascribed to it in subclause ;
Third Party Claim
12.1
 
 
has the meaning ascribed to it in subclause ;
Third Party Sum
11.6(b)
 
 
has the meaning ascribed to it in recital ;
Transaction
(B)
 
 
means all fees, costs and expenses (including the fees, costs and expenses of lawyers, accountants, brokers, finders, financial and other professional advisers), relating to the transactions contemplated in this agreement;
Transaction Costs
 
 
means a resolution in writing by a company's body (), adopted by unanimous consent of all members of such body and, in respect of a resolution by a general meeting, including the opportunity for each managing director and supervisory director (if any) to have rendered their advice;
Unanimous Consent Resolution
vennootschapsorgaan
 
 
has the meaning ascribed to it in subclause ;
Warranty Breach
8.2(b)
 
 
means a claim by the Purchaser for any breach or alleged breach of any of the Warranties; and
Warranty Claim
 
 
has the meaning ascribed to it in the introductions.
Wave
 
 
 
48
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
or if it is a subsidiary of a company which is itself a subsidiary of that other company.
 
 
 
 
 
 
49
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
50

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
Lexmark acquires Pallas Athena
LEXINGTON, Ky., Oct. 18, 2011 Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) today announced the acquisition of Netherlands-based Pallas Athena in a cash transaction, valued at approximately $50.2 million. Upon completion of the transaction, the Dutch company will become a part of Perceptive Software, a stand-alone business unit within Lexmark.
 
Pallas Athenas chairman and chief executive officer, John Hoogland, will report directly to Scott Coons, Perceptive Softwares president and chief executive officer and Lexmark vice president.
Pallas Athena is a leading provider of BPM, DOM and process mining software, with significant industry experience in the insurance, government and life sciences segments. Pallas Athenas software products enable a broad range of BPM capabilities, which includes dynamic case management and customer communications management. Key differentiators of its software products include ease of implementation and an intuitive user interface.
The rapidly growing BPM software market is closely adjacent to Perceptive Softwares existing enterprise content management (ECM) market. By bringing these closely aligned technologies together, Lexmark will further strengthen its industry-leading fleet management solutions and services with a broader range of workflow solutions that are more functional, and easier to implement and use than existing tools available in the market today.
Lexmarks acquisition of Pallas Athena will enable Perceptive Software to expand its EMEA region presence, while concurrently leveraging the companys growing worldwide sales force to sell these software solutions globally.
Along with its Apeldoorn, Netherlands location, Pallas Athena has regional offices in the U.S., U.K., Germany, Belgium and the Caribbean.
,
 
 
 
Lexmark will provide further details and information regarding the Pallas Athena acquisition when the company announces its financial results for the third quarter of 2011. Until that date, Lexmark will have no further comment.
Lexmark plans to announce third quarter 2011 earnings on Tuesday, Oct. 25, 2011.  A conference call is scheduled for 8:30 a.m. EDT on that day, and can be accessed from Lexmarks investor relations website at http://investor.lexmark.com.
 
 
Supporting Quotes
This investment in the BPM market demonstrates Lexmarks continued focus on strategic acquisitions of technologies that strengthen our unique portfolio of leading end-to-end fleet management and business process solutions
," said Paul Rooke, Lexmarks chairman and chief executive officer. We expect this to be attractive to our global enterprise customers and help expand our MPS offering and Perceptive Software.
BPM is a perfect complement to Perceptive Softwares content-driven ECM solutions; it strengthens the impact of the context side of our content in context approach," said Scott Coons, Perceptive Softwares president and chief executive officer and Lexmark vice president. "Weve long had a deep understanding of our customers unique business processes and their need for versatile and intuitive ECM solutions. With the addition of full-featured BPM, DOM and process mining capabilities complementing our offerings we can now provide customers with a broader range of solutions that enable them to work even more efficiently."
,
"A key element in this acquisition was to work within a company whose culture and drive is so much like our own," said John Hoogland, Pallas Athenas chairman and chief executive officer. "The joining of Pallas Athena with Perceptive Software and Lexmark will allow us to grow the BPM user base around the globe as we bring our intuitive solutions to new customers everywhere.
About Lexmark
Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) provides businesses of all sizes with a broad range of printing and imaging products, software, solutions and services that help customers to print less and save more. Perceptive Software, a stand-alone software business within Lexmark, is a leading provider of enterprise content management software that helps organizations easily manage the entire lifecycle of their documents and content, simplifying their business processes, and fueling greater operational efficiency. In 2010, Lexmark sold products in more than 170 countries and reported more than $4 billion in revenue.
To learn more about Lexmark, please visit . For more information on Perceptive Software, please visit .
www.lexmark.com
www.perceptivesoftware.com
 
 
For more information on Lexmark, see the and follow us on .
Lexmark Facebook page
Twitter
For more information about Perceptive Software, please visit the companys and  profiles.
Facebook
Twitter
 
 
 
Lexmark and Lexmark with diamond design are trademarks of Lexmark International, Inc., registered in the U.S. and/or other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.


