FILE:LXK/LXK-8K-20110224164307.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Departure of Directors
On February 24, 2011, Ms Teresa Beck, age 56, announced her intention not to seek reelection as a member of the Board of Directors (the Board) of Lexmark International, Inc. (the Company), and will retire after 11 years of service on the Board, effective as of the Annual Meeting of Stockholders on April 28, 2011 (the 2011 Annual Meeting), which is the last day of her current three-year term. Additionally, after 14 years of service as a member of the Board and 20 years of service with the Company, Dr. Paul J. Curlander, age 58, has decided to retire as Executive Chairman and as a member of the Board, effective as of April 30, 2011. The Company expresses its gratitude to Ms. Beck and Dr. Curlander for their many years of dedicated service and invaluable counsel to the Company.
Election of Chairman of the Board of Directors and New Director
On February 24, 2011, the Board, on the recommendation of the Corporate Governance and Public Policy Committee of the Board, elected Mr. Paul A. Rooke as Chairman of the Board of Directors to succeed Dr. Curlander, effective as of the date of the 2011 Annual Meeting.
On February 24, 2011, the Board also approved the recommendations of the Corporate Governance and Public Policy Committee of the Board that the size of the Board be increased from 12 to 13 directors and that Ms. Sandra L. Helton be elected to the Board as a Class II Director with a term expiring at the 2011 Annual Meeting.
In connection with her election as a director, Ms. Helton was appointed to the Finance and Audit Committee, effective March 15, 2011. There are no arrangements or understandings between Ms. Helton and any other person pursuant to which she was selected as a director. There are no transactions involving the Company and Ms. Helton that the Company would be required to report pursuant to Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
Ms. Helton will receive compensation for her service as a member of the Board in accordance with the Companys standard compensation arrangements for non-employee directors, which are summarized in the Description of Compensation Payable to Non-Employee Directors, which is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 8-K, and is incorporated herein by reference.
In accordance with the Companys customary practice, the Company is entering into an indemnification agreement with Ms. Helton, which requires the Company to indemnify her against certain liabilities that may arise as a result of her status or service as director.  The indemnification protection commences on the date of a directors election to the Board and continues through the later of ten years after the directors termination of service or the final termination of any Proceeding (as defined in the Agreement) then pending in which the director is granted rights of indemnification or advancement of expenses or any Proceeding commenced by the director seeking indemnification or advancement of expenses.  The foregoing description
 
 
 
is qualified in its entirety by the full text of the form of Indemnification Agreement, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Companys Form 8-K on July 22, 2010, and which is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 8.01.                      Other Events.
A copy of the press release issued by the Company on February 24, 2011, announcing the retirements of Ms. Beck and Dr. Curlander, the election of Mr. Rooke as Chairman of the Board of Directors and the election of Ms. Helton to the Board of Directors is attached as Exhibit 99.1, and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
The following table sets forth the compensation payable to nonemployee directors of Lexmark International, Inc.:
 
 
Initial Equity Award (Restricted Stock Units)
 
 
 
 
 
Annual Equity Award (Restricted Stock Units)
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the terms of the Lexmark International, Inc. 2005 Nonemployee Director Stock Plan, each nonemployee director may defer his or her retainer and/or meeting fees into Deferred Stock Units based on the fair market value of Lexmark Class A Common Stock on the date of deferral. The Deferred Stock Units are eligible for settlement initially on June 30th in the fifth year following the date of grant.
Deferred Stock Units:
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Lexmark International Elects Paul Rooke as Chairman of the Board of Directors and Sandra L. Helton as Director
 
 
- Directors Paul Curlander and Teresa Beck to retire
 
 
 
 
LEXINGTON, Ky, Feb. 24, 2011 -- Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) today announced its Board of Directors has elected Paul Rooke as chairman of the Board and Sandra L. Helton as a new director.
 
 
Rooke will succeed Dr. Paul J. Curlander as chairman at the 2011 annual meeting of stockholders. Curlander, after 14 years of service as a member of the Lexmark Board of Directors and 20 years of service with the company, will retire from Lexmark as executive chairman, effective April 30, 2011.
 
The Board of Directors believes Paul Rooke has the technical expertise and management experience to lead Lexmark, and that the combined chairman and chief executive officer position will continue to serve the companys investors, customers and employees well, said Jean-Paul L. Montupet, presiding director of Lexmark.
 
The Lexmark Board of Directors also elected Sandra L. Helton as a new director.  From 1998 through 2006, Helton was executive vice president and chief financial officer of Telephone and Data Systems, Inc. (TDS), a diversified telecommunications organization.  Prior to TDS, Helton spent 26 years with Corning Inc. where she held engineering, strategy and finance positions, including senior vice president and treasurer from 1991 to 1997.
 
 
Helton currently serves on the board of directors for Covance, Inc., one of the largest drug development services companies in the world, where she chairs the Audit and Finance Committee of the Board.  She also serves on the board of directors for The Principal Financial Group, a global financial company offering businesses, individuals and institutional clients a wide range of financial products and services, where she chairs the Finance Committee of the Board.
 
 
We are delighted that Ms. Helton is joining the Lexmark Board of Directors, stated Montupet. Her experience in managing and counseling global businesses will greatly benefit Lexmark.
 
 
Additionally, Teresa Beck, a member of the Lexmark Board of Directors since 2000, will retire from the Lexmark Board effective at the expiration of her current term at the annual meeting of stockholders on April 28, 2011.
 
 
I would like to thank Paul and Teresa for their many years of dedicated service and invaluable contributions to the company said Montupet.  They have been instrumental in Lexmarks success.
 
 
 
 
 
After the retirements announced today are effective, Lexmarks Board of Directors will be comprised of 11 directors, 10 of whom will be independent.  Montupet will also continue in his role as presiding director of Lexmark.
 
About Lexmark
Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) provides businesses of all sizes with a broad range of printing and imaging products, software, solutions and services that help customers to print less and save more. Perceptive Software, a stand-alone software business within Lexmark, is a leading provider of enterprise content management software that helps organizations effortlessly manage the entire lifecycle of their documents and content, simplifying their business processes, and fueling greater operational efficiency. In 2010, Lexmark sold products in more than 170 countries and reported more than $4 billion in revenue.
To learn more about Lexmark, please visit www.lexmark.com. For more information on Perceptive Software, please visit www.perceptivesoftware.com.
For more information on Lexmark, see the Lexmark Facebook page and follow us on Twitter at www.twitter.com/lexmarknews.
For more information on Perceptive Software, see the Perceptive Software Facebook page and follow them on Twitter at www.twitter.com/perceptivesw.
Lexmark and Lexmark with diamond design are trademarks of Lexmark International, Inc., registered in the U.S. and/or other countries.  All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.


