FILE:LXK/LXK-8K-20110301162057.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
2011 Incentive Compensation Award Opportunities for Named Executive Officers
On February 23, 2011, the Compensation and Pension Committee of the Board (the Compensation Committee) granted annual incentive compensation award opportunities with respect to the 2011 calendar year (the IC Performance Period) to each of the Companys Named Executive Officers (as defined in Regulation S-K Item 402(a)(3)), pursuant to the Senior Executive Incentive Compensation Plan (the Senior Executive IC Plan). The maximum award which may be earned under the Senior Executive IC Plan by any Named Executive Officer is equal to six-tenths of one percent of operating income for the IC Performance Period. The Compensation Committee, in its sole discretion, may reduce, but not increase, the award made to a Named Executive Officer based on any factors that the Compensation Committee deems appropriate, including, but not limited to, the performance objectives established under the Companys 2011 Incentive Compensation Plan (2011 IC Plan).
Under the 2011 IC Plan, the Compensation Committee has established a Threshold Plan and a Traditional Plan, and the award amount is based on the greater of the Threshold Plan or Traditional Plan, subject to the maximum award amount under the Senior Executive IC Plan.  Under the Traditional Plan, performance measures include revenue, operating income, cash cycle days, business unit revenue, business unit operating income and individual performance, each excluding acquisition activity.  Under the Threshold Plan, performance measures include worldwide free cash flow and individual performance, excluding acquisition activity and pension contributions.  The minimum award opportunity established under the Threshold Plan and the minimum, target and maximum award opportunities established under the Traditional Plan for each of the Named Executive Officers, other than Dr. Curlander, who is retiring on April 30, 2011, subject in each case to the maximum award amount under the Senior Executive IC Plan, are set forth in the following table.
Long-Term Incentive Compensation Opportunities for the Named Executive Officers
Also on February 23, 2011, the Compensation Committee granted each Named Executive Officer, other than Dr. Curlander and Mr. Rooke, a long-term incentive opportunity comprised 70% of performance-based restricted stock units and 30% of time-based restricted stock units. No long-term incentive opportunity was awarded to Dr. Curlander due to his pending retirement.
 
 
 
 
Mr. Rookes long-term incentive opportunity is comprised 100% of performance-based restricted stock units.
The performance measure for the performance-based restricted stock units is worldwide free cash flow, excluding all acquisition activity and pension contributions. The performance period is January 1, 2011 through December 31, 2011 (the RSU Performance Period). The performance-based restricted stock units to be awarded based on the Companys achievement of its objective, if any, will be determined by the Compensation Committee in 2012, with vesting and settlement of any earned performance-based restricted stock units to occur in three approximately equal installments (34%, 33% and 33%, respectively) on February 24, 2012, February 24, 2014 and February 24, 2015, based on the Named Executive Officers continued employment on each vesting date. The Named Executive Officer must be employed on the last day of the RSU Performance Period to earn the performance-based restricted stock units.  Termination of employment prior to such time for any reason will result in forfeiture of the award.  The vesting of any earned performance-based restricted stock units after the end of the RSU Performance Period will be accelerated in the event of the Named Executive Officers death, disability or retirement occurring after the completion of the RSU Performance Period.
The time-based restricted stock unit awards will vest and settle in three approximately equal installments (34%, 33% and 33%, respectively) on February 24, 2013, February 24, 2014 and February 24, 2015, based on the continued employment of the Named Executive Officer on each vesting date. The time-based restricted stock units awarded, as well as the minimum, target and maximum award levels for the performance-based restricted stock unit awards are set forth in the following table.
The Company intends to provide additional information regarding the compensation awarded to the Named Executive Officers with respect to and during the year ended December 31, 2010 in the Proxy Statement for the Companys 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which is expected to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in March 2011.
 
 
 
Item 9.01.                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
This Award Notice evidences the award of performance-based restricted stock units (each, a  or collectively, the ) that have been granted to you, [NAME], by Lexmark International, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ), subject to and conditioned upon your agreement to the terms of the attached Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement (the ).  The Performance RSUs are granted under the Lexmark International, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated, effective April 23, 2009 (the ), and represent the Companys unfunded and unsecured promise to issue shares of the Companys Common Stock at a future date, subject to the terms of this Award Notice, the Agreement and the Plan.
Performance RSU
Performance RSUs
Company
Agreement
Plan
The number of Performance RSUs awarded to you, the performance measures to earn Performance RSUs, and the vesting schedule for earned Performance RSUs are specified below.  This Award Notice constitutes part of, and is subject to the terms and provisions of, the Agreement and the Plan, which are incorporated by reference herein.  Capitalized terms used but not defined in this Award Notice shall have the meanings set forth in the Agreement or in the Plan.
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
This (the between Lexmark International, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ), and the person specified on the signature page hereof (the ) is entered into as of the Grant Date specified on the attached Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit Award Notice (the ) pursuant to the Lexmark International, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan, as the same may be amended from time to time (the ).  Capitalized terms used and not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Plan or in the Award Notice, as applicable.
PERFORMANCE-BASED RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARD AGREEMENT
"Agreement")
"Company"
Grantee
Award Notice
"Plan"
the Committee has determined that it would be to the advantage and in the interest of the Company to grant performance-based restricted stock units to the Grantee as an inducement to the Grantee to remain in the service of the Company and the Subsidiaries and as an incentive to the Grantee to devote his or her best efforts and dedication to the performance of such services and to maximize shareholder value; and
WHEREAS,
the Grantee desires to accept from the Company the grant of the performance-based restricted stock units, as set forth in the Award Notice, subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Award Notice and the Plan.
WHEREAS,
 
 
in consideration of the premises and subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, the Award Notice and the Plan, the parties hereto hereby covenant and agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE,
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
2.      . As soon as practicable after the end of the Performance Period, as set forth in the Award Notice, the Committee shall review and approve the Companys business results and certify the level of achievement of the Performance Measure(s), as set forth in the Award Notice.  Provided the Grantee is employed on the last day of the Performance Period, and to the extent that the Performance Measure(s) have been achieved, a number of Performance RSUs will be deemed earned based on the level of attainment of each Performance Measure.  Settlement of the earned Performance RSUs is subject to the Grantees continued employment through the Vesting Dates, as set forth in Section 3(a).  The Committee may use its sole discretion to determine whether the number of earned Performance RSUs shall be reduced, based on any factors it may deem appropriate.  If a Change in Control occurs during the Performance Period, a pro-rata portion of the Performance RSUs will be deemed earned based on the greater of Target, as set forth in the Award Notice, or the actual achievement of the Performance Measure(s) as of the effective date of the Change in Control.
Earning Performance RSUs
3.      .
Vesting of Earned Performance RSUs
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
 
 
All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been received on the date of delivery or on the third business day after the mailing thereof.
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
8
 
the Company and the Grantee have executed this Agreement, effective as of the Grant Date.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
 
Designation of Beneficiary
In the event of my death, I hereby designate the following person(s), as my beneficiary, to receive any unsettled earned Performance RSUs that become vested upon my death pursuant to this Agreement.  I acknowledge that if I fail to designate a beneficiary, below, that any unsettled earned Performance RSUs that become vested upon my death shall be paid to my estate.
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 


