FILE:LXK/LXK-8K-20120319090421.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 8.01.  Other Events.
On March 19, 2012, Lexmark International, Inc. (Lexmark) issued a press release announcing the acquisitions of Nolij Corporation, a Massachusetts corporation (Nolij), and ISYS Search Software Pty Ltd., an Australian proprietary company (ISYS).
Perceptive Software USA, Inc., a Delaware corporation (Perceptive USA) and wholly-owned subsidiary of Lexmark, completed its acquisition of Nolij on March 13, 2012, pursuant to the terms of an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement) by and among Perceptive USA, Perceptive Mergersub, Inc., a Massachusetts corporation, Nolij and a representative of the Nolij shareholders. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, Perceptive USA acquired Nolij through the merger of Perceptive Mergersub, Inc. with and into Nolij, with Nolij continuing as the surviving company in the merger. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, Perceptive USA acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Nolij for total cash consideration of approximately $32 million.
Lexmark International (Australia) Pty Ltd., an Australian proprietary company (Lexmark Australia) and wholly-owned subsidiary of Lexmark, ISYS, the shareholders of ISYS and a representative of the ISYS shareholders entered into an agreement for the sale and purchase of all of the issued and outstanding shares of ISYS (the Share Purchase Agreement), effective as of March 16, 2012 (the Closing Date).  Pursuant to the Share Purchase Agreement, Lexmark Australia acquired ISYS for total cash consideration of approximately $32 million.  Non-U.S. cash was used to purchase the shares of ISYS.
The text of the press release announcing the acquisitions of Nolij and ISYS is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)           Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Lexmark International, Inc.
(Registrant)
March 19, 2012
By:
/s/ Robert J. Patton
   
   
   
   
 
Robert J. Patton
Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
 
 
 

 
 
Lexmark acquires ISYS Search Software and Nolij
LEXINGTON, Ky., March 19, 2012  Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) today announced the completion of two acquisitions, Australia-based ISYS Search Software and U.S.-based Nolij Corporation.
Both companies now join Perceptive Software, a stand-alone business unit within Lexmark. The chief executive officer of ISYS, Scott Coles, and the president of Nolij, John Collins, will report directly to Scott Coons, Perceptive Softwares president and chief executive officer and Lexmark vice president.
ISYS Search Software
ISYS enterprise search solutions deliver powerful federated search, text mining, and mobile and embedded search capabilities across a wide range of formats, languages and platforms  enabling organizations to leverage corporate knowledge, reduce risk and facilitate rapid discovery of critical intelligence for more informed decision making.
Its class-leading Document Filters technology is the core analytics engine at the heart of its suite of enterprise applications. Connecting with all the sources of unstructured information that exist in the organization, Document Filters enables users to parse, extract, analyze, load and display (in high definition) content contained in hundreds of different file types.
Today, more than 16,000 enterprise organizations and many of the worlds leading IT vendors use ISYS software. Vista Point Advisors acted as the exclusive financial advisor to ISYS.
Nolij
The Nolij software suite is a 100 percent Web-based document imaging and workflow platform that includes innovative, native support for mobile devices and forms processing capabilities.
 
 
 
The suite includes Nolij Transfer, a Web-based data integration product that enables automated data matching and upload to student information systems, eliminating data entry and reducing errors associated with manual processes in enrollment services, university development and the business office.
Nolijs innovative education solutions and strong industry expertise reinforce Perceptive Softwares leadership position in the higher education industry.
Both ISYS and Nolij strengthen Lexmarks industry-leading products, solutions and services, broadening and deepening the companys capabilities that enable customers to better manage their printing and imaging infrastructure, business processes and content.
Recent Acquisitions Mark Continued Execution of Capital Allocation Framework
Lexmarks recent acquisitions have advanced its "capture/manage/access" strategy, enabling the company to intelligently capture content from hardcopy and electronic documents through a range of devices including the companys award-winning smart multifunction products and mobile devices, while also managing and processing content through its enterprise content management and business process management technologies.
These technologies, when combined with Lexmarks managed print services capabilities, give the company the unique ability to help customers save time and money by managing their printing and imaging infrastructure while providing complementary and high value, end-to-end content and process management solutions.
An integral part of Lexmarks overall capital allocation framework and strategy is to pursue acquisitions that support the strengthening and growth of the company while also returning more than 50 percent of free cash flow to shareholders, on average, through quarterly dividends and share repurchases.
In this quarter,
Lexmark paid a cash dividend of $0.25 per share to shareholders of record as of March 5, 2012. Lexmark retains a strong liquidity position with a long history of cash generation. Lexmark plans to discuss these recent acquisitions in more detail when it announces its first quarter 2012 earnings in April.
Supporting Quotes
Our recent acquisitions enable Lexmark to offer customers a differentiated, integrated system of solutions that are unique, cost effective, and deliver a rapid return on investment, said Paul Rooke, Lexmarks chairman and chief executive officer. The methodical shift in our focus and investments has strengthened our managed print services offerings and added new content and process technologies, positioning Lexmark as a key solutions provider to businesses large and small.
ISYSs leading search technology adds to our unique set of integrated process and content management offerings, and will give our customers cross-platform visibility to better manage and access the content that supports their business processes, said Scott Coons, Perceptive Softwares president and chief executive officer and Lexmark vice president. "We understand our customers need to access and render content,
 
 
 
regardless of where it resides, so they can work more efficiently and bring greater value to their customers.
Similarly, Nolij brings advanced system integration, unique browser based scanning and forms processing capabilities to our education customers so they can better serve their students, Coons added. Nolijs industry expertise, enthusiastic customer base and innovative platform greatly complement our ongoing commitment to and leadership in the higher education industry.
"ISYS has been delivering easy-to-deploy and easy-to-use enterprise search technology for many years, and weve always built our software through active collaboration with customers, said Scott Coles, chief executive officer of ISYS. Because Perceptive places a major emphasis on listening to the customer and consistently delivers flexible, scalable solutions in many industries, were optimally suited to operate together to bring new levels of value to customers.
"Were very pleased to join Perceptive Software, which has had great success in the higher education industry and understands institutions unique process and content management needs, said John Collins, president of Nolij. "We look forward to adding our strengths to Perceptive and bringing even greater value to this market around the globe.
About Lexmark
Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) provides businesses of all sizes with a broad range of printing and imaging products, software, solutions and services that help customers to print less and save more. Perceptive Software, a stand-alone software business within Lexmark, is a leading provider of process and content management software that that helps organizations fuel greater operational efficiency. In 2011, Lexmark sold products in more than 170 countries and reported more than $4 billion in revenue.
 
To learn more about Lexmark, please visit . For more information on Perceptive Software, please visit .
www.lexmark.com
www.perceptivesoftware.com
 
For more information on Lexmark, see the and follow us on .
Lexmark Facebook page
Twitter
 
For more information about Perceptive Software, please visit the company's and profiles.
Facebook
Twitter
 
Lexmark and Lexmark with diamond design are trademarks of Lexmark International, Inc., registered in the U.S. and/or other countries.  All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
Investor Contact:
John Morgan
(859) 232-5568
jmorgan@lexmark.com
Lexmark Media Contact:
Jerry Grasso
(859) 232-3546
ggrasso@lexmark.com
Perceptive Software Media Contact:
Dan Dillon
(913) 636-4931
dan.dillon@perceptivesoftware.com


