FILE:LXK/LXK-8K-20120305091204.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 1.01                      Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On February 29, 2012, Lexmark International Technology S.A., a Switzerland joint stock company (LITSA) and Lexmark International (Asia) S.A.R.L., a Switzerland private limited company (LIA and together with LITSA, Buyer), each wholly-owned subsidiaries of Lexmark International, Inc. (Lexmark), a Delaware corporation, and the shareholders of BDGB Enterprise Software (LUX), S.C.A., a Luxembourg limited partnership (Target), and BDGB Enterprise Software GP S.a. r.l., a Luxembourg private limited liability company (GP) (collectively, the Sellers) entered into an agreement for the sale and purchase of all of the issued and outstanding securities of Target and GP (the Securities Purchase Agreement), effective as of February 29, 2012 (the Closing Date).
Pursuant to the Securities Purchase Agreement, Buyer acquired GP and Target, including its wholly owned subsidiaries, Brainware, Inc., a Virginia corporation, Brainware Technology GmbH, a German company with limited liability, and BDGB Enterprise Software Sarl, a Swiss private limited liability company (collectively, Brainware) for total cash consideration of approximately $148 million.  Approximately seven and one-half percent of the Purchase Price will be placed in escrow for a period of 18 months following the Closing Date to secure indemnification obligations of the Sellers relating to the accuracy of representations and warranties and the satisfaction of covenants.  Each of Buyer, Sellers, GP, Target and Brainware has made customary representations and warranties and covenants in the Securities Purchase Agreement.
Item 8.01.  Other Events.
On March 5, 2012, Lexmark issued a press release announcing the acquisition of Brainware, a leading provider of intelligent data capture software.  The text of the press release announcing the acquisition of Brainware is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)           Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Lexmark International, Inc.
(Registrant)
March 5, 2012
By:
/s/ Robert J. Patton
 
Robert J. Patton
Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Lexmark acquires Brainware
LEXINGTON, Ky., March 5, 2012 Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) today announced the acquisition of Luxembourg-based BDGB Enterprise, including its U.S. subsidiary Brainware, Inc., a Vista Equity Partners portfolio company, for a cash purchase price of approximately $148 million.
 
Brainware now joins Perceptive Software, a stand-alone business unit within Lexmark. Brainwares chief executive officer, Carl Mergele, will report directly to Scott Coons, Perceptive Softwares president and chief executive officer and Lexmark vice president.
Brainwares intelligent data capture platform, Brainware Distiller, accurately extracts critical information from paper and electronic documents, validates the extracted data and passes it to customers data management systems, enterprise resource planning (ERP) and/or financial management systems.
Brainware Distiller enables customers to more efficiently process invoices, fulfill customer orders, balance remittances, index documents, process loan applications, and perform other document-intensive processes. This high growth market is closely adjacent to both Lexmarks customer solutions and Perceptive Softwares expanding enterprise content management (ECM) and business process management (BPM) businesses.
By bringing these closely aligned technologies together, Lexmark will further strengthen its unique, industry-leading end-to-end products, solutions and services with a broader range of software that enables customers to capture, manage and access information and business process workflows.
Many Global 2000 companies use Brainwares products and services. The companys significant experience includes customers in the healthcare, manufacturing, financial services, retail, energy and technology segments. Brainware has offices in the U.S., U.K., Switzerland and Germany.
 
 
 
This acquisition is consistent with Lexmarks capital allocation framework of pursuing acquisitions to support the growth of the company while returning more than 50 percent of free cash flow to shareholders, on average, through quarterly dividends and share repurchases.
In this quarter, the company executed 
an accelerated share repurchase agreement to purchase $30 million of the companys outstanding shares and announced a cash dividend of $0.25 per share that will be paid on March 16, 2012, to shareholders of record as of March 5, 2012. Lexmark retains a strong liquidity position with a long history of cash generation. Non U.S.-based cash was used for this acquisition. 
Supporting Quotes:
With the acquisition of Brainware, Lexmark is further strengthening and differentiating our industry-leading managed print services offerings and our end-to-end business process solutions, said Paul Rooke, Lexmarks chairman and chief executive officer. Brainwares innovative intelligent data capture technology will be attractive to our customers across the globe.
Brainwares sophisticated technology brings a powerful set of capabilities that further round out our process and content management offerings, and are especially appealing to large enterprises," said Scott Coons, Perceptive Softwares president and chief executive officer and Lexmark vice president. "Many of our customers use our technology to manage very high volumes of content. Brainwares proven accuracy rate in these environments gives our customers an even greater ability to drive cost out of their business and realize an enhanced return on investment from their core business applications.
"Having already been partners with Perceptive Software and powering the IntelliCapture solution, we know that joining our technologies is game changing for our customers, said Carl Mergele, Brainwares chief executive officer. "Becoming part of Perceptive Software, known for delivering solutions that bring rapid value to customers, allows Brainware to continue doing what it does best.
About Lexmark
Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) provides businesses of all sizes with a broad range of printing and imaging products, software, solutions and services that help customers to print less and save more. Perceptive Software, a stand-alone software business within Lexmark, is a leading provider of process and content management software that helps organizations fuel greater operational efficiency. In 2011, Lexmark sold products in more than 170 countries and reported more than $4 billion in revenue.
 
To learn more about Lexmark, please visit . For more information on Perceptive Software, please visit .
www.lexmark.com
www.perceptivesoftware.com
 
 
For more information on Lexmark, see the and follow us on .
Lexmark Facebook page
Twitter
 
 
For more information about Perceptive Software, please visit the company's and profiles.
Facebook
Twitter
 
 
 
 
 
About Brainware, Inc.
Brainware, Inc. is an innovative provider of intelligent data capture and enterprise search solutions that help Global 2000 companies eliminate costly manual data entry, rapidly process large volumes of documents and retrieve data from across the enterprise. For more information about Brainware, visit .
www.brainware.com
 
Lexmark and Lexmark with diamond design are trademarks of Lexmark International, Inc., registered in the U.S. and/or other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their
respective owners.
For further information: Lexmark Investor, John Morgan, +1-859-232-5568,
jmorgan@lexmark.com
,
Lexmark Media, Jerry Grasso, +1-859-232-3546,
 
ggrasso@lexmark.com
,
Perceptive Software Media, Dan Dillon , +1-913-636-4931,
dan.dillon@perceptivesoftware.com
,
or Brainware Media, Charles Kaplan, +1-703-948-5886,
charles.kaplan@brainware.com
.


