FILE:LXK/LXK-8K-20120424073037.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02.                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 24, 2012, Lexmark International, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2012. The text of the press release announcing the financial results is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)      Exhibits
   Exhibit No.                 Description of Exhibit
The information contained in this Current Report shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
The press release contains non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of Regulation G, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a registrants historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of income, balance sheet or statement of cash flows (or equivalent statements) of the issuer; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented. In this regard, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations between the GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures contained in the press release in the financial statements attached thereto, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and in the Earnings Presentation Slides posted on the Companys investor relations website at http://investor.lexmark.com.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Exhibit No.                Description of Exhibit

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
Lexmark reports first quarter 2012 results
 
LEXINGTON, Ky.,  April 24, 2012  Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) today announced financial results for the first quarter of 2012.
Our first quarter financial results were in line with guidance, reflecting growth in large workgroup hardware and core supplies, said Paul Rooke, Lexmark chairman and chief executive officer. Also, managed print services and Perceptive Software continued to significantly outpace the market. Our performance in these high value strategic focus areas indicates we are making good progress as we continue to evolve our business mix.
The addition of our compelling new line of smart devices for the mid-range color workgroup segment, and the acquisition of three more software companies further positions Lexmark as a key provider of business solutions.  Adding Brainware, ISYS and Nolij to our company enables us to integrate new content and process management technologies into our solutions portfolio, said Rooke. We also remain committed to returning more than 50 percent of free cash flow, on average, to shareholders through share repurchase and a quarterly dividend consistent with our capital allocation framework.
 
First Quarter Results
GAAP revenue of $992 million includes $0.4 million of acquisition-related adjustments. Non-GAAP revenue of $993 million declined 4 percent compared with last year, which was at the high end of the guidance range.
GAAP earnings per share for the first quarter of 2012 were $0.84. Excluding $0.21 per share for restructuring-related and acquisition-related adjustments, earnings per share for the first quarter of 2012 would have been $1.05. GAAP earnings per share for the first quarter of 2011 were $1.04. Earnings per share for the first quarter of 2011 would have been $1.14 excluding $0.10 per share for restructuring-related and acquisition-related adjustments.
Hardware revenue and supplies revenue declined 9 percent and 4 percent, respectively. Software and Other revenue grew 10 percent, or 6 percent excluding acquisition-related adjustments.
 
 
 
Core revenue, which principally includes laser and business inkjet hardware and supplies, managed print services and software, grew 1 percent year to year while Legacy revenue, which includes consumer inkjet hardware and supplies that the company is exiting, declined 34 percent. Lexmarks focus continues to be on growing the companys Core, as Legacy, which in the first quarter of 2012 represented about 11 percent of Lexmarks revenue, continues to become a less significant portion of the companys revenue mix.
1
1
Imaging Solutions and Services (ISS) revenue of $963 million declined 5 percent compared to the same period last year. Perceptive Software revenue was $30 million. Perceptive Software revenue excluding acquisition-related adjustments of $0.4 million was $30 million and grew 41 percent compared to the same period in 2011.
1Q12 GAAP results:
1Q12 non-GAAP results, excluding restructuring-related and acquisition-related adjustments:
Continued Solid Execution of Lexmarks Capital Allocation Framework
Lexmarks overall capital allocation framework is to return more than 50 percent of free cash flow to shareholders, on average, through quarterly dividends and share repurchases while pursuing acquisitions that support the strengthening and growth of the company.
The company ended the quarter with $949 million in cash and current marketable securities. Net cash provided by operating activities was $92 million. Free cash flow was $44 million. Capital expenditures were $48 million. Depreciation and amortization was $62 million.
Lexmark paid a dividend of $0.25 per share totaling $18 million and repurchased $30 million, or 0.8 million of the companys shares during the quarter. The companys remaining share repurchase authorization was about $211 million at quarter end. Lexmark also acquired three software companies for a total of $212 million during the quarter.
Recent Acquisitions Advance Lexmarks Differentiated End-to-End Solutions
The methodical shift in Lexmarks focus and investments has strengthened the companys managed print services offerings and added new content and process technologies, positioning Lexmark as a key end-to-end solutions provider to businesses large and small.
During the quarter, Lexmark completed three software acquisitions, all of which are being integrated into Perceptive Software. The companies include:
 
 
 
Lexmark Announces New Innovative Smart Devices in Mid-Range Color Segment
Lexmarks innovative smart devices are a key vehicle in providing advanced features and unique bundles of end-to-end solutions to its customers. Workgroup users can depend on these high-caliber products for a wide range of needs  from printing vibrant, customer-facing collateral and signage to advanced scanning in order to streamline heavy, paper-based activities such as employee onboarding, invoice processing and other key business processes.
Last week, Lexmark announced two new families of color laser products that build upon the companys long-standing leadership and expertise in enterprise printing and imaging. The Lexmark X740 Series of color laser multifunction products (MFPs) and Lexmark C740 Series of color laser printers extend compelling solutions advancements to Lexmarks mid-range line of color workgroup devices, further strengthening the companys competitiveness in this important market segment. Highlights include intuitive 7-inch and 4.3-inch color touch screens that provide tablet-like navigation and the first and only color laser printer under $1,000 to offer a color touch screen user interface.
2
Lexmark Wins 5-Year, $50 Million MPS Agreement from USDA
Lexmark announced it has been awarded a five-year blanket purchase agreement by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) for an agency-wide managed print services (MPS) program. The agreement has an estimated $50 million value.
 
Based on Lexmarks leadership, security practices and operational execution in providing MPS to other government agencies and large, highly distributed organizations, the USDA is relying on Lexmark as a trusted supplier to deliver a thorough, customized output strategy that meets the wide array of needs across the agency spectrum.
 
Lexmark's MPS program is now available to all USDA agencies worldwide, allowing them to take advantage of Lexmark's complete MPS offerings from end to end, including professional services, output optimization, workflow solutions and business process transformation. This will enable the USDA to streamline business processes, increase its effectiveness in day-to-day operations and drive substantial cost savings across its highly distributed printing environments.
 
 
Looking Forward
In the second quarter of 2012, the company currently expects revenue to decline 7 to 9 percent year on year. GAAP earnings per share in the second quarter of 2012 are expected to be around $0.65 to $0.75, or $0.95 to $1.05 excluding $0.30 per share for restructuring-related and acquisition-related adjustments. GAAP earnings per share in the second quarter of 2011 were $1.27, or $1.36 excluding restructuring-related and acquisition-related adjustments.
Conference Call Today
The company will be hosting a conference call with securities analysts today at 8:30 a.m. (EDT). A live broadcast and a complete replay of this call can be accessed from Lexmarks investor
 
 
 
relations website at . If you are unable to connect to the Internet, you can access the call via telephone at 888-693-3477 (outside the U.S. by calling 973-582-2710) using access code 64989579.
http://investor.lexmark.com
Lexmarks earnings presentation slides, including reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, will be available on Lexmarks investor relations website prior to the live broadcast.
 
About Lexmark
Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) provides businesses of all sizes with a broad range of printing and imaging products, software, solutions and services that help customers to print less and save more. Perceptive Software, a stand-alone software business within Lexmark, is a leading provider of process and content management software that helps organizations fuel greater operational efficiency. In 2011, Lexmark sold products in more than 170 countries and reported more than $4 billion in revenue.
To learn more about Lexmark, please visit . For more information on Perceptive Software, please visit .
www.lexmark.com
www.perceptivesoftware.com
 
For more information on Lexmark, see the and follow us on .
Lexmark Facebook page
Twitter
For more information about Perceptive Software, please visit the companys and profiles.
Facebook
Twitter
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements in this release which are not historical facts are forward-looking and involve risks and uncertainties which may cause the companys actual results or performance to be materially different from the results or performance expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Factors that may impact such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, continued economic uncertainty related to volatility of the global economy, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; inability to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the Companys acquisitions; reliance on international production facilities, manufacturing partners and certain key suppliers; inability to be successful in the Companys transition to higher-usage business platforms;  market acceptance of new products and pricing programs; increased investment to support product development and marketing; the financial failure or loss of business with a key customer or reseller, including loss of retail shelf placements; periodic variations affecting revenue and profitability; excessive inventory for the Company and/or its reseller channel; failure to manage inventory levels or production capacity; credit risk associated with the Companys customers, channel partners, and investment portfolio; aggressive pricing from competitors and resellers; the inability to develop new products and enhance existing products to meet customer needs on a cost competitive basis; entrance into the market of additional competitors focused on printing solutions and software solutions, including enterprise content management and business process management solutions; inability to perform under managed print services contracts; decreased supplies consumption; increased competition in the aftermarket supplies business; possible changes in the size of expected restructuring costs, charges, and savings; failure to implement workforce reductions and execute planned cost reduction measures; unforeseen cost impacts as a result of new legislation; changes in the Companys tax provisions or tax liabilities; fees on the Companys products or litigation costs required to protect the Companys rights; inability to obtain and protect the Companys intellectual property rights and defend against claims of infringement and/or anticompetitive conduct; the outcome of litigation or regulatory proceedings to which the Company may be a party; the inability to attract, retain and motivate key employees;  changes in a countrys political or economic conditions; conflicts among sales channels; the failure of information technology systems; disruptions at important points of exit and entry and distribution centers; business disruptions; terrorist acts; acts of war or other political conflicts; or the outbreak of a communicable disease; and other risks described in the companys Securities and Exchange Commission filings. The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
Lexmark and Lexmark with diamond design are trademarks of Lexmark International, Inc., registered in the U.S. and/or other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
 
 
 
 
 


