FILE:LXK/LXK-8K-20120131073035.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02.                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On January 31, 2012, Lexmark International, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2011. The text of the press release announcing the financial results is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 2.05.                      Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
As part of the Companys ongoing plans to increase the focus of the Companys talent and resources on higher usage business platforms, the Company announced restructuring actions today.  This January 2012 plan includes reductions primarily in the areas of manufacturing, marketing, sales and other infrastructure.  The Company expects to redeploy a significant portion of the savings from these initiatives toward business products, solutions and channels.  The company expects these actions to be principally complete by the end of the first quarter of 2013.
These January 2012 actions are expected to impact about 625 positions worldwide and will result in total pre-tax charges of approximately $35 million with approximately $8 million incurred in the fourth quarter of 2011.  The company expects the total cash cost of this plan to be approximately $24 million.
Lexmark expects these January 2012 actions to generate cash savings of approximately $15 million in 2012 and ongoing cash savings beginning in 2013 of approximately $28 million.  These ongoing savings should be split approximately 80% to operating expense and 20% to cost of goods sold.
Item 9.01.                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)      Exhibits
   Exhibit No.                       Description of Exhibit
The information contained in this Current Report shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
The press release contains non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of Regulation G, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a registrants historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable
 
 
 
measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of income, balance sheet or statement of cash flows (or equivalent statements) of the issuer; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented. In this regard, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations between the GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures contained in the press release in the financial statements attached thereto, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and in the Earnings Presentation Slides posted on the Companys investor relations website at http://investor.lexmark.com.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Exhibit No.                      Description of Exhibit

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lexmark reports full year and fourth quarter 2011 results
LEXINGTON, Ky.,Jan. 31, 2012  Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) today announced financial results for the full year and fourth quarter of 2011.
 
2011 was a good year for Lexmark given the challenging global economic environment, said Paul Rooke, Lexmark chairman and chief executive officer. Lexmark delivered record laser supplies revenue, record gross profit margin and a strong operating income margin.
We continued solid execution of our strategic initiatives in 2011, focusing our significant imaging talent and resources squarely on business customers and aggressively growing our software business, added Rooke. We remain confident in our ongoing ability to generate positive free cash flow as we have for each of the past 10 years, and going forward we plan to return more than 50 percent of free cash flow to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
Full Year 2011 Results
GAAP revenue of $4.173 billion includes $5 million of acquisition-related adjustments. Non-GAAP revenue of $4.178 billion declined less than 1 percent compared with last year. The company delivered record laser supplies revenue for the year, which increased 9 percent above the record set last year.
GAAP earnings per share for the full year of 2011 were $4.12. Excluding $0.59 per share for restructuring-related and acquisition-related adjustments, earnings per share for the full year of 2011 would have been $4.71. GAAP earnings per share for the full year of 2010 were $4.28. Earnings per share for the full year of 2010 would have been $4.96 excluding $0.68 per share for restructuring-related and acquisition-related adjustments.
Hardware revenue of $989 million declined 7 percent while Supplies revenue of $2.912 billion was flat in 2011. Software and Other revenue was $272 million, or $277 million excluding acquisition-related adjustments. Software and Other revenue grew 22 percent, or 17 percent excluding acquisition-related adjustments. Core revenue, which principally includes laser and business inkjet hardware and supplies, managed print services and software, grew 7 percent year to year while Legacy revenue, which includes consumer inkjet hardware and supplies that the
1
1
 
 
 
company is exiting, declined 35 percent. Lexmarks focus continues to be on growing the
companys Core, as Legacy, which in 2011 represented about 12 percent of Lexmarks revenue, continues to become a less significant portion of the companys revenue mix.
Imaging Solutions and Services (ISS) revenue of $4.078 billion declined 2 percent compared to the same period last year. Perceptive Software revenue was $95 million. Perceptive Software revenue excluding acquisition-related adjustments was $100 million and grew 98 percent compared to the 2010 post-acquisition period of June 8  Dec. 31, 2010.
Full year 2011 GAAP results:
Full year 2011 non-GAAP results, excluding restructuring-related and acquisition-related adjustments:
The company ended the year with $1.1 billion in cash and current marketable securities. Net cash provided by operating activities was $391 million. Capital expenditures were $156 million for the year. Depreciation and amortization was $222 million in 2011. The company repurchased $250 million, or 7.9 million of the companys shares during 2011. The companys remaining share repurchase authorization was about $241 million at year end.
Fourth Quarter 2011 Results
GAAP revenue of $1.060 billion includes $1 million of acquisition-related adjustments. Non-GAAP revenue of $1.061 billion declined 4 percent compared with the same quarter last year. The company delivered record laser supplies revenue in the quarter.
GAAP earnings per share for the fourth quarter of 2011 were $0.94. Excluding $0.32 per share for restructuring-related and acquisition-related adjustments, earnings per share for the fourth quarter of 2011 would have been $1.25. GAAP earnings per share for the fourth quarter of 2010 were $1.10. Earnings per share for the fourth quarter of 2010 would have been $1.29 excluding $0.19 per share for restructuring-related and acquisition-related adjustments.
In the fourth quarter, Hardware revenue declined 9 percent and Supplies revenue declined 3 percent. Software and Other revenue increased 5 percent, or declined 1 percent excluding acquisition-related adjustments. Core revenue grew 2 percent while Legacy revenue declined 38 percent.
 
 
 
 
 
 
ISS revenue of $1.030 billion declined 5 percent in the fourth quarter compared to the same period last year. Perceptive Software revenue was $30 million. Perceptive Software revenue of $31 million, excluding acquisition-related adjustments, grew 41 percent.
Fourth quarter 2011 GAAP results:
Fourth quarter 2011 non-GAAP results, excluding restructuring-related and acquisition-related adjustments:
In the fourth quarter, net cash provided by operating activities was $164 million, capital expenditures were $46 million, and depreciation and amortization was $64 million. Lexmark repurchased approximately 3.8 million of its shares during the fourth quarter for $125 million. The company paid its first quarterly dividend of $0.25 per share totaling $18 million during the quarter.
 
Lexmark a Recognized Leader in Managed Print Services, MFPs
 
The company received significant industry recognition for Lexmarks managed print services (MPS) and multifunction products (MFPs) during the fourth quarter.
 
Lexmark announced that it has been positioned a Leader, according to IT research firm IDC's recent MPS MarketScape report, which analyzes the competitive fitness of companies providing MPS. IDC's multivendor study showed that Lexmark earned high marks on its MPS strategy and capabilities, particularly in the areas of customer service, operational execution and go-to-market approach.
2
 
Lexmark also announced it has been positioned by leading industry analyst firm Gartner, Inc. in the Leaders quadrant of its "Magic Quadrant: Managed Print Services Worldwide" report. In the Gartner Magic Quadrant report, Lexmark was evaluated on "completeness of vision" as well as its "ability to execute." According to Gartner, "Leaders provide MPS to a wide range of customers, including the largest and most geographically dispersed, so they must demonstrate a truly global reach. They must demonstrate not only the skills to deliver today's MPS, but also the understanding, initiative and resources to prepare for tomorrow's MPS. Leaders characteristically augment the full scope of MPS with a wide range of added-value services. As a result, they are frequently shortlisted by large and midsize customers."
3
 
Further, Lexmark announced during the fourth quarter that it has been positioned by leading industry analyst firm Gartner, Inc. in the Leaders quadrant of its 2011 MFP and Printer Magic Quadrant.
3
 
Anheuser-Busch Selects Lexmark for 5 Year MPS Contract
Lexmark recently announced it has signed a five-year agreement with Anheuser-Busch, a wholly owned subsidiary of leading global brewer Anheuser-Busch InBev, to provide world-class MPS, deploy a standardized fleet of innovative printers and MFPs, and improve business processes for the leading American brewer. The scope of the agreement spans Anheuser-Busch
 
 
 
 
locations across the U.S., including corporate offices and breweries, as well as Labatt Brewing Company locations in Canada.
 
New Color MFPs Announced for Enterprise and SMB
Bringing high-quality color printing and workgroup reliability to a larger base of business customers, yesterday Lexmark introduced the new robust, high-performing OfficeEdge Series of MFPs. These MFPs are built upon Lexmarks new high performance inkjet platform and engineered with enterprise-caliber components to deliver the long-lasting, reliable performance of a laser with the color quality and affordability of an inkjet. A workhorse for small workgroups within the enterprise and small to medium-sized businesses, Lexmarks OfficeEdge Series includes two new models equipped with business-class features and laser-quality color printing at a 50 percent lower cost.
4
The Lexmark OfficeEdge Series integrates seamlessly into most business IT environments, making them enterprise friendly for IT administrators tasked with implementing and overseeing the MFPs. Support for PCL and PostScript through the increases enterprise compatibility, and monitoring and administering multiple devices from a central location is also simplified through the Embedded Web Server and award-winning fleet management tool .
Lexmark Universal Print Driver
Markvision Enterprise
Perceptive Software Expansion Accelerating
Perceptive Software recently won multiple new international customers, gaining footprints with major organizations in the healthcare, education, financial services, technology, manufacturing and distribution sectors in the United Kingdom, France, the Netherlands, Germany, Brazil, Colombia and South Africa.
Continuing the companys momentum in the healthcare sector, Perceptive Software also won several more customers, including France-based Vitalit Health Network Pharmacies. Perceptive Software also continues to expand its higher education customer base, having signed several new U.S. colleges that will integrate ImageNow with their Datatel Colleague student information systems.
Perceptive Software Announces New BPM Products
Recently, Perceptive Software announced the general availability of Perceptive Reflect and ModusOne, two new products resulting from the integration of Pallas Athena, which Lexmark acquired in the fourth quarter of 2011. Perceptive Reflect allows users to assess the effectiveness of people, departments and processes by mining and visualizing system data from any application. ModusOne is a scalable document output management solution that allows for both document composition and output management.
Lexmark Announces Restructuring Actions
Lexmark is announcing restructuring initiatives today that are a continuation of its strategy to increase the focus of the companys talent and resources on higher usage business platforms. The company expects to redeploy a significant portion of the savings from these initiatives toward business products, solutions and channels.
These January 2012 actions will result in total pre-tax charges of approximately $35 million with approximately $8 million incurred in the fourth quarter of 2011. Lexmark expects these January 2012 actions will generate cash savings of approximately $15 million in 2012 and ongoing cash savings of $28 million beginning in 2013, with approximately 80 percent impacting operating expense and 20 percent impacting cost of goods sold. The company expects these actions to be principally complete by the end of the first quarter of 2013.
Looking Forward
 
 
 
 
In the first quarter of 2012, the company currently expects revenue to decline 4 percent to 6 percent year on year. GAAP earnings per share in the first quarter of 2012 are expected to be around $0.76 to $0.86, or $0.98 to $1.08 excluding $0.22 per share for restructuring-related and acquisition-related adjustments. GAAP earnings per share in the first quarter of 2011 were $1.04, or $1.14 excluding $0.10 per share for restructuring-related and acquisition-related adjustments.
 
Conference Call Today
The company will be hosting a conference call with securities analysts today at 8:30 a.m. (EST). A live broadcast and a complete replay of this call can be accessed from Lexmarks investor relations website at . If you are unable to connect to the Internet, you can access the call via telephone at 888-693-3477 (outside the U.S. by calling 973-582-2710) using access code 41028203.
http://investor.lexmark.com
Lexmarks earnings presentation slides, including reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, will be available on Lexmarks investor relations website prior to the live broadcast.
 
About Lexmark
Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) provides businesses of all sizes with a broad range of printing and imaging products, software, solutions and services that help customers to print less and save more. Perceptive Software, a stand-alone software business within Lexmark, is a leading provider of enterprise content management software that helps organizations easily manage the entire lifecycle of their documents and content, simplifying their business processes, and fueling greater operational efficiency. In 2011, Lexmark sold products in more than 170 countries and reported more than $4 billion in revenue.
To learn more about Lexmark, please visit . For more information on Perceptive Software, please visit .
www.lexmark.com
www.perceptivesoftware.com
For more information on Lexmark, see the and follow us on .
Lexmark Facebook page
Twitter
For more information about Perceptive Software, please visit the companys and profiles.
Facebook
Twitter
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements in this release which are not historical facts are forward-looking and involve risks and uncertainties which may cause the companys actual results or performance to be materially different from the results or performance expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Factors that may impact such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, continued economic uncertainty related to volatility of the global economy, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; reliance on international production facilities, manufacturing partners and certain key suppliers; inability to be successful in the Companys transition to higher-usage business platforms; inability to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the Companys business combinations, including the Perceptive Software and Pallas Athena acquisitions; market acceptance of new products and pricing programs; increased investment to support product development and marketing; the financial failure or loss of business with a key customer or reseller, including loss of retail shelf placements; periodic variations affecting revenue and profitability; excessive inventory for the Company and/or its reseller channel; failure to manage inventory levels or production capacity; credit risk associated with the Companys customers, channel partners, and investment portfolio; aggressive pricing from competitors and resellers; the inability to develop new products and enhance existing products to meet customer needs on a cost competitive basis; entrance into the market of additional competitors focused on printing solutions and software solutions, including enterprise content management and business process management solutions; inability to perform under managed print services contracts; decreased supplies consumption; increased competition in the aftermarket supplies business; possible changes in the size of expected restructuring costs, charges, and savings; failure to implement workforce reductions and execute planned cost reduction measures; unforeseen cost impacts as a result of new legislation; changes in the Companys tax provisions or tax liabilities; fees on the Companys products or litigation costs required to protect the Companys rights; inability to obtain and protect the Companys intellectual property rights and defend against claims of infringement and/or anticompetitive conduct; the outcome of litigation or regulatory proceedings to which the Company may be a party; the inability to attract, retain and motivate key employees;  changes in a countrys political or economic conditions; conflicts among sales channels; the failure of information technology systems; disruptions at important points of exit and entry and distribution centers; business disruptions; terrorist acts; acts of war or other political conflicts; or the outbreak of a communicable disease; and
 
 
 
 
 
 
other risks described in the companys Securities and Exchange Commission filings. The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
Lexmark and Lexmark with diamond design are trademarks of Lexmark International, Inc., registered in the U.S. and/or other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LEXMARK INTERNATIONAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP MEASURES
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
LEXMARK INTERNATIONAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP MEASURES
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP MEASURES
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


