FILE:LXK/LXK-8K-20120828064650.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.05.  Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
On August 28, 2012, Lexmark International, Inc. (the Company) announced a restructuring plan (the August 2012 Plan) to improve profitability and generate savings.  The August 2012 Plan includes restructuring actions including the exiting of the development and manufacturing of the Companys remaining inkjet hardware. The Company will continue to provide service, support and aftermarket supplies for its inkjet installed base.  Reductions will occur primarily in inkjet-related infrastructure as well as positions in research and development, supply chain and other support functions.
The Company expects the non-manufacturing actions to be principally complete by the end of 2013 and the closing of the Cebu, Philippines inkjet supplies manufacturing facility by the end of 2015.
The August 2012 Plan is expected to impact about 1,700 positions worldwide, including 1,100 manufacturing positions. The August 2012 Plan will result in total pre-tax charges of approximately $160 million with approximately $110 million incurred in 2012 ($75 million of which will be incurred in the third quarter of 2012), $30 million incurred in 2013, and the remaining $20 million incurred in 2014 and 2015.  The Company expects the total cash cost of the August 2012 Plan to be approximately $75 million with approximately $40 million incurred in 2012 ($5 million of which will be incurred in the third quarter of 2012), $30 million impacting 2013, and the remaining $5 million impacting 2014 and 2015.
Lexmark expects the August 2012 Plan to generate savings of approximately $1 million in 2012, approximately $85 million in 2013 and ongoing annual savings beginning in 2015 of approximately $95 million.
 
A copy of the press release announcing the August 2012 Plan is provided as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report, and is incorporated into this item by reference.
Item 8.01.  Other Events.
On August 23, 2012, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized the repurchase of an additional $200 million of the Companys Class A Common Stock, raising the Companys share repurchase authority to approximately $351 million. The repurchase authority allows the Company to selectively repurchase its Class A Common Stock from time to time in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)  Exhibits
 
 
 
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Certain statements in this Form 8-K are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 with respect to future events and financial performance. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those contemplated (expressed or implied) by such forward-looking statements, because of, among other things, the risks and uncertainties you can find in the Companys press releases and in the Companys Securities and Exchange Commission filings.  The Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward looking statement.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
   
 
 
Lexmark announces restructuring
 
 
August 28, 2012  Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) today announced restructuring actions, including the exiting of the development and manufacturing of the companys remaining inkjet hardware, which are expected to result in annualized savings of $95 million once fully implemented. Lexmark will continue to provide service, support and aftermarket supplies for its inkjet installed base.
LEXINGTON, K
y
.,
 
Todays announcement represents difficult decisions, which are necessary to drive improved profitability and significant savings, said Paul Rooke, Lexmark chairman and chief executive officer. Our investments are focused on higher value imaging and software solutions, and we believe the synergies between imaging and the emerging software elements of our business will continue to drive growth across the organization.
As we move forward, we remain confident in our strategy, competitiveness and ability to create value for shareholders, added Rooke.
Taking Actions to Improve Profitability
The restructuring actions announced today are expected to result in reductions primarily in inkjet-related infrastructure as well as positions in research and development, supply chain and other support functions.
The actions include closing the Cebu, Philippines, inkjet supplies manufacturing facility by the end of 2015. The actions also include eliminating inkjet development worldwide, including costs related to facilities, tooling, equipment, contract termination, and scrapping in process inventory, which are expected to be principally complete by the end of 2013.
These restructuring actions are expected to result in the elimination of approximately 1,700 positions worldwide, including 1,100 manufacturing positions.
The company is working with its strategic advisors to explore the sale of the companys inkjet-related technology.
These actions are expected to generate $85 million savings in 2013, increasing to ongoing annualized savings of $95 million beginning in 2015. Savings should be split
 
 
 
approximately 65 percent to operating expense, and 35 percent to cost of goods sold. The company expects the majority of these savings to favorably impact pre-tax earnings.
The total program pre-tax cost for these actions is expected to be $160 million, with $110 million incurred in 2012, $30 million incurred in 2013, and the remaining $20 million incurred in 2014 and 2015. The total program cash flow impact for these actions is expected to be $75 million, with $40 million impacting 2012, $30 million impacting 2013, and the remaining $5 million impacting 2014 and 2015.
Maintaining Capital Allocation Discipline to Deliver Shareholder Value
Lexmark is continuing to execute on its previously announced capital allocation framework of returning more than 50 percent of free cash flow to shareholders, on average, through dividends and share repurchases, while building and growing its solutions and software business through expansion and acquisitions.
(1)
Lexmark today announced that it plans an additional $100 million of share repurchases in the third and fourth quarter of 2012. With this action completed, Lexmark will have returned, through paid and declared dividends and share repurchases, more than $500 million to shareholders since mid-2011.
Lexmarks Board of Directors approved an additional $200 million of share repurchase authority. Total share repurchase authority remaining after the additional $100 million repurchases will be $251 million.
Conference Call Today
The company will be hosting a conference call with securities analysts today at 8:30 a.m. (EDT). A live broadcast and a complete replay of this call can be accessed from Lexmarks investor relations website at . If you are unable to connect to the Internet, you can access the call via telephone at 888-693-3477 (outside the U.S. by calling 973-582-2710) using access code 24616118.
http://investor.lexmark.com
Lexmarks presentation and supplemental slides which provide additional information regarding todays announcements will be available on Lexmarks investor relations website prior to the live broadcast.
 
 
About Lexmark
Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) provides businesses of all sizes with a broad range of printing and imaging products, software, solutions and services that help customers to print less and save more. Perceptive Software, a Lexmark company, is a leading provider of process and content management software that helps organizations fuel greater operational efficiency. In 2011, Lexmark sold products in more than 170 countries and reported more than $4 billion in revenue.
To learn more about Lexmark, please visit . For more information on Perceptive Software, please visit .
www.lexmark.com
www.perceptivesoftware.com
For more information on Lexmark, see the and follow us on .
Lexmark Facebook page
Twitter
 
 
 
For more information about Perceptive Software, please visit the companys and profiles.
Facebook
Twitter
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements in this release which are not historical facts are forward-looking and involve risks and uncertainties which may cause the companys actual results or performance to be materially different from the results or performance expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Factors that may impact such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, continued economic uncertainty related to volatility of the global economy, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; inability to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the Companys acquisitions; reliance on international production facilities, manufacturing partners and certain key suppliers; inability to be successful in the Companys transition to a higher-usage, higher value product portfolio; possible changes in the size of expected restructuring costs, charges, and savings; failure to implement workforce reductions and execute planned cost reduction measures; market acceptance of new products and pricing programs; decreased supplies consumption; increased investment to support product development and marketing; the financial failure or loss of business with a key customer or reseller, including loss of retail shelf placements; periodic variations affecting revenue and profitability; excessive inventory for the Company and/or its reseller channel; failure to manage inventory levels or production capacity; credit risk associated with the Companys customers, channel partners, and investment portfolio; aggressive pricing from competitors and resellers; the inability to develop new products and enhance existing products to meet customer needs on a cost competitive basis; entrance into the market of additional competitors focused on imaging and software solutions, including enterprise content management and business process management solutions; inability to perform under managed print services contracts; increased competition in the aftermarket supplies business; changes in the Companys tax provisions or tax liabilities; fees on the Companys products or litigation costs required to protect the Companys rights; inability to obtain and protect the Companys intellectual property rights and defend against claims of infringement and/or anticompetitive conduct; the outcome of litigation or regulatory proceedings to which the Company may be a party; unforeseen cost impacts as a result of new legislation; the inability to attract, retain and motivate key employees; changes in a countrys political or economic conditions; conflicts among sales channels; the failure of information technology systems; disruptions at important points of exit and entry and distribution centers; business disruptions; terrorist acts; acts of war or other political conflicts; or the outbreak of a communicable disease; and other risks described in the companys Securities and Exchange Commission filings. The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
Lexmark and Lexmark with diamond design are trademarks of Lexmark International, Inc., registered in the U.S. and/or other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
Investor Contact:
John Morgan
(859) 232-5568
jmorgan@lexmark.com
Media Contact:
Jerry Grasso
(859) 232-3546
ggrasso@lexmark.com


