FILE:LXK/LXK-8K-20120724073107.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of
the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02.                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 24, 2012, Lexmark International, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2012. The text of the press release announcing the financial results is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)      Exhibits
   Exhibit No.                       Description of Exhibit
The information contained in this Current Report shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
The press release contains non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of Regulation G, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a registrants historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of income, balance sheet or statement of cash flows (or equivalent statements) of the issuer; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented. In this regard, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations between the GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures contained in the press release in the financial statements attached thereto, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and in the Earnings Presentation Slides posted on the Companys investor relations website at http://investor.lexmark.com.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Exhibit No.                      Description of Exhibit

 
 
 
Lexmark reports second quarter 2012 results
LEXINGTON, Ky.,  July 24, 2012  Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) today announced financial results for the second quarter of 2012.
Lexmarks second quarter results were below our April guidance, reflecting weaker than expected demand, particularly in Europe, and unfavorable currency impacts, said Paul Rooke, Lexmark chairman and chief executive officer. While economic headwinds are impacting our results, were encouraged that Lexmarks managed print services and Perceptive Software businesses continue to grow, demonstrating that our software and solutions value propositions resonate even in todays difficult market.
We remain focused on advancing our position in the higher value, higher growth segments of the business market, said Rooke. We are confident in our strategy and competitive strength, and will continue to closely monitor the challenging demand environment and make adjustments accordingly as we move through the year.
Second Quarter Results
GAAP revenue of $919 million includes $2.4 million of acquisition-related adjustments. Non-GAAP revenue of $921 million declined 12 percent compared with last year.
1
GAAP earnings per share for the second quarter of 2012 were $0.55, compared with GAAP earnings of $1.27 per share in the second quarter of 2011.  Non-GAAP earnings were $0.89 per share, compared with non-GAAP earnings of $1.36 per share in the second quarter of 2011.
Hardware revenue and Supplies revenue declined 17 percent and 14 percent, respectively. Software and Other revenue grew 24 percent, or 26 percent excluding acquisition-related adjustments. Core revenue, which principally includes laser and business inkjet hardware and supplies, managed print services and software, declined 9 percent year to year while Legacy revenue, which includes consumer inkjet hardware and supplies that the company is exiting, declined 35 percent. Lexmarks focus continues to be on growing the companys Core, as Legacy, which in the second quarter of 2012 represented about 9 percent of Lexmarks revenue, continues to become a less significant portion of the companys revenue mix.
2
2
Imaging Solutions and Services (ISS) revenue of $875 million declined 14 percent compared to the same period last year. Perceptive Software revenue was $44 million. Perceptive Software revenue excluding acquisition-related adjustments of $2.4 million was $46 million and grew 88 percent compared to the same period in 2011.
 
 
 
Second Quarter 2012 GAAP results:
Second Quarter 2012 non-GAAP results:
Continued Solid Execution of Lexmarks Capital Allocation Framework
Lexmarks overall capital allocation framework is to return more than 50 percent of free cash flow to shareholders, on average, through quarterly dividends and share repurchases while pursuing acquisitions that support the strengthening and growth of the company.
3
In the second quarter of 2012, Lexmark paid a dividend of $0.30 per share totaling $21 million and repurchased $25 million, or 0.8 million of the companys shares. The companys remaining share repurchase authorization was about $186 million at quarter end.
The company ended the quarter with $916 million in cash and current marketable securities. Net cash provided by operating activities was $49 million. Free cash flow was $11 million. Capital expenditures were $38 million. Depreciation and amortization was $57 million.
Lexmark Again Named an MPS Leader
During the second quarter, Lexmark announced it was named a Managed Print Services (MPS) leader by two additional independent research firms, Forrester Research, Inc. and Quocirca. This follows the companys announcements in the fourth quarter of 2011 regarding MPS leadership positioning in Gartner and IDC reports.
Lexmark was named a leader in the May 10, 2012, Forrester Wave report, The Forrester Wave: Managed Print Services, Q2 2012. Lexmark was among the select companies invited by Forrester Research, Inc. to participate in this evaluation of top MPS providers and received the highest score possible for its strategy, MPS market experience, technology and solution ownership, integration with business processes, mobile printing and global delivery.
Lexmark also has been positioned by leading European-based industry analyst firm Quocirca as a market leader in the firm's 2012 report, Vendor Landscape: Managed Print Services. Quocirca defines a market leader as a provider that leads the MPS market in both strategic vision and depth of service offering. Leaders have made significant investments in their service portfolio and infrastructure and are supported by strong delivery capabilities.
Lexmark Awarded 5-Year, $21 Million Printing Contract From FAA
Lexmark has been awarded a five-year (one base year and four one-year options) contract valued at $21 million that will make it the sole provider of printing technology for the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). Lexmark will utilize its proven track record in optimizing heavily distributed printing environments to bring greater efficiency, user productivity and cost reductions to more than 900 FAA locations across the U.S.
 
 
 
Distributed Intelligent Capture Solution
During the second quarter, Lexmark announced its Distributed Intelligent Capture Solution that integrates Lexmark Document Distributor with Brainware software allowing customers to intelligently connect business documents and processes. This release marks the first solution announcement consolidating Lexmark and Brainware software since Lexmark acquired Brainware in March 2012. 
 
The Distributed Intelligent Capture Solution enables the accurate extraction of critical data from hard copy documents  plus the validation of the extracted data.  The solution can then intelligently pass the content on to a data management system, enterprise resource planning system or financial management system. The Distributed Intelligent Capture Solution eliminates the need for templates, keywords, zones or other rules-based techniques, allowing it to work with a variety of document types and layouts.
Perceptive Software Customer Wins
Perceptive Software announced in the second quarter that the University of Kansas plans to expand use of Perceptive Software solutions from a few individual units to a university-wide contract. Under the initial expansion, seven business units will focus on improving the efficiency of multiple business processes. In phase one of the expansion, university business units will receive updates to core processes, such as in the Comptrollers Office where Brainware Distiller will be implemented to streamline invoice processing.
Also during the quarter, Brainware announced that:
Looking Forward
In the third quarter of 2012, the company currently expects revenue to decline 9 to 11 percent year on year. GAAP earnings per share in the third quarter of 2012 are expected to be around $0.52 to $0.62, compared with GAAP earnings per share of $0.86 in the third quarter of 2011.  Non-GAAP earnings per share in the third quarter of 2012 are expected to be around $0.75 to $0.85, compared with non-GAAP earnings per share of $0.95 in the third quarter of 2011.
Conference Call Today
The company will be hosting a conference call with securities analysts today at 8:30 a.m. (EDT). A live broadcast and a complete replay of this call can be accessed from Lexmarks investor relations website at . If you are unable to connect to the Internet, you can access the call via telephone at 888-693-3477 (outside the U.S. by calling 973-582-2710) using access code 93473401.
http://investor.lexmark.com
Lexmarks earnings presentation slides, including reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, will be available on Lexmarks investor relations website prior to the live broadcast.
 
 
 
 
 
About Lexmark
Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) provides businesses of all sizes with a broad range of printing and imaging products, software, solutions and services that help customers to print less and save more. Perceptive Software, a Lexmark company, is a leading provider of process and content management software that helps organizations fuel greater operational efficiency. In 2011, Lexmark sold products in more than 170 countries and reported more than $4 billion in revenue.
 
To learn more about Lexmark, please visit . For more information on Perceptive Software, please visit .
www.lexmark.com
www.perceptivesoftware.com
 
 
For more information on Lexmark, see the and follow us on .
Lexmark Facebook page
Twitter
 
 
For more information about Perceptive Software, please visit the company's and profiles.
Facebook
Twitter
 
 
s.
Lexmark and Lexmark with diamond design are trademarks of Lexmark International, Inc., registered in the U.S. and/or other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owner
 
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements in this release which are not historical facts are forward-looking and involve risks and uncertainties which may cause the companys actual results or performance to be materially different from the results or performance expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Factors that may impact such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, continued economic uncertainty related to volatility of the global economy, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; inability to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the Companys acquisitions; reliance on international production facilities, manufacturing partners and certain key suppliers; inability to be successful in the Companys transition to higher-usage business platforms; market acceptance of new products and pricing programs; decreased supplies consumption; increased investment to support product development and marketing; the financial failure or loss of business with a key customer or reseller, including loss of retail shelf placements; periodic variations affecting revenue and profitability; excessive inventory for the Company and/or its reseller channel; failure to manage inventory levels or production capacity; credit risk associated with the Companys customers, channel partners, and investment portfolio; aggressive pricing from competitors and resellers; the inability to develop new products and enhance existing products to meet customer needs on a cost competitive basis; entrance into the market of additional competitors focused on printing solutions and software solutions, including enterprise content management and business process management solutions; inability to perform under managed print services contracts; increased competition in the aftermarket supplies business; possible changes in the size of expected restructuring costs, charges, and savings; failure to implement workforce reductions and execute planned cost reduction measures; changes in the Companys tax provisions or tax liabilities; fees on the Companys products or litigation costs required to protect the Companys rights; inability to obtain and protect the Companys intellectual property rights and defend against claims of infringement and/or anticompetitive conduct; the outcome of litigation or regulatory proceedings to which the Company may be a party; unforeseen cost impacts as a result of new legislation; the inability to attract, retain and motivate key employees; changes in a countrys political or economic conditions; conflicts among sales channels; the failure of information technology systems; disruptions at important points of exit and entry and distribution centers; business disruptions; terrorist acts; acts of war or other political conflicts; or the outbreak of a communicable disease; and other risks described in the companys Securities and Exchange Commission filings. The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
Lexmark and Lexmark with diamond design are trademarks of Lexmark International, Inc., registered in the U.S. and/or other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Investor Contact:
John Morgan
(859) 232-5568
jmorgan@lexmark.com
Media Contact:
Jerry Grasso
(859) 232-3546
ggrasso@lexmark.com


