FILE:LXK/LXK-8K-20121023073103.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02.                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 23, 2012, Lexmark International, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2012. The text of the press release announcing the financial results is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)      Exhibits
Exhibit No.                       Description of Exhibit
The information contained in this Current Report shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
The press release contains non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of Regulation G, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a registrants historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the statement of income, balance sheet or statement of cash flows (or equivalent statements) of the issuer; or includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the most directly comparable measure so calculated and presented. In this regard, GAAP refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided reconciliations between the GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures contained in the press release in the financial statements attached thereto, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and in the Earnings Presentation Slides posted on the Companys investor relations website at http://investor.lexmark.com.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Exhibit No.                      Description of Exhibit
 

Lexmark reports third quarter 2012 results
LEXINGTON, Ky.,  Oct. 23, 2012  Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) today announced financial results for the third quarter of 2012.
Third Quarter Results
GAAP revenue of $919 million includes $2.0 million of acquisition-related adjustments. Non-GAAP revenue of $921 million declined 11 percent compared with last year.
1
GAAP earnings per share for the third quarter of 2012 were $0.00, compared with GAAP earnings of $0.86 per share in the third quarter of 2011. Non-GAAP earnings were $0.94 per share, about flat compared with non-GAAP earnings of $0.95 per share in the third quarter of 2011.
Our third quarter financial results were highlighted by solid free cash flow generation and ongoing growth in Perceptive Software and managed print services revenue, said Paul Rooke, Lexmark chairman and chief executive officer. Even with the ongoing economic weakness we are seeing, particularly in Europe, revenue for the quarter was in line with the guidance we provided in July, and non-GAAP EPS were about flat year to year and exceeded that guidance.
 
Last week we announced a broad array of solutions-enabled laser products that further strengthen our smart multifunction product and managed print services leadership, added Rooke. We continue to leverage our investment in the Perceptive Software portfolio in combination with our smart multifunction products to reduce the complexities of manual processes and improve productivity for our customers.
We remain committed to delivering a long-term operating income margin of 11 to 13 percent and continue to maintain capital allocation discipline to deliver shareholder value, Rooke added. In the past 15 months, we have returned more than $500 million to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
 
 
 
Imaging Solutions and Services (ISS) revenue of $879 million declined 13 percent compared to the same period last year. Within ISS, Managed Print Services (MPS) revenue grew 2 percent, Non-MPSrevenue declined 12 percent and Inkjet Exit revenue declined 29 percent year to year. Inkjet Exit revenue represented 16 percent of total revenue and is expected to decline with the company's decision to exit its remaining inkjet hardware for improved profitability.
2
 
3
4
Perceptive Software revenue was $41 million. Perceptive Software revenue, excluding acquisition-related adjustments of $2.0 million, was $43 million and grew 88 percent compared to the same period in 2011.
Lexmarks focus continues to be on growing workgroup laser hardware and supplies, MPS, and software revenue as inkjet continues to become a less significant portion of the companys revenue mix.
Hardware revenue and Supplies revenue declined 24 percent and 10 percent, respectively.
Software and Other revenue grew 25 percent, or 28 percent excluding acquisition-related adjustments.
Third Quarter 2012 GAAP results:
Third Quarter 2012 Non-GAAP results:
Maintaining Capital Allocation Discipline to Deliver Shareholder Value
Lexmark is continuing to execute on its previously announced capital allocation framework of returning more than 50 percent of free cash flow to shareholders, on average, through quarterly dividends and share repurchases while building and growing its solutions and software business through expansion and acquisitions. Lexmark has returned more than $500 million to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases since July 2011.
5
In the third quarter of 2012, Lexmark paid a dividend of $0.30 per share totaling $21 million. The company also repurchased 5.8 million of the companys shares for $120 million. An additional $15 million was paid during the third quarter to repurchase shares, with the final settlement of these shares expected to occur in the fourth quarter. The companys remaining share repurchase authorization is currently $251 million.
 
 
 
The company ended the quarter with $859 million in cash and current marketable securities. Net cash provided by operating activities was $133 million. Free cash flow was $95 million. Capital expenditures were $38 million. Depreciation and amortization was $81 million.
Lexmark Extends Smart MFP Leadership with New Solutions-Enabled Laser Products
Last week, Lexmark announced a wide breadth of new laser printers and multifunction products (MFPs) built on an enhanced technology platform that delivers productivity-enhancing solutions.
Lexmarks smart MFPs include an intuitive touch screen that provides access to many powerful applications that reduce the complexities of manual processes and improve productivity. This seamless integration of Lexmarks smart MFPs with the Perceptive Software portfolio helps improve infrastructure efficiency and team performance to propel growth.
Some of the newest additions to Lexmarks printer and MFP product families include:
 
 
 
Lexmarks Value Proposition Resonates with Fortune Global 50 Companies
 
Statoil, a leading energy company within the oil and gas production industry, has chosen Lexmark for a five-year printing solution services agreement approximately valued at $20 million for the initial contract period. Lexmark is now the sole printing solution services provider for Statoil operations worldwide. Lexmark solutions and services will be executed globally throughout Statoil's organization, providing consistency and visibility to its output fleet.
Siemens, a global powerhouse in electronics and electrical engineering, has selected Perceptive Intelligent Capture, powered by Brainware, for the automation of accounts payable operations within the companys European Shared Services Center in Germany. The customer will implement Perceptive Softwares intelligent data capture platform for the processing of more than 1.5 million invoices annually, with the possibility of expanding these capabilities to other document-driven routines throughout the organization. This contract represents another clear example of Perceptive Intelligent Captures value proposition as an enabler of world-class efficiency and process transparency within the framework of global shared services.
Perceptive Software recently announced that ING Group, one of the worlds largest banks with more than $1.6 trillion in assets, has implemented Perceptive Intelligent Capture, powered by Brainware, for the efficient capture and validation of header and line-item data from paper-based documents at the financial institutions headquarters in Amsterdam, The Netherlands. No other data capture offering can match Perceptive Intelligent Captures out-of-the-box capabilities for integration with disparate content management platforms, handling numerous languages, addressing different and complex reporting requirements, and touchless processing of P.O.-based invoices.
Looking Forward
In the fourth quarter of 2012, the company currently expects revenue to decline 10 to 12 percent year on year. GAAP earnings per share in the fourth quarter of 2012 are expected to be around $0.17 to $0.27, compared with GAAP earnings per share of $0.94 in the fourth quarter of 2011.  Non-GAAP earnings per share in the fourth quarter of 2012 are expected to be around $0.82 to $0.92, compared with non-GAAP earnings per share of $1.25 in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Conference Call Today
The company will be hosting a conference call with securities analysts today at 8:30 a.m. (EDT). A live broadcast and a complete replay of this call can be accessed from Lexmarks investor relations website at . If you are unable to connect to the Internet, you can access the call via telephone at 888-693-3477 (outside the U.S. by calling 973-582-2710) using access code 33692937.
http://investor.lexmark.com
 
 
 
Lexmarks earnings presentation slides, including reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, will be available on Lexmarks investor relations website prior to the live broadcast.
About Lexmark
Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) provides businesses of all sizes with a broad range of printing and imaging products, software, solutions and services that help customers to print less and save more. Perceptive Software, a Lexmark company, is a leading provider of process and content management software that helps organizations fuel greater operational efficiency. In 2011, Lexmark sold products in more than 170 countries and reported more than $4 billion in revenue.
To learn more about Lexmark, please visit . For more information on Perceptive Software, please visit .
www.lexmark.com
www.perceptivesoftware.com
For more information on Lexmark, see the and follow us on .
Lexmark Facebook page
Twitter
For more information about Perceptive Software, please visit the companys and profiles.
Facebook
Twitter
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements in this release which are not historical facts are forward-looking and involve risks and uncertainties which may cause the companys actual results or performance to be materially different from the results or performance expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Factors that may impact such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, continued economic uncertainty related to volatility of the global economy, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; inability to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the Companys acquisitions; market acceptance of new products and pricing programs; decreased supplies consumption; inability to be successful in the Companys transition to a higher-usage, higher value product portfolio; possible changes in the size of expected restructuring costs, charges, and savings; failure to implement workforce reductions and execute planned cost reduction measures; reliance on international production facilities, manufacturing partners and certain key suppliers; increased investment to support product development and marketing; the financial failure or loss of business with a key customer or reseller, including loss of retail shelf placements; periodic variations affecting revenue and profitability; excessive inventory for the Company and/or its reseller channel; failure to manage inventory levels or production capacity; credit risk associated with the Companys customers, channel partners, and investment portfolio; aggressive pricing from competitors and resellers; the inability to develop new products and enhance existing products to meet customer needs on a cost competitive basis; entrance into the market of additional competitors focused on imaging and software solutions, including enterprise content management and business process management solutions; inability to perform under managed print services contracts; increased competition in the aftermarket supplies business; changes in the Companys tax provisions or tax liabilities; fees on the Companys products or litigation costs required to protect the Companys rights; inability to obtain and protect the Companys intellectual property rights and defend against claims of infringement and/or anticompetitive conduct; the outcome of litigation or regulatory proceedings to which the Company may be a party; unforeseen cost impacts as a result of new legislation; the inability to attract, retain and motivate key employees; changes in a countrys political or economic conditions; conflicts among sales channels; the failure of information technology systems; disruptions at important points of exit and entry and distribution centers; business disruptions; terrorist acts; acts of war or other political conflicts; or the outbreak of a communicable disease; and other risks described in the companys Securities and Exchange Commission filings. The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
Lexmark and Lexmark with diamond design are trademarks of Lexmark International, Inc., registered in the U.S. and/or other countries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. Unison is a trademark of Lexmark International, Inc. All prices are estimated street prices in U.S. dollars  actual prices may vary.  All prices, features, specifications and capabilities are subject to change without notice. PANTONE is a registered trademark of Pantone, Inc.
 
 
 
 
Investor Contact:
John Morgan
(859) 232-5568
jmorgan@lexmark.com
Media Contact:
Jerry Grasso
(859) 232-3546
ggrasso@lexmark.com
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


