FILE:LXK/LXK-8K-20120730170505.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 8.01.  Other Events.
As previously disclosed in a Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 20, 2008, the Board of Directors of Lexmark International, Inc. (the Company) approved the repurchase of an additional $750 million of its Class A Common Stock, raising its share repurchase authority to approximately $1 billion at that time.  After entering into the transaction described below, the Company now has approximately $151 million of share repurchase authority remaining.
After the close of the markets on July 27, 2012, the Company entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement with Barclays Bank PLC (Barclays), through its agent Barclays Capital Inc. (the ASR Agreement).  Pursuant to the terms of the ASR Agreement, the Company will purchase $35 million of the outstanding shares of its Class A Common Stock from Barclays.  The ASR Agreement requires Barclays to deliver to the Company on August 1, 2012, a number of shares of the Companys Class A Common Stock equal to 85 percent of the shares that would be repurchased at a price of $17.33, the closing price of the Companys Class A Common Stock on July 27, 2012, less an agreed upon discount.  The final number of shares to be delivered to the Company by Barclays under the ASR Agreement shall be adjusted based on a discount to the average of the daily volume weighted average price of the Companys Class A Common Stock during the term of the ASR Agreement.  If the number of shares to be delivered to the Company is less than the initial delivery of shares by Barclays, the Company may be required to remit shares or cash to Barclays as a result of such adjustment.  The share repurchases are expected to be completed during the quarter ending September 30, 2012.  The payment of $35 million by the Company to Barclays for the repurchase of shares will be funded from available U.S. cash equivalents and current marketable securities.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


