FILE:LXK/LXK-8K-20120426155843.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
The Companys Annual Meeting of Stockholders was held on April 26, 2012. A total of 60,854,822 shares of the Company's Class A Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, were present or represented by proxy at the meeting, representing 85.51% of the Company's shares outstanding as of the February 29, 2012 record date.
At said Annual Meeting, the proposals submitted for a vote of stockholders and the related results are as follows:
   
   
   
 
The terms of office of each of Jared L. Cohon, J. Edward Coleman, Ralph E. Gomory, Sandra L. Helton, Jean-Paul L. Montupet, Paul A. Rooke and Kathi P. Seifert as directors of the Company, continued after the meeting.
Based on the results of this advisory vote, the Board of Directors unanimously agreed to take the steps necessary for the Corporations stockholders to vote at the 2013 Annual Meeting on approving an amendment to the Corporations Restated Certificate of Incorporation to declassify the Board of Directors.
 
 
 
Item 8.01.                      Other Events.
A copy of the press release issued by the Company on April 26, 2012, announcing an increase in the Companys quarterly dividend and the results of the Annual Meeting of Stockholders is attached as Exhibit 99.1, and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.                          Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Lexmark International, Inc.
(Registrant)
April 26, 2012
By:
/s/ Robert J. Patton
 
Robert J. Patton
Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
Lexmark increases quarterly dividend by 20 percent
LEXINGTON, Ky.,April 26, 2012  Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) today announced at its Annual Meeting of Stockholders that its board of directors has approved an increase of the quarterly dividend per shares of Lexmark Class A Common Stock by $0.05 per share to $0.30 per share (or $1.20 per share on an annual basis) from the previous $0.25 per share (or $1.00 per share on an annual basis).
 
Over the past few years, we have exited the consumer printing business, consolidated our operations and focused our resources squarely on the business customer, said Paul Rooke, Lexmark chairman and chief executive officer. These actions have enabled Lexmark to focus on becoming a leading end-to-end solutions provider, and we believe our investments in managed print services, high usage hardware and high value software are bringing new and differentiated solutions to market and delivering long term value to our customers and shareholders.
Given our confidence in the strategy, our strong liquidity position and history of cash generation, we are confident in our continued ability to generate strong cash flow and execute our capital return framework while continuing strategic acquisitions. Therefore, I am pleased to announce a 20 percent increase in our dividend to Lexmark shareholders today, Rooke added.
The new quarterly dividend of $0.30 per share will be paid on June 15, 2012, to shareholders of record as of the close of business on June 1, 2012. The new quarterly dividend equates to a yield of approximately 4 percent based on the companys stock price as of yesterdays close of trading.
The company also announced that each of the five directors up for election, and the advisory vote on executive compensation, were approved by shareholders by more than 93 percent of cast votes.
Future declarations of dividends are subject to board of director approval and may be adjusted as business needs or market conditions change.
About Lexmark
Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) provides businesses of all sizes with a broad range of printing and imaging products, software, solutions and services that help customers to print less and save more. Perceptive Software, a stand-alone software business within Lexmark, is a leading provider of process and content management software that helps organizations fuel greater operational efficiency. In 2011, Lexmark sold products in more than 170 countries and reported more than $4 billion in revenue.
 
 
 
 
 
To learn more about Lexmark, please visit . For more information on Perceptive Software, please visit .
www.lexmark.com
www.perceptivesoftware.com
For more information on Lexmark, see the and follow us on .
Lexmark Facebook page
Twitter
For more information about Perceptive Software, please visit the companys and  profiles.
Facebook
Twitter
Lexmark and Lexmark with diamond design are trademarks of Lexmark International, Inc., registered in the U.S. and/or other countries.  All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.


