FILE:TSS/TSS-8K-20060420113543.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
Form 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
April 20, 2006
Date of Report
(Date of Earliest Event Reported)
 
Total System Services, Inc.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
 
 
1600 First Avenue, Columbus, Georgia 31901
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
 
(706) 649-2267
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
 
________________________________________________
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
Signature
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, TSYS has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
SYNOVUS FINANCIAL CORP.
EXECUTIVE CASH BONUS PLAN
 
ARTICLE I
 
OBJECTIVE OF THE PLAN
 
The purposes of this Synovus Financial Corp. Executive Cash Bonus Plan ("Plan") are to reward selected officers of Synovus Financial Corp. (the "Company") and certain of its subsidiaries ("Subsidiaries") for superior corporate performance measured by achievement of financial performance and strategic corporate objectives and to attract and retain top quality executives.
 
ARTICLE II
 
PLAN ADMINISTRATION
 
This Plan is administered by the Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board"); provided, however, that with respect to matters involving employees of any publicly-traded Subsidiary of the Company, the "Committee" shall be the compensation committee of such publicly-traded Subsidiary. The Committee (and the compensation committee of any publicly-traded Subsidiary of the Company) shall be composed of two or more outside directors as defined in Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ("Code").
 
ARTICLE III
 
PARTICIPANTS
 
Participation is limited to the Chief Executive Officer and the four highest compensated officers of the Company and any publicly-traded Subsidiary of the Company as selected from year-to-year by the members of the Committee ("Participants").
 
ARTICLE IV
 
PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVES
 
 
 
 
time to time considered by the Committee, which criteria may include, not to the exclusion of other criteria, criteria that has been approved by the shareholders of the Company or the shareholders of any publicly-traded Subsidiary of the Company; and
 
 
The maximum award under this Plan to any participant for any performance period shall be $2,000,000.
 
ARTICLE V
 
AWARD OF BONUSES
 
As soon as practicable after each fiscal year for which performance objectives have, pursuant to Article IV, been established, the Committee shall determine whether the Company and each Subsidiary attained the previously-established performance objectives. Assuming such performance objectives shall be attained, the Committee shall determine, in its sole and exclusive discretion, whether any bonuses shall be awarded for such fiscal year. In determining the amount of bonuses to be awarded under the Plan, the Committee shall have the right to exercise negative discretion or decrease an award otherwise payable to a Participant, but the Committee shall have no discretion to increase the amount of any award under the Plan. Such bonuses shall be awarded as soon as practicable thereafter and the officers who are determined to be entitled to receive such bonuses shall be promptly notified of the award thereof.
 
ARTICLE VI
 
DEFERRAL OF BONUSES
 
Any bonus or any portion of any bonus awarded to a Participant may, at the election of such Participant, be deferred pursuant to the provisions of the Synovus Financial Corp./Total System Services, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan ("Deferred Plan"), as such Deferred Plan may be amended from time to time. All bonus amounts deferred under the Deferred Plan shall be paid in accordance with the distribution provisions of the Deferred Plan, as such provisions may be amended from time to time.
 
 
2
 
 
ARTICLE VII
 
NO ENTITLEMENT TO BONUS
 
Participants are entitled to a distribution under this Plan only upon the approval of the award by the Committee and no Participant shall be entitled to a bonus under the Plan due to the attainment of performance objectives. In addition, any Participant not employed by the Company or a Subsidiary on December 31 of any fiscal year will not be entitled to a bonus unless otherwise determined by the Committee.
 
ARTICLE VIII
 
TERMINATION OF PLAN
 
The Company Board of Directors may amend or terminate the Plan at any time and for any reason without prior notice.
 
ARTICLE IX
 
PARTICIPANT'S RIGHT OF ASSIGNABILITY
 
Bonus amounts hereunder shall not be subject to assignment, pledge or other disposition, nor shall such amounts be subject to garnishment, attachment, transfer by operation of law, or any legal process.
 
ARTICLE X
 
GOVERNING LAW
 
The validity, construction, performance and effect of the Plan shall be governed by Georgia law.
 
 
 
3
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Contact:
 
TSYS Board Approves Share Repurchase Plan
 
Columbus, Ga., April 20, 2006
TSYS today announced that its Board of Directors has approved a share repurchase plan to purchase up to 2 million shares, which represents slightly more than 5 percent of TSYS stock owned by shareholders other than Synovus Financial Corp. This equates to approximately $40 million of TSYS stock based on current market prices. The shares will be purchased from time to time over the next two years at prices considered attractive to management. Repurchased shares will be used for general corporate purposes.
 
About TSYS
 
TSYS (
www.tsys.com
) is one of the world's largest companies for outsourced payment services, offering a broad range of issuer and acquirer processing technologies that support consumer finance, credit, debit and prepaid services for financial institutions and retail companies in North America, Europe and the Asia Pacific. Based in Columbus, Ga., TSYS (NYSE: TSS) is 80 percent held by Synovus Financial Corp. (NYSE: SNV), one of
FORTUNE
magazine's "Most Admired Companies" and a member of its "100 Best Companies to Work For" Hall of Fame. For more information, contact
news@tsys.com
.
 
###
 
 
 
 


