FILE:TSS/TSS-8K-20071022182103.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
Form 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
October 22, 2007
Date of Report
(Date of Earliest Event Reported)
 
Total System Services, Inc.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
 
 
1600 First Avenue, Columbus, Georgia 31901
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
 
(706) 649-2267
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
 
________________________________________________
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
Signature
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, Registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Total System Services, Inc.
 
 
Contacts:
TSYS Reports 26.7% Increase in Net Income for Third Quarter 2007
 
Columbus, Ga., October 22, 2007
TSYS today announced the results for the third quarter with
total revenues of $457.6 million, and a 26.7% increase in net income over the same period in 2006. For the first nine months of 2007, TSYS' total revenues were $1.3 billion, operating income increased 19.2% to $272.8 million, and net income increased to $191.8 million, an 18.3% increase over the same period in 2006.
"Our financial results are exciting with operating margins year-to-date up 300 basis points from 22.6% to 25.6%. This is the sixth quarter in a row that we have shown margin improvement over the same quarter for the prior year. For the third quarter, our operating and net income both were up 26% over the third quarter of 2006. Our revenue growth continues to pick up steam with international revenues growing 38% year-to-date over 2006," said Philip W. Tomlinson, chairman and chief executive officer of TSYS.
"We are especially proud of our new client commitments for the quarter. These wins in a
very competitive market will help drive future growth globally. We remain laser focused on existing clients who generated organic revenue growth of 15% year-to-date in our core processing business. When you consider the obstacles and challenges we faced a year ago, our team has done a magnificent job and we look forward to our future with a great deal of optimism," said Tomlinson.
 
Financial Highlights
 
 more 
 
Page 1 of 10
 
Recent Highlights
 
Projected Outlook for 2007
Excluding the one time Bank of America contract termination fee in 2006 of approximately
$68.9 million and the acceleration of amortization of Bank of America contract acquisition costs of approximately $6 million, net income is expected to increase between 20%22% in 2007 compared to 2006. Based on generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), TSYS' estimated 2007 net income is expected to increase between 0%2% as compared to 2006. TSYS' earnings guidance does not include the expenses associated with the potential spin-off of TSYS by Synovus Financial Corp.
 
TSYS' 2007 earnings guidance is based on the following assumptions:
 
Page 2 of 10
Presentation of revenues and net income excluding the Bank of America termination fee,
acceleration of amortization of contract acquisition costs and reimbursable items are non-GAAP financial measures. The following table reconciles the range of changes from 2006 to 2007, comparing non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures.
 
 
*Note: TSYS accelerated the amortization of approximately $6 million in contract acquisition costs (comprised of $4 million of amortization related to payments for processing rights, which was recorded as a reduction of revenues, and $2 million of amortization expense related to conversion costs).
TSYS believes the table above presents meaningful information to assist investors in
understanding the company's financial estimates for changes in total revenues and net income from 2006 to 2007 as a result of the Bank of America consumer portfolio deconversion as the non-GAAP financial measures exclude amounts that the company does not consider part of ongoing operating results. The non-GAAP financial percentage changes should not be considered by themselves or as a substitute for the GAAP percentage changes year over year. The non-GAAP measures should be considered as an additional view of the way TSYS' financial measures are affected by the one-time Bank of America contract termination fee, acceleration of amortization of contract acquisition costs and reimbursable items; and should be used in conjunction with all publicly filed financial statements and reports.
 
Conference Call
TSYS will host its quarterly conference call at 8:30 a.m. EDT, Tuesday, October 23. The
conference call can be accessed via simultaneous Internet broadcast at
tsys.com
by clicking on the "Conference Call" icon on the homepage. The replay will be archived for 12 months and will be available approximately 30 minutes after the completion of the call.
 
Page 3 of 10
About TSYS
TSYS is one of the world's largest payment-services companies, offering a broad range of packaged or outsourced issuing and acquiring technologies that support consumer finance, credit, debit, healthcare, loyalty and prepaid services for financial institutions and retail companies worldwide. Based in Columbus, Ga., TSYS (NYSE: TSS) is 81-percent held by Synovus (NYSE: SNV), one of
FORTUNE
magazine's "Most Admired Companies" and a member of its "100 Best Companies to Work For" for 10 consecutive years. For more information, contact
news@tsys.com
.
This press release contains statements that constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include, among others, statements regarding TSYS' planned servicing of Nationwide's Visa accounts in the first quarter of 2008 and TSYS' expected net income growth for 2007, and the assumptions underlying such statements, including, with respect to TSYS' expected increase in net income for 2007: (1) including the Bank of America contract termination fee of approximately $68.9 million in 2006 and an acceleration of amortization of contract-acquisition costs of approximately $6 million, estimated total revenues will decline 3-2% in 2007 and excluding the termination fee and reimbursable items, estimated revenues will increase by 3%-5% over 2006; (2) expense reductions in employment, equipment, leases and other areas which are included in 2007 estimates will be accomplished; and (3) TSYS will not incur significant expenses associated with the conversion of new large clients and/or acquisitions, or any other significant impairment of goodwill or other intangibles. These statements are based on the current beliefs and expectations of TSYS' management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by our forward-looking statements in this press release. Many of these factors are beyond TSYS' ability to control or predict. These factors include, but are not limited to, one or more of the assumptions upon which TSYS' 2007 net income forecast is based are inaccurate. Additional factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in this release can be found in TSYS' filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K. We believe these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, undue reliance should not be placed on any forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations. We do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 more 
 
Page 4 of 10
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


