FILE:TSS/TSS-8K-20070425113046.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
Form 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
April 24, 2007
Date of Report
(Date of Earliest Event Reported)
 
Total System Services, Inc.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
 
 
1600 First Avenue, Columbus, Georgia 31901
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
 
(706) 649-2267
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
 
________________________________________________
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
Signature
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, TSYS has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
Total System Services, Inc.
 
2007 Omnibus Plan
 
Effective April 24, 2007
 
 
Contents
 
 
 
 
Total System Services, Inc.
2007 Omnibus Plan
Effective April 24, 2007
 
Article 1. Establishment, Purpose, and Duration
1.1
        
Establishment
. Total System Services, Inc. (hereinafter referred to as the "Company") hereby establishes an incentive compensation plan to be known as Total System Services, Inc. 2007 Omnibus Plan (hereinafter referred to as the "Plan"), as set forth in this document.
The Plan permits the grant of Nonqualified Stock Options, Incentive Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares, Performance Units, Covered Employee annual incentive awards,
Cash-Based Awards,
and Other Stock-Based Awards.
The Plan shall become effective on the date that it is approved by the Company's shareholders (the "Effective Date") and shall remain in effect as provided in Section 1.3 hereof.
1.2
        
Purpose of the Plan
. The purpose of the Plan is to advance the interests of the Company and its shareholders through Awards that give Employees and Directors a personal stake in the Company's growth, development and financial success. Awards under the Plan will motivate Employees and Directors to devote their best efforts to the business of the Company. They will also help the Company attract and retain the services of Employees and Directors who are in a position to make significant contributions to the Company's future success.
1.3
        
Duration of the Plan
. Unless sooner terminated as provided herein, the Plan shall terminate ten (10) years from the Effective Date. After the Plan's termination, no new Awards may be granted, but Awards previously granted shall remain outstanding in accordance with their applicable terms and conditions, including the terms and conditions of the Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Incentive Stock Options may be granted more than ten (10) years after the earlier of: (a) the date the Plan is adopted by the Board, or (b) the Effective Date.
1.4
        
No More Grants Under Prior Plan
.
After the Effective Date, no more grants will be made under the Prior Plan.
Article 2. Definitions
Whenever used in this Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below, and when the meaning is intended, the initial letter of the word shall be capitalized:
 
TSYS 2007 Omnibus Plan
 
 
 
TSYS 2007 Omnibus Plan
 
 
immediately prior to such Business Combination, of the total number of shares of the Company's outstanding securities, (ii) no Person (excluding any corporation resulting from such Business Combination, or any employee benefit plan (including its trustee) of the Company or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of, respectively, the total number of shares of the then outstanding securities of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination and (iii) at least two-thirds (2/3) of the members of the board of directors of the Corporation resulting from such Business Combination.
A "Change of Control" shall not result from any transaction precipitated by the Company's insolvency, appointment of a conservator, or determination by a regulatory agency that the Company is insolvent, nor from any transaction initiated by the Company in regard to converting from a publicly traded company to a privately held company.
For purposes of this Section 2.8 of the Plan only, "Company" shall be defined as Synovus Financial Corp. or Total System Services, Inc. Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, a "Change of Control" of Total System Services, Inc. shall not result from (1) a spin-off of Total System Services, Inc. stock to Synovus Financial Corp. shareholders or (2) any transaction (including, without limitation, any transaction described in this Section 2.8 of the Plan) if Synovus Financial Corp. continues to own more than 50% of the total number of shares of Total System Services, Inc.'s outstanding securities.
 
TSYS 2007 Omnibus Plan
 
 
 
TSYS 2007 Omnibus Plan
 
 
Nonemployee Director pursuant to such applicable terms, conditions, and limitations as the Board or Committee may establish in accordance with this Plan.
 
TSYS 2007 Omnibus Plan
 
 
Article 3. Administration
3.1
     
General
. The Plan shall be administered by the Committee, subject to this Article 3 and the other provisions of this Plan. The Committee may employ attorneys, consultants, accountants, agents, and other individuals or entities, any of which may be an Employee, and the Committee, the Company, and its officers and Directors shall be entitled to rely upon the advice, opinions, or valuations of any such persons. All actions taken and all interpretations and determinations made by the Committee shall be final and binding on the Participants, the Company, and all other interested individuals.
3.2
        
Authority of the Committee
. The Committee is authorized and empowered to administer the Plan and, subject to the provisions of the Plan, shall have full power to (i) designate Employees and Directors to be recipients of Awards; (ii) determine the type and size of Awards; (iii) determine the terms and conditions of Awards; (iv) certify satisfaction of performance goals for purposes of satisfying the requirements of Code Section 162(m); (v) construe and interpret the terms of the Plan and any Award Agreement or other instrument entered into under the Plan; (vi) establish, amend, or waive rules and regulations for the Plan's administration; (vii) subject to the provisions of Section 4.4., authorize conversion or substitution under the Plan of any or all outstanding option or other awards held by service providers of an entity acquired by the Company on terms determined by the Committee (without regard to limitations set forth in Section 6.3 and 7.5); (viii) subject to the provisions of Articles 15 and 17, amend the terms and conditions of any outstanding Award; (ix) grant Awards as an alternative to, or as the form of payment for, grants or rights earned or due under compensation plans or similar arrangements of the Company; and (x) make any other determination and take any other action that it deems necessary or desirable for the administration of the Plan.
 
TSYS 2007 Omnibus Plan
 
 
3.3
        
Delegation
.
To the extent permitted by law and applicable rules of a stock exchange, the Committee may, by resolution, authorize one or more officers of the Company to do one or both of the following on the same basis as can the Committee: (a) designate Employees to be recipients of Awards; and (b) determine the type and size of any such Awards; provided, however: (i) the authority to make Awards to any Nonemployee Director or to any Employee who is considered an Insider may not be delegated; (ii) the resolution providing such authorization shall set forth the total number of Shares and Awards such officer(s) may grant; and (iii) the officer(s) shall report periodically to the Committee regarding the nature and scope of the Awards granted pursuant to the authority delegated.
Article 4. Shares Subject to This Plan and Maximum Awards
4.2
        
Share Usage
. Shares covered by an Award shall only be counted as used to the extent they are actually issued. Any Shares related to Awards which terminate by expiration, forfeiture, cancellation, or otherwise without the issuance of such Shares, are settled in cash in lieu of Shares, or are exchanged with the Committee's permission, prior to the issuance of Shares, for Awards not involving Shares, shall be available again for grant under this Plan. However, the full number of Stock Appreciation Rights granted that are to be settled by the issuance of Shares shall be counted against the number of Shares available for award under the Plan, regardless of the number of Shares actually issued upon settlement of such Stock Appreciation Rights. Further, any Shares withheld to satisfy tax withholding obligations on Awards issued under the Plan, Shares tendered to pay the
 
TSYS 2007 Omnibus Plan
 
 
exercise price of Awards under the Plan, and Shares repurchased on the open market with the proceeds of an Option exercise will no longer be eligible to be returned as available Shares under the Plan. Any Shares related to Awards which terminate by expiration, forfeiture, cancellation, or otherwise without the issuance of such Shares, are settled in cash in lieu of Shares, or are exchanged with the Committee's permission, prior to the issuance of Shares, for Awards not involving Shares, shall be available again for grant under this Plan. The Shares available for issuance under this Plan may be authorized and unissued Shares or treasury Shares.
 
4.3
        
Annual Award Limits
. Unless and until the Committee determines that an Award to a Covered Employee shall not be designed to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation, the following limits (each an "Annual Award Limit" and, collectively, "Annual Award Limits") shall apply to grants of such Awards under this Plan:
4.4
        
Adjustments in Authorized Shares
. In the event of any corporate event or transaction (including, but not limited to, a change in the Shares of the Company or the capitalization of the Company) such as a merger, consolidation, reorganization, recapitalization, separation, partial or complete liquidation, stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, split up, spin-off, or other distribution of stock or property of the Company, combination of Shares, exchange of Shares, dividend in-kind, or other like change in capital structure, number of outstanding Shares or distribution (other than normal cash dividends) to shareholders of the Company, or any similar corporate event or transaction, the Committee, in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of Participants' rights under this Plan, shall substitute or adjust the number and kind of Shares that may be issued under this Plan or under particular forms of Awards, the number and kind of Shares subject
 
TSYS 2007 Omnibus Plan
 
 
to outstanding Awards, the Option Price or Grant Price applicable to outstanding Awards, the Annual Award Limits, or other value determinations applicable to outstanding Awards, with the specific adjustments to be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.
The Committee shall make appropriate adjustments to any other terms of any outstanding Awards under this Plan to reflect such changes or distributions, including modifications of performance goals and changes in the length of Performance Periods. The determination of the Committee as to the foregoing adjustments, if any, shall be conclusive and binding on Participants under this Plan.
Subject to the provisions of Article 17 and notwithstanding anything else herein to the contrary, without affecting the number of Shares reserved or available hereunder, the Committee may authorize the issuance or assumption of benefits under this Plan in connection with any merger, consolidation, acquisition of property or stock, or reorganization upon such terms and conditions as it may deem appropriate (including, but not limited to, a conversion of equity awards into Awards under this Plan in a manner consistent with paragraph 53 of FASB Interpretation No. 44), subject to compliance with the rules under Code Sections 422 and 424, as and where applicable.
Article 5. Eligibility and Participation
5.1
        
Eligibility
. Individuals eligible to participate in this Plan include all Employees and Directors.
5.2
        
Actual Participation
. Subject to the provisions of this Plan, the Committee may, from time to time in its sole discretion, select from the individuals eligible to participate, those to whom Awards shall be granted.
Article 6. Stock Options
6.1
     
Grant of Options
. Subject to the terms and provisions of this Plan, Options may be granted to Participants in such number, and upon such terms, and at any time and from time to time as shall be determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion, provided that ISOs may be granted only to eligible Employees of the Company or of any parent or subsidiary corporation (as permitted under Code Sections 422 and 424). However, an Employee who is employed by an Affiliate and/or Subsidiary and is subject to Code Section 409A may only be granted Options to the extent the Affiliate and/or Subsidiary is part of the Company's consolidated group for United States federal tax purposes.
6.2
        
Award Agreement
. Each Option grant shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the Option Price, the maximum duration of the Option, the number of Shares to which the Option pertains, the conditions upon which an Option shall become vested and exercisable, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine which are not inconsistent with the terms of this Plan. The Award Agreement also shall specify whether the Option is intended to be an ISO or an NQSO.
6.3
        
Option Price
. The Option Price for each grant of an Option under this Plan shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion and shall be specified in the Award Agreement; provided, however, the Option Price on the date of grant must be at least equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the FMV of the Shares as determined on the date of grant.
 
TSYS 2007 Omnibus Plan
 
 
6.4
        
Term of Options
. Each Option granted to a Participant shall expire at such time as the Committee shall determine at the time of grant; provided, however, no Option shall be exercisable later than the tenth (10) anniversary date of its grant.
th
6.5
        
Exercise of Options
. Options granted under this Article 6 shall be exercisable at such times and be subject to such restrictions and conditions as the Committee shall in each instance approve, which terms and restrictions need not be the same for each grant or for each Participant.
Options granted under this Article 6 shall be exercised by the delivery of a notice of exercise to the Company or an agent designated by the Company in a form specified or accepted by the Committee setting forth the number of Shares with respect to which the Option is to be exercised, accompanied by full payment for the Shares, or by complying with any alternative exercise procedures the Committee may authorize.
6.6
        
Payment
. A condition of the issuance of the Shares as to which an Option shall be exercised shall be the payment of the Option Price. The Option Price of any Option shall be payable to the Company in full either: (a) in cash or its equivalent; (b) by tendering (either by actual delivery or attestation) previously acquired Shares having an aggregate Fair Market Value at the time of exercise equal to the Option Price (provided that except as otherwise determined by the Committee, the Shares that are tendered must have been held by the Participant for at least six (6) months (or such other period, if any, as the Committee may permit) prior to their tender to satisfy the Option Price if acquired under this Plan or any other compensation plan maintained by the Company or have been purchased on the open market); (c) by a cashless (broker-assisted) exercise; (d) by a combination of (a), (b), and/or (c); or (e) any other method approved or accepted by the Committee in its sole discretion.
Subject to any governing rules or regulations, as soon as practicable after receipt of written notification of exercise and full payment (including satisfaction of any applicable tax withholding), the Company shall deliver to the Participant evidence of book entry Shares, or upon the Participant's request, Share certificates in an appropriate amount based upon the number of Shares purchased under the Option(s).
Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, all payments under all of the methods indicated above shall be paid in United States dollars.
6.7
        
Restrictions on Share Transferability
. The Committee may impose such restrictions on any Shares acquired pursuant to the exercise of an Option granted under this Article 6 as it may deem advisable, including, without limitation, minimum holding period requirements, restrictions under applicable federal securities laws, under the requirements of any stock exchange or market upon which such Shares are then listed and/or traded, or under any blue sky or state securities laws applicable to such Shares.
6.8
        
Termination of Employment/Service
.
Each Participant's Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to exercise the Option following termination of the Participant's employment or provision of services to the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries, as the case may be. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with each Participant, need
 
TSYS 2007 Omnibus Plan
 
 
 
not be uniform among all Options issued pursuant to this Article 6, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.
Article 7. Stock Appreciation Rights
7.1
     
Grant of SARs
. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Plan, Freestanding SARs may be granted to Participants at any time and from time to time as shall be determined by the Committee. However, an Employee who is employed by an Affiliate and/or Subsidiary and is subject to Code Section 409A may only be granted SARs to the extent the Affiliate and/or Subsidiary is part of the Company's consolidated group for United States federal tax purposes.
Subject to the terms and conditions of this Plan, the Committee shall have complete discretion in determining the number of SARs granted to each Participant and, consistent with the provisions of this Plan, in determining the terms and conditions pertaining to such SARs.
The Grant Price for each grant of a Freestanding SAR shall be determined by the Committee and shall be specified in the Award Agreement; provided, however, the Grant Price on the date of grant must be at least equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the FMV of the Shares as determined on the date of grant.
7.2
        
SAR Agreement
. Each SAR Award shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the Grant Price, the term of the SAR, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine.
7.3
        
Term of SAR
. The term of a SAR granted under this Plan shall be determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion, and except as determined otherwise by the Committee and specified in the SAR Award Agreement, no SAR shall be exercisable later than the tenth (10) anniversary date of its grant.
th
7.4
        
Exercise of Freestanding SARs
. Freestanding SARs may be exercised upon whatever terms and conditions the Committee, in its sole discretion, imposes.
7.5
        
Settlement of SAR Amount
. Upon the exercise of a SAR, a Participant shall be entitled to receive payment from the Company in an amount determined by multiplying:
At the discretion of the Committee, the payment upon SAR exercise may be in cash, Shares, or any combination thereof, or in any other manner approved by the Committee in its sole discretion. The Committee's determination regarding the form of SAR payout shall be set forth in the Award Agreement pertaining to the grant of the SAR.
7.6
        
Termination of Employment/Service
. Each Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to exercise the SAR following termination of the Participant's employment with or provision of services to the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries, as the case may be. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the
 
TSYS 2007 Omnibus Plan
 
 
Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with Participants, need not be uniform among all SARs issued pursuant to this Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.
7.7
        
Other Restrictions.
The Committee shall impose such other conditions and/or restrictions on any Shares received upon exercise of a SAR granted pursuant to this Plan as it may deem advisable or desirable. These restrictions may include, but shall not be limited to, a requirement that the Participant hold the Shares received upon exercise of a SAR for a specified period of time.
Article 8. Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units
8.1
     
Grant of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units
. Subject to the terms and provisions of this Plan, the Committee, at any time and from time to time, may grant Shares of Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Units to Participants in such amounts as the Committee shall determine. Restricted Stock Units shall be similar to Restricted Stock except that no Shares are actually awarded to the Participant on the date of grant.
8.2
        
Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Unit Agreement
. Each Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Unit grant shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the Period(s) of Restriction, the number of Shares of Restricted Stock or the number of Restricted Stock Units granted, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine.
8.3
        
Other Restrictions
. The Committee shall impose such other conditions and/or restrictions on any Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to this Plan as it may deem advisable including, without limitation, a requirement that Participants pay a stipulated purchase price for each Share of Restricted Stock or each Restricted Stock Unit, restrictions based upon the achievement of specific performance goals, time-based restrictions on vesting following the attainment of the performance goals, time-based restrictions, and/or restrictions under applicable laws or under the requirements of any stock exchange or market upon which such Shares are listed or traded, or holding requirements or sale restrictions placed on the Shares by the Company upon vesting of such Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units.
To the extent deemed appropriate by the Committee, the Company may retain the certificates representing Shares of Restricted Stock in the Company's possession until such time as all conditions and/or restrictions applicable to such Shares have been satisfied or lapse.
Except as otherwise provided in this Article 8, Shares of Restricted Stock covered by each Restricted Stock Award shall become freely transferable by the Participant after all conditions and restrictions applicable to such Shares have been satisfied or lapse (including satisfaction of any applicable tax withholding obligations), and Restricted Stock Units shall be paid in cash, Shares, or a combination of cash and Shares as the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall determine.
8.4
        
Certificate Legend
. In addition to any legends placed on certificates pursuant to Section 8.3, each certificate representing Shares of Restricted Stock granted pursuant to this Plan may bear a legend such as the following or as otherwise determined by the Committee in its sole discretion:
TSYS 2007 Omnibus Plan
 
"The transferability of this certificate and the shares of stock represented hereby are subject to the terms and conditions (including forfeiture) of the Synovus Financial Corp. 2007 Omnibus Plan and a Restricted Stock Award Agreement entered into between the registered owner and Synovus Financial Corp. Copies of such Plan and Agreement are on file in the offices of Synovus Financial Corp., 1111 Bay Avenue, Suite 500, Columbus, Georgia, 31901."
8.5
        
Voting Rights
. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee and set forth in a Participant's Award Agreement, to the extent permitted or required by law, as determined by the Committee, Participants holding Shares of Restricted Stock granted hereunder may be granted the right to exercise full voting rights with respect to those Shares during the Period of Restriction. A Participant shall have no voting rights with respect to any Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder.
8.6
        
Termination of Employment/Service
. Each Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to retain Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Units following termination of the Participant's employment with or provision of services to the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries, as the case may be. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with each Participant, need not be uniform among all Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units issued pursuant to this Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.
8.7
        
Section 83(b) Election
. The Committee may provide in an Award Agreement that the Award of Restricted Stock is conditioned upon the Participant making or refraining from making an election with respect to the Award under Code Section 83(b). If a Participant makes an election pursuant to Code Section 83(b) concerning a Restricted Stock Award, the Participant shall be required to file promptly a copy of such election with the Company.
Article 9. Performance Units/Performance Shares
9.1
        
Grant of Performance Units/Performance Shares
. Subject to the terms and provisions of this Plan, the Committee, at any time and from time to time, may grant Performance Units and/or Performance Shares to Participants in such amounts and upon such terms as the Committee shall determine.
9.2
        
Value of Performance Units/Performance Shares
. Each Performance Unit shall have an initial value that is established by the Committee at the time of grant. Each Performance Share shall have an initial value equal to the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of grant. The Committee shall set performance goals in its discretion which, depending on the extent to which they are met, will determine the value and/or number of Performance Units/Performance Shares that will be paid out to the Participant.
9.3
        
Earning of Performance Units/Performance Shares
. Subject to the terms of this Plan, after the applicable Performance Period has ended, the holder of Performance Units/Performance Shares shall be entitled to receive payout on the value and number of Performance Units/Performance Shares earned by the Participant over the Performance Period, to be determined as a function of the extent to which the corresponding performance goals have been achieved.
 
TSYS 2007 Omnibus Plan
 
 
9.4
         
Form and Timing of Payment of Performance Units/Performance Shares
. Payment of earned Performance Units/Performance Shares shall be as determined by the Committee and as evidenced in the Award Agreement. Subject to the terms of this Plan, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may pay earned Performance Units/Performance Shares in the form of cash or in Shares (or in a combination thereof) equal to the value of the earned Performance Units/Performance Shares at the close of the applicable Performance Period, or as soon as practicable after the end of the Performance Period. Any Shares may be granted subject to any restrictions deemed appropriate by the Committee. The determination of the Committee with respect to the form of payout of such Awards shall be set forth in the Award Agreement pertaining to the grant of the Award.
9.5
        
Termination of Employment/Service
. Each Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to retain Performance Units and/or Performance Shares following termination of the Participant's employment with or provision of services to the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries, as the case may be. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with each Participant, need not be uniform among all Awards of Performance Units or Performance Shares issued pursuant to this Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.
Article 10. Cash-Based Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards
10.1
      
Grant of Cash-Based Awards
. Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, the Committee, at any time and from time to time, may grant Cash-Based Awards to Participants in such amounts and upon such terms as the Committee may determine.
10.2
      
Other Stock-Based Awards
. The Committee may grant other types of equity-based or equity-related Awards not otherwise described by the terms of this Plan (including the grant or offer for sale of unrestricted Shares) in such amounts and subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine. Such Awards may involve the transfer of actual Shares to Participants, or payment in cash or otherwise of amounts based on the value of Shares, and may include, without limitation, Awards designed to comply with or take advantage of the applicable local laws of jurisdictions other than the United States.
10.3
      
Value of Cash-Based and Other Stock-Based Awards
. Each Cash-Based Award shall specify a payment amount or payment range as determined by the Committee. Each Other Stock-Based Award shall be expressed in terms of Shares or units based on Shares, as determined by the Committee. The Committee may establish performance goals in its discretion. If the Committee exercises its discretion to establish performance goals, the number and/or value of Cash-Based Awards or Other Stock-Based Awards that will be paid out to the Participant will depend on the extent to which the performance goals are met.
10.4
      
Payment of Cash-Based Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards
. Payment, if any, with respect to a Cash-Based Award or any Other Stock-Based Award shall be made in accordance with the terms of the Award, in cash or Shares as the Committee determines.
10.5
       
Termination of Employment/Service
. The Committee shall determine the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to receive Cash-Based Awards or Other Stock-Based Awards following termination of the Participant's employment with or provision of services to the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries, as the case may be. Such provisions shall be
 
TSYS 2007 Omnibus Plan
 
 
determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, such provisions may be included in an agreement entered into with each Participant, but need not be uniform among all Awards of Cash-Based Awards or Other Stock-Based Awards issued pursuant to the Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.
 
Article 11. Transferability of Awards
11.1
      
Transferability
.
Except as provided in Section 11.2 below, during a Participant's lifetime, his or her Awards shall be exercisable only by the Participant. Awards shall not be transferable other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution; no Awards shall be subject, in whole or in part, to attachment, execution, or levy of any kind; and any purported transfer in violation hereof shall be null and void. The Committee may establish such procedures as it deems appropriate for a Participant to designate a beneficiary to whom any amounts payable or Shares deliverable in the event of, or following, the Participant's death may be provided.
11.2
      
Committee Action
. The Committee may, in its discretion, determine that notwithstanding Section 11.1, any or all Awards (other than ISOs) shall be transferable to and exercisable by such transferees, and subject to such terms and conditions, as the Committee may deem appropriate; provided, however, no Award may be transferred for value (as defined in the General Instructions to Form S-8).
Article 12. Performance Measures
12.1
   
Performance Measures
. The performance goals upon which the payment or vesting of an Award to a Covered Employee that is intended to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation shall be limited to the following Performance Measures:
TSYS 2007 Omnibus Plan
 
 
Any Performance Measure(s) may be used to measure the performance of the Company, Subsidiary, and/or Affiliate as a whole or any business unit of the Company, Subsidiary, and/or Affiliate or any combination thereof, as the Committee may deem appropriate, or any of the above Performance Measures as compared to the performance of a group of comparator companies, or published or special index that the Committee, in its sole discretion, deems appropriate, or the Company may select Performance Measure (j) above as compared to various stock market indices. The Committee also has the authority to provide for accelerated vesting of any Award based on the achievement of performance goals pursuant to the Performance Measures specified in this Article 12.
12.2
      
Evaluation of Performance
. The Committee may provide in any such Award that any evaluation of achievement of Performance Measures may include or exclude any of the following events that occur during a Performance Period: (a) asset write-downs, (b) litigation or claim judgments or settlements, (c) the effect of changes in tax laws, accounting principles, or other laws or provisions affecting reported results, (d) any reorganization and restructuring programs, (e) extraordinary nonrecurring items as described in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 30 and/or in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations appearing in the Company's annual report to shareholders for the applicable year, (f) acquisitions or divestitures, and (g) foreign exchange gains and losses. To the extent such inclusions or exclusions affect Awards to Covered Employees, they shall be prescribed in a form that meets the requirements of Code Section 162(m) for deductibility.
12.3
      
Adjustment of Performance-Based Compensation
. Awards that are intended to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation may not be adjusted upward. The Committee shall retain the discretion to adjust such Awards downward, either on a formula or discretionary basis, or any combination, as the Committee determines.
12.4
      
Committee Discretion
. In the event that applicable tax and/or securities laws change to permit Committee discretion to alter the governing Performance Measures without obtaining shareholder approval of such changes, the Committee shall have sole discretion to make such changes without obtaining shareholder approval. In addition, in the event that the Committee determines that it is advisable to grant Awards that shall not qualify as Performance-Based Compensation, the Committee may make such grants without satisfying the requirements of Code Section 162(m) and base vesting on Performance Measures other than those set forth in Section 12.1.
Article 13. Nonemployee Director Awards
From time to time, the Board shall set the amount(s) and type(s) of equity awards that shall be granted to all Nonemployee Directors on a periodic, nondiscriminatory basis pursuant to the Plan, as well as any additional amount(s), if any, to be awarded, also on a periodic, nondiscriminatory basis, based on each of the following: (i) the number of Board committees on which a Nonemployee Director serves; (ii) service of a Nonemployee Director as the chair of a Board committee; (iii)
 
TSYS 2007 Omnibus Plan
 
 
service of a Nonemployee Director as Chairman of the Board; or (iv) the initial selection or appointment of an individual to the Board as a Nonemployee Director. Subject to the foregoing, the Board shall grant such Awards to Nonemployee Directors, as it shall from time to time determine.
Article 14. Dividends and Dividend Equivalents
Any Participant selected by the Committee may be granted dividends or dividend equivalents based on the dividends declared on Shares that are subject to any Award, to be credited as of dividend payment dates, during the period between the date the Award is granted and the date the Award is exercised, vests, or expires, as determined by the Committee. The dividends or dividend equivalents may be subject to any limitations and/or restrictions determined by the Committee. Such dividend equivalents shall be converted to cash or additional Shares by such formula and at such time and subject to such limitations as may be determined by the Committee.
Article 15. Change of Control
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, unless the Committee specifies otherwise in an Award Agreement, in the event of a Change of Control: (i) any Options and Stock Appreciation Rights which are outstanding immediately prior to the date such Change of Control is determined to have occurred, and which are not then exercisable and vested, shall become fully exercisable and vested to the full extent of the original grant; (ii) the restrictions and deferral limitations applicable to any Restricted Stock shall lapse, and such Restricted Stock shall become free of all restrictions and limitations and become fully vested and transferable to the full extent of the original grant; and (iii) the restrictions and deferral limitations and other conditions applicable to any other Awards under the Plan shall lapse, and such other Awards shall become free of all restrictions, limitations or conditions and become fully vested and transferable to the full extent of the original grant.
Article 16. Rights of Participants
16.1
   
Employment/Service
. Nothing in this Plan or an Award Agreement shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries to terminate any Participant's employment or service on the Board or to the Company at any time or for any reason not prohibited by law, nor confer upon any Participant any right to continue his employment or service as a Director
for any specified period of time.
Neither an Award nor any benefits arising under this Plan shall constitute an employment contract with the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries and, accordingly, subject to Articles 3 and 17, this Plan and the benefits hereunder may be terminated at any time in the sole and exclusive discretion of the Committee without giving rise to any liability on the part of the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries.
16.2
      
Participation
. No individual shall have the right to be selected to receive an Award under this Plan or, having been so selected, to be selected to receive a future Award.
16.3
       
Rights as a Shareholder
. Except as otherwise provided herein or in any Award Agreement, a Participant shall have none of the rights of a shareholder with respect to Shares covered by any Award until the Participant becomes the record holder of such Shares.
 
TSYS 2007 Omnibus Plan
 
 
Article 17. Amendment, Modification, Suspension, and Termination
17.1
   
Amendment, Modification, Suspension, and Termination
. Subject to Section 17.3, the Committee may, at any time and from time to time, alter, amend, modify, suspend, or terminate this Plan and any Award Agreement in whole or in part; provided, however, that without the prior approval of the Company's shareholders and except as provided in Section 4.4, Options or SARs issued under this Plan will not be repriced, replaced, repurchased for cash when the Fair Market Value of a Share is lower than the Option Price of a previously granted Option or the Grant Price of a previously granted SAR, or regranted through cancellation, or by lowering the Option Price of a previously granted Option or the Grant Price of a previously granted SAR, and no material
amendment of this Plan shall be made without shareholder approval if shareholder approval is required by law, regulation, or stock exchange rule.
17.2
      
Adjustment of Awards Upon the Occurrence of Certain Unusual or Nonrecurring Events
. The Committee may make adjustments in the terms and conditions of, and the criteria included in, Awards in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events, other than those described in Section 4.4 hereof, affecting the Company or the financial statements of the Company or of changes in applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles, whenever the Committee determines that such adjustments are appropriate in order to prevent unintended dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under this Plan. The determination of the Committee as to the foregoing adjustments, if any, shall be conclusive and binding on Participants under this Plan.
17.3
      
Awards Previously Granted
. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary (other than Section 17.4), no termination, amendment, suspension, or modification of this Plan or an Award Agreement shall adversely affect in any material way any Award previously granted under this Plan, without the written consent of the Participant holding such Award.
17.4
      
Amendment to Conform to Law
. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, the Board of Directors may amend the Plan or an Award Agreement, to take effect retroactively or otherwise, as deemed necessary or advisable for the purpose of conforming the Plan or an Award Agreement to any present or future law relating to plans of this or similar nature (including, but not limited to, Code Section 409A), and to the administrative regulations and rulings promulgated thereunder.
Article 18. Withholding
18.1
   
Tax Withholding
. The Company shall have the power and the right to deduct or withhold, or require a Participant to remit to the Company, the minimum statutory amount to satisfy federal, state, and local taxes, domestic or foreign, required by law or regulation to be withheld with respect to any taxable event arising as a result of this Plan.
18.2
      
Share Withholding
. With respect to withholding required upon the exercise of Options or SARs, upon the lapse of restrictions on Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units, or upon the achievement of performance goals related to Performance Shares, or any other taxable event arising as a result of an Award granted hereunder, Participants may elect, subject to the approval of the Committee, to satisfy the withholding requirement, in whole or in part, by having the Company withhold Shares having a Fair Market Value on the date the tax is to be determined equal to the minimum statutory total tax that could be imposed on the transaction. All such elections shall be
 
TSYS 2007 Omnibus Plan
 
 
irrevocable, made in writing, and signed by the Participant, and shall be subject to any restrictions or limitations that the Committee, in its sole discretion, deems appropriate.
Article 19. Successors
All obligations of the Company under this Plan with respect to Awards granted hereunder shall be binding on any successor to the Company, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company.
Article 20. General Provisions
In addition, in the event of an accounting restatement, the Committee in its sole and exclusive discretion may require that any Participant reimburse the Company all or part of the amount of any payment in settlement of any Award granted hereunder.
20.2
      
Legend
. The certificates for Shares may include any legend that the Committee deems appropriate to reflect any restrictions on transfer of such Shares.
20.3
      
Gender and Number
. Except where otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine term used herein also shall include the feminine, the plural shall include the singular, and the singular shall include the plural.
 
TSYS 2007 Omnibus Plan
 
 
20.4
      
Severability
.
In the event any provision of this Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of this Plan, and this Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included.
20.5
      
Requirements of Law
.
The granting of Awards and the issuance of Shares under this Plan shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, and to such approvals by any governmental agencies, the NYSE or other national securities exchanges as may be required.
20.6
      
Delivery of Title
.
The Company shall have no obligation to issue or deliver evidence of title for Shares issued under this Plan prior to:
20.7
      
Inability to Obtain Authority
.
The inability of the Company to obtain authority from any regulatory body having jurisdiction, which authority is deemed by the Company's counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares hereunder, shall relieve the Company of any liability in respect of the failure to issue or sell such Shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained.
20.8
      
Investment Representations
.
The Committee may require any individual receiving Shares pursuant to an Award under this Plan to represent and warrant in writing that the individual is acquiring the Shares for investment and without any present intention to sell or distribute such Shares.
20.9
      
Employees Based Outside of the United States
. Notwithstanding any provision of this Plan to the contrary, in order to comply with the laws in other countries in which the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries operate or have Employees or Directors, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall have the power and authority to:
 
TSYS 2007 Omnibus Plan
 
 
Notwithstanding the above, the Committee may not take any actions hereunder, and no Awards shall be granted that would violate applicable law.
20.10
   
Uncertificated Shares
. To the extent that this Plan provides for issuance of certificates to reflect the transfer of Shares, the transfer of such Shares may be effected on a noncertificated basis, to the extent not prohibited by applicable law or the rules of any stock exchange.
20.11
   
Unfunded Plan
.
Participants shall have no right, title, or interest whatsoever in or to any investments that the Company and/or its Subsidiaries and/or its Affiliates may make to aid it in meeting its obligations under this Plan. Nothing contained in this Plan, and no action taken pursuant to its provisions, shall create or be construed to create a trust of any kind, or a fiduciary relationship between the Company and any Participant, beneficiary, legal representative, or any other individual. To the extent that any individual acquires a right to receive payments from the Company, its Subsidiaries, and/or its Affiliates under this Plan, such right shall be no greater than the right of an unsecured general creditor of the Company, a Subsidiary, or an Affiliate, as the case may be. All payments to be made hereunder shall be paid from the general funds of the Company, a Subsidiary, or an Affiliate, as the case may be, and no special or separate fund shall be established and no segregation of assets shall be made to assure payment of such amounts except as expressly set forth in this Plan.
20.12
   
No Fractional Shares
. No fractional Shares shall be issued or delivered pursuant to this Plan or any Award. The Committee shall determine whether cash, Awards, or other property shall be issued or paid in lieu of fractional Shares or whether such fractional Shares or any rights thereto shall be forfeited or otherwise eliminated.
20.13
   
Retirement and Welfare Plans
. Neither Awards made under this Plan nor Shares or cash paid pursuant to such Awards, except pursuant to Covered Employee annual incentive awards, may be included as "compensation" for purposes of computing the benefits payable to any Participant under the Company's or any Subsidiary's or Affiliate's retirement plans (both qualified and nonqualified) or welfare benefit plans unless such other plan expressly provides that such compensation shall be taken into account in computing a Participant's benefit.
20.14
   
Deferred Compensation.
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, the Committee may cause any Award to comply with or to be exempt from Section 409A of the Code and may interpret this Plan in any manner necessary to ensure that Awards under the Plan comply with or are exempt from Section 409A of the Code. In the event that the Committee determines that an Award should comply with or be exempt from Section 409A and that a Plan provision or Award Agreement provision is necessary to ensure that such Award complies with or is exempt from Section 409A of the Code, such provision shall be deemed included in the Plan or such Award Agreement.
20.15
   
Nonexclusivity of This Plan
. The adoption of this Plan shall not be construed as creating any limitations on the power of the Board or Committee to adopt such other compensation arrangements as it may deem desirable for any Participant.
 
TSYS 2007 Omnibus Plan
 
 
20.16
   
No Constraint on Corporate Action
. Nothing in this Plan shall be construed to: (a) limit, impair, or otherwise affect the Company's or a Subsidiary's or an Affiliate's right or power to make adjustments, reclassifications, reorganizations, or changes of its capital or business structure, or to merge or consolidate, or dissolve, liquidate, sell, or transfer all or any part of its business or assets; or, (b) limit the right or power of the Company or a Subsidiary or an Affiliate to take any action which such entity deems to be necessary or appropriate.
20.17
   
Governing Law
. The Plan and each Award Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Georgia, excluding any conflicts or choice of law rule or principle that might otherwise refer construction or interpretation of this Plan to the substantive law of another jurisdiction. Unless otherwise provided in the Award Agreement, recipients of an Award under this Plan are deemed to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction and venue of the federal or state courts of Georgia to resolve any and all issues that may arise out of or relate to this Plan or any related Award Agreement.
20.18
   
Indemnification
.
Subject to requirements of Georgia law, each individual who is or shall have been a member of the Board, or a committee appointed by the Board, or an officer of the Company to whom authority was delegated in accordance with Article 3, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company against and from any loss, cost, liability, or expense that may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred by the Participant in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit, or proceeding to which the Participant may be a party or in which the Participant may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under this Plan and against and from any and all amounts paid by the Participant in settlement thereof, with the Company's approval, or paid by the Participant in satisfaction of any judgment in any such action, suit, or proceeding against the Participant, provided the Participant shall give the Company an opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same before the Participant undertakes to handle and defend it on the Participant's own behalf, unless such loss, cost, liability, or expense is a result of the Participant's own willful misconduct or except as expressly provided by statute.
The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which such individuals may be entitled under the Company's Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or any power that the Company may have to indemnify them or hold them harmless.
 
 
TSYS 2007 Omnibus Plan
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
 
Synovus Financial Corp.
 
2007 Omnibus Plan
 
Effective April 25, 2007
 
 
Contents
 
 
 
 
Synovus Financial Corp.
2007 Omnibus Plan
Effective April 25, 2007
 
Article 1. Establishment, Purpose, and Duration
1.1
        
Establishment
. Synovus Financial Corp. (hereinafter referred to as the "Company") hereby establishes an incentive compensation plan to be known as Synovus Financial Corp. 2007 Omnibus Plan (hereinafter referred to as the "Plan"), as set forth in this document.
The Plan permits the grant of Nonqualified Stock Options, Incentive Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares, Performance Units, Covered Employee annual incentive awards,
Cash-Based Awards,
and Other Stock-Based Awards.
The Plan shall become effective on the date that it is approved by the Company's shareholders (the "Effective Date") and shall remain in effect as provided in Section 1.3 hereof.
1.2
        
Purpose of the Plan
. The purpose of the Plan is to advance the interests of the Company and its shareholders through Awards that give Employees and Directors a personal stake in the Company's growth, development and financial success. Awards under the Plan will motivate Employees and Directors to devote their best efforts to the business of the Company. They will also help the Company attract and retain the services of Employees and Directors who are in a position to make significant contributions to the Company's future success.
1.3
        
Duration of the Plan
. Unless sooner terminated as provided herein, the Plan shall terminate ten (10) years from the Effective Date. After the Plan's termination, no new Awards may be granted, but Awards previously granted shall remain outstanding in accordance with their applicable terms and conditions, including the terms and conditions of the Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Incentive Stock Options may be granted more than ten (10) years after the earlier of: (a) the date the Plan is adopted by the Board, or (b) the Effective Date.
1.4
        
No More Grants Under Prior Plan
.
After the Effective Date, no more grants will be made under the Prior Plan.
Article 2. Definitions
Whenever used in this Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below, and when the meaning is intended, the initial letter of the word shall be capitalized:
 
Synovus 2007 Omnibus Plan
 
 
 
Synovus 2007 Omnibus Plan
 
 
immediately prior to such Business Combination, of the total number of shares of the Company's outstanding securities, (ii) no Person (excluding any corporation resulting from such Business Combination, or any employee benefit plan (including its trustee) of the Company or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of, respectively, the total number of shares of the then outstanding securities of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination and (iii) at least two-thirds (2/3) of the members of the board of directors of the Corporation resulting from such Business Combination.
A "Change of Control" shall not result from any transaction precipitated by the Company's insolvency, appointment of a conservator, or determination by a regulatory agency that the Company is insolvent, nor from any transaction initiated by the Company in regard to converting from a publicly traded company to a privately held company.
 
Synovus 2007 Omnibus Plan
 
 
individual is subsequently determined to have been, or is subsequently retroactively reclassified as, a common-law employee of the Company, Affiliate, and/or Subsidiary during such period.
 
Synovus 2007 Omnibus Plan
 
 
 
Synovus 2007 Omnibus Plan
 
 
Article 3. Administration
3.1
     
General
. The Plan shall be administered by the Committee, subject to this Article 3 and the other provisions of this Plan. The Committee may employ attorneys, consultants, accountants, agents, and other individuals or entities, any of which may be an Employee, and the Committee, the Company, and its officers and Directors shall be entitled to rely upon the advice, opinions, or valuations of any such persons. All actions taken and all interpretations and determinations made by the Committee shall be final and binding on the Participants, the Company, and all other interested individuals.
3.2
        
Authority of the Committee
. The Committee is authorized and empowered to administer the Plan and, subject to the provisions of the Plan, shall have full power to (i) designate Employees and Directors to be recipients of Awards; (ii) determine the type and size of Awards; (iii) determine the terms and conditions of Awards; (iv) certify satisfaction of performance goals for purposes of satisfying the requirements of Code Section 162(m); (v) construe and interpret the terms of the Plan and any Award Agreement or other instrument entered into under the Plan; (vi) establish, amend, or waive rules and regulations for the Plan's administration; (vii) subject to the provisions of Section 4.4., authorize conversion or substitution under the Plan of any or all outstanding option or other awards held by service providers of an entity acquired by the Company on terms determined by the Committee (without regard to limitations set forth in Section 6.3 and 7.5); (viii) subject to the provisions of Articles 15 and 17, amend the terms and conditions of any outstanding Award; (ix) grant Awards as an alternative to, or as the form of payment for, grants or rights earned or due under compensation plans or similar arrangements of the Company; and (x) make any other determination and take any other action that it deems necessary or desirable for the administration of the Plan.
3.3
        
Delegation
.
To the extent permitted by law and applicable rules of a stock exchange, the Committee may, by resolution, authorize one or more officers of the Company to do one or both of the following on the same basis as can the Committee: (a) designate Employees to be recipients of Awards; and (b) determine the type and size of any such Awards; provided, however: (i) the authority to make Awards to any Nonemployee Director or to any Employee who is considered an
 
Synovus 2007 Omnibus Plan
 
 
Insider may not be delegated; (ii) the resolution providing such authorization shall set forth the total number of Shares and Awards such officer(s) may grant; and (iii) the officer(s) shall report periodically to the Committee regarding the nature and scope of the Awards granted pursuant to the authority delegated.
Article 4. Shares Subject to This Plan and Maximum Awards
4.2
 
 
 
 
Share Usage
. Shares covered by an Award shall only be counted as used to the extent they are actually issued. Any Shares related to Awards which terminate by expiration, forfeiture, cancellation, or otherwise without the issuance of such Shares, are settled in cash in lieu of Shares, or are exchanged with the Committee's permission, prior to the issuance of Shares, for Awards not
 
Synovus 2007 Omnibus Plan
 
 
involving Shares, shall be available again for grant under this Plan. However, the full number of Stock Appreciation Rights granted that are to be settled by the issuance of Shares shall be counted against the number of Shares available for award under the Plan, regardless of the number of Shares actually issued upon settlement of such Stock Appreciation Rights. Further, any Shares withheld to satisfy tax withholding obligations on Awards issued under the Plan, Shares tendered to pay the exercise price of Awards under the Plan, and Shares repurchased on the open market with the proceeds of an Option exercise will no longer be eligible to be returned as available Shares under the Plan. Any Shares related to Awards which terminate by expiration, forfeiture, cancellation, or otherwise without the issuance of such Shares, are settled in cash in lieu of Shares, or are exchanged with the Committee's permission, prior to the issuance of Shares, for Awards not involving Shares, shall be available again for grant under this Plan. The Shares available for issuance under this Plan may be authorized and unissued Shares or treasury Shares.
 
4.3
        
Annual Award Limits
. Unless and until the Committee determines that an Award to a Covered Employee shall not be designed to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation, the following limits (each an "Annual Award Limit" and, collectively, "Annual Award Limits") shall apply to grants of such Awards under this Plan:
4.4
        
Adjustments in Authorized Shares
. In the event of any corporate event or transaction (including, but not limited to, a change in the Shares of the Company or the capitalization of the Company) such as a merger, consolidation, reorganization, recapitalization, separation, partial or complete liquidation, stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, split up, spin-off, or other distribution of stock or property of the Company, combination of Shares, exchange of Shares, dividend in-kind, or other like change in capital structure, number of outstanding Shares or
 
Synovus 2007 Omnibus Plan
 
 
distribution (other than normal cash dividends) to shareholders of the Company, or any similar corporate event or transaction, the Committee, in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of Participants' rights under this Plan, shall substitute or adjust the number and kind of Shares that may be issued under this Plan or under particular forms of Awards, the number and kind of Shares subject to outstanding Awards, the Option Price or Grant Price applicable to outstanding Awards, the Annual Award Limits, or other value determinations applicable to outstanding Awards, with the specific adjustments to be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.
The Committee shall make appropriate adjustments to any other terms of any outstanding Awards under this Plan to reflect such changes or distributions, including modifications of performance goals and changes in the length of Performance Periods. The determination of the Committee as to the foregoing adjustments, if any, shall be conclusive and binding on Participants under this Plan.
Subject to the provisions of Article 17 and notwithstanding anything else herein to the contrary, without affecting the number of Shares reserved or available hereunder, the Committee may authorize the issuance or assumption of benefits under this Plan in connection with any merger, consolidation, acquisition of property or stock, or reorganization upon such terms and conditions as it may deem appropriate (including, but not limited to, a conversion of equity awards into Awards under this Plan in a manner consistent with paragraph 53 of FASB Interpretation No. 44), subject to compliance with the rules under Code Sections 422 and 424, as and where applicable.
Article 5. Eligibility and Participation
5.1
        
Eligibility
. Individuals eligible to participate in this Plan include all Employees and Directors.
5.2
        
Actual Participation
. Subject to the provisions of this Plan, the Committee may, from time to time in its sole discretion, select from the individuals eligible to participate, those to whom Awards shall be granted.
Article 6. Stock Options
6.1
     
Grant of Options
. Subject to the terms and provisions of this Plan, Options may be granted to Participants in such number, and upon such terms, and at any time and from time to time as shall be determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion, provided that ISOs may be granted only to eligible Employees of the Company or of any parent or subsidiary corporation (as permitted under Code Sections 422 and 424). However, an Employee who is employed by an Affiliate and/or Subsidiary and is subject to Code Section 409A may only be granted Options to the extent the Affiliate and/or Subsidiary is part of the Company's consolidated group for United States federal tax purposes.
6.2
        
Award Agreement
. Each Option grant shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the Option Price, the maximum duration of the Option, the number of Shares to which the Option pertains, the conditions upon which an Option shall become vested and exercisable, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine which are not inconsistent with the terms of this Plan. The Award Agreement also shall specify whether the Option is intended to be an ISO or an NQSO.
 
Synovus 2007 Omnibus Plan
 
 
6.3
        
Option Price
. The Option Price for each grant of an Option under this Plan shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion and shall be specified in the Award Agreement; provided, however, the Option Price on the date of grant must be at least equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the FMV of the Shares as determined on the date of grant.
6.4
        
Term of Options
. Each Option granted to a Participant shall expire at such time as the Committee shall determine at the time of grant; provided, however, no Option shall be exercisable later than the tenth (10) anniversary date of its grant.
th
6.5
        
Exercise of Options
. Options granted under this Article 6 shall be exercisable at such times and be subject to such restrictions and conditions as the Committee shall in each instance approve, which terms and restrictions need not be the same for each grant or for each Participant.
Options granted under this Article 6 shall be exercised by the delivery of a notice of exercise to the Company or an agent designated by the Company in a form specified or accepted by the Committee setting forth the number of Shares with respect to which the Option is to be exercised, accompanied by full payment for the Shares, or by complying with any alternative exercise procedures the Committee may authorize.
6.6
        
Payment
. A condition of the issuance of the Shares as to which an Option shall be exercised shall be the payment of the Option Price. The Option Price of any Option shall be payable to the Company in full either: (a) in cash or its equivalent; (b) by tendering (either by actual delivery or attestation) previously acquired Shares having an aggregate Fair Market Value at the time of exercise equal to the Option Price (provided that except as otherwise determined by the Committee, the Shares that are tendered must have been held by the Participant for at least six (6) months (or such other period, if any, as the Committee may permit) prior to their tender to satisfy the Option Price if acquired under this Plan or any other compensation plan maintained by the Company or have been purchased on the open market); (c) by a cashless (broker-assisted) exercise; (d) by a combination of (a), (b), and/or (c); or (e) any other method approved or accepted by the Committee in its sole discretion.
Subject to any governing rules or regulations, as soon as practicable after receipt of written notification of exercise and full payment (including satisfaction of any applicable tax withholding), the Company shall deliver to the Participant evidence of book entry Shares, or upon the Participant's request, Share certificates in an appropriate amount based upon the number of Shares purchased under the Option(s).
Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, all payments under all of the methods indicated above shall be paid in United States dollars.
6.7
        
Restrictions on Share Transferability
. The Committee may impose such restrictions on any Shares acquired pursuant to the exercise of an Option granted under this Article 6 as it may deem advisable, including, without limitation, minimum holding period requirements, restrictions under applicable federal securities laws, under the requirements of any stock exchange or market upon which such Shares are then listed and/or traded, or under any blue sky or state securities laws applicable to such Shares.
 
Synovus 2007 Omnibus Plan
 
 
6.8
        
Termination of Employment/Service
.
Each Participant's Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to exercise the Option following termination of the Participant's employment or provision of services to the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries, as the case may be. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with each Participant, need not be uniform among all Options issued pursuant to this Article 6, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.
Article 7. Stock Appreciation Rights
7.1
     
Grant of SARs
. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Plan, Freestanding SARs may be granted to Participants at any time and from time to time as shall be determined by the Committee. However, an Employee who is employed by an Affiliate and/or Subsidiary and is subject to Code Section 409A may only be granted SARs to the extent the Affiliate and/or Subsidiary is part of the Company's consolidated group for United States federal tax purposes.
Subject to the terms and conditions of this Plan, the Committee shall have complete discretion in determining the number of SARs granted to each Participant and, consistent with the provisions of this Plan, in determining the terms and conditions pertaining to such SARs.
The Grant Price for each grant of a Freestanding SAR shall be determined by the Committee and shall be specified in the Award Agreement; provided, however, the Grant Price on the date of grant must be at least equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the FMV of the Shares as determined on the date of grant.
7.2
        
SAR Agreement
. Each SAR Award shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the Grant Price, the term of the SAR, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine.
7.3
        
Term of SAR
. The term of a SAR granted under this Plan shall be determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion, and except as determined otherwise by the Committee and specified in the SAR Award Agreement, no SAR shall be exercisable later than the tenth (10) anniversary date of its grant.
th
7.4
        
Exercise of Freestanding SARs
. Freestanding SARs may be exercised upon whatever terms and conditions the Committee, in its sole discretion, imposes.
7.5
        
Settlement of SAR Amount
. Upon the exercise of a SAR, a Participant shall be entitled to receive payment from the Company in an amount determined by multiplying:
At the discretion of the Committee, the payment upon SAR exercise may be in cash, Shares, or any combination thereof, or in any other manner approved by the Committee in its sole discretion. The Committee's determination regarding the form of SAR payout shall be set forth in the Award Agreement pertaining to the grant of the SAR.
 
Synovus 2007 Omnibus Plan
 
 
7.6
        
Termination of Employment/Service
. Each Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to exercise the SAR following termination of the Participant's employment with or provision of services to the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries, as the case may be. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with Participants, need not be uniform among all SARs issued pursuant to this Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.
7.7
        
Other Restrictions.
The Committee shall impose such other conditions and/or restrictions on any Shares received upon exercise of a SAR granted pursuant to this Plan as it may deem advisable or desirable. These restrictions may include, but shall not be limited to, a requirement that the Participant hold the Shares received upon exercise of a SAR for a specified period of time.
Article 8. Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units
8.1
     
Grant of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units
. Subject to the terms and provisions of this Plan, the Committee, at any time and from time to time, may grant Shares of Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Units to Participants in such amounts as the Committee shall determine. Restricted Stock Units shall be similar to Restricted Stock except that no Shares are actually awarded to the Participant on the date of grant.
8.2
        
Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Unit Agreement
. Each Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Unit grant shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the Period(s) of Restriction, the number of Shares of Restricted Stock or the number of Restricted Stock Units granted, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine.
8.3
        
Other Restrictions
. The Committee shall impose such other conditions and/or restrictions on any Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to this Plan as it may deem advisable including, without limitation, a requirement that Participants pay a stipulated purchase price for each Share of Restricted Stock or each Restricted Stock Unit, restrictions based upon the achievement of specific performance goals, time-based restrictions on vesting following the attainment of the performance goals, time-based restrictions, and/or restrictions under applicable laws or under the requirements of any stock exchange or market upon which such Shares are listed or traded, or holding requirements or sale restrictions placed on the Shares by the Company upon vesting of such Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units.
To the extent deemed appropriate by the Committee, the Company may retain the certificates representing Shares of Restricted Stock in the Company's possession until such time as all conditions and/or restrictions applicable to such Shares have been satisfied or lapse.
Except as otherwise provided in this Article 8, Shares of Restricted Stock covered by each Restricted Stock Award shall become freely transferable by the Participant after all conditions and restrictions applicable to such Shares have been satisfied or lapse (including satisfaction of any applicable tax withholding obligations), and Restricted Stock Units shall be paid in cash, Shares, or a combination of cash and Shares as the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall determine.
8.4
        
Certificate Legend
. In addition to any legends placed on certificates pursuant to Section 8.3, each certificate representing Shares of Restricted Stock granted pursuant to this Plan
 
Synovus 2007 Omnibus Plan
 
 
may bear a legend such as the following or as otherwise determined by the Committee in its sole discretion:
"The transferability of this certificate and the shares of stock represented hereby are subject to the terms and conditions (including forfeiture) of the Synovus Financial Corp. 2007 Omnibus Plan and a Restricted Stock Award Agreement entered into between the registered owner and Synovus Financial Corp. Copies of such Plan and Agreement are on file in the offices of Synovus Financial Corp., 1111 Bay Avenue, Suite 500, Columbus, Georgia, 31901."
8.5
        
Voting Rights
. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee and set forth in a Participant's Award Agreement, to the extent permitted or required by law, as determined by the Committee, Participants holding Shares of Restricted Stock granted hereunder may be granted the right to exercise full voting rights with respect to those Shares during the Period of Restriction. A Participant shall have no voting rights with respect to any Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder.
8.6
        
Termination of Employment/Service
. Each Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to retain Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Units following termination of the Participant's employment with or provision of services to the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries, as the case may be. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with each Participant, need not be uniform among all Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units issued pursuant to this Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.
8.7
        
Section 83(b) Election
. The Committee may provide in an Award Agreement that the Award of Restricted Stock is conditioned upon the Participant making or refraining from making an election with respect to the Award under Code Section 83(b). If a Participant makes an election pursuant to Code Section 83(b) concerning a Restricted Stock Award, the Participant shall be required to file promptly a copy of such election with the Company.
Article 9. Performance Units/Performance Shares
9.1
        
Grant of Performance Units/Performance Shares
. Subject to the terms and provisions of this Plan, the Committee, at any time and from time to time, may grant Performance Units and/or Performance Shares to Participants in such amounts and upon such terms as the Committee shall determine.
9.2
        
Value of Performance Units/Performance Shares
. Each Performance Unit shall have an initial value that is established by the Committee at the time of grant. Each Performance Share shall have an initial value equal to the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of grant. The Committee shall set performance goals in its discretion which, depending on the extent to which they are met, will determine the value and/or number of Performance Units/Performance Shares that will be paid out to the Participant.
9.3
        
Earning of Performance Units/Performance Shares
. Subject to the terms of this Plan, after the applicable Performance Period has ended, the holder of Performance Units/Performance Shares shall be entitled to receive payout on the value and number of Performance Units/Performance Shares earned by the Participant over the Performance Period, to be determined as a function of the extent to which the corresponding performance goals have been achieved.
 
Synovus 2007 Omnibus Plan
 
 
9.4
        
Form and Timing of Payment of Performance Units/Performance Shares
. Payment of earned Performance Units/Performance Shares shall be as determined by the Committee and as evidenced in the Award Agreement. Subject to the terms of this Plan, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may pay earned Performance Units/Performance Shares in the form of cash or in Shares (or in a combination thereof) equal to the value of the earned Performance Units/Performance Shares at the close of the applicable Performance Period, or as soon as practicable after the end of the Performance Period. Any Shares may be granted subject to any restrictions deemed appropriate by the Committee. The determination of the Committee with respect to the form of payout of such Awards shall be set forth in the Award Agreement pertaining to the grant of the Award.
9.5
        
Termination of Employment/Service
. Each Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to retain Performance Units and/or Performance Shares following termination of the Participant's employment with or provision of services to the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries, as the case may be. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with each Participant, need not be uniform among all Awards of Performance Units or Performance Shares issued pursuant to this Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.
Article 10. Cash-Based Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards
10.1
      
Grant of Cash-Based Awards
. Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, the Committee, at any time and from time to time, may grant Cash-Based Awards to Participants in such amounts and upon such terms as the Committee may determine.
10.2
      
Other Stock-Based Awards
. The Committee may grant other types of equity-based or equity-related Awards not otherwise described by the terms of this Plan (including the grant or offer for sale of unrestricted Shares) in such amounts and subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine. Such Awards may involve the transfer of actual Shares to Participants, or payment in cash or otherwise of amounts based on the value of Shares, and may include, without limitation, Awards designed to comply with or take advantage of the applicable local laws of jurisdictions other than the United States.
10.3
      
Value of Cash-Based and Other Stock-Based Awards
. Each Cash-Based Award shall specify a payment amount or payment range as determined by the Committee. Each Other Stock-Based Award shall be expressed in terms of Shares or units based on Shares, as determined by the Committee. The Committee may establish performance goals in its discretion. If the Committee exercises its discretion to establish performance goals, the number and/or value of Cash-Based Awards or Other Stock-Based Awards that will be paid out to the Participant will depend on the extent to which the performance goals are met.
10.4
      
Payment of Cash-Based Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards
. Payment, if any, with respect to a Cash-Based Award or any Other Stock-Based Award shall be made in accordance with the terms of the Award, in cash or Shares as the Committee determines.
10.5
      
Termination of Employment/Service
. The Committee shall determine the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to receive Cash-Based Awards or Other Stock-Based Awards following termination of the Participant's employment with or provision of services to the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries, as the case may be. Such provisions shall be
 
Synovus 2007 Omnibus Plan
 
 
determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, such provisions may be included in an agreement entered into with each Participant, but need not be uniform among all Awards of Cash-Based Awards or
Other Stock-Based Awards issued pursuant to the Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.
Article 11. Transferability of Awards
11.1
      
Transferability
.
Except as provided in Section 11.2 below, during a Participant's lifetime, his or her Awards shall be exercisable only by the Participant. Awards shall not be transferable other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution; no Awards shall be subject, in whole or in part, to attachment, execution, or levy of any kind; and any purported transfer in violation hereof shall be null and void. The Committee may establish such procedures as it deems appropriate for a Participant to designate a beneficiary to whom any amounts payable or Shares deliverable in the event of, or following, the Participant's death may be provided.
11.2
      
Committee Action
. The Committee may, in its discretion, determine that notwithstanding Section 11.1, any or all Awards (other than ISOs) shall be transferable to and exercisable by such transferees, and subject to such terms and conditions, as the Committee may deem appropriate; provided, however, no Award may be transferred for value (as defined in the General Instructions to Form S-8).
Article 12. Performance Measures
12.1
   
Performance Measures
. The performance goals upon which the payment or vesting of an Award to a Covered Employee that is intended to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation shall be limited to the following Performance Measures:
 
Synovus 2007 Omnibus Plan
 
 
 
Any Performance Measure(s) may be used to measure the performance of the Company, Subsidiary, and/or Affiliate as a whole or any business unit of the Company, Subsidiary, and/or Affiliate or any combination thereof, as the Committee may deem appropriate, or any of the above Performance Measures as compared to the performance of a group of comparator companies, or published or special index that the Committee, in its sole discretion, deems appropriate, or the Company may select Performance Measure (j) above as compared to various stock market indices. The Committee also has the authority to provide for accelerated vesting of any Award based on the achievement of performance goals pursuant to the Performance Measures specified in this Article 12.
12.2
      
Evaluation of Performance
. The Committee may provide in any such Award that any evaluation of achievement of Performance Measures may include or exclude any of the following events that occur during a Performance Period: (a) asset write-downs, (b) litigation or claim judgments or settlements, (c) the effect of changes in tax laws, accounting principles, or other laws or provisions affecting reported results, (d) any reorganization and restructuring programs, (e) extraordinary nonrecurring items as described in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 30 and/or in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations appearing in the Company's annual report to shareholders for the applicable year, (f) acquisitions or divestitures, and (g) foreign exchange gains and losses. To the extent such inclusions or exclusions affect Awards to Covered Employees, they shall be prescribed in a form that meets the requirements of Code Section 162(m) for deductibility.
12.3
      
Adjustment of Performance-Based Compensation
. Awards that are intended to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation may not be adjusted upward. The Committee shall retain the discretion to adjust such Awards downward, either on a formula or discretionary basis, or any combination, as the Committee determines.
12.4
      
Committee Discretion
. In the event that applicable tax and/or securities laws change to permit Committee discretion to alter the governing Performance Measures without obtaining shareholder approval of such changes, the Committee shall have sole discretion to make such changes without obtaining shareholder approval. In addition, in the event that the Committee determines that it is advisable to grant Awards that shall not qualify as Performance-Based Compensation, the Committee may make such grants without satisfying the requirements of Code Section 162(m) and base vesting on Performance Measures other than those set forth in Section 12.1.
Article 13. Nonemployee Director Awards
From time to time, the Board shall set the amount(s) and type(s) of equity awards that shall be granted to all Nonemployee Directors on a periodic, nondiscriminatory basis pursuant to the Plan, as well as any additional amount(s), if any, to be awarded, also on a periodic, nondiscriminatory basis, based on each of the following: (i) the number of Board committees on which a Nonemployee Director serves; (ii) service of a Nonemployee Director as the chair of a Board committee; (iii)
 
Synovus 2007 Omnibus Plan
 
 
service of a Nonemployee Director as Chairman of the Board; or (iv) the initial selection or appointment of an individual to the Board as a Nonemployee Director. Subject to the foregoing, the Board shall grant such Awards to Nonemployee Directors, as it shall from time to time determine.
Article 14. Dividends and Dividend Equivalents
Any Participant selected by the Committee may be granted dividends or dividend equivalents based on the dividends declared on Shares that are subject to any Award, to be credited as of dividend payment dates, during the period between the date the Award is granted and the date the Award is exercised, vests, or expires, as determined by the Committee. The dividends or dividend equivalents may be subject to any limitations and/or restrictions determined by the Committee. Such dividend equivalents shall be converted to cash or additional Shares by such formula and at such time and subject to such limitations as may be determined by the Committee.
Article 15. Change of Control
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, unless the Committee specifies otherwise in an Award Agreement, in the event of a Change of Control: (i) any Options and Stock Appreciation Rights which are outstanding immediately prior to the date such Change of Control is determined to have occurred, and which are not then exercisable and vested, shall become fully exercisable and vested to the full extent of the original grant; (ii) the restrictions and deferral limitations applicable to any Restricted Stock shall lapse, and such Restricted Stock shall become free of all restrictions and limitations and become fully vested and transferable to the full extent of the original grant; and (iii) the restrictions and deferral limitations and other conditions applicable to any other Awards under the Plan shall lapse, and such other Awards shall become free of all restrictions, limitations or conditions and become fully vested and transferable to the full extent of the original grant.
Article 16. Rights of Participants
16.1
   
Employment/Service
. Nothing in this Plan or an Award Agreement shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries to terminate any Participant's employment or service on the Board or to the Company at any time or for any reason not prohibited by law, nor confer upon any Participant any right to continue his employment or service as a Director
for any specified period of time.
Neither an Award nor any benefits arising under this Plan shall constitute an employment contract with the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries and, accordingly, subject to Articles 3 and 17, this Plan and the benefits hereunder may be terminated at any time in the sole and exclusive discretion of the Committee without giving rise to any liability on the part of the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries.
16.2
      
Participation
. No individual shall have the right to be selected to receive an Award under this Plan or, having been so selected, to be selected to receive a future Award.
16.3
      
Rights as a Shareholder
. Except as otherwise provided herein or in any Award Agreement, a Participant shall have none of the rights of a shareholder with respect to Shares covered by any Award until the Participant becomes the record holder of such Shares.
 
Synovus 2007 Omnibus Plan
 
 
Article 17. Amendment, Modification, Suspension, and Termination
17.1
   
Amendment, Modification, Suspension, and Termination
. Subject to Section 17.3, the Committee may, at any time and from time to time, alter, amend, modify, suspend, or terminate this Plan and any Award Agreement in whole or in part; provided, however, that without the prior approval of the Company's shareholders and except as provided in Section 4.4, Options or SARs issued under this Plan will not be repriced, replaced, repurchased for cash when the Fair Market Value of a Share is lower than the Option Price of a previously granted Option or the Grant Price of a previously granted SAR, or regranted through cancellation, or by lowering the Option Price of a previously granted Option or the Grant Price of a previously granted SAR, and no material
amendment of this Plan shall be made without shareholder approval if shareholder approval is required by law, regulation, or stock exchange rule.
17.2
      
Adjustment of Awards Upon the Occurrence of Certain Unusual or Nonrecurring Events
. The Committee may make adjustments in the terms and conditions of, and the criteria included in, Awards in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events, other than those described in Section 4.4 hereof, affecting the Company or the financial statements of the Company or of changes in applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles, whenever the Committee determines that such adjustments are appropriate in order to prevent unintended dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under this Plan. The determination of the Committee as to the foregoing adjustments, if any, shall be conclusive and binding on Participants under this Plan.
17.3
      
Awards Previously Granted
. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary (other than Section 17.4), no termination, amendment, suspension, or modification of this Plan or an Award Agreement shall adversely affect in any material way any Award previously granted under this Plan, without the written consent of the Participant holding such Award.
17.4
      
Amendment to Conform to Law
. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, the Board of Directors may amend the Plan or an Award Agreement, to take effect retroactively or otherwise, as deemed necessary or advisable for the purpose of conforming the Plan or an Award Agreement to any present or future law relating to plans of this or similar nature (including, but not limited to, Code Section 409A), and to the administrative regulations and rulings promulgated thereunder.
Article 18. Withholding
18.1
   
Tax Withholding
. The Company shall have the power and the right to deduct or withhold, or require a Participant to remit to the Company, the minimum statutory amount to satisfy federal, state, and local taxes, domestic or foreign, required by law or regulation to be withheld with respect to any taxable event arising as a result of this Plan.
18.2
      
Share Withholding
. With respect to withholding required upon the exercise of Options or SARs, upon the lapse of restrictions on Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units, or upon the achievement of performance goals related to Performance Shares, or any other taxable event arising as a result of an Award granted hereunder, Participants may elect, subject to the approval of the Committee, to satisfy the withholding requirement, in whole or in part, by having the Company withhold Shares having a Fair Market Value on the date the tax is to be determined equal to the minimum statutory total tax that could be imposed on the transaction. All such elections shall be
 
Synovus 2007 Omnibus Plan
 
 
irrevocable, made in writing, and signed by the Participant, and shall be subject to any restrictions or limitations that the Committee, in its sole discretion, deems appropriate.
Article 19. Successors
All obligations of the Company under this Plan with respect to Awards granted hereunder shall be binding on any successor to the Company, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company.
Article 20. General Provisions
In addition, in the event of an accounting restatement, the Committee in its sole and exclusive discretion may require that any Participant reimburse the Company all or part of the amount of any payment in settlement of any Award granted hereunder.
20.2
      
Legend
. The certificates for Shares may include any legend that the Committee deems appropriate to reflect any restrictions on transfer of such Shares.
20.3
      
Gender and Number
. Except where otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine term used herein also shall include the feminine, the plural shall include the singular, and the singular shall include the plural.
 
Synovus 2007 Omnibus Plan
 
 
20.4
      
Severability
.
In the event any provision of this Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of this Plan, and this Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included.
20.5
      
Requirements of Law
.
The granting of Awards and the issuance of Shares under this Plan shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, and to such approvals by any governmental agencies, the NYSE or other national securities exchanges as may be required.
20.6
      
Delivery of Title
.
The Company shall have no obligation to issue or deliver evidence of title for Shares issued under this Plan prior to:
20.7
      
Inability to Obtain Authority
.
The inability of the Company to obtain authority from any regulatory body having jurisdiction, which authority is deemed by the Company's counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares hereunder, shall relieve the Company of any liability in respect of the failure to issue or sell such Shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained.
20.8
      
Investment Representations
.
The Committee may require any individual receiving Shares pursuant to an Award under this Plan to represent and warrant in writing that the individual is acquiring the Shares for investment and without any present intention to sell or distribute such Shares.
20.9
      
Employees Based Outside of the United States
. Notwithstanding any provision of this Plan to the contrary, in order to comply with the laws in other countries in which the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries operate or have Employees or Directors, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall have the power and authority to:
 
Synovus 2007 Omnibus Plan
 
 
Notwithstanding the above, the Committee may not take any actions hereunder, and no Awards shall be granted that would violate applicable law.
20.10
   
Uncertificated Shares
. To the extent that this Plan provides for issuance of certificates to reflect the transfer of Shares, the transfer of such Shares may be effected on a noncertificated basis, to the extent not prohibited by applicable law or the rules of any stock exchange.
20.11
   
Unfunded Plan
.
Participants shall have no right, title, or interest whatsoever in or to any investments that the Company and/or its Subsidiaries and/or its Affiliates may make to aid it in meeting its obligations under this Plan. Nothing contained in this Plan, and no action taken pursuant to its provisions, shall create or be construed to create a trust of any kind, or a fiduciary relationship between the Company and any Participant, beneficiary, legal representative, or any other individual. To the extent that any individual acquires a right to receive payments from the Company, its Subsidiaries, and/or its Affiliates under this Plan, such right shall be no greater than the right of an unsecured general creditor of the Company, a Subsidiary, or an Affiliate, as the case may be. All payments to be made hereunder shall be paid from the general funds of the Company, a Subsidiary, or an Affiliate, as the case may be, and no special or separate fund shall be established and no segregation of assets shall be made to assure payment of such amounts except as expressly set forth in this Plan.
20.12
   
No Fractional Shares
. No fractional Shares shall be issued or delivered pursuant to this Plan or any Award. The Committee shall determine whether cash, Awards, or other property shall be issued or paid in lieu of fractional Shares or whether such fractional Shares or any rights thereto shall be forfeited or otherwise eliminated.
20.13
   
Retirement and Welfare Plans
. Neither Awards made under this Plan nor Shares or cash paid pursuant to such Awards, except pursuant to Covered Employee annual incentive awards, may be included as "compensation" for purposes of computing the benefits payable to any Participant under the Company's or any Subsidiary's or Affiliate's retirement plans (both qualified and nonqualified) or welfare benefit plans unless such other plan expressly provides that such compensation shall be taken into account in computing a Participant's benefit.
20.14
   
Deferred Compensation.
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, the Committee may cause any Award to comply with or to be exempt from Section 409A of the Code and may interpret this Plan in any manner necessary to ensure that Awards under the Plan comply with or are exempt from Section 409A of the Code. In the event that the Committee determines that an Award should comply with or be exempt from Section 409A and that a Plan provision or Award Agreement provision is necessary to ensure that such Award complies with or is exempt from Section 409A of the Code, such provision shall be deemed included in the Plan or such Award Agreement.
20.15
   
Nonexclusivity of This Plan
. The adoption of this Plan shall not be construed as creating any limitations on the power of the Board or Committee to adopt such other compensation arrangements as it may deem desirable for any Participant.
 
Synovus 2007 Omnibus Plan
 
 
20.16
   
No Constraint on Corporate Action
. Nothing in this Plan shall be construed to: (a) limit, impair, or otherwise affect the Company's or a Subsidiary's or an Affiliate's right or power to make adjustments, reclassifications, reorganizations, or changes of its capital or business structure, or to merge or consolidate, or dissolve, liquidate, sell, or transfer all or any part of its business or assets; or, (b) limit the right or power of the Company or a Subsidiary or an Affiliate to take any action which such entity deems to be necessary or appropriate.
20.17
   
Governing Law
. The Plan and each Award Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Georgia, excluding any conflicts or choice of law rule or principle that might otherwise refer construction or interpretation of this Plan to the substantive law of another jurisdiction. Unless otherwise provided in the Award Agreement, recipients of an Award under this Plan are deemed to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction and venue of the federal or state courts of Georgia to resolve any and all issues that may arise out of or relate to this Plan or any related Award Agreement.
20.18
   
Indemnification
.
Subject to requirements of Georgia law, each individual who is or shall have been a member of the Board, or a committee appointed by the Board, or an officer of the Company to whom authority was delegated in accordance with Article 3, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company against and from any loss, cost, liability, or expense that may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred by the Participant in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit, or proceeding to which the Participant may be a party or in which the Participant may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under this Plan and against and from any and all amounts paid by the Participant in settlement thereof, with the Company's approval, or paid by the Participant in satisfaction of any judgment in any such action, suit, or proceeding against the Participant, provided the Participant shall give the Company an opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same before the Participant undertakes to handle and defend it on the Participant's own behalf, unless such loss, cost, liability, or expense is a result of the Participant's own willful misconduct or except as expressly provided by statute.
The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which such individuals may be entitled under the Company's Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or any power that the Company may have to indemnify them or hold them harmless.
 
 
Synovus 2007 Omnibus Plan
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
 
 
THIS RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is made effective as of _____________________, 200__, by and between TOTAL SYSTEM SERVICES, INC., a Georgia corporation (the "Corporation"), and ______________________________ ("Executive").
 
WHEREAS, Executive has been awarded _______ fully paid and non-assessable shares of the Common Stock of the Corporation, par value $0.10 per share ("Shares of Restricted Stock"), pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Corporation's 2007 Omnibus Plan ("Plan") and this Agreement; and
 
WHEREAS, the Shares of Restricted Stock will be held in an account at Mellon Investor Services, LLC ("Mellon") for Executive until the shares become transferable and non-forfeitable in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Agreement.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in accordance with the provisions of the Plan and this Agreement, Executive hereby agrees to the following terms and conditions:
 
 
The Corporation hereby transfers the Shares of Restricted Stock to Executive subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and in this Agreement. Effective upon the date of such transfer, Executive will be the holder of record of the Shares of Restricted Stock and will have all rights of a shareholder with respect to such shares (including the right to vote such shares at any meeting at which the holders of the Corporation's Common Stock may vote, the right to receive all dividends declared and paid upon such shares and the right to exercise any rights or warrants issued in respect of any such shares), subject only to the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and in this Agreement. The Shares of Restricted Stock will be held in an account for Executive at Mellon, who will hold the shares in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and in this Agreement.
 
 
Neither the Shares of Restricted Stock nor any interest in the Shares of Restricted Stock may be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged or hypothecated or otherwise be disposed of or encumbered except at the time(s) and under the circumstances specifically permitted or required by this Agreement including, but not limited to, any pledge of the Shares of Restricted Stock. In the event of any attempt to effect any action in contravention of the next preceding sentence, then, any provision of this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, such Shares of Restricted Stock shall thereupon be forfeited to the Corporation.
 
 
Any Shares of Restricted Stock which do not vest pursuant to the provisions of Section 4 below will be forfeited to the Corporation unless the Corporation's Compensation Committee in its sole discretion determines otherwise, as more fully provided in Section 4 below.
 
 
1
 
 
 
(a)
Vesting Conditions
. If Executive remains in the continuous employ of the Corporation or a Subsidiary of Synovus Financial Corp. or the Corporation through the date(s) indicated in Column I below, the Shares of Restricted Stock will become non-forfeitable (i.e., "vest") to the extent indicated in Column II below:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Such vesting will occur (to the extent indicated in Column (II) above) at the close of business on the applicable date(s) indicated in Column (I) above. Any Shares of Restricted Stock which are not vested on the date of Executive's termination of employment will be forfeited to the Corporation, unless the Compensation Committee in its sole and exclusive discretion determines otherwise.
 
(b)
Effect of Voluntary Termination or Termination for Cause or Suicide
. If Executive's employment with the Corporation and its Subsidiaries is terminated: (i) by Executive voluntarily or (ii) by the Corporation or a Subsidiary for Cause or (iii) by Executive's death due to suicide before all Shares of Restricted Stock vest pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4(a) above, then any Shares of Restricted Stock which are not vested at the time of such termination will be forfeited to the Corporation on the date of such termination, unless the Compensation Committee in its sole and exclusive discretion determines otherwise.
 
 
2
 
 
(c)
Effect of Death (Other Than by Suicide) or Disability
. If Executive's employment with the Corporation and its Subsidiaries terminates by reason of Executive's death (other than by suicide) or Disability, then any Shares of Restricted Stock which are not vested at the time of such termination will become vested automatically.
 
(d)
Effect of Retirement or Leave of Absence
. If Executive's employment with the Corporation and its Subsidiaries is terminated by reason of Executive's Retirement, Executive will receive the Shares of Restricted Stock that are vested on the date of Executive's Retirement. Any Shares of Restricted Stock which are not vested on the date of Executive's Retirement will be forfeited to the Corporation, unless the Compensation Committee in its sole and exclusive discretion determines otherwise. A leave of absence which is approved in writing by the Compensation Committee with specific reference to this Agreement will not be considered a termination of Executive's employment with the Corporation and its subsidiaries for purposes of this Section 4 or any other provision of this Agreement.
 
(e)
No Forfeiture of Vested Shares
. Any Restricted Share which vests pursuant to the preceding provisions of this Section 4 will not thereafter be forfeited. As soon as practicable after any Shares of Restricted Stock vest pursuant to the preceding provisions of this Section 4, Mellon will transfer or deliver such shares to Executive free of any restrictions imposed pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, but not necessarily free of restrictions imposed by applicable securities laws.
 
 
Any Shares of Restricted Stock which are forfeited to the Corporation pursuant to any provision of this Agreement will be surrendered and such shares will thereupon be canceled. All of Executive's rights and interests in and to such shares (including the purchase price, if any, paid for such shares) will terminate upon such forfeiture without any payment of consideration by the Corporation, unless otherwise determined by the Committee.
 
 
(a)
Administration, Interpretation and Construction
. The terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement will be administered, interpreted and construed by the Compensation Committee, whose decisions will be final, conclusive and binding on the Corporation, on Executive and on anyone claiming under or through the Corporation or Executive. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, any determination as to whether an event has occurred or failed to occur which causes the Shares of Restricted Stock to be forfeited pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, will be made in the good faith but absolute discretion of the Compensation Committee. By accepting the transfer of Shares of Restricted Stock, Executive irrevocably consents and agrees to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and to all actions, decisions and determinations to be taken or made by the Compensation Committee in good faith pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.
 
(b)
Withholding
. The Corporation will have the right to withhold from any payments to be made to Executive (whether under this Agreement or otherwise) any taxes the Corporation determines it is required to withhold with respect to Executive under the laws and regulations of any governmental authority, whether Federal, state or local and whether domestic or foreign, in
 
3
 
 
connection with this Agreement, including, without limitation, taxes in connection with the transfer of Shares of Restricted Stock or the lapse of restrictions on Shares of Restricted Stock. Failure to submit any such withholding taxes shall be deemed to cause otherwise lapsed restrictions on Shares of Restricted Stock not to lapse.
 
(c)
Rights Not Assignable or Transferable
. No rights under this Agreement will be assignable or transferable other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, either voluntarily, or, to the full extent permitted by law, involuntarily, by way of encumbrance, pledge, attachment, levy or charge of any nature except as otherwise provided in this Agreement. Executive's rights under this Agreement will be exercisable during Executive's lifetime only by Executive or by Executive's guardian or legal representative.
 
(d)
Terms and Conditions Binding
. The terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and in this Agreement will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Corporation, its successors and assigns, including any assignee of the Corporation and any successor to the Corporation by merger, consolidation or otherwise, and Executive, Executive's heirs, devisees and legal representatives. In addition, the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and in this Agreement will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of Mellon and its successors and assigns.
 
(e)
No Employment Rights
. No provision of this Agreement or the Plan will be deemed to confer upon Executive any right to continue in the employ of the Corporation or a Subsidiary or will in any way affect the right of the Corporation or a Subsidiary to dismiss or otherwise terminate Executive's employment at any time for any reason with or without cause, or will be construed to impose upon the Corporation or a Subsidiary any liability for any forfeiture of Shares of Restricted Stock which may result under this Agreement if Executive's employment is so terminated.
 
(f)
No Liability for Good Faith Business Acts or Omissions
. Executive recognizes and agrees that the Compensation Committee, the Board, or the officers, agents or employees of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries, in their oversight or conduct of the business and affairs of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries, may in good faith cause the Corporation or a Subsidiary to act, or to omit to act, in a manner that may, directly or indirectly, prevent the Shares of Restricted Stock from vesting. No provision of this Agreement will be interpreted or construed to impose any liability upon the Corporation, a Subsidiary, the Compensation Committee, Board or any officer, agent or employee of the Corporation or a Subsidiary, for any forfeiture of Shares of Restricted Stock that may result, directly or indirectly, from any such action or omission.
 
(g)
Recapitalization
. In the event that Executive receives, with respect to Shares of Restricted Stock, any securities or other property (other than cash dividends) as a result of any stock dividend or split, spin-off, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, combination or exchange of shares or a similar corporate change, any such securities or other property received by Executive will likewise be held by Mellon and be subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and will be included in the term "Shares of Restricted Stock."
 
(h)
Appointment of Agent
. By accepting the transfer of Shares of Restricted Stock, Executive irrevocably nominates, constitutes, and appoints Mellon as Executive's agent for purposes of surrendering or transferring the Shares of Restricted Stock to the Corporation upon any forfeiture
 
4
 
 
required or authorized by this Agreement. This power is intended as a power coupled with an interest and will survive Executive's death. In addition, it is intended as a durable power and will survive Executive's disability.
 
(i)
Legal Representative
. In the event of Executive's death or a judicial determination of Executive's incompetence, reference in this Agreement to Executive shall be deemed, where appropriate, to Executive's heirs or devises.
 
(j)
Titles
. The titles to sections or paragraphs of this Agreement are intended solely for convenience and no provision of this Agreement is to be construed by reference to the title of any section or paragraph.
 
(k)
Plan Governs
. The Shares of Restricted Stock are being transferred to Executive pursuant to and subject to the Plan, a copy of which is available upon request to the Corporate Secretary of the Corporation. The provisions of the Plan are incorporated herein by this reference, and all capitalized terms in this Agreement shall have the same meanings given to such terms in the Plan. The terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement will be administered, interpreted and construed in accordance with the Plan, and any such term or condition which cannot be so administered, interpreted or construed will to that extent be disregarded.
 
(l)
Complete Agreement
. This instrument contains the entire agreement of the parties relating to the subject matter of this Agreement and supersedes and replaces all prior agreements and understandings with respect to such subject matter. The parties hereto have made no agreements, representations or warranties relating to the subject matter of this Agreement which are not set forth herein or incorporated by reference.
 
(m)
Amendment; Modification; Waiver
. No provision set forth in this Agreement may be amended, modified or waived unless such amendment, modification or waiver shall be authorized by the Compensation Committee and shall be agreed to in writing, signed by Executive and by an officer of the Corporation duly authorized to do so. No waiver by either party hereto of any breach by the other party of any condition or provision set forth in this Agreement to be performed by such other party will be deemed a waiver of a subsequent breach of such condition or provision, or will be deemed a waiver of a similar or dissimilar provision or condition at the same time or at any prior or subsequent time.
 
(n)
Governing Law
. The validity, interpretation, performance and enforcement of the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement will be governed by the laws of the State of Georgia, the state in which the Corporation is incorporated, without giving effect to the principles of conflicts of law of that state.
 
The Corporation has issued the Shares of Restricted Stock in accordance with the foregoing terms and conditions and in accordance with the provisions of the Plan. By signing below, Executive hereby agrees to the foregoing terms and conditions of the Shares of Restricted Stock.
 
 
5
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Executive has set Executive's hand and seal, effective as of the date and year set forth above.
 
 
 
6
 
 

Exhibit 10.4
RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD AGREEMENT
 
THIS RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is made effective as of _____________________, 2007, by and between TOTAL SYSTEM SERVICES, INC., a Georgia corporation (the "Corporation"), and ______________________________ ("Executive").
 
WHEREAS, Executive has been awarded _______ fully paid and non-assessable shares of the Common Stock of the Corporation, par value $0.10 per share ("Shares of Restricted Stock"), pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Corporation's 2007 Omnibus Plan ("Plan") and this Agreement; and
 
WHEREAS, the Shares of Restricted Stock will be held in an account at Mellon Investor Services, LLC ("Mellon") for Executive until the shares become transferable and non-forfeitable in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Agreement.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in accordance with the provisions of the Plan and this Agreement, Executive hereby agrees to the following terms and conditions:
 
 
The Corporation hereby transfers the Shares of Restricted Stock to Executive subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and in this Agreement. Effective upon the date of such transfer, Executive will be the holder of record of the Shares of Restricted Stock and will have all rights of a shareholder with respect to such shares (including the right to vote such shares at any meeting at which the holders of the Corporation's Common Stock may vote, the right to receive all dividends declared and paid upon such shares and the right to exercise any rights or warrants issued in respect of any such shares), subject only to the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and in this Agreement. The Shares of Restricted Stock will be held in an account for Executive at Mellon, who will hold the shares in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and in this Agreement.
 
 
Neither the Shares of Restricted Stock nor any interest in the Shares of Restricted Stock may be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged or hypothecated or otherwise be disposed of or encumbered except at the time(s) and under the circumstances specifically permitted or required by this Agreement including, but not limited to, any pledge of the Shares of Restricted Stock. In the event of any attempt to effect any action in contravention of the next preceding sentence, then, any provision of this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, such Shares of Restricted Stock shall thereupon be forfeited to the Corporation.
 
 
Any Shares of Restricted Stock which do not vest pursuant to the provisions of Section 4 below will be forfeited to the Corporation, as more fully provided in Section 4 below.
 
 
 
(a)
Vesting Conditions
. The vesting of the Shares of Restricted Stock will occur over a _____ -year period of time, January 1, ____ to December 31, ____ (the "Vesting Period"), unless Executive becomes 100% vested pursuant to this paragraph 4(a) or paragraph 4(c) before December 31, ____, in which case the Vesting Period shall end earlier. Within 90 days after the beginning of each calendar year during the Vesting Period, the Compensation Committee will establish a performance goal for such calendar year based upon the Corporation's earnings per share (each such goal is hereinafter referred to as the "Performance Measure" for the applicable year of the Vesting Period). If the Performance Measure for an applicable year of the Vesting Period is attained, and if Executive remains in the continuous employ of the Corporation or a Subsidiary of Synovus Financial Corp. or the Corporation through December 31 of the applicable year of the Vesting Period, then ___% of the Shares of Restricted Stock will vest as of the date the Compensation Committee determines that the Performance Measure has been attained. Unless previously forfeited pursuant to paragraphs 4(b) or (d), or vested pursuant to paragraph 4(c), any Shares of Restricted Stock that are not vested pursuant to the provisions of this paragraph as a result of the attainment of Performance Measures and continued employment during the Vesting Period automatically will be forfeited to the Corporation.
 
(b)
Effect of Voluntary Termination or Termination for Cause or Suicide
. If Executive's employment with the Corporation and its Subsidiaries is terminated prior to the end of the Vesting Period: (i) by Executive voluntarily or (ii) by the Corporation or a Subsidiary for Cause or (iii) by Executive's death due to suicide before all Shares of Restricted Stock vest pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4(a) above, then any Shares of Restricted Stock which are not vested at the time of such termination will be forfeited to the Corporation on the date of such termination.
 
(c)
Effect of Death (Other Than by Suicide) or Disability
. If Executive's employment with the Corporation and its Subsidiaries terminates prior to the end of the Vesting Period by reason of Executive's death (other than by suicide) or Disability, then any Shares of Restricted Stock which are not vested at the time of such termination will become vested automatically.
 
(d)
Effect of Retirement or Leave of Absence
. If Executive's employment with the Corporation and its Subsidiaries is terminated prior to the end of the Vesting Period by reason of Executive's Retirement, then any Shares of Restricted Stock which are not vested on the date of Executive's Retirement will be forfeited to the Corporation on the date of such Retirement, unless the Compensation Committee in its sole and exclusive discretion determines otherwise. A leave of absence which is approved in writing by the Compensation Committee with specific reference to this Agreement will not be considered a termination of Executive's employment with the Corporation and its subsidiaries for purposes of this Section 4 or any other provision of this Agreement.
 
(e)
No Forfeiture of Vested Shares
. Any Restricted Share which vests pursuant to the preceding provisions of this Section 4 will not thereafter be forfeited. As soon as practicable after any Shares of Restricted Stock vest pursuant to the preceding provisions of this Section 4, Mellon will transfer or deliver such shares to Executive free of any restrictions imposed pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, but not necessarily free of restrictions imposed by applicable securities laws.
 
2
 
 
 
Any Shares of Restricted Stock which are forfeited to the Corporation pursuant to any provision of this Agreement will be surrendered and such shares will thereupon be canceled. All of Executive's rights and interests in and to such shares (including the purchase price, if any, paid for such shares) will terminate upon such forfeiture without any payment of consideration by the Corporation, unless otherwise determined by the Committee.
 
 
(a)
Administration, Interpretation and Construction
. The terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement will be administered, interpreted and construed by the Compensation Committee, whose decisions will be final, conclusive and binding on the Corporation, on Executive and on anyone claiming under or through the Corporation or Executive. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, any determination as to whether an event has occurred or failed to occur which causes the Shares of Restricted Stock to be forfeited pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, will be made in the good faith but absolute discretion of the Compensation Committee. By accepting the transfer of Shares of Restricted Stock, Executive irrevocably consents and agrees to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and to all actions, decisions and determinations to be taken or made by the Compensation Committee in good faith pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.
 
(b)
Withholding
. The Corporation will have the right to withhold from any payments to be made to Executive (whether under this Agreement or otherwise) any taxes the Corporation determines it is required to withhold with respect to Executive under the laws and regulations of any governmental authority, whether Federal, state or local and whether domestic or foreign, in connection with this Agreement, including, without limitation, taxes in connection with the transfer of Shares of Restricted Stock or the lapse of restrictions on Shares of Restricted Stock. Failure to submit any such withholding taxes shall be deemed to cause otherwise lapsed restrictions on Shares of Restricted Stock not to lapse.
 
(c)
Rights Not Assignable or Transferable
. No rights under this Agreement will be assignable or transferable other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, either voluntarily, or, to the full extent permitted by law, involuntarily, by way of encumbrance, pledge, attachment, levy or charge of any nature except as otherwise provided in this Agreement. Executive's rights under this Agreement will be exercisable during Executive's lifetime only by Executive or by Executive's guardian or legal representative.
 
(d)
Terms and Conditions Binding
. The terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and in this Agreement will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Corporation, its successors and assigns, including any assignee of the Corporation and any successor to the Corporation by merger, consolidation or otherwise, and Executive, Executive's heirs, devisees and legal representatives. In addition, the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and in this Agreement will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of Mellon and its successors and assigns.
 
 
3
 
 
(e)
No Employment Rights
. No provision of this Agreement or the Plan will be deemed to confer upon Executive any right to continue in the employ of the Corporation or a Subsidiary or will in any way affect the right of the Corporation or a Subsidiary to dismiss or otherwise terminate Executive's employment at any time for any reason with or without cause, or will be construed to impose upon the Corporation or a Subsidiary any liability for any forfeiture of Shares of Restricted Stock which may result under this Agreement if Executive's employment is so terminated.
 
(f)
No Liability for Good Faith Business Acts or Omissions
. Executive recognizes and agrees that the Compensation Committee, the Board, or the officers, agents or employees of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries, in their oversight or conduct of the business and affairs of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries, may in good faith cause the Corporation or a Subsidiary to act, or to omit to act, in a manner that may, directly or indirectly, prevent the Shares of Restricted Stock from vesting. No provision of this Agreement will be interpreted or construed to impose any liability upon the Corporation, a Subsidiary, the Compensation Committee, Board or any officer, agent or employee of the Corporation or a Subsidiary, for any forfeiture of Shares of Restricted Stock that may result, directly or indirectly, from any such action or omission.
 
(g)
Recapitalization
. In the event that Executive receives, with respect to Shares of Restricted Stock, any securities or other property (other than cash dividends) as a result of any stock dividend or split, spin-off, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, combination or exchange of shares or a similar corporate change, any such securities or other property received by Executive will likewise be held by Mellon and be subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and will be included in the term "Shares of Restricted Stock."
 
(h)
Appointment of Agent
. By accepting the transfer of Shares of Restricted Stock, Executive irrevocably nominates, constitutes, and appoints Mellon as Executive's agent for purposes of surrendering or transferring the Shares of Restricted Stock to the Corporation upon any forfeiture required or authorized by this Agreement. This power is intended as a power coupled with an interest and will survive Executive's death. In addition, it is intended as a durable power and will survive Executive's disability.
 
(i)
Legal Representative
. In the event of Executive's death or a judicial determination of Executive's incompetence, reference in this Agreement to Executive shall be deemed, where appropriate, to Executive's heirs or devises.
 
(j)
Titles
. The titles to sections or paragraphs of this Agreement are intended solely for convenience and no provision of this Agreement is to be construed by reference to the title of any section or paragraph.
 
(k)
Plan Governs
. The Shares of Restricted Stock are being transferred to Executive pursuant to and subject to the Plan, a copy of which is available upon request to the Corporate Secretary of the Corporation. The provisions of the Plan are incorporated herein by this reference, and all capitalized terms in this Agreement shall have the same meanings given to such terms in the Plan. The terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement will be administered, interpreted and construed in accordance with the Plan, and any such term or condition which cannot be so administered, interpreted or construed will to that extent be disregarded.
 
 
4
 
 
(l)
Complete Agreement
. This instrument contains the entire agreement of the parties relating to the subject matter of this Agreement and supersedes and replaces all prior agreements and understandings with respect to such subject matter. The parties hereto have made no agreements, representations or warranties relating to the subject matter of this Agreement which are not set forth herein or incorporated by reference.
 
(m)
Amendment; Modification; Waiver
. No provision set forth in this Agreement may be amended, modified or waived unless such amendment, modification or waiver shall be authorized by the Compensation Committee and shall be agreed to in writing, signed by Executive and by an officer of the Corporation duly authorized to do so. No waiver by either party hereto of any breach by the other party of any condition or provision set forth in this Agreement to be performed by such other party will be deemed a waiver of a subsequent breach of such condition or provision, or will be deemed a waiver of a similar or dissimilar provision or condition at the same time or at any prior or subsequent time.
 
(n)
Governing Law
. The validity, interpretation, performance and enforcement of the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement will be governed by the laws of the State of Georgia, the state in which the Corporation is incorporated, without giving effect to the principles of conflicts of law of that state.
 
The Corporation has issued the Shares of Restricted Stock in accordance with the foregoing terms and conditions and in accordance with the provisions of the Plan. By signing below, Executive hereby agrees to the foregoing terms and conditions of the Shares of Restricted Stock.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Executive has set Executive's hand and seal, effective as of the date and year set forth above.
 
 
 
 
5
 
 

 
Exhibit 10.5
TOTAL SYSTEM SERVICES, INC.
STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT
 
[
DATE]
 
THIS AGREEMENT ("Agreement"), dated as of the ____ day of ___________, 2007, by and between
TOTAL SYSTEM SERVICES, INC.
(the "Company"), a Georgia corporation having its principal office at 1600 First Avenue, Columbus, Georgia, and ___________________________ (the "Option Holder"), an employee of the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company.
 
W
I
T
N
E
S
S
E
T
H
:
 
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Company has adopted the Total System Services, Inc. 2007 Omnibus Plan (the "Plan"); and
 
WHEREAS, the Company recognizes the value to it of the services of the Option Holder and intends to provide the Option Holder with added incentive and inducement to contribute to the success of the Company; and
 
WHEREAS, the Company recognizes the potential benefits of providing employees the opportunity to acquire an equity interest in the Company and to more closely align the personal interests of employees with those of other shareholders; and
 
WHEREAS, effective _______________, pursuant to the Plan, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company: (a) granted to the Option Holder, pursuant to Section 6 of the Plan, an Option in respect of the number of shares herein below set forth, (b) designated the Option a Non-Qualified Stock Option, and (c) fixed and determined the Option price and exercise and termination dates as set forth below.
 
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises and representations herein contained and other good and valuable consideration, it is agreed by and between the parties hereto as follows:
 
1.
            
The terms, provisions and definitions of the Plan are incorporated by reference and made a part hereof. All capitalized terms in this Agreement shall have the same meanings given to such terms in the Plan except where otherwise noted.
 
2.
            
Subject to and in accordance with the provisions of the Plan, the Company hereby grants to the Option Holder a Non-Qualified Stock Option to purchase, on the terms and subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth, all or any part of an aggregate of ____ shares of the Common Stock ($.10 par value) of the Company at the purchase price of $_____ per share, exercisable in the amounts and at the times set forth in this Paragraph 2, unless the Compensation Committee, in its sole and exclusive discretion, shall authorize the Option Holder to exercise all or part of the Option at an earlier date.
 
The Option may be exercised on or after _____________, 20___, as provided in the Plan.
 
[OR]
 
1
 
 
 
The Option may be exercised in accordance with the following schedule as provided in the Plan:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[In addition, the Option may be exercised in the event Option Holder's employment with Company terminates after Option Holder has attained age 62 (or greater) with 15 or more years of service.]
 
Unless sooner terminated as provided in the Plan or in this Agreement, the Option shall terminate, and all rights of the Option Holder hereunder shall expire on ____________, 20___. In no event may the Option be exercised after ___________, 20___.
 
3.
            
The Option or any part thereof, may, to the extent that it is exercisable, be exercised in the manner provided in the Plan. Payment of the aggregate Option price for the number of shares purchased and any withholding taxes shall be made in the manner provided in the Plan.
 
4.
            
The Option or any part thereof may be exercised during the lifetime of the Option Holder only by the Option Holder and only while the Option Holder is in the employ of the Company, except as otherwise provided in the Plan.
 
5.
           
Unless otherwise designated by the Compensation Committee, the Option shall not be transferred, assigned, pledged or hypothecated in any way. Upon any attempt to transfer, assign, pledge, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of a nontransferable Option or any right or privilege confirmed hereby contrary to the provisions hereof, the Option and the rights and privileges confirmed hereby shall immediately become null and void.
 
6.
           
In the event of any merger, reorganization, consolidation, recapitalization, stock dividend, or other change in corporate structure affecting the Company's Stock, any necessary adjustment shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.4 of the Plan.
 
7.
           
In the event of a Change of Control (as defined in Section 2.8 of the Plan), the provisions of Section 15 of the Plan shall apply.
 
8.
           
Any notice to be given to the Company shall be addressed to the President of the Company at 1600 First Avenue, Columbus, Georgia 31901.
 
9.
           
Nothing herein contained shall affect the right of the Option Holder to participate in and receive benefits under and in accordance with the provisions of any pension, insurance or other benefit plan or program of the Company as in effect from time to time and for which the Option Holder is eligible.
 
2
 
 
 
10.
         
Nothing herein contained shall affect the right of the Company, subject to the terms of any written contractual arrangement to the contrary, to terminate the Option Holder's employment at any time for any reason whatsoever.
 
11.
         
This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Option Holder, his personal representatives, heirs legatees, but neither this Agreement nor any rights hereunder shall be assignable or otherwise transferable by the Option Holder except as expressly set forth in this Agreement or in the Plan.
 
Company has issued the Option with foregoing the terms and conditions in accordance with the provisions of the Plan. You will be deemed to have agreed to the foregoing terms and conditions of the Option, unless you object by notifying the Synovus Compensation Department within 30 days after your receipt of this Agreement.
 
 
3
 
 

Exhibit 10.6
 
 
THIS RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is made effective as of _____________________, 2007, by and between SYNOVUS FINANCIAL CORP., a Georgia corporation (the "Corporation"), and ______________________________ ("Executive").
 
WHEREAS, Executive has been awarded _______ fully paid and non-assessable shares of the Common Stock of the Corporation, par value $1.00 per share ("Shares of Restricted Stock"), pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Corporation's 2007 Omnibus Plan ("Plan") and this Agreement; and
 
WHEREAS, the Shares of Restricted Stock will be held in an account at Mellon Investor Services, LLC ("Mellon") for Executive until the shares become transferable and non-forfeitable in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Agreement.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in accordance with the provisions of the Plan and this Agreement, Executive hereby agrees to the following terms and conditions:
 
 
The Corporation hereby transfers the Shares of Restricted Stock to Executive subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and in this Agreement. Effective upon the date of such transfer, Executive will be the holder of record of the Shares of Restricted Stock and will have all rights of a shareholder with respect to such shares (including the right to vote such shares at any meeting at which the holders of the Corporation's Common Stock may vote, the right to receive all dividends declared and paid upon such shares and the right to exercise any rights or warrants issued in respect of any such shares), subject only to the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and in this Agreement. The Shares of Restricted Stock will be held in an account for Executive at Mellon, who will hold the shares in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and in this Agreement.
 
 
Neither the Shares of Restricted Stock nor any interest in the Shares of Restricted Stock may be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged or hypothecated or otherwise be disposed of or encumbered except at the time(s) and under the circumstances specifically permitted or required by this Agreement including, but not limited to, any pledge of the Shares of Restricted Stock. In the event of any attempt to effect any action in contravention of the next preceding sentence, then, any provision of this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, such Shares of Restricted Stock shall thereupon be forfeited to the Corporation.
 
 
Any Shares of Restricted Stock which do not vest pursuant to the provisions of Section 4 below will be forfeited to the Corporation unless the Corporation's Compensation Committee in its sole discretion determines otherwise, as more fully provided in Section 4 below.
 
 
1
 
 
 
(a)
Vesting Conditions
. If Executive remains in the continuous employ of the Corporation or a Subsidiary of the Corporation through the date(s) indicated in Column I below, the Shares of Restricted Stock will become non-forfeitable (i.e., "vest") to the extent indicated in Column II below:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Such vesting will occur (to the extent indicated in Column (II) above) at the close of business on the applicable date(s) indicated in Column (I) above. Any Shares of Restricted Stock which are not vested on the date of Executive's termination of employment will be forfeited to the Corporation, unless the Compensation Committee in its sole and exclusive discretion determines otherwise.
 
(b)
Effect of Voluntary Termination or Termination for Cause or Suicide
. If Executive's employment with the Corporation and its Subsidiaries is terminated: (i) by Executive voluntarily or (ii) by the Corporation or a Subsidiary for Cause or (iii) by Executive's death due to suicide before all Shares of Restricted Stock vest pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4(a) above, then any Shares of Restricted Stock which are not vested at the time of such termination will be forfeited to the Corporation on the date of such termination, unless the Compensation Committee in its sole and exclusive discretion determines otherwise.
 
 
2
 
 
(c)
Effect of Death (Other Than by Suicide) or Disability
. If Executive's employment with the Corporation and its Subsidiaries terminates by reason of Executive's death (other than by suicide) or Disability, then any Shares of Restricted Stock which are not vested at the time of such termination will become vested automatically.
 
(d)
Effect of Retirement or Leave of Absence
. If Executive's employment with the Corporation and its Subsidiaries is terminated by reason of Executive's Retirement, Executive will receive the Shares of Restricted Stock that are vested on the date of Executive's Retirement. Any Shares of Restricted Stock which are not vested on the date of Executive's Retirement will be forfeited to the Corporation, unless the Compensation Committee in its sole and exclusive discretion determines otherwise. A leave of absence which is approved in writing by the Compensation Committee with specific reference to this Agreement will not be considered a termination of Executive's employment with the Corporation and its subsidiaries for purposes of this Section 4 or any other provision of this Agreement.
 
(e)
No Forfeiture of Vested Shares
. Any Restricted Share which vests pursuant to the preceding provisions of this Section 4 will not thereafter be forfeited. As soon as practicable after any Shares of Restricted Stock vest pursuant to the preceding provisions of this Section 4, Mellon will transfer or deliver such shares to Executive free of any restrictions imposed pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, but not necessarily free of restrictions imposed by applicable securities laws.
 
 
Any Shares of Restricted Stock which are forfeited to the Corporation pursuant to any provision of this Agreement will be surrendered and such shares will thereupon be canceled. All of Executive's rights and interests in and to such shares (including the purchase price, if any, paid for such shares) will terminate upon such forfeiture without any payment of consideration by the Corporation, unless otherwise determined by the Committee.
 
 
(a)
Administration, Interpretation and Construction
. The terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement will be administered, interpreted and construed by the Compensation Committee, whose decisions will be final, conclusive and binding on the Corporation, on Executive and on anyone claiming under or through the Corporation or Executive. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, any determination as to whether an event has occurred or failed to occur which causes the Shares of Restricted Stock to be forfeited pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, will be made in the good faith but absolute discretion of the Compensation Committee. By accepting the transfer of Shares of Restricted Stock, Executive irrevocably consents and agrees to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and to all actions, decisions and determinations to be taken or made by the Compensation Committee in good faith pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.
 
(b)
Withholding
. The Corporation will have the right to withhold from any payments to be made to Executive (whether under this Agreement or otherwise) any taxes the Corporation determines it is required to withhold with respect to Executive under the laws and regulations of any governmental authority, whether Federal, state or local and whether domestic or foreign, in
 
3
 
 
connection with this Agreement, including, without limitation, taxes in connection with the transfer of Shares of Restricted Stock or the lapse of restrictions on Shares of Restricted Stock. Failure to submit any such withholding taxes shall be deemed to cause otherwise lapsed restrictions on Shares of Restricted Stock not to lapse.
 
(c)
Rights Not Assignable or Transferable
. No rights under this Agreement will be assignable or transferable other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, either voluntarily, or, to the full extent permitted by law, involuntarily, by way of encumbrance, pledge, attachment, levy or charge of any nature except as otherwise provided in this Agreement. Executive's rights under this Agreement will be exercisable during Executive's lifetime only by Executive or by Executive's guardian or legal representative.
 
(d)
Terms and Conditions Binding
. The terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and in this Agreement will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Corporation, its successors and assigns, including any assignee of the Corporation and any successor to the Corporation by merger, consolidation or otherwise, and Executive, Executive's heirs, devisees and legal representatives. In addition, the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and in this Agreement will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of Mellon and its successors and assigns.
 
(e)
No Employment Rights
. No provision of this Agreement or the Plan will be deemed to confer upon Executive any right to continue in the employ of the Corporation or a Subsidiary or will in any way affect the right of the Corporation or a Subsidiary to dismiss or otherwise terminate Executive's employment at any time for any reason with or without cause, or will be construed to impose upon the Corporation or a Subsidiary any liability for any forfeiture of Shares of Restricted Stock which may result under this Agreement if Executive's employment is so terminated.
 
(f)
No Liability for Good Faith Business Acts or Omissions
. Executive recognizes and agrees that the Compensation Committee, the Board, or the officers, agents or employees of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries, in their oversight or conduct of the business and affairs of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries, may in good faith cause the Corporation or a Subsidiary to act, or to omit to act, in a manner that may, directly or indirectly, prevent the Shares of Restricted Stock from vesting. No provision of this Agreement will be interpreted or construed to impose any liability upon the Corporation, a Subsidiary, the Compensation Committee, Board or any officer, agent or employee of the Corporation or a Subsidiary, for any forfeiture of Shares of Restricted Stock that may result, directly or indirectly, from any such action or omission.
 
(g)
Recapitalization
. In the event that Executive receives, with respect to Shares of Restricted Stock, any securities or other property (other than cash dividends) as a result of any stock dividend or split, spin-off, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, combination or exchange of shares or a similar corporate change, any such securities or other property received by Executive will likewise be held by Mellon and be subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and will be included in the term "Shares of Restricted Stock."
 
(h)
Appointment of Agent
. By accepting the transfer of Shares of Restricted Stock, Executive irrevocably nominates, constitutes, and appoints Mellon as Executive's agent for purposes of surrendering or transferring the Shares of Restricted Stock to the Corporation upon any forfeiture
 
4
 
 
required or authorized by this Agreement. This power is intended as a power coupled with an interest and will survive Executive's death. In addition, it is intended as a durable power and will survive Executive's disability.
 
(i)
Legal Representative
. In the event of Executive's death or a judicial determination of Executive's incompetence, reference in this Agreement to Executive shall be deemed, where appropriate, to Executive's heirs or devises.
 
(j)
Titles
. The titles to sections or paragraphs of this Agreement are intended solely for convenience and no provision of this Agreement is to be construed by reference to the title of any section or paragraph.
 
(k)
Plan Governs
. The Shares of Restricted Stock are being transferred to Executive pursuant to and subject to the Plan, a copy of which is available upon request to the Corporate Secretary of the Corporation. The provisions of the Plan are incorporated herein by this reference, and all capitalized terms in this Agreement shall have the same meanings given to such terms in the Plan. The terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement will be administered, interpreted and construed in accordance with the Plan, and any such term or condition which cannot be so administered, interpreted or construed will to that extent be disregarded.
 
(l)
Complete Agreement
. This instrument contains the entire agreement of the parties relating to the subject matter of this Agreement and supersedes and replaces all prior agreements and understandings with respect to such subject matter. The parties hereto have made no agreements, representations or warranties relating to the subject matter of this Agreement which are not set forth herein or incorporated by reference.
 
(m)
Amendment; Modification; Waiver
. No provision set forth in this Agreement may be amended, modified or waived unless such amendment, modification or waiver shall be authorized by the Compensation Committee and shall be agreed to in writing, signed by Executive and by an officer of the Corporation duly authorized to do so. No waiver by either party hereto of any breach by the other party of any condition or provision set forth in this Agreement to be performed by such other party will be deemed a waiver of a subsequent breach of such condition or provision, or will be deemed a waiver of a similar or dissimilar provision or condition at the same time or at any prior or subsequent time.
 
(n)
Governing Law
. The validity, interpretation, performance and enforcement of the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement will be governed by the laws of the State of Georgia, the state in which the Corporation is incorporated, without giving effect to the principles of conflicts of law of that state.
 
The Corporation has issued the Shares of Restricted Stock in accordance with the foregoing terms and conditions and in accordance with the provisions of the Plan. By signing below, Executive hereby agrees to the foregoing terms and conditions of the Shares of Restricted Stock.
 
 
5
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Executive has set Executive's hand and seal, effective as of the date and year set forth above.
 
 
 
6
 
 

Exhibit 10.7
RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD AGREEMENT
 
THIS RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is made effective as of _____________________, 2007, by and between SYNOVUS FINANCIAL CORP., a Georgia corporation (the "Corporation"), and ______________________________ ("Executive").
 
WHEREAS, Executive has been awarded _______ fully paid and non-assessable shares of the Common Stock of the Corporation, par value $1.00 per share ("Shares of Restricted Stock"), pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Corporation's 2007 Omnibus Plan ("Plan") and this Agreement; and
 
WHEREAS, the Shares of Restricted Stock will be held in an account at Mellon Investor Services, LLC ("Mellon") for Executive until the shares become transferable and non-forfeitable in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Agreement.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in accordance with the provisions of the Plan and this Agreement, Executive hereby agrees to the following terms and conditions:
 
 
The Corporation hereby transfers the Shares of Restricted Stock to Executive subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and in this Agreement. Effective upon the date of such transfer, Executive will be the holder of record of the Shares of Restricted Stock and will have all rights of a shareholder with respect to such shares (including the right to vote such shares at any meeting at which the holders of the Corporation's Common Stock may vote, the right to receive all dividends declared and paid upon such shares and the right to exercise any rights or warrants issued in respect of any such shares), subject only to the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and in this Agreement. The Shares of Restricted Stock will be held in an account for Executive at Mellon, who will hold the shares in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and in this Agreement.
 
 
Neither the Shares of Restricted Stock nor any interest in the Shares of Restricted Stock may be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged or hypothecated or otherwise be disposed of or encumbered except at the time(s) and under the circumstances specifically permitted or required by this Agreement including, but not limited to, any pledge of the Shares of Restricted Stock. In the event of any attempt to effect any action in contravention of the next preceding sentence, then, any provision of this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, such Shares of Restricted Stock shall thereupon be forfeited to the Corporation.
 
 
Any Shares of Restricted Stock which do not vest pursuant to the provisions of Section 4 below will be forfeited to the Corporation, as more fully provided in Section 4 below.
 
 
 
(a)
Vesting Conditions
. The vesting of the Shares of Restricted Stock will occur over a _____ -year period of time, January 1, ____ to December 31, ____ (the "Vesting Period"), unless Executive becomes 100% vested pursuant to this paragraph 4(a) or paragraph 4(c) before December 31, ____, in which case the Vesting Period shall end earlier. Within 90 days after the beginning of each calendar year during the Vesting Period, the Compensation Committee will establish a performance goal for such calendar year based upon the Corporation's earnings per share (each such goal is hereinafter referred to as the "Performance Measure" for the applicable year of the Vesting Period). If the Performance Measure for an applicable year of the Vesting Period is attained, and if Executive remains in the continuous employ of the Corporation or a Subsidiary of the Corporation through December 31 of the applicable year of the Vesting Period, then ___% of the Shares of Restricted Stock will vest as of the date the Compensation Committee determines that the Performance Measure has been attained. Unless previously forfeited pursuant to paragraphs 4(b) or (d), or vested pursuant to paragraph 4(c), any Shares of Restricted Stock that are not vested pursuant to the provisions of this paragraph as a result of the attainment of Performance Measures and continued employment during the Vesting Period automatically will be forfeited to the Corporation.
 
(b)
Effect of Voluntary Termination or Termination for Cause or Suicide
. If Executive's employment with the Corporation and its Subsidiaries is terminated prior to the end of the Vesting Period: (i) by Executive voluntarily or (ii) by the Corporation or a Subsidiary for Cause or (iii) by Executive's death due to suicide before all Shares of Restricted Stock vest pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4(a) above, then any Shares of Restricted Stock which are not vested at the time of such termination will be forfeited to the Corporation on the date of such termination.
 
(c)
Effect of Death (Other Than by Suicide) or Disability
. If Executive's employment with the Corporation and its Subsidiaries terminates prior to the end of the Vesting Period by reason of Executive's death (other than by suicide) or Disability, then any Shares of Restricted Stock which are not vested at the time of such termination will become vested automatically.
 
(d)
Effect of Retirement or Leave of Absence
. If Executive's employment with the Corporation and its Subsidiaries is terminated prior to the end of the Vesting Period by reason of Executive's Retirement, then any Shares of Restricted Stock which are not vested on the date of Executive's Retirement will be forfeited to the Corporation on the date of such Retirement, unless the Compensation Committee in its sole and exclusive discretion determines otherwise. A leave of absence which is approved in writing by the Compensation Committee with specific reference to this Agreement will not be considered a termination of Executive's employment with the Corporation and its subsidiaries for purposes of this Section 4 or any other provision of this Agreement.
 
(e)
No Forfeiture of Vested Shares
. Any Restricted Share which vests pursuant to the preceding provisions of this Section 4 will not thereafter be forfeited. As soon as practicable after any Shares of Restricted Stock vest pursuant to the preceding provisions of this Section 4, Mellon will transfer or deliver such shares to Executive free of any restrictions imposed pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, but not necessarily free of restrictions imposed by applicable securities laws.
 
2
 
 
 
Any Shares of Restricted Stock which are forfeited to the Corporation pursuant to any provision of this Agreement will be surrendered and such shares will thereupon be canceled. All of Executive's rights and interests in and to such shares (including the purchase price, if any, paid for such shares) will terminate upon such forfeiture without any payment of consideration by the Corporation, unless otherwise determined by the Committee.
 
 
(a)
Administration, Interpretation and Construction
. The terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement will be administered, interpreted and construed by the Compensation Committee, whose decisions will be final, conclusive and binding on the Corporation, on Executive and on anyone claiming under or through the Corporation or Executive. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, any determination as to whether an event has occurred or failed to occur which causes the Shares of Restricted Stock to be forfeited pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, will be made in the good faith but absolute discretion of the Compensation Committee. By accepting the transfer of Shares of Restricted Stock, Executive irrevocably consents and agrees to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and to all actions, decisions and determinations to be taken or made by the Compensation Committee in good faith pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.
 
(b)
Withholding
. The Corporation will have the right to withhold from any payments to be made to Executive (whether under this Agreement or otherwise) any taxes the Corporation determines it is required to withhold with respect to Executive under the laws and regulations of any governmental authority, whether Federal, state or local and whether domestic or foreign, in connection with this Agreement, including, without limitation, taxes in connection with the transfer of Shares of Restricted Stock or the lapse of restrictions on Shares of Restricted Stock. Failure to submit any such withholding taxes shall be deemed to cause otherwise lapsed restrictions on Shares of Restricted Stock not to lapse.
 
(c)
Rights Not Assignable or Transferable
. No rights under this Agreement will be assignable or transferable other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, either voluntarily, or, to the full extent permitted by law, involuntarily, by way of encumbrance, pledge, attachment, levy or charge of any nature except as otherwise provided in this Agreement. Executive's rights under this Agreement will be exercisable during Executive's lifetime only by Executive or by Executive's guardian or legal representative.
 
(d)
Terms and Conditions Binding
. The terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and in this Agreement will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Corporation, its successors and assigns, including any assignee of the Corporation and any successor to the Corporation by merger, consolidation or otherwise, and Executive, Executive's heirs, devisees and legal representatives. In addition, the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and in this Agreement will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of Mellon and its successors and assigns.
 
 
3
 
 
(e)
No Employment Rights
. No provision of this Agreement or the Plan will be deemed to confer upon Executive any right to continue in the employ of the Corporation or a Subsidiary or will in any way affect the right of the Corporation or a Subsidiary to dismiss or otherwise terminate Executive's employment at any time for any reason with or without cause, or will be construed to impose upon the Corporation or a Subsidiary any liability for any forfeiture of Shares of Restricted Stock which may result under this Agreement if Executive's employment is so terminated.
 
(f)
No Liability for Good Faith Business Acts or Omissions
. Executive recognizes and agrees that the Compensation Committee, the Board, or the officers, agents or employees of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries, in their oversight or conduct of the business and affairs of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries, may in good faith cause the Corporation or a Subsidiary to act, or to omit to act, in a manner that may, directly or indirectly, prevent the Shares of Restricted Stock from vesting. No provision of this Agreement will be interpreted or construed to impose any liability upon the Corporation, a Subsidiary, the Compensation Committee, Board or any officer, agent or employee of the Corporation or a Subsidiary, for any forfeiture of Shares of Restricted Stock that may result, directly or indirectly, from any such action or omission.
 
(g)
Recapitalization
. In the event that Executive receives, with respect to Shares of Restricted Stock, any securities or other property (other than cash dividends) as a result of any stock dividend or split, spin-off, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, combination or exchange of shares or a similar corporate change, any such securities or other property received by Executive will likewise be held by Mellon and be subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and will be included in the term "Shares of Restricted Stock."
 
(h)
Appointment of Agent
. By accepting the transfer of Shares of Restricted Stock, Executive irrevocably nominates, constitutes, and appoints Mellon as Executive's agent for purposes of surrendering or transferring the Shares of Restricted Stock to the Corporation upon any forfeiture required or authorized by this Agreement. This power is intended as a power coupled with an interest and will survive Executive's death. In addition, it is intended as a durable power and will survive Executive's disability.
 
(i)
Legal Representative
. In the event of Executive's death or a judicial determination of Executive's incompetence, reference in this Agreement to Executive shall be deemed, where appropriate, to Executive's heirs or devises.
 
(j)
Titles
. The titles to sections or paragraphs of this Agreement are intended solely for convenience and no provision of this Agreement is to be construed by reference to the title of any section or paragraph.
 
(k)
Plan Governs
. The Shares of Restricted Stock are being transferred to Executive pursuant to and subject to the Plan, a copy of which is available upon request to the Corporate Secretary of the Corporation. The provisions of the Plan are incorporated herein by this reference, and all capitalized terms in this Agreement shall have the same meanings given to such terms in the Plan. The terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement will be administered, interpreted and construed in accordance with the Plan, and any such term or condition which cannot be so administered, interpreted or construed will to that extent be disregarded.
 
 
4
 
 
(l)
Complete Agreement
. This instrument contains the entire agreement of the parties relating to the subject matter of this Agreement and supersedes and replaces all prior agreements and understandings with respect to such subject matter. The parties hereto have made no agreements, representations or warranties relating to the subject matter of this Agreement which are not set forth herein or incorporated by reference.
 
(m)
Amendment; Modification; Waiver
. No provision set forth in this Agreement may be amended, modified or waived unless such amendment, modification or waiver shall be authorized by the Compensation Committee and shall be agreed to in writing, signed by Executive and by an officer of the Corporation duly authorized to do so. No waiver by either party hereto of any breach by the other party of any condition or provision set forth in this Agreement to be performed by such other party will be deemed a waiver of a subsequent breach of such condition or provision, or will be deemed a waiver of a similar or dissimilar provision or condition at the same time or at any prior or subsequent time.
 
(n)
Governing Law
. The validity, interpretation, performance and enforcement of the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement will be governed by the laws of the State of Georgia, the state in which the Corporation is incorporated, without giving effect to the principles of conflicts of law of that state.
 
The Corporation has issued the Shares of Restricted Stock in accordance with the foregoing terms and conditions and in accordance with the provisions of the Plan. By signing below, Executive hereby agrees to the foregoing terms and conditions of the Shares of Restricted Stock.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Executive has set Executive's hand and seal, effective as of the date and year set forth above.
 
 
 
 
5
 
 

 
Exhibit 10.8
SYNOVUS FINANCIAL CORP.
STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT
 
[
DATE]
 
THIS AGREEMENT ("Agreement"), dated as of the ___ day of _____________, 2007, by and between
SYNOVUS FINANCIAL CORP.
(the "Company"), a Georgia corporation having its principal office at 1111 Bay Avenue, Suite 500, Columbus, Georgia, and ___________________________ (the "Option Holder"), an employee of the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company.
 
W
I
T
N
E
S
S
E
T
H
:
 
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Company has adopted the Synovus Financial Corp. 2007 Omnibus Plan (the "Plan"); and
 
WHEREAS, the Company recognizes the value to it of the services of the Option Holder and intends to provide the Option Holder with added incentive and inducement to contribute to the success of the Company; and
 
WHEREAS, the Company recognizes the potential benefits of providing employees the opportunity to acquire an equity interest in the Company and to more closely align the personal interests of employees with those of other shareholders; and
 
WHEREAS, effective _____________, pursuant to the Plan, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company: (a) granted to the Option Holder, pursuant to Section 6 of the Plan, an Option in respect of the number of shares herein below set forth, (b) designated the Option a Non-Qualified Stock Option, and (c) fixed and determined the Option price and exercise and termination dates as set forth below.
 
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises and representations herein contained and other good and valuable consideration, it is agreed by and between the parties hereto as follows:
 
1.
            
The terms, provisions and definitions of the Plan are incorporated by reference and made a part hereof. All capitalized terms in this Agreement shall have the same meanings given to such terms in the Plan except where otherwise noted.
 
2.
            
Subject to and in accordance with the provisions of the Plan, the Company hereby grants to the Option Holder a Non-Qualified Stock Option to purchase, on the terms and subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth, all or any part of an aggregate of _________________
shares of the Common Stock ($1.00 par value) of the Company at the purchase price of $____ per share, exercisable in the amounts and at the times set forth in this Paragraph 2, unless the Compensation Committee, in its sole and exclusive discretion, shall authorize the Option Holder to exercise all or part of the Option at an earlier date.
 
The Option may be exercised on or after ______________, as provided in the Plan.
 
[OR]
 
1
 
 
 
The Option may be exercised in accordance with the following schedule as provided in the Plan:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[In addition, the Option may be exercised in the event Option Holder's employment with Company terminates after Option Holder has attained age 62 (or greater) with 15 or more years of service.]
 
Unless sooner terminated as provided in the Plan or in this Agreement, the Option shall terminate, and all rights of the Option Holder hereunder shall expire on _____________. In no event may the Option be exercised after _____________.
 
3.
           
The Option or any part thereof, may, to the extent that it is exercisable, be exercised in the manner provided in the Plan. Payment of the aggregate Option price for the number of shares purchased and any withholding taxes shall be made in the manner provided in the Plan.
 
4.
           
The Option or any part thereof may be exercised during the lifetime of the Option Holder only by the Option Holder and only while the Option Holder is in the employ of the Company, except as otherwise provided in the Plan.
 
5.
           
Unless otherwise designated by the Compensation Committee, the Option shall not be transferred, assigned, pledged or hypothecated in any way. Upon any attempt to transfer, assign, pledge, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of a nontransferable Option or any right or privilege confirmed hereby contrary to the provisions hereof, the Option and the rights and privileges confirmed hereby shall immediately become null and void.
 
6.
           
In the event of any merger, reorganization, consolidation, recapitalization, stock dividend, or other change in corporate structure affecting the Company's Stock, any necessary adjustment shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.4 of the Plan.
 
7.
           
In the event of a Change of Control (as defined in Section 2.8 of the Plan), the provisions of Section 15 of the Plan shall apply.
 
8.
           
Any notice to be given to the Company shall be addressed to the President of the Company at 1111 Bay Avenue, Suite 500, Columbus, Georgia 31901.
 
9.
           
Nothing herein contained shall affect the right of the Option Holder to participate in and receive benefits under and in accordance with the provisions of any pension, insurance or other benefit plan or program of the Company as in effect from time to time and for which the Option Holder is eligible.
 
2
 
 
 
10.
         
Nothing herein contained shall affect the right of the Company, subject to the terms of any written contractual arrangement to the contrary, to terminate the Option Holder's employment at any time for any reason whatsoever.
 
11.
         
This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Option Holder, his personal representatives, heirs legatees, but neither this Agreement nor any rights hereunder shall be assignable or otherwise transferable by the Option Holder except as expressly set forth in this Agreement or in the Plan.
 
Company has issued the Option with foregoing the terms and conditions in accordance with the provisions of the Plan. You will be deemed to have agreed to the foregoing terms and conditions of the Option, unless you object by notifying the Synovus Compensation Department within 30 days after your receipt of this Agreement.
 
 
3
 
 


