FILE:TSS/TSS-8K-20081202160533.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
Form 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
December 2, 2008
Date of Report (Date of Earliest Event Reported)
 
Total System Services, Inc.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
 
 
One TSYS Way, Columbus, Georgia 31901
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
 
(706) 649-2267
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
 
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
Signature
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, TSYS has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Total System Services, Inc.
 
 
For immediate release:
 
Contacts:
 
 
Chase to Take Washington Mutual's Card Business In House
 
Columbus, Ga., December 2, 2008 
TSYS announced today that it has entered into an agreement with JPMorgan Chase (Chase) with respect to the discontinuation of the servicing of Washington Mutual Bank's (WaMu's) consumer card portfolio by TSYS. In addition, the parties agreed to an extension of the processing agreement between TSYS and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (Toronto Branch) for its Canadian card business through April 30, 2012. Chase will pay TSYS fees for deconversion and termination which both parties have agreed not to disclose. The deconversion is expected to take place in March 2009 after which Chase will process the WaMu portfolio in house on the technology platform it licenses from TSYS.
Chase acquired WaMu's portfolio in September 2008 as part of its purchase and assumption agreement with the FDIC regarding the assets and liabilities of WaMu.
WaMu accounted for less than 4 percent of TSYS' revenues for the first nine months of 2008. The loss of WaMu is not expected to have a material adverse effect on TSYS' financial condition.
 
TSYS (NYSE: TSS) is one of the world's largest companies for outsourced payment services, offering a broad range of issuer- and acquirer-processing technologies that support consumer-finance, credit, debit, debt management, healthcare, loyalty and prepaid services for financial institutions and retail companies in the Americas, EMEA and Asia-Pacific regions. For more information contact
news@tsys.com
or log on to
www.tsys.com.
TSYS routinely posts all important information on its website.
more
 
 
2008
 
 
 
 
Chase to Take Washington Mutual's Card Business In House/p. 2
This press release contains statements that constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include, among others, statements regarding the expected deconversion of the WaMu portfolio in March 2009 and TSYS' expectation that the loss of WaMu will not have a material adverse effect on TSYS. These statements are based on the current beliefs and expectations of TSYS' management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by our forward-looking statements in this press release. Many of these factors are beyond TSYS' ability to control or predict. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in this release can be found in TSYS' filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K. We believe these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, undue reliance should not be placed on any forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations. We do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
###
 
2008
 
 


