FILE:TSS/TSS-8K-20081009191001.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, Registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
Shawn Roberts TSYS Investor Relations +1.706.644.6081
shawnroberts@tsys.com
 TSYS today announced its financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2008. Total revenues grew 9.4% to $500.4 million compared to $457.6 million in the prior year. Earnings per share for the third quarter were $0.33.
Columbus, Ga., October 9, 2008
          "In spite of the turbulent economic times, we had a good quarter, fueled by revenue growth in our North American and Global Services segments, and decided to release our earnings early," said Philip W. Tomlinson, chairman and chief executive officer of TSYS. "While much depends on consumer confidence and, as always, the upcoming holiday shopping season, which we now believe will be slow, we are reaffirming our net income guidance of an increase of 5% to 7%," added Tomlinson.
Key Segment Results for the Third Quarter
North American Services
Global Services
 
 
Merchant Services
Conference Call
           TSYS will host its quarterly conference call at 8:00 a.m. EDT, Friday, October 10, 2008. The conference call can be accessed via simultaneous Internet broadcast at by clicking on the "Conference Call" icon on the homepage. The replay will be archived for 12 months and will be available approximately 30 minutes after the completion of the call.
tsys.com
About TSYS
           TSYS (NYSE:TSS) is one of the world's largest companies for outsourced payment services, offering a broad range of issuer- and acquirer-processing technologies that support consumer-finance, credit, debit, debt management, healthcare, loyalty and prepaid services for financial institutions and retail companies in the Americas, EMEA and Asia-Pacific regions. For more information contact or log on to . TSYS routinely posts all important information on its web site.
news@tsys.com
www.tsys.com
This press release contains statements that constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include, among others, statements regarding TSYS' earnings forecast for 2008, and the assumptions underlying such statements. These statements are based on the current beliefs and expectations of TSYS' management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by our forward-looking statements in this press release. Many of these factors are beyond TSYS' ability to control or predict. These factors include, but are not limited to: (1) revenues that are lower than anticipated; (2) expenses associated with the spin-off are higher than expected; (3) movements in LIBOR are greater than expected and draws on the revolving credit facility are greater than expected; (4) TSYS incurs expenses associated with the signing of a significant client; (5) adverse developments with respect to foreign currency exchange rates; (6) adverse developments with respect to entering into contracts with new clients and retaining current clients; (7) TSYS is unable to control expenses and increase market share; (8) TSYS is unable to manage the impact of slowing economic conditions and consumer spending; and (9) the impact of potential and completed acquisitions, including the costs associated therewith and their being more difficult to integrate than anticipated. Additional factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in this release can be found in TSYS' filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K. We believe these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, undue reliance should not be placed on any forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations. We do not assume any obligation to
 
 
update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.

Exhibit 99.2
TSYS Announces Third Quarter 2008 Earnings Page 4 of 7
 
 
TSYS Announces Third Quarter 2008 Earnings Page 5 of 7
 
TSYS Announces Third Quarter 2008 Earnings
Page 6 of 7
 
TSYS Announces Third Quarter 2008 Earnings
Page 7 of 7


