FILE:TSS/TSS-8K-20080428184848.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
Form 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
April 28, 2008
Date of Report (Date of Earliest Event Reported)
 
Total System Services, Inc.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
 
 
1600 First Avenue, Columbus, Georgia 31901
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
 
(706) 649-2267
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
 
________________________________________________
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
Signature
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, Registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Total System Services, Inc.
 
 
 
Contacts:
 
 
TSYS Reports Results for First Quarter 2008
 
Columbus, Ga., April 28, 2008
TSYS today announced first quarter of 2008 total revenues of $462 million, operating income of $87 million, net income of $57 million, and basic earnings per share of $0.29 on a generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) basis. Included in operating expenses in the quarter were $6.9 million of non-recurring spin-related expenses, or approximately $0.02 per share. Excluding these one-time items related to the spin-off of TSYS by its former parent, Synovus Financial Corp., on December 31, 2007, non-GAAP earnings per share for the quarter were $0.31.
 
First Quarter Financial Highlights
 
Page 1 of 13
"Our outstanding first quarter results as a fully independent, publicly traded company reflect our
commitment to our core processing business and our global market strategy. We continue to benefit from the secular trend of increased usage of electronic payments and transactions over the use of cash and checks. Our operating margins remain steady and our organic revenue growth of 11% continues to support our business model of providing our services faster, cheaper and better than our competitors. Our non-operating income is down due to the payment of the $600 million special cash dividend at the end of last year in connection with the spin-off," said Philip W. Tomlinson, chairman of the board and chief executive officer of TSYS.
"We are on track to achieve our previously announced guidance to grow both total revenues and net income in 2008 over 2007 in the range of 7% to 9%, and to grow our operating income in the double digit range of 12% to 14%. With our strong and stable cash flow, we expect to bring the bottom line growth right along with the operating income growth," said Tomlinson.
This press release includes pro forma financial information that is not in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP measures is included in this press release in the form of tables that should be read in conjunction with this pro forma information.
 
Recent Highlights
 
Page 2 of 13
 
Page 3 of 13
Projected Outlook for 2008
TSYS' expects its 2008 net income to increase between 7-9%, as compared to 2007, based on the
following assumptions:
 
 
 
Page 4 of 13
            Presentation of revenues and earnings excluding the spin-related costs, revenues associated with deconverted portfolios, and reimbursable items are non-GAAP financial measures. The following table is a reconciliation of the range of changes from 2007 to 2008, comparing non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures for 2007 and estimated financial measures for 2008.
 
 
 
 
Page 5 of 13
            
TSYS believes the table above and the table on page 13 present meaningful information to assist investors in understanding the company's changes in total revenues and net income from estimates in changes from 2007 to 2008 as a result of deconverted portfolios and spin-related costs as the non-GAAP financial measures exclude amounts that the company does not consider part of ongoing operating results. TSYS believes the information is useful for investors because it can provide a more complete understanding of TSYS' underlying operational performance. The non-GAAP financial percentage changes should not be considered by themselves or as a substitute for the GAAP percentage changes year over year. The non-GAAP measures should be considered as an additional view of the way TSYS' financial measures are affected by deconverted portfolios, reimbursable items and spin-related costs; and should be used in conjunction with all publicly filed financial statements and reports.
Conference Call
TSYS will host its quarterly conference call at 8:30 a.m. EDT, Tuesday, April 29, 2008. The
conference call can be accessed via simultaneous Internet broadcast at tsys.com by clicking on the "Conference Call" icon on the homepage. The replay will be archived for 12 months and will be available approximately 30 minutes after the completion of the call.
About TSYS
TSYS (
www.tsys.com
) is one of the world's largest companies for outsourced payment services, offering a broad range of issuer- and acquirer-processing technologies that support consumer-finance, credit, debit, debt management, healthcare, loyalty, prepaid services and debt management for financial institutions and retail companies in the Americas, EMEA and Asia-Pacific regions. For more information, contact
news@tsys.com
.
This press release contains statements that constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include, among others, statements regarding TSYS' earnings forecast for 2008, and the assumptions underlying such statements. These statements are based on the current beliefs and expectations of TSYS' management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by our forward-looking statements in this press release. Many of these factors are beyond TSYS' ability to control or predict. These factors include, but are not limited to, one or more of the assumptions upon which TSYS' 2008 earnings forecast is based are incorrect. Additional factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in this release can be found in TSYS' filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K. We believe these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, undue reliance should not be placed on any forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations. We do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
 2008 Total System Services, Inc. All rights reserved worldwide. Total System Services, Inc. and TSYS are federally registered service marks of Total System Services, Inc., in the United States. n>genuity in action: n>gen is a service mark of Total System Services, Inc., in the United States and in other countries. Total System Services, Inc., and its affiliates own a number of service marks that are registered in the United States and in other countries. All other products and company names are trademarks of their respective companies.
SM
 
 more 
 
Page 6 of 13
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
###
 


