FILE:TSS/TSS-8K-20090428171444.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, Registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
For immediate release.
Contacts:
Shawn Roberts TSYS Investor Relations +1.706.644.6081
shawnroberts@tsys.com
TSYS (NYSE: TSS) today announced the results for the first quarter of 2009. Basic earnings per share (EPS) for the first quarter of 2009 was $0.24 and EPS from continuing operations was $0.26. The adoption of FASB Staff Position EITF 03-6-1, which also requires prior periods to be restated, reduced full-year 2008 basic EPS by approximately $0.02. During the quarter, TSYS' earnings were negatively impacted by currency exchange rates, losses from discontinued operations, costs related to international expansion and a general slowdown in global cardholder transaction volumes.
Columbus, Ga., April 28, 2009 
(1)
TSYS' management has concluded that TSYS Debt Management (TDM), a wholly-owned subsidiary involved in the legal collections management and bankruptcy processing, is no longer core to its business and is not a good strategic fit going forward due to the large amount of reimbursable revenues and low operating margin. TSYS has signed a letter of intent with a potential buyer, and expects the sale of TDM to close in the second quarter. The accompanying financial statements do not include any of TDM's revenues, expenses, nonoperating income (expense) or income taxes in continuing operations. The results of TDM are reported net of income tax as "discontinued operations" for all periods presented pending its sale, and are deemed immaterial for cash flow purposes.
TSYS' total revenues, which exclude revenues of $66.8 million from discontinued operations of TDM in 2009 and $41.9 million in 2008, decreased 2.6% in the first quarter to $408.9 million compared to $419.8 million in 2008. These revenues also include the unfavorable impact of $22.6 million of foreign currency exchange rates during the quarter when compared to the same period a year ago. On a non-GAAP basis, total revenues adjusted for these two items would have been $498.3 million, an increase of 7.9% over the $461.7 million in 2008.
 
TSYS has included a schedule with this release that provides revenues and operating results on a constant currency basis. This non-GAAP measure presents first quarter 2009 financial results using the previous year's foreign currency exchange rates. On a constant currency basis, TSYS' International Services segment's total revenues grew 38% as compared to reported GAAP growth of 6%, and operating income grew 25% versus a GAAP reported decline of 19%.
"We continue to feel the impact of the current economic crisis, as evidenced by our cardholder transaction volumes decreasing 4.3%, and our point-of-sale volume increasing only 1%. This economic driven slowdown in the market, combined with discontinued operations, has led us to adjust our guidance for 2009. We are now expecting declines in revenues of 5% to 3%, and net income of 13% to 11%, as compared to our previous guidance of increases in revenues of 0% to 2%, and declines in net income of 3% to 0%. We are committed to continuing to reduce our costs and improve our operating margin," said Philip W. Tomlinson, chairman of the board and chief executive officer of TSYS.
"Currency exchange rates continue to mask the terrific revenue growth in our International Services segment which was up 38% over last year on a constant currency basis. As we continue to expand internationally, we have experienced fluctuations in our operating margins in that segment, but we expect them to improve after several conversions are completed later this year. Our balance sheet remains very strong with cash of $271 million, interest costs under 2% of debt and a tremendous amount of leverage and capital to deploy when the right opportunities arise. While economic times are challenging, we continue to enjoy success growing our business in the global marketplace, and look forward to improvement once the business cycle rebounds," said Tomlinson.
Segments
North America Services
For the first quarter, total segment revenues were $268.8 million, a decrease of 6.3%, compared to $287.0 million for the first quarter of 2008. On a non-GAAP basis, adjusting for TDM, North America's total revenues would have been $335.6 million, an increase of 2.0% over $328.9 million in 2008.
Key drivers for this segment:
 
We had the following segment events:
International Services
For the first quarter, total segment revenues were $73.8 million, an increase of 5.7%, compared to $69.8 million last year. The increase was unfavorably impacted by $22.6 million as a result of currency translation with the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against the British Pound.
Key drivers for this segment:
We had the following segment events:
 
Merchant Services
For the first quarter, total revenues for the segment were $75.5 million, an increase of 6.4%, compared to $70.9 million.
Key drivers for this segment:
We had the following segment events:
 
Projected Outlook for 2009
TSYS' updated guidance for 2009 includes the following:
TSYS' 2009 revised earnings forecast is based on the following assumptions:
 
Non-GAAP Measures
The non-GAAP financial measures of constant currency and revenues including discontinued operations presented by TSYS are utilized by management to better understand and assess TSYS' operating results and financial performance. TSYS also uses the non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate and assess TSYS' financial performance against budget, as well as to evaluate financial performance for executive and management compensation purposes.
TSYS believes that non-GAAP financial measures are important to enable investors to understand and evaluate its ongoing operating results. Accordingly, TSYS includes non-GAAP financial measures when reporting its financial results to shareholders and investors in order to provide them with an additional tool to evaluate TSYS' ongoing business operations. TSYS believes that the non-GAAP financial measure is a representative measure of comparative financial performance that reflects the economic substance of TSYS' current and ongoing business operations.
Although non-GAAP financial measures are often used to measure TSYS' operating results and assess its financial performance, they are not necessarily comparable to similarly titled captions of other companies due to potential inconsistencies in the method of calculation.
TSYS provides reconciliations for each of its non-GAAP financial measures with its most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, whenever it is used. This allows a shareholder and a potential investor to easily assess the impact of any differences between the measure TSYS is presenting and similarly titled captions of other companies.
TSYS believes that its use of non-GAAP financial measures provides investors with the same key financial performance indicators that are utilized by management to assess TSYS' operating results, evaluate the business and make operational decisions on a prospective, going-forward basis. Hence, management provides disclosure of non-GAAP financial measures to allow shareholders and potential investors an opportunity to see TSYS as viewed by management, to assess TSYS with some of the same tools that management utilizes internally and to be able to compare such information with prior periods. TSYS believes that the presentation of GAAP financial measures alone would not provide its shareholders and potential investors with the ability to appropriately analyze its ongoing operational results, and therefore expected future results. TSYS therefore believes that inclusion of non-GAAP financial measures provides investors with more information to help them better understand its financial statements just as management utilizes these non-GAAP financial measures to better understand the business, manage budgets and allocate resources.
 
Notes
On January 1, 2009, TSYS adopted FASB Staff Position Emerging Issues Task Force No. 03-6-1 (FSP EITF 03-6-1), "Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-Based Payment Transactions are Participating Securities." FSP EITF 03-6-1 requires nonvested shares that contain nonforfeitable rights to dividends to be considered participating securities, and therefore should be included in computing EPS using the two-class method. The impact on first quarter 2009 and 2008 EPS (as recast to show retroactive adoption of FSP EITF 03-6-1) does not change basic or diluted EPS.
(1)
Conference Call
TSYS will host its quarterly conference call at 5:00 p.m. ET, Tuesday, April 28. The conference call can be accessed via simultaneous Internet broadcast at tsys.com by clicking on the "Conference Call" icon on the homepage. The replay will be archived for 12 months and will be available approximately 30 minutes after the completion of the call.
About TSYS
TSYS (NYSE: TSS) is one of the world's largest companies for outsourced payment services, offering a broad range of issuer- and acquirer-processing technologies that support consumer-finance, credit, debit, debt management, healthcare, loyalty and prepaid services for financial institutions and retail companies in the Americas, EMEA and Asia-Pacific regions. For more information contact news@tsys.com or log on to www.tsys.com. TSYS routinely posts all important information on its website.
     
This press release contains statements that constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include, among others, statements regarding TSYS' expectation that the sale of TDM will close in the near future, TSYS' earnings forecast for 2009, TSYS' expectation that operating margins for the International Services segment will improve after several conversions are completed late in 2009, and the assumptions underlying such statements. These statements are based on the current beliefs and expectations of TSYS' management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by our forward-looking statements in this press release. Many of these factors are beyond TSYS' ability to control or predict. These factors include, but are not limited to, : (1) movements in LIBOR are greater than expected and draws on the remaining balance of the credit facility are greater than expected; (2) TSYS incurs expenses associated with the signing of a significant client; (3) adverse developments with respect to foreign currency exchange rates; (4) adverse developments with respect to entering into contracts with new clients and retaining current clients; (5) continued consolidation and turmoil in the financial services industry throughout 2009, including the merger of TSYS clients with entities that are not TSYS processing clients, the sale of portfolios by TSYS clients to entities that are not TSYS processing clients and the seizure by banking regulators of TSYS clients; (6) additional significant one-time spin costs are incurred; (7) TSYS is unable to control expenses and increase market share; (8) TSYS is unable to manage the impact of slowing economic conditions and consumer spending; (9) the material breach of security of any of TSYS' systems; (10) the impact of acquisitions, including their being more difficult to integrate than anticipated; and (11) the sale of TDM does not close in the second quarter. Additional factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in this release can be found
 
in TSYS' filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on
Form 10-Q
and Current Reports on
Form 8-K
. We believe these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, undue reliance should not be placed on any forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations. We do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.

Exhibit 99.2
TSYS Announces First Quarter 2009 Earnings Page 9 of 15
 
     
TSYS Announces First Quarter 2009 Earnings Page 10 of 15
 
TSYS Announces First Quarter 2009 Earnings Page 11 of 15
 
TSYS Announces First Quarter 2009 Earnings Page 12 of 15
 
TSYS Announces First Quarter 2009 Earnings Page 13 of 15
Geographic Area Data:
The following geographic area data represents revenues for the three months ended March 31 based on where the client is domiciled:
Geographic Area Revenue by Operating Segment:
The following table reconciles revenues by geography to revenues by reporting segment for the three months ended March 31:
 
TSYS Announces First Quarter 2009 Earnings Page 14 of 15
Supplemental Information:
Growth in Accounts on File (in millions):
 
TSYS Announces First Quarter 2009 Earnings Page 15 of 15


