FILE:TSS/TSS-8K-20090127164143.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 27, 2009, Total System Services, Inc. ("Registrant") issued a press release and will hold an investor call and webcast to disclose financial results for the full year and the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2008. The press release and Supplemental Information for use at this investor call are attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference. This information shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or incorporated by reference into any document filed under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 7.01
Regulation FD Disclosure.
     See Item 2.02 above.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, Registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
For immediate release.
Contacts:
Shawn Roberts TSYS Investor Relations +1.706.644.6081
shawnroberts@tsys.com
TSYS today announced the results for the fourth quarter and full year of 2008. Total revenues grew 7.6% in the fourth quarter to $493 million and 7.4% for the year to $1,939 million compared to 2007. On a generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) basis, TSYS reported basic earnings per share (EPS) of $1.28 for the year and $0.34 for the fourth quarter. On a non-GAAP basis, excluding one-time spin costs, TSYS reported basic EPS of $1.32 for the year and $0.34 for the quarter, which exceed analysts' consensus of $1.30 for the year and $0.33 for the quarter.
Columbus, Ga., January 27, 2009 
The reported results include a significant shift in currency conversion rates that occurred primarily in the fourth quarter which were unfavorable to TSYS. Accordingly, the company has included a schedule with this release that provides revenues and operating results on a constant currency basis. This non-GAAP measure presents 2008 financial results using prior year foreign currency exchange rates. Most notable was the impact to TSYS' Global Services segment in the fourth quarter. On a constant currency basis, total revenues grew 41% as compared to reported growth of 14%. Management measures the performance of its global business on the basis of constant currencies.
The headwinds from the unexpected strengthening of the U.S. Dollar in the fourth quarter across most currency conversion rates resulted in a decrease related to the translation of foreign currency denominated financial statements of $0.03 for the year and $0.02 for the quarter in basic EPS on a constant currency basis. This masked TSYS' strong growth in its Global Services segment on a constant currency basis.
"The formidable challenges resulting from the current worldwide financial crisis exceed anything that we have ever seen in our history. We are extremely proud of the way our team has met these challenges. We will continue to deal with these challenges through global growth, increased value-added product sales and expense controls. We expect 2009 net income to be in the range of slightly down to flat which reflects our commitment to successfully managing our business in these difficult times. At
 
TSYS, we believe our technological superiority enables us to add value and partner with our current and future clients to meet the challenges facing their businesses," said Philip W. Tomlinson, chairman of the board and chief executive officer of TSYS.
Key Segment Events
North America Services
For the fourth quarter, total segment revenues were $342.9 million, an increase of 6.0%, compared to $323.4 million. Total segment revenues for the year were $1.35 billion, an increase of 4.6%, compared to $1.29 billion.
Key drivers for this segment include:
We had the following segment events:
Global Services
For the fourth quarter, total segment revenues were $80.7 million, an increase of 14.4%, compared to $70.6 million. The increase was unfavorably impacted by $18.8 million as a result of currency translation with the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against the British Pound. Year-to-date total segment revenues were $318.5 million, an increase of 25.7%, compared to $253.5 million. The increase is driven by growth in accounts and transactions processed.
Key drivers for this segment include:
 
We had the following segment events:
Merchant Services
For the fourth quarter, total revenues for the segment were $78.7 million, an increase of 7.3%, compared to $73.3 million. Year-to-date total revenues for the segment were $298.8 million, an increase of 2.3%, compared to $292.1 million.
The key driver for the segment was:
We had the following segment events:
 
Projected Outlook for 2009
TSYS' guidance for 2009 includes the following:
TSYS' 2009 earnings forecast is based on the following assumptions:
Non-GAAP Measures
The non-GAAP financial measures of operating margin before reimbursables, earnings excluding spin-related costs and constant currency presented by TSYS are utilized by management to better understand and assess TSYS' operating results and financial performance. TSYS also uses the non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate and assess TSYS' financial performance against budget, as well as to evaluate financial performance for executive and management compensation purposes.
TSYS believes that non-GAAP financial measures are important to enable investors to understand and evaluate its ongoing operating results. Accordingly, TSYS includes non-GAAP financial measures when reporting its financial results to shareholders and
 
investors in order to provide them with an additional tool to evaluate TSYS' ongoing business operations. TSYS believes that the non-GAAP financial measure is a representative measure of comparative financial performance that reflects the economic substance of TSYS' current and ongoing business operations.
Although non-GAAP financial measures are often used to measure TSYS' operating results and assess its financial performance, they are not necessarily comparable to similarly titled captions of other companies due to potential inconsistencies in the method of calculation.
TSYS provides reconciliations with the use of each of its non-GAAP financial measures with its most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, whenever it uses such a measure. This allows a shareholder and a potential investor to easily assess the impact of any differences between the measure TSYS is presenting and similarly titled captions of other companies.
TSYS believes that its use of non-GAAP financial measures provides investors with the same key financial performance indicators that are utilized by management to assess TSYS' operating results, to evaluate the business and to make operational decisions on a prospective, going-forward basis. Hence, management provides disclosure of non-GAAP financial measures in order to allow shareholders and potential investors an opportunity to see TSYS as viewed by management, to assess TSYS with some of the same tools that management utilizes internally and to be able to compare such information with prior periods. TSYS believes that the presentation of GAAP financial measures alone would not provide its shareholders and potential investors with the ability to appropriately analyze its ongoing operational results, and therefore expected future results. TSYS therefore believes that inclusion of non-GAAP financial measures provides investors with more information to help them better understand its financial statements just as management utilizes these non-GAAP financial measures to better understand the business, manage its budget and allocate its resources.
Conference Call
TSYS will host its quarterly conference call at 5:00 p.m. ET, Tuesday, January 27. The conference call can be accessed via simultaneous Internet broadcast at tsys.com by clicking on the "Conference Call" icon on the homepage. The replay will be archived for 12 months and will be available approximately 30 minutes after the completion of the call.
 
About TSYS
TSYS (NYSE: TSS) is one of the world's largest companies for outsourced payment services, offering a broad range of issuer- and acquirer-processing technologies that support consumer-finance, credit, debit, debt management, healthcare, loyalty and prepaid services for financial institutions and retail companies in the Americas, EMEA and Asia-Pacific regions. For more information contact news@tsys.com or log on to www.tsys.com. TSYS routinely posts all important information on its website.
     
This press release contains statements that constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include, among others, statements regarding TSYS' earnings forecast for 2009, and the assumptions underlying such statements. These statements are based on the current beliefs and expectations of TSYS' management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by our forward-looking statements in this press release. Many of these factors are beyond TSYS' ability to control or predict. These factors include, but are not limited to, : (1) movements in LIBOR are greater than expected and draws on the remaining balance of the credit facility are greater than expected; (2) TSYS incurs expenses associated with the signing of a significant client; (3) adverse developments with respect to foreign currency exchange rates; (4) adverse developments with respect to entering into contracts with new clients and retaining current clients; (5) continued consolidation and turmoil in the financial services industry throughout 2009, including the merger of TSYS clients with entities that are not TSYS processing clients, the sale of portfolios by TSYS clients to entities that are not TSYS processing clients and the seizure by banking regulators of TSYS clients; (6) additional significant one-time spin costs are incurred; (7) TSYS is unable to control expenses and increase market share; (8) TSYS is unable to manage the impact of slowing economic conditions and consumer spending; (9) the material breach of security of any of TSYS' systems; and (10) the impact of acquisitions, including their being more difficult to integrate than anticipated. Additional factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in this release can be found in TSYS' filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Annual Report on
Form 10-K
, Quarterly Reports on
Form 10-Q
and Current Reports on
Form 8-K
. We believe these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, undue reliance should not be placed on any forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations. We do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.

Exhibit 99.2
TSYS Announces 2008 Earnings Page 7 of 14
 
TSYS Announces 2008 Earnings
Page 8 of 14
 
TSYS Announces 2008 Earnings Page 9 of 14
 
TSYS Announces 2008 Earnings Page 10 of 14
 
TSYS Announces 2008 Earnings Page 11 of 14
Geographic Area Data:
The following geographic area data represents revenues for the three months ended December 31 based on where the client is domiciled:
The following geographic area data represents revenues for the twelve months ended December 31 based on where the client is domiciled:
Geographic Area Revenue by Operating Segment:
The following table reconciles revenues by geography to revenues by reporting segment for the three months ended December 31:
The following table reconciles revenues by geography to revenues by reporting segment for the twelve months ended December 31:
 
TSYS Announces 2008 Earnings Page 12 of 14
Supplemental Information:
Note: The accounts on file between domestic and international is based on the geographic domicile of processing clients.
Growth in Accounts on File (in millions):
 
TSYS Announces 2008 Earnings
Page 13 of 14
RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP
Consolidated
Operating Segments:
North America Services Segment
Global Services Segment
Merchant Services Segment
 
TSYS Announces 2008 Earnings
Page 14 of 14
 


