FILE:TSS/TSS-8K-20100120161206.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, Registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
For immediate release:
Contacts:
Shawn Roberts TSYS Investor Relations +1.706.644.6081
shawnroberts@tsys.com
TSYS (NYSE: TSS) today reported results for the fourth quarter and full year 2009. On a constant currency basis, TSYS' total revenues for 2009 were $1,734.9 million, an increase of 0.8%. On a reported basis, total revenues declined 2.0% for the year to $1,688.1 million.
Columbus, Ga., January 20, 2010 
On a constant currency basis, TSYS' total revenues for the fourth quarter were $430.9 million, a decrease of 0.4% as compared to last year. On a reported basis, total revenues increased 0.5% for the quarter to $434.8 million.
Basic earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations were $0.31 for the fourth quarter, $0.01 ahead of consensus estimates and 9.0% below 2008. Full year EPS of $1.12 from continuing operations matched consensus estimates and was 11.2% below last year.
TSYS' guidance for 2010 includes the impact of deconverted portfolios (whether as the result of bank failures, portfolio sales or otherwise), price compression, reduction in one-time termination fees and currency impact, and the current economic environment of the credit card market.
 
"While 2010 is going to be a challenging year, we will continue to work aggressively to reduce our costs, including reducing staff, while expanding internationally and maintaining our technological advantage in the market place. We have an experienced and talented team at TSYS who will successfully execute our strategy to return growth to our business. In addition, with our strong balance sheet and cash flow, we will continue to aggressively pursue strategic acquisitions that diversify us and expand our presence in the payments processing business," said Philip W. Tomlinson, chairman of the board and chief executive officer of TSYS.
Conference Call
TSYS will host its quarterly conference call at 5:00 p.m. ET on Wednesday, January 20. The conference call can be accessed via simultaneous Internet broadcast at by clicking on the link under "Webcasts" on the main homepage. The replay will be archived for 12 months and will be available approximately 30 minutes after the completion of the call. A slide presentation to accompany the call will be available by clicking on the link under "Webcasts" on the main homepage of .
tsys.com
tsys.com
Non-GAAP Measures
This release contains the non-GAAP financial measures of revenues and operating results on a constant currency basis to describe TSYS' performance. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures to better understand and assess TSYS' operating results and financial performance. TSYS believes these non-GAAP financial measures provide meaningful additional information about TSYS to assist investors in understanding and evaluating its operating results.
Additional information about non-GAAP financial measures and a reconciliation of those measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included on page 11 of this release.
About TSYS
TSYS (NYSE: TSS) is one of the world's largest companies for outsourced payment services, offering a broad range of issuer- and acquirer-processing technologies that support consumer-finance, credit, debit, healthcare, loyalty and prepaid services for financial institutions and retail companies in the Americas, EMEA and Asia-Pacific regions. For more information contact news@tsys.com or log on to . TSYS routinely posts all important information on its Web site.
www.tsys.com
This press release contains statements that constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include, among others, statements regarding TSYS' earnings forecast for 2010, and the assumptions underlying such statements including, with respect to TSYS' earnings forecast for 2010: (1) the economy will not worsen during 2010; (2) there will be no deconversions of large clients during the year other than as previously announced; (3) there will be no significant movement in foreign currency exchange rates related to TSYS' business during 2010; (4) the anticipated levels in employment, technology and other expenses, which are included in 2010 estimates, will be accomplished; (5) TSYS will not incur significant expenses associated with the conversion of new large clients or acquisitions, or any significant impairment of goodwill or other intangibles; and (6) there will be no significant movements in LIBOR, and no significant draws on the remaining balance of TSYS'
 
revolving credit facility. These statements are based on the current beliefs and expectations of TSYS' management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by our forward-looking statements in this press release. Many of these factors are beyond TSYS' ability to control or predict. These factors include, but are not limited to: (1) one or more of the assumptions set forth above upon which TSYS' 2010 earnings forecast is based is inaccurate; (2) adverse developments with respect to entering into contracts with new clients and retaining current clients; (3) continued consolidation and turmoil in the financial services and other industries during 2010, including the merger of TSYS clients with entities that are not TSYS processing clients, the sale of portfolios by TSYS clients to entities that are not TSYS processing clients and the seizure by banking regulators of TSYS clients; (4) TSYS is unable to control expenses and increase market share; (5) TSYS is unable to manage the impact of slowing economic conditions and consumer spending; (6) the material breach of security of any of TSYS' systems; (7) the impact of acquisitions, including their being more difficult to integrate than anticipated; (8) changes occur in laws, rules, regulations, credit card association rules or other industry standards affecting TSYS' business which require significant product development efforts or reduce the market demand for or value of its products; (9) adverse developments with respect to the credit card industry in general, including a decline in the use of credit cards as a payment mechanism; and (10) growth rates of TSYS' existing clients are lower than anticipated whether as a result of unemployment rates, card delinquencies and charge-off rates or otherwise. Additional factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in this release can be found in TSYS' filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K. We believe these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, undue reliance should not be placed on any forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations. We do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
 
TSYS Announces 2009 Earnings Page 4 of 12
 
 
TSYS Announces 2009 Earnings Page 5 of 12
 
 
TSYS Announces 2009 Earnings Page 6 of 12
 
 
TSYS Announces 2009 Earnings Page 7 of 12
 
 
TSYS Announces 2009 Earnings Page 8 of 12
 
 
TSYS Announces 2009 Earnings Page 9 of 12
Geographic Area Data:
The following geographic area data represents revenues for the three months ended December 31 based on where the client is domiciled:
The following geographic area data represents revenues for the twelve months ended December 31 based on where the client is domiciled:
Geographic Area Revenue by Operating Segment:
The following table reconciles revenues by geography to revenues by reporting segment for the three months ended December 31:
The following table reconciles revenues by geography to revenues by reporting segment for the twelve months ended December 31:
 
TSYS Announces 2009 Earnings Page 10 of 12
Supplemental Information:
 
Growth in Accounts on File :
(in millions)
 
TSYS Announces 2009 Earnings Page 11 of 12
Non-GAAP Measures
The schedule below provides a reconciliation of revenues and operating results on a constant currency basis to reported revenues and operating income. This non-GAAP measure presents fourth quarter and year-to-date 2009 financial results using the previous year's foreign currency exchange rates. On a year-to-date constant currency basis, TSYS' total revenues grew 0.8% as compared to a reported GAAP decline of 2.0%, and operating income declined 5.3% versus a GAAP-reported decline of 7.2%.
The non-GAAP financial measures of constant currency presented by TSYS are utilized by management to better understand and assess TSYS' operating results and financial performance. TSYS also uses the non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate and assess TSYS' financial performance against budget, as well as to evaluate financial performance for executive and management compensation purposes.
TSYS believes that non-GAAP financial measures are important to enable investors to understand and evaluate its ongoing operating results. Accordingly, TSYS includes non-GAAP financial measures when reporting its financial results to shareholders and investors in order to provide them with an additional tool to evaluate TSYS' ongoing business operations. TSYS believes that the non-GAAP financial measures are representative of comparative financial performance that reflects the economic substance of TSYS' current and ongoing business operations.
Although non-GAAP financial measures are often used to measure TSYS' operating results and assess its financial performance, they are not necessarily comparable to similarly titled captions of other companies due to potential inconsistencies in the method of calculation.
TSYS believes that its use of non-GAAP financial measures provides investors with the same key financial performance indicators that are utilized by management to assess TSYS' operating results, evaluate the business and make operational decisions on a prospective, going-forward basis. Hence, management provides disclosure of non-GAAP financial measures to give shareholders and potential investors an opportunity to see TSYS as viewed by management, to assess TSYS with some of the same tools that management utilizes internally and to be able to compare such information with prior periods. TSYS believes that the presentation of GAAP financial measures alone would not provide its shareholders and potential investors with the ability to appropriately analyze its ongoing operational results, and therefore expected future results. TSYS therefore believes that inclusion of non-GAAP financial measures provides investors with additional information to help them better understand its financial statements just as management utilizes these non-GAAP financial measures to better understand the business, manage budgets and allocate resources.
 
TSYS Announces 2009 Earnings Page 12 of 12
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


