FILE:TSS/TSS-8K-20100401093249.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 8.01
Other Events.
As previously announced, Total System Services, Inc. ("TSYS") and First National Bank of Omaha entered into an Investment Agreement pursuant to which TSYS would purchase a 51% interest in First National Bank of Omaha's merchant acquiring business for approximately $150.5 million. Effective 12:01 a.m. Eastern Time on April 1, 2010, First National Bank of Omaha and TSYS, through a wholly-owned subsidiary, consummated the sale transaction. TSYS issued a press release regarding the consummation of the sale transaction on April 1, 2010, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, Registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
For immediate release:
Contacts:
TSYS (NYSE: TSS) and First National Bank of Omaha (FNBO) announced today the consummation of their joint venture transaction pursuant to which TSYS acquired a 51% interest in FNBO's merchant acquiring business for approximately $150.5 million. FNBO retained a 49% interest in the newly formed company, First National Merchant Solutions, LLC (FNMS).
Columbus, Ga., April 1, 2010 
     FNMS previously operated as a subsidiary of FNBO and offers merchant acquiring services, transaction processing and business and value-added services, as well as Visaand MasterCardbranded prepaid cards. Ranked as the 10th-largest merchant acquirer in North America by dollar volume*, FNMS has more than 50 years of experience providing first-rate service and solutions to businesses across the United States. For more information, visit .
-
-
www.fnms.com
 
*    The Nilson Report March 2009
     
About TSYS
     TSYS (NYSE: TSS) is one of the world's largest companies for outsourced payment services, offering a broad range of issuer- and acquirer-processing technologies that support consumer-finance, credit, debit, healthcare, loyalty and prepaid services for financial institutions and retail companies in the Americas, EMEA and Asia-Pacific regions. For more information contact or log on to TSYS routinely posts all important information on its Web site.
news@tsys.com
www.tsys.com.
     
About First National Bank of Omaha
     First National Bank of Omaha is a subsidiary of First National of Nebraska. First National of Nebraska has grown into the largest private banking company in the United States. First National and its affiliates have more than $17 billion in managed assets and nearly 5,700 employees located in 35 states. Primary banking offices are located in Nebraska, Colorado, Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, South Dakota and Texas.


