FILE:TSS/TSS-8K-20100721160643.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, Registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
For immediate release:
Contacts:
Shawn Roberts TSYS Investor Relations +1.706.644.6081
shawnroberts@tsys.com
TSYS (NYSE: TSS) today reported results for the second quarter of 2010. Total revenues were $433.7 million, an increase of 5.3% over 2009. Operating income was down 4.2% compared to 2009 and was flat on a sequential quarter basis. Income from continuing operations attributable to TSYS shareholders decreased 5.2% to $49.6 million compared to last year. Basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to TSYS shareholders for the quarter was $0.25 down $0.02 or 5.2% from 2009's $0.27.
Columbus, Ga., July 21, 2010 
"The quarter's performance is highlighted by increased overall transaction volume and expense control. Through the first six months, same client revenues grew 3.6%. Excluding revenues from termination fees in both quarters and the impact of acquiring a controlling interest in First National Merchant Solutions, LLC (FNMS) in the second quarter, operating income was up 18.1% sequentially. Quarterly transaction volumes in each reporting segment were up. Same client transactions were up 5.1% in North America and up 3.8% in International. In the Merchant segment, merchant POS transactions and FNMS transaction volumes each grew 8.5% for the quarter. We are encouraged that these trends are key indicators of an improving economy," said Philip W. Tomlinson, chairman of the board and chief executive officer of TSYS.
"The acquisition of FNMS on April 1, 2010, is a positive and allows us to further diversify across the payments value chain to capture a larger share of dollars spent on payment services. We continue to generate a healthy, strong cash flow, and we remain optimistic about our ability to achieve our guidance for 2010," said Tomlinson.
Conference Call
TSYS will host its quarterly conference call at 5:00 p.m. ET on Wednesday, July 21. The conference call can be accessed via simultaneous Internet broadcast at by clicking on the link under "Webcasts" on the main homepage. The replay will be archived for 12 months and will be available approximately 30 minutes after the completion of the call. A slide presentation to accompany the call will be available by clicking on the link under "Webcasts" on the main homepage of .
tsys.com
tsys.com
 
Non-GAAP Measures
This press release and the financial highlights section of this release contain the non-GAAP financial measures of operating income excluding revenues from termination fees and the impact of the acquisition of FNMS, and revenues and operating results on a constant currency basis, respectively, to describe TSYS' performance. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures to better understand and assess TSYS' operating results and financial performance. TSYS believes these non-GAAP financial measures provide meaningful additional information about TSYS to assist investors in understanding and evaluating its operating results.
Additional information about non-GAAP financial measures and a reconciliation of those measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included on page 10 of this release.
About TSYS
TSYS (NYSE: TSS) is one of the world's largest companies for outsourced payment services, offering a broad range of issuer- and acquirer-processing technologies that support consumer-finance, credit, debit, healthcare, loyalty and prepaid services for financial institutions and retail companies in the Americas, EMEA and Asia-Pacific regions. For more information contact news@tsys.com or log on to . TSYS routinely posts all important information on its Web site.
www.tsys.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains statements that constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include, among others, statements regarding TSYS' earnings guidance for 2010, and the assumptions underlying such statements including, with respect to TSYS' earnings guidance for 2010: (1) the economy will not worsen during 2010; (2) there will be no deconversions of large clients during the year other than as previously announced; (3) there will be no significant movement in foreign currency exchange rates related to TSYS' business during 2010; (4) the anticipated levels in employment, technology and other expenses, which are included in 2010 estimates, will be accomplished; (5) TSYS will not incur significant expenses associated with the conversion of new large clients or acquisitions, or any significant impairment of goodwill or other intangibles; and (6) there will be no significant movements in LIBOR, and no significant draws on the remaining balance of TSYS' revolving credit facility. These statements are based on the current beliefs and expectations of TSYS' management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by our forward-looking statements in this press release. Many of these factors are beyond TSYS' ability to control or predict. These factors include, but are not limited to: (1) one or more of the assumptions set forth above upon which TSYS' 2010 earnings guidance is based is inaccurate; (2) adverse developments with respect to entering into contracts with new clients and retaining current clients; (3) continued consolidation and turmoil in the financial services and other industries during 2010, including the merger of TSYS clients with entities that are not TSYS processing clients, the sale of portfolios by TSYS clients to entities that are not TSYS processing clients and the nationalization or seizure by banking regulators of TSYS clients; (4) TSYS is unable to control expenses and increase market share both domestically and internationally; (5) TSYS is unable to manage the impact of slowing economic conditions and consumer spending; (6) the material breach of security of any of TSYS' systems; (7) the impact of potential and completed acquisitions, including the costs associated therewith and their being more difficult to integrate than anticipated; (8) changes occur in laws, rules, regulations, credit card association rules or other industry standards affecting TSYS' business which
 
require significant product development efforts or reduce the market demand for or value of its products; (9) adverse developments with respect to the credit card industry in general, including a decline in the use of credit cards as a payment mechanism; and (10) internal growth rates of TSYS' existing clients are lower than anticipated whether as a result of unemployment rates, card delinquencies and charge-off rates or otherwise. Additional factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in this release can be found in TSYS' filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K. We believe these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, undue reliance should not be placed on any forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations. We do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
 
TSYS Announces 2010 Earnings
Page 4 of 11
     
 
nm = not meaningful
 
TSYS Announces 2010 Earnings Page 5 of 11
 
TSYS Announces 2010 Earnings Page 6 of 11
Certain amounts have been reclassified to conform with the presentation adopted in 2010.
 
TSYS Announces 2010 Earnings
Page 7 of 11
 
TSYS Announces 2010 Earnings Page 8 of 11
 
TSYS Announces 2010 Earnings Page 9 of 11
Supplemental Information:
 
TSYS Announces 2010 Earnings Page 10 of 11
Non-GAAP Measures
The schedule below provides a reconciliation of revenues and operating results on a constant currency basis to reported revenues and operating income. This non-GAAP measure presents year-to-date 2010 financial results using the previous year's foreign currency exchange rates. On a year-to-date constant currency basis, TSYS' total revenues grew 2.9% as compared to a reported GAAP increase of 3.4%, and operating income decreased 1.6% versus a GAAP-reported decrease of 1.6%. The schedule below also provides a reconciliation of operating income excluding revenues from termination fees and the impact of the acquisition of FNMS to reported operating income.
The non-GAAP financial measures of constant currency and operating income excluding revenues from termination fees and the impact of the FNMS acquisition presented by TSYS are utilized by management to better understand and assess TSYS' operating results and financial performance. TSYS also uses the non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate and assess TSYS' financial performance against budget, as well as to evaluate financial performance for executive and management compensation purposes.
TSYS believes that non-GAAP financial measures are important to enable investors to understand and evaluate its ongoing operating results. Accordingly, TSYS includes non-GAAP financial measures when reporting its financial results to shareholders and investors in order to provide them with an additional tool to evaluate TSYS' ongoing business operations. TSYS believes that the non-GAAP financial measures are representative of comparative financial performance that reflects the economic substance of TSYS' current and ongoing business operations.
Although non-GAAP financial measures are often used to measure TSYS' operating results and assess its financial performance, they are not necessarily comparable to similarly titled captions of other companies due to potential inconsistencies in the method of calculation.
TSYS believes that its use of non-GAAP financial measures provides investors with the same key financial performance indicators that are utilized by management to assess TSYS' operating results, evaluate the business and make operational decisions on a prospective, going-forward basis. Hence, management provides disclosure of non-GAAP financial measures to give shareholders and potential investors an opportunity to see TSYS as viewed by management, to assess TSYS with some of the same tools that management utilizes internally and to be able to compare such information with prior periods. TSYS believes that the presentation of GAAP financial measures alone would not provide its shareholders and potential investors with the ability to appropriately analyze its ongoing operational results, and therefore expected future results. TSYS therefore believes that inclusion of non-GAAP financial measures provides investors with additional information to help them better understand its financial statements just as management utilizes these non-GAAP financial measures to better understand the business, manage budgets and allocate resources.
 
TSYS Announces 2010 Earnings Page 11 of 11
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


