FILE:TSS/TSS-8K-20110125160128.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, Registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
For immediate release:
Contact:
Shawn Roberts TSYS Investor Relations +1.706.644.6081
shawnroberts@tsys.com
TSYS (NYSE: TSS) today reported results for the fourth quarter and full-year of 2010 that were in-line with consensus estimates for earnings per share (EPS).
Columbus, Ga., January 25, 2011 
For the fourth quarter, total revenues were $440.0 million, an increase of 1.7% over 2009. Basic EPS from continuing operations were $0.24, down $0.07 or 20.9%. Excluding termination fees in the fourth quarter of 2009, total revenues were up 6.0% and basic EPS from continuing operations were down 3.2%.
For the year 2010, total revenues were $1.7 billion, up 2.4% over 2009. Basic EPS from continuing operations were $1.00, down $0.12 or 10.7%. Excluding termination fees in 2009 and 2010, total revenues were up 3.0% and basic EPS from continuing operations were down 9.1%.
TSYS' 2011 guidance includes revenues before reimbursable growth of 3%  5% and basic EPS from continuing operations growth of 9%  11%.
"While 2010 was a very challenging year, we are pleased to have met the high end range of our guidance for net income and EPS for the year. We continued to see growth in transactions in our card issuing services and merchant business for the fourth quarter that resulted in organic revenue growth of 4.0% and same client issuer transactions increased 5.3% for the year. Including the acquisition of TSYS Merchant Solutions (formerly First National Merchant Solutions), revenues from our Merchant Segment rose from 19% to 27% of consolidated total revenues. We believe this diversification will contribute to our growth and benefit our margins in the future," said Philip W. Tomlinson, chairman and chief executive officer of TSYS.
"Our guidance for 2011 reflects our renewed enthusiasm for growth in all of our business segments. Excluding the termination fees in 2010, our 2011 guidance for revenues before reimbursable items are projected to be up 6%  8%, and net income from continuing operations is projected to be up 20%  22%," said Tomlinson.
 
TSYS' guidance for 2011 is as follows:
 
Conference Call
TSYS will host its quarterly conference call at 5:00 p.m. ET on Tuesday, January 25. The conference call can be accessed via simultaneous Internet broadcast at by clicking on the link under "Webcasts" on the main homepage. The replay will be archived for 12 months and will be available approximately 30 minutes after the completion of the call. A slide presentation to accompany the call will be available by clicking on the link under "Webcasts" on the main homepage of .
tsys.com
tsys.com
Non-GAAP Measures
This press release and the financial highlights section of this release contain the non-GAAP financial measures of revenues and basic EPS excluding revenues from termination fees and the impact of revenues and operating results on a constant currency basis, respectively, to describe TSYS' performance. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures to better understand and assess TSYS' operating results and financial performance. TSYS believes these non-GAAP financial measures provide meaningful additional information about TSYS to assist investors in understanding and evaluating its operating results.
Additional information about non-GAAP financial measures and a reconciliation of those measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included on pages 11 and 12 of this release.
About TSYS
TSYS (NYSE: TSS) is reshaping a new era in digital commerce, connecting consumers, merchants, financial institutions, businesses and governments. Through unmatched customer service and industry insight, TSYS creates a better experience for buyers and sellers globally, supporting cross-border payments in more than 85 countries. Offering services in credit, debit, prepaid, mobile, chip, healthcare, installments, money transfer and more, TSYS makes it possible for those in the global marketplace to conduct safe and secure payment transactions with trust and convenience.
 
TSYS' global headquarters are located in Columbus, Georgia, with other local offices spread across the Americas, EMEA and Asia-Pacific. TSYS serves approximately 400 clients in 85 countries, including relationships with more than half of the Top 20 international banks. For more information, please visit us at .
www.tsys.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains statements that constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include, among others, statements regarding TSYS' belief about the positive impact of diversification and TSYS' earnings guidance for 2011 total revenues, revenues before reimbursable items, income from continuing operations and EPS from continuing operations, and the assumptions underlying such statements including, with respect to TSYS' earnings guidance for 2011: (1) the economy will not worsen during 2011; (2) there will be no deconversions of large clients during the year; (3) there will be no significant movement in foreign currency exchange rates related to TSYS' business during 2011; (4) TSYS will not incur significant expenses associated with the conversion of new large clients or acquisitions, or any significant impairment of goodwill or other intangibles; and (5) there will be no significant movements in LIBOR, and no significant draws on the remaining balance of TSYS' revolving credit facility. These statements are based on the current beliefs and expectations of TSYS' management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by our forward-looking statements in this press release. Many of these factors are beyond TSYS' ability to control or predict. These factors include, but are not limited to: (1) one or more of the assumptions set forth above upon which TSYS' 2011 earnings guidance is based is inaccurate; (2) adverse developments with respect to entering into contracts with new clients and retaining current clients; (3) continued consolidation and turmoil in the financial services and other industries during 2011, including the merger of TSYS clients with entities that are not TSYS processing clients, the sale of portfolios by TSYS clients to entities that are not TSYS processing clients and the nationalization or seizure by banking regulators of TSYS clients; (4) TSYS is unable to control expenses and increase market share both domestically and internationally; (5) TSYS is unable to manage the impact of slowing economic conditions and consumer spending; (6) the material breach of security of any of TSYS' systems; (7) the impact of potential and completed acquisitions, including the costs associated therewith and their being more difficult to integrate than anticipated; (8) the impact of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act on TSYS and on our clients; (9) changes occur in laws, rules, regulations, credit card association rules or other industry standards affecting TSYS and our clients that may result in costly new compliance burdens on TSYS and our clients and lead to a decrease in the volume and/or number of transactions processed; (10) the costs and effects of litigation, investigations or similar matters or adverse facts and developments relating thereto; (11) adverse developments with respect to the credit card industry in general, including a decline in the use of credit cards as a payment mechanism; and (12) internal growth rates of TSYS' existing clients are lower than anticipated whether as a result of unemployment rates, card delinquencies and charge-off rates or otherwise. Additional factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in this release can be found in TSYS' filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K. We believe these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, undue reliance should not be placed on any forward-looking statements, which are
 
based on current expectations. We do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
 
TSYS Announces 2010 Earnings
Page 5 of 12
 
 
TSYS Announces 2010 Earnings Page 6 of 12
 
TSYS Announces 2010 Earnings Page 7 of 12
Certain amounts have been reclassified to conform with the presentation adopted in 2010.
 
TSYS Announces 2010 Earnings Page 8 of 12
 
TSYS Announces 2010 Earnings
Page 9 of 12
 
TSYS Announces 2010 Earnings Page 10 of 12
Supplemental Information:
 
TSYS Announces 2010 Earnings Page 11 of 12
Non-GAAP Measures
The schedule below provides a reconciliation of revenues and operating results on a constant currency basis to reported revenues and operating income. This non-GAAP measure presents year-to-date 2010 financial results using the previous year's foreign currency exchange rates. On a year-to-date constant currency basis, TSYS' total revenues grew 2.3% as compared to a reported GAAP increase of 2.4%, and operating income decreased 9.9% versus a GAAP-reported decrease of 10.1%. The schedule below also provides a reconciliation of revenues and basic EPS excluding revenues from termination fees.
The non-GAAP financial measures of constant currency and revenues and basic EPS excluding revenues from termination fees, with respect to year to date revenues and basic EPS presented by TSYS, are utilized by management to better understand and assess TSYS' operating results and financial performance. TSYS also uses the non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate and assess TSYS' financial performance against budget, as well as to evaluate financial performance for executive and management compensation purposes.
TSYS believes that non-GAAP financial measures are important to enable investors to understand and evaluate its ongoing operating results. Accordingly, TSYS includes non-GAAP financial measures when reporting its financial results to shareholders and investors in order to provide them with an additional tool to evaluate TSYS' ongoing business operations. TSYS believes that the non-GAAP financial measures are representative of comparative financial performance that reflects the economic substance of TSYS' current and ongoing business operations.
Although non-GAAP financial measures are often used to measure TSYS' operating results and assess its financial performance, they are not necessarily comparable to similarly titled captions of other companies due to potential inconsistencies in the method of calculation.
TSYS believes that its use of non-GAAP financial measures provides investors with the same key financial performance indicators that are utilized by management to assess TSYS' operating results, evaluate the business and make operational decisions on a prospective, going-forward basis. Hence, management provides disclosure of non-GAAP financial measures to give shareholders and potential investors an opportunity to see TSYS as viewed by management, to assess TSYS with some of the same tools that management utilizes internally and to be able to compare such information with prior periods. TSYS believes that the presentation of GAAP financial measures alone would not provide its shareholders and potential investors with the ability to appropriately analyze its ongoing operational results, and therefore expected future results. TSYS therefore believes that inclusion of non-GAAP financial measures provides investors with additional information to help them better understand its financial statements just as management utilizes these non-GAAP financial measures to better understand the business, manage budgets and allocate resources.
 
TSYS Announces 2010 Earnings Page 12 of 12
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


