FILE:TSS/TSS-8K-20110503093140.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, Registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
TSYS (NYSE: TSS) today announced that its Board of Directors has approved increasing the number of shares that may be repurchased under its current share repurchase plan from up to 10 million shares to up to 15 million shares. With the increase, TSYS has 9.9 million shares available to be repurchased. In addition, the Board of Directors extended the expiration date of the plan to April 30, 2013. The shares may be repurchased from time to time over the next two years at prices considered attractive to management. Repurchased shares will be used for general corporate purposes.
COLUMBUS, Ga., May 3, 2011 
About TSYS
     TSYS (NYSE: TSS) is reshaping a new era in digital commerce, connecting consumers, merchants, financial institutions, businesses and governments. Through unmatched customer service and industry insight, TSYS creates a better experience for buyers and sellers, supporting cross-border payments in more than 85 countries. Offering merchant payment-acceptance solutions as well as services in credit, debit, prepaid, mobile, chip, healthcare, installments, money transfer and more, TSYS makes it possible for those in the global marketplace to conduct safe and secure electronic transactions with trust and convenience.
     TSYS' headquarters are located in Columbus, Georgia, with local offices spread across the Americas, EMEA and Asia-Pacific. TSYS provides services to more than half of the top 20 international banks. For more information, please visit us at .
www.tsys.com


