FILE:TSS/TSS-8K-20120504093000.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
On May 1, 2012, Total System Services, Inc. ("TSYS") held its 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, at which our shareholders approved the Total System Services, Inc. 2008 Omnibus Plan, as amended and restated effective May 1, 2012, and renamed the Total System Services, Inc. 2012 Omnibus Plan ("2012 Plan"). A description of the amendments to the 2012 Plan and a summary description of the 2012 Plan are provided in Proposal 4 of TSYS' definitive proxy statement on Schedule 14A which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 15, 2012. The description of the 2012 Plan contained herein and in the proxy statement are qualified in their entirety by the full text of the 2012 Plan which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
The 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders of TSYS was held on May 1, 2012. TSYS' shareholders voted on the following five proposals which are detailed in TSYS' definitive proxy statement on Schedule 14A which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 15, 2012, and cast their votes as described below.
Proposal 1
TSYS' shareholders elected fourteen individuals to the Board of Directors as set forth below:
 
 
Proposal 2
TSYS' shareholders ratified the appointment of KPMG LLP as the independent auditor of TSYS for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2012 as set forth below:
 
Proposal 3
TSYS' shareholders approved, on an advisory basis, TSYS' executive compensation as set forth below:
 
Proposal 4
TSYS' shareholders approved the Total System Services, Inc. 2008 Omnibus Plan, as amended and restated, as set forth below:
 
Proposal 5
TSYS' shareholders approved the Total System Services, Inc. 2012 Employee Stock Purchase Plan as set forth below:
 
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Contents
 
Total System Services, Inc.
2012 Omnibus Plan
Effective May 1, 2012
Article 1. Establishment, Purpose, and Duration
. Total System Services, Inc. (hereinafter referred to as the "Company") previously established an incentive compensation plan known as the Total System Services, Inc. 2008 Omnibus Plan (the "2008 Omnibus Plan"). Effective as of May 1, 2012, the Company hereby amends and restates the 2008 Omnibus Plan in the form set forth in this document, which plan shall be known as the Total System Services, Inc. 2012 Omnibus Plan (hereinafter referred to as the "Plan").
1.1 Establishment
The Plan permits the grant of Nonqualified Stock Options, Incentive Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares, Performance Units, Covered Employee annual incentive awards, Cash-Based Awards, and Other Stock-Based Awards.
The Plan shall become effective upon its approval by the shareholders of the Company on May 1, 2012 at the Company's 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Following its effectiveness, the Plan shall remain in effect as provided in Section 1.3 hereof.
. The purpose of the Plan is to advance the interests of the Company and its shareholders through Awards that give Employees and Directors a personal stake in the Company's growth, development and financial success. Awards under the Plan will motivate Employees and Directors to devote their best efforts to the business of the Company. They will also help the Company attract and retain the services of Employees and Directors who are in a position to make significant contributions to the Company's future success.
1.2 Purpose of the Plan
. Unless sooner terminated as provided herein, the Plan shall terminate ten (10) years from the date of the approval of the Plan by the Company's shareholders. After the Plan's termination, no new Awards may be granted, but Awards previously granted shall remain outstanding in accordance with their applicable terms and conditions, including the terms and conditions of the Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Incentive Stock Options may be granted more than ten (10) years after the earlier of: (a) the date the Plan is adopted by the Board, or (b) the date the Plan is approved by the Company's shareholders.
1.3 Duration of the Plan
Article 2. Definitions
Whenever used in this Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below, and when the meaning is intended, the initial letter of the word shall be capitalized:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent that any Award constitutes a deferral of compensation subject to Section 409A of the Code, and if that Award provides for a change in the time or form of payment based upon a Change in Control, then, solely for purposes of applying such change in the time or form of payment provision, a Change in Control Shall be deemed to have occurred upon an event described in Section 2.8 only if the event would also constitute a change in ownership or effective control of, or a change in ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of, the Company under Section 409 A of the Code.
A "Change of Control" shall not result from any transaction precipitated by the Company's insolvency, appointment of a conservator, or determination by a regulatory agency that the Company is insolvent, nor from any transaction initiated by the Company in regard to converting from a publicly traded company to a privately held company.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 3. Administration
. The Plan shall be administered by the Committee, subject to this Article 3 and the other provisions of this Plan. The Committee may employ attorneys, consultants, accountants, agents, and other individuals or entities, any of which may be an Employee, and the Committee, the Company, and its officers and Directors shall be entitled to rely upon the advice, opinions, or valuations of any such persons. All actions taken and all interpretations and determinations made by the Committee shall be final and binding on the Participants, the Company, and all other interested individuals.
3.1 General
. The Committee is authorized and empowered to administer the Plan and, subject to the provisions of the Plan, shall have full power to (i) designate Employees and Directors to be recipients of Awards; (ii) determine the type and size of Awards;
3.2 Authority of the Committee
 
(iii) determine the terms and conditions of Awards; (iv) certify satisfaction of performance goals for purposes of satisfying the requirements of Code Section 162(m); (v) construe and interpret the terms of the Plan and any Award Agreement or other instrument entered into under the Plan; (vi) establish, amend, or waive rules and regulations for the Plan's administration; (vii) subject to the provisions of Section 4.4, authorize conversion or substitution under the Plan of any or all outstanding option or other awards held by service providers of an entity acquired by the Company on terms determined by the Committee (without regard to limitations set forth in Section 6.3 and 7.5); (viii) subject to the provisions of Articles 15 and 17, amend the terms and conditions of any outstanding Award; (ix) grant Awards as an alternative to, or as the form of payment for, grants or rights earned or due under compensation plans or similar arrangements of the Company; and (x) make any other determination and take any other action that it deems necessary or desirable for the administration of the Plan.
. To the extent permitted by law and applicable rules of a stock exchange, the Committee may, by resolution, authorize one or more officers of the Company to do one or both of the following on the same basis as can the Committee: (a) designate Employees to be recipients of Awards; and (b) determine the type and size of any such Awards; provided, however: (i) the authority to make Awards to any Nonemployee Director or to any Employee who is considered an Insider may not be delegated; (ii) the resolution providing such authorization shall set forth the total number of Shares and Awards such officer(s) may grant; and (iii) the officer(s) shall report periodically to the Committee regarding the nature and scope of the Awards granted pursuant to the authority delegated.
3.3 Delegation
Article 4. Shares Subject to This Plan and Maximum Awards
4.1 Number of Shares Available for Awards.
 
 
 
 
. Shares covered by an Award shall only be counted as used to the extent they are actually issued. Any Shares related to Awards which terminate by expiration, forfeiture, cancellation, or otherwise without the issuance of such Shares, are settled in cash in lieu of Shares, or are exchanged with the Committee's permission, prior to the issuance of Shares, for Awards not involving Shares, shall be available again for grant under this Plan. However, the full number of Stock Appreciation Rights granted that are to be settled by the issuance of Shares shall be counted against the number of Shares available for award under the Plan, regardless of the number of Shares actually issued upon settlement of such Stock Appreciation Rights. Further, any Shares withheld to satisfy tax withholding obligations on Awards issued under the Plan, Shares tendered to pay the exercise price of Awards under the Plan, and Shares repurchased on the open market with the proceeds of an Option exercise will not be returned as available Shares under the Plan. The Shares available for issuance under this Plan may be authorized and unissued Shares or treasury Shares.
4.2 Share Usage
. Unless and until the Committee determines that an Award to a Covered Employee shall not be designed to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation, the following limits (each an "Annual Award Limit" and, collectively, "Annual Award Limits") shall apply to grants of such Awards under this Plan:
4.3 Annual Award Limits
 
 
 
 
 
 
. In the event of any corporate event or transaction (including, but not limited to, a change in the Shares of the Company or the capitalization of the Company) such as a merger, consolidation, reorganization, recapitalization, separation, partial or complete liquidation, stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, split up, spin-off, or other distribution of stock or property of the Company, combination of Shares, exchange of Shares, dividend in-kind, or other like change in capital structure, number of outstanding Shares or distribution (other than normal cash dividends) to shareholders of the Company, or any similar corporate event or transaction, the Committee, in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of Participants' rights under this Plan, shall substitute or adjust the number and kind of Shares that may be issued under this Plan or under particular forms of Awards, the number and kind of Shares subject to outstanding Awards, the Option Price or Grant Price applicable to outstanding Awards, the Annual Award Limits, or other value determinations applicable to outstanding Awards, with the specific adjustments to be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.
4.4 Adjustments in Authorized Shares
The Committee shall make appropriate adjustments to any other terms of any outstanding Awards under this Plan to reflect such changes or distributions, including modifications of performance goals and changes in the length of Performance Periods. The determination of the Committee as to the foregoing adjustments, if any, shall be conclusive and binding on Participants under this Plan.
Subject to the provisions of Article 17 and notwithstanding anything else herein to the contrary, without affecting the number of Shares reserved or available hereunder, the Committee may authorize the issuance or assumption of benefits under this Plan in connection with any merger, consolidation, acquisition of property or stock, or reorganization upon such terms and conditions as it may deem appropriate (including, but not limited to, a conversion of equity awards into Awards under this Plan in a manner consistent with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 718 section 55).
Any actions taken under section 4.4 shall be subject to compliance with the rules under Code Sections 409A, 422 and 424, as and where applicable.
Article 5. Eligibility and Participation
. Individuals eligible to participate in this Plan include all Employees and Nonemployee Directors.
5.1 Eligibility
. Subject to the provisions of this Plan, the Committee may, from time to time in its sole discretion, select from the individuals eligible to participate, those to whom Awards shall be granted.
5.2 Actual Participation
Article 6. Stock Options
. Subject to the terms and provisions of this Plan, Options may be granted to Participants in such number, and upon such terms, and at any time and from time to time as shall be determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion, provided that ISOs may be granted only to eligible Employees of the Company or of any parent or subsidiary corporation
6.1 Grant of Options
 
(as permitted under Code Sections 422 and 424). However, an Employee who is employed by an Affiliate and/or Subsidiary and is subject to Code Section 409A may only be granted Options to the extent the Affiliate and/or Subsidiary is part of the Company's consolidated group for United States federal tax purposes.
. Each Option grant shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the Option Price, the maximum duration of the Option, the number of Shares to which the Option pertains, the conditions upon which an Option shall become vested and exercisable, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine which are not inconsistent with the terms of this Plan. The Award Agreement also shall specify whether the Option is intended to be an ISO or an NQSO.
6.2 Award Agreement
. The Option Price for each grant of an Option under this Plan shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion and shall be specified in the Award Agreement; provided, however, the Option Price on the date of grant must be at least equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the FMV of the Shares on the date of grant.
6.3 Option Price
. Each Option granted to a Participant shall expire at such time as the Committee shall determine at the time of grant; provided, however, no Option shall be exercisable later than the tenth (10
6.4 Term of Options
th
) anniversary date of its grant.
. Options granted under this Article 6 shall be exercisable at such times and be subject to such restrictions and conditions as the Committee shall in each instance approve, which terms and restrictions need not be the same for each grant or for each Participant.
6.5 Exercise of Options
Options granted under this Article 6 shall be exercised by the delivery of a notice of exercise to the Company or an agent designated by the Company in a form specified or accepted by the Committee setting forth the number of Shares with respect to which the Option is to be exercised, accompanied by full payment for the Shares, or by complying with any alternative exercise procedures the Committee may authorize.
. A condition of the issuance of the Shares as to which an Option shall be exercised shall be the payment of the Option Price. The Option Price of any Option shall be payable to the Company in full either: (a) in cash or its equivalent; (b) by tendering (either by actual delivery or attestation) previously acquired Shares having an aggregate Fair Market Value at the time of exercise equal to the Option Price (subject to such procedures and conditions as the Committee may establish); (c) by a cashless (broker-assisted) exercise; (d) by having the company withhold Shares having a Fair Market Value on the date of exercise equal to the Option price; (e) by a combination of (a), (b), (c) and/or (d); or (f) any other method approved or accepted by the Committee in its sole discretion.
6.6 Payment
Subject to any governing rules or regulations, as soon as practicable after receipt of written notification of exercise and full payment (including satisfaction of any applicable tax withholding), the Company shall deliver to the Participant evidence of book entry Shares, or upon the Participant's request, Share certificates in an appropriate amount based upon the number of Shares purchased under the Option(s).
Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, all payments under all of the methods indicated above shall be paid in United States dollars.
. The Committee may impose such restrictions on any Shares acquired pursuant to the exercise of an Option granted under this Article 6 as it may
6.7 Restrictions on Share Transferability
 
deem advisable, including, without limitation, minimum holding period requirements, restrictions under applicable federal securities laws, under the requirements of any stock exchange or market upon which such Shares are then listed and/or traded, or under any blue sky or state securities laws applicable to such Shares.
. Each Participant's Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to exercise the Option following termination of the Participant's employment or provision of services to the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries, as the case may be. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with each Participant, need not be uniform among all Options issued pursuant to this Article 6, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.
6.8 Termination of Employment/Service
. Notwithstanding sections 6.3 and 6.4 above, a person who owns (or is deemed to own) stock possessing more than 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or of any of its Affiliates shall not be granted an Incentive Stock Option unless the Option Exercise Price is at least 110% of the FMV of the Shares on the date of grant and the Option is not exercisable after the expiration of five years from the date of grant. To the extent that the aggregate FMV (determined at the time of grant) of Shares with respect to which Incentive Stock Options are exercisable for the first time by any Participant during any calendar year (under all plans of the Company and its Affiliates) exceeds $100,000, the Options or portions thereof which exceed such limit (according to the order in which they were granted) shall be treated as Nonqualified Stock Options.
6.9 Special ISO Requirements
Article 7. Stock Appreciation Rights
. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Plan, Freestanding SARs may be granted to Participants at any time and from time to time as shall be determined by the Committee. However, an Employee who is employed by an Affiliate and/or Subsidiary and is subject to Code Section 409A may only be granted SARs to the extent the Affiliate and/or Subsidiary is part of the Company's consolidated group for United States federal tax purposes.
7.1 Grant of SARs
Subject to the terms and conditions of this Plan, the Committee shall have complete discretion in determining the number of SARs granted to each Participant and, consistent with the provisions of this Plan, in determining the terms and conditions pertaining to such SARs.
The Grant Price for each grant of a Freestanding SAR shall be determined by the Committee and shall be specified in the Award Agreement; provided, however, the Grant Price on the date of grant must be at least equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the FMV of the Shares on the date of grant.
. Each SAR Award shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the Grant Price, the term of the SAR, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine.
7.2 SAR Agreement
. The term of a SAR granted under this Plan shall be determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion, and except as determined otherwise by the Committee and specified in the SAR Award Agreement, no SAR shall be exercisable later than the tenth (10
7.3 Term of SAR
th
) anniversary date of its grant.
. Freestanding SARs may be exercised upon whatever terms and conditions the Committee, in its sole discretion, imposes.
7.4 Exercise of Freestanding SARs
 
. Upon the exercise of a SAR, a Participant shall be entitled to receive payment from the Company in an amount determined by multiplying:
7.5 Settlement of SAR Amount
 
 
At the discretion of the Committee, the payment upon SAR exercise may be in cash, Shares, or any combination thereof, or in any other manner approved by the Committee in its sole discretion. The Committee's determination regarding the form of SAR payout shall be set forth in the Award Agreement pertaining to the grant of the SAR.
. Each Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to exercise the SAR following termination of the Participant's employment with or provision of services to the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries, as the case may be. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with Participants, need not be uniform among all SARs issued pursuant to this Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.
7.6 Termination of Employment/Service
The Committee shall impose such other conditions and/or restrictions on any Shares received upon exercise of a SAR granted pursuant to this Plan as it may deem advisable or desirable. These restrictions may include, but shall not be limited to, a requirement that the Participant hold the Shares received upon exercise of a SAR for a specified period of time.
7.7 Other Restrictions.
Article 8. Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units
. Subject to the terms and provisions of this Plan, the Committee, at any time and from time to time, may grant Shares of Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Units to Participants in such amounts as the Committee shall determine. Restricted Stock Units shall be similar to Restricted Stock except that no Shares are actually awarded to the Participant on the date of grant.
8.1 Grant of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units
. Each Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Unit grant shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the Period(s) of Restriction, the number of Shares of Restricted Stock or the number of Restricted Stock Units granted, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine.
8.2 Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Unit Agreement
. The Committee shall impose such other conditions and/or restrictions on any Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to this Plan as it may deem advisable including, without limitation, a requirement that Participants pay a stipulated purchase price for each Share of Restricted Stock or each Restricted Stock Unit, restrictions based upon the achievement of specific performance goals, time-based restrictions on vesting following the attainment of the performance goals, time-based restrictions, and/or restrictions under applicable laws or under the requirements of any stock exchange or market upon which such Shares are listed or traded, or holding requirements or sale restrictions placed on the Shares by the Company upon vesting of such Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units.
8.3 Other Restrictions
To the extent deemed appropriate by the Committee, the Company may retain the certificates representing Shares of Restricted Stock in the Company's possession until such time as all conditions and/or restrictions applicable to such Shares have been satisfied or lapse.
 
Except as otherwise provided in this Article 8, Shares of Restricted Stock covered by each Restricted Stock Award shall become freely transferable by the Participant after all conditions and restrictions applicable to such Shares have been satisfied or lapse (including satisfaction of any applicable tax withholding obligations), and Restricted Stock Units shall be paid in cash, Shares, or a combination of cash and Shares as the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall determine.
. In addition to any legends placed on certificates pursuant to Section 8.3, each certificate representing Shares of Restricted Stock granted pursuant to this Plan may bear a legend such as the following or as otherwise determined by the Committee in its sole discretion:
8.4 Certificate Legend
"The transferability of this certificate and the shares of stock represented hereby are subject to the terms and conditions (including forfeiture) of the Total System Services, Inc. 2012 Omnibus Plan and a Restricted Stock Award Agreement entered into between the registered owner and Total System Services, Inc. Copies of such Plan and Agreement are on file in the offices of Total System Services, Inc., One TSYS Way, Columbus, Georgia 31901."
. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee and set forth in a Participant's Award Agreement, to the extent permitted or required by law, as determined by the Committee, Participants holding Shares of Restricted Stock granted hereunder may be granted the right to exercise full voting rights with respect to those Shares during the Period of Restriction. A Participant shall have no voting rights with respect to any Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder.
8.5 Voting Rights
. Each Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to retain Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Units following termination of the Participant's employment with or provision of services to the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries, as the case may be. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with each Participant, need not be uniform among all Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units issued pursuant to this Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.
8.6 Termination of Employment/Service
. The Committee may provide in an Award Agreement that the Award of Restricted Stock is conditioned upon the Participant making or refraining from making an election with respect to the Award under Code Section 83(b). If a Participant makes an election pursuant to Code Section 83(b) concerning a Restricted Stock Award, the Participant shall be required to file promptly a copy of such election with the Company.
8.7 Section 83(b) Election
Article 9. Performance Units/Performance Shares
. Subject to the terms and provisions of this Plan, the Committee, at any time and from time to time, may grant Performance Units and/or Performance Shares to Participants in such amounts and upon such terms as the Committee shall determine.
9.1 Grant of Performance Units/Performance Shares
 
. Each Performance Unit shall have an initial value that is established by the Committee at the time of grant. Each Performance Share shall have an initial value equal to the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of grant. The Committee shall set performance goals in its discretion which, depending on the extent to which they are met, will determine the value and/or number of Performance Units/Performance Shares that will be paid out to the Participant.
9.2 Value of Performance Units/Performance Shares
. Subject to the terms of this Plan, after the applicable Performance Period has ended, the holder of Performance Units/Performance Shares shall be entitled to receive payout on the value and number of Performance Units/Performance Shares earned by the Participant over the Performance Period, to be determined as a function of the extent to which the corresponding performance goals have been achieved.
9.3 Earning of Performance Units/Performance Shares
. Payment of earned Performance Units/Performance Shares shall be as determined by the Committee and as evidenced in the Award Agreement. Subject to the terms of this Plan, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may pay earned Performance Units/Performance Shares in the form of cash or in Shares (or in a combination thereof) equal to the value of the earned Performance Units/Performance Shares at the close of the applicable Performance Period, or as soon as practicable after the end of the Performance Period. Any Shares may be granted subject to any restrictions deemed appropriate by the Committee. The determination of the Committee with respect to the form of payout of such Awards shall be set forth in the Award Agreement pertaining to the grant of the Award.
9.4 Form and Timing of Payment of Performance Units/Performance Shares
. Each Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to retain Performance Units and/or Performance Shares following termination of the Participant's employment with or provision of services to the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries, as the case may be. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with each Participant, need not be uniform among all Awards of Performance Units or Performance Shares issued pursuant to this Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.
9.5 Termination of Employment/Service
Article 10. Cash-Based Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards
. Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, the Committee, at any time and from time to time, may grant Cash-Based Awards to Participants in such amounts and upon such terms as the Committee may determine.
10.1 Grant of Cash-Based Awards
. The Committee may grant other types of equity-based or equity-related Awards not otherwise described by the terms of this Plan (including the grant or offer for sale of unrestricted Shares) in such amounts and subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine. Such Awards may involve the transfer of actual Shares to Participants, or payment in cash or otherwise of amounts based on the value of Shares, and may include, without limitation, Awards designed to comply with or take advantage of the applicable local laws of jurisdictions other than the United States.
10.2 Other Stock-Based Awards
. Each Cash-Based Award shall specify a payment amount or payment range as determined by the Committee. Each Other Stock-
10.3 Value of Cash-Based and Other Stock-Based Awards
 
Based Award shall be expressed in terms of Shares or units based on Shares, as determined by the Committee. The Committee may establish performance goals in its discretion. If the Committee exercises its discretion to establish performance goals, the number and/or value of Cash-Based Awards or Other Stock-Based Awards that will be paid out to the Participant will depend on the extent to which the performance goals are met.
. Payment, if any, with respect to a Cash-Based Award or any Other Stock-Based Award shall be made in accordance with the terms of the Award, in cash or Shares as the Committee determines.
10.4 Payment of Cash-Based Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards
. The Committee shall determine the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to receive Cash-Based Awards or Other Stock-Based Awards following termination of the Participant's employment with or provision of services to the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries, as the case may be. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, such provisions may be included in an agreement entered into with each Participant, but need not be uniform among all Awards of Cash-Based Awards or Other Stock-Based Awards issued pursuant to the Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.
10.5 Termination of Employment/Service
Article 11. Transferability of Awards
. Except as provided in Section 11.2 below, during a Participant's lifetime, his or her Awards shall be exercisable only by the Participant. Awards shall not be transferable other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution; no Awards shall be subject, in whole or in part, to attachment, execution, or levy of any kind; and any purported transfer in violation hereof shall be null and void. The Committee may establish such procedures as it deems appropriate for a Participant to designate a beneficiary to whom any amounts payable or Shares deliverable in the event of, or following, the Participant's death may be provided.
11.1 Transferability
. The Committee may, in its discretion, determine that notwithstanding Section 11.1, any or all Awards (other than ISOs) shall be transferable to and exercisable by such transferees, and subject to such terms and conditions, as the Committee may deem appropriate; provided, however, no Award may be transferred for value (as defined in the General Instructions to Form S-8).
11.2 Committee Action
Article 12. Performance Measures
. The performance goals upon which the payment or vesting of an Award to a Covered Employee that is intended to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation shall be limited to the following Performance Measures:
12.1 Performance Measures
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any Performance Measure(s) may be used to measure the performance of the Company, Subsidiary, and/or Affiliate as a whole or any segment or business unit of the Company, Subsidiary, and/or Affiliate or any combination thereof, as the Committee may deem appropriate, or any of the above Performance Measures as compared to the performance of a group of comparator companies, or published or special index that the Committee, in its sole discretion, deems appropriate, or the Company may select Performance Measure (j) above as compared to various stock market indices. The Committee also has the authority to provide for accelerated vesting of any Award based on the achievement of performance goals pursuant to the Performance Measures specified in this Article 12.
 
With regard to a particular Performance Period, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall, within the first 90 days of a Performance Period (or, if longer or shorter, within the maximum period allowed under Section 162(m) of the Code), determine the length of the Performance Period (provided any such Performance Period shall be not less than one fiscal quarter in duration), the type(s) of Performance-Based Compensation Awards to be issued, and the Performance Measures that will be used to establish the performance goals,. Following the completion of a Performance Period, the Committee shall review and certify in writing whether, and to what extent, the performance goals for the Performance Period have been achieved and, if so, calculate and certify in writing the amount of the Performance -Based Compensation Awards earned for the period.
. The Committee may provide in any such Award that any evaluation of achievement of Performance Measures may, among other things, include or exclude any of the following events that occur during a Performance Period: (a) asset write-downs, (b) litigation, claims, judgments or settlements, (c) the effect of changes in tax laws, accounting principles, or other laws or provisions affecting reported results, (d) any reorganization and restructuring programs, (e) extraordinary nonrecurring items as described in ASC 225 and/or in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations appearing in the Company's annual report to shareholders for the applicable year, (f) acquisitions or divestitures, and (g) foreign exchange gains and losses. To the extent such inclusions or exclusions affect Awards to Covered Employees, they shall be prescribed in a form that meets the requirements of Code Section 162(m) for deductibility (unless the Committee exercises its discretion pursuant to Section 12.4 that such Award not satisfy the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code).
12.2 Evaluation of Performance
. Awards that are intended to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation may not be adjusted upward. The Committee shall retain the discretion to adjust such Awards downward, either on a formula or discretionary basis, or any combination, as the Committee determines.
12.3 Discretionary Adjustment of Performance-Based Compensation
. In the event that applicable tax and/or securities laws change to permit Committee discretion to alter the governing Performance Measures without obtaining shareholder approval of such changes, the Committee shall have sole discretion to make such changes without obtaining shareholder approval. In addition, in the event that the Committee determines that it is advisable to grant Awards that shall not qualify as Performance-Based Compensation, the Committee may make such grants without satisfying the requirements of Code Section 162(m) and base vesting on Performance Measures other than those set forth in Section 12.1.
12.4 Committee Discretion
Article 13. Nonemployee Director Awards
From time to time, the Board shall set the amount(s) and type(s) of equity awards that shall be granted to all Nonemployee Directors on a periodic, nondiscriminatory basis pursuant to the Plan, as well as any additional amount(s), if any, to be awarded, also on a periodic, nondiscriminatory basis, based on each of the following: (i) the number of Board committees on which a Nonemployee Director serves; (ii) service of a Nonemployee Director as the chair of a Board committee; (iii) service of a Nonemployee Director as Chairman of the Board; or (iv) the
 
initial selection or appointment of an individual to the Board as a Nonemployee Director. Subject to the foregoing, the Board shall grant such Awards to Nonemployee Directors, as it shall from time to time determine.
Article 14. Dividends and Dividend Equivalents
Any Participant selected by the Committee may be granted dividends or dividend equivalents based on the dividends declared on Shares that are subject to any Full Value Award, to be credited as of the dividend payment dates during the period between the date the Award is granted and the date the Award vests as determined by the Committee. The dividends or dividend equivalents may be subject to any limitations and/or restrictions determined by the Committee, and shall in all cases be paid in a manner that complies with the restriction under Code section 409A. Such dividend equivalents shall be converted to cash or additional Shares by such formula and at such time and subject to such limitations as may be determined by the Committee.
Article 15. Change of Control
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, unless the Committee specifies otherwise in an Award Agreement, in the event of a Change of Control: (i) any Options and Stock Appreciation Rights which are outstanding immediately prior to the date such Change of Control is determined to have occurred, and which are not then exercisable and vested, shall become fully exercisable and vested to the full extent of the original grant; (ii) the restrictions and deferral limitations applicable to any Restricted Stock shall lapse, and such Restricted Stock shall become free of all restrictions and limitations and become fully vested and transferable to the full extent of the original grant; and (iii) the restrictions and deferral limitations and other conditions applicable to any other Awards under the Plan shall lapse, and such other Awards shall become free of all restrictions, limitations or conditions and become fully vested and transferable to the full extent of the original grant. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Article 15, with respect to Awards granted under this Plan to Participants who were executive officers of the Company at the time of grant, and which are assumed by the surviving entity in a Change of Control transaction, or are equitably converted or substituted in connection with a Change in Control, the vesting of such Awards shall not be accelerated unless the executive's employment is terminated within two years following the effective date of such Change of Control either (i) by the surviving entity without cause or (ii) by the executive for good reason as defined in the executive's Award Agreement or employment agreement, as applicable.
Article 16. Rights of Participants
. Nothing in this Plan or an Award Agreement shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries to terminate any Participant's employment or service on the Board or to the Company at any time or for any reason not prohibited by law, nor confer upon any Participant any right to continue his employment or service as a Director for any specified period of time.
16.1 Employment/Service
Neither an Award nor any benefits arising under this Plan shall constitute an employment contract with the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries and, accordingly, subject to Articles 3 and 17, this Plan and the benefits hereunder may be terminated at any time in the sole and exclusive discretion of the Committee without giving rise to any liability on the part of the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries.
 
. No individual shall have the right to be selected to receive an Award under this Plan or, having been so selected, to be selected to receive a future Award.
16.2 Participation
. Except as otherwise provided herein or in any Award Agreement, a Participant shall have none of the rights of a shareholder with respect to Shares covered by any Award until the Participant becomes the record holder of such Shares.
16.3 Rights as a Shareholder
Article 17. Amendment, Modification, Suspension, and Termination
. Subject to Section 17.3, the Committee may, at any time and from time to time, alter, amend, modify, suspend, or terminate this Plan and any Award Agreement in whole or in part; provided, however, that without the prior approval of the Company's shareholders and except as provided in Section 4.4, Options or SARs issued under this Plan will not be repriced, replaced, repurchased for cash when the Fair Market Value of a Share is lower than the Option Price of a previously granted Option or the Grant Price of a previously granted SAR, or regranted through cancellation, or by lowering the Option Price of a previously granted Option or the Grant Price of a previously granted SAR, and no material amendment of this Plan shall be made without shareholder approval if shareholder approval is required by law, regulation, or stock exchange rule.
17.1 Amendment, Modification, Suspension, and Termination
. The Committee shall make adjustments in the terms and conditions of, and the criteria included in, Awards in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events, other than those described in Section 4.4 hereof, affecting the Company or the financial statements of the Company or of changes in applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles, whenever the Committee determines that such adjustments are appropriate in order to prevent unintended dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under this Plan. The Committee shall determine any adjustment (a) consistent with the intent that an Award which is Performance Based Compensation qualify for the performance-based compensation exception under Section 162(m) of the Code (unless the Committee exercises its discretion pursuant to Section 12.4 that such Award not satisfy the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code), and (b) after taking into account, to the extent applicable, the provisions of the Code applicable to Incentive Stock Options and the provisions of Section 409A of the Code. The determination of the Committee as to the foregoing adjustments, if any, shall be conclusive and binding on Participants under this Plan.
17.2 Adjustment of Awards Upon the Occurrence of Certain Unusual or Nonrecurring Events
. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary (other than Section 17.4), no termination, amendment, suspension, or modification of this Plan or an Award Agreement shall adversely affect in any material way any Award previously granted under this Plan, without the written consent of the Participant holding such Award.
17.3 Awards Previously Granted
. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, the Board of Directors may amend the Plan or an Award Agreement, to take effect retroactively or otherwise, as deemed necessary or advisable for the purpose of conforming the Plan or an Award Agreement to any present or future law relating to plans of this or similar nature (including, but not limited to, Code Section 409A), and to the administrative regulations and rulings promulgated thereunder.
17.4 Amendment to Conform to Law
 
Article 18. Withholding
. The Company shall have the power and the right to deduct or withhold, or require a Participant to remit to the Company, the minimum statutory amount to satisfy federal, state, and local taxes, domestic or foreign, required by law or regulation to be withheld with respect to any taxable event arising as a result of this Plan.
18.1 Tax Withholding
. With respect to withholding required upon the exercise of Options or SARs, upon the lapse of restrictions on Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units, or upon the achievement of performance goals related to Performance Shares, or any other taxable event arising as a result of an Award granted hereunder, Participants may elect, subject to the approval of the Committee, to satisfy the withholding requirement, in whole or in part, by having the Company withhold Shares having a Fair Market Value on the date the tax is to be determined equal to the minimum statutory total tax that could be imposed on the transaction. All such elections shall be irrevocable, made in writing, and signed by the Participant, and shall be subject to any restrictions or limitations that the Committee, in its sole discretion, deems appropriate.
18.2 Share Withholding
Article 19. Successors
All obligations of the Company under this Plan with respect to Awards granted hereunder shall be binding on any successor to the Company, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company.
Article 20. General Provisions
20.1 Forfeiture Events.
 
 
 
. The certificates for Shares may include any legend that the Committee deems appropriate to reflect any restrictions on transfer of such Shares.
20.2 Legend
. Except where otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine term used herein also shall include the feminine, the plural shall include the singular, and the singular shall include the plural.
20.3 Gender and Number
. In the event any provision of this Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of this Plan, and this Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included.
20.4 Severability
. The granting of Awards and the issuance of Shares under this Plan shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, and to such approvals by any governmental agencies, the NYSE or other national securities exchanges as may be required.
20.5 Requirements of Law
. The Company shall have no obligation to issue or deliver evidence of title for Shares issued under this Plan prior to:
20.6 Delivery of Title
 
 
. The inability of the Company to obtain authority from any regulatory body having jurisdiction, which authority is deemed by the Company's counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares hereunder, shall relieve the Company of any liability in respect of the failure to issue or sell such Shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained.
20.7 Inability to Obtain Authority
. The Committee may require any individual receiving Shares pursuant to an Award under this Plan to represent and warrant in writing that the individual is acquiring the Shares for investment and without any present intention to sell or distribute such Shares.
20.8 Investment Representations
. Notwithstanding any provision of this Plan to the contrary, in order to comply with the laws in other countries in which the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries operate or have Employees or Directors, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall have the power and authority to:
20.9 Employees Based Outside of the United States
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the above, the Committee may not take any actions hereunder, and no Awards shall be granted that would violate applicable law.
. To the extent that this Plan provides for issuance of certificates to reflect the transfer of Shares, the transfer of such Shares may be effected on a noncertificated basis, to the extent not prohibited by applicable law or the rules of any stock exchange.
20.10 Uncertificated Shares
. Participants shall have no right, title, or interest whatsoever in or to any investments that the Company and/or its Subsidiaries and/or its Affiliates may make to aid it in meeting its obligations under this Plan. Nothing contained in this Plan, and no action taken pursuant to its provisions, shall create or be construed to create a trust of any kind, or a fiduciary relationship between the Company and any Participant, beneficiary, legal representative, or any other individual. To the extent that any individual acquires a right to receive payments from the Company, its Subsidiaries, and/or its Affiliates under this Plan, such right shall be no greater than the right of an unsecured general creditor of the Company, a Subsidiary, or an Affiliate, as the case may be. All payments to be made hereunder shall be paid from the general funds of the Company, a Subsidiary, or an Affiliate, as the case may be, and no special or separate fund shall be established and no segregation of assets shall be made to assure payment of such amounts except as expressly set forth in this Plan.
20.11 Unfunded Plan
. No fractional Shares shall be issued or delivered pursuant to this Plan or any Award. The Committee shall determine whether cash, Awards, or other property shall be issued or paid in lieu of fractional Shares or whether such fractional Shares or any rights thereto shall be forfeited or otherwise eliminated.
20.12 No Fractional Shares
. Neither Awards made under this Plan nor Shares or cash paid pursuant to such Awards, except pursuant to Covered Employee annual incentive awards, may be included as "compensation" for purposes of computing the benefits payable to any Participant under the Company's or any Subsidiary's or Affiliate's retirement plans (both qualified and nonqualified) or welfare benefit plans unless such other plan expressly provides that such compensation shall be taken into account in computing a Participant's benefit.
20.13 Retirement and Welfare Plans
It is the intention of the Company that no Award be deferred compensation subject to Code Section 409A unless and to the extent that the Committee specifically determines otherwise. The terms and conditions governing any Awards that the Committee determines will be subject to Section 409A of the Code, including any rules for payment, including elective or mandatory deferral of the payment or delivery of cash or Shares pursuant thereto, and any rules regarding treatment of such Awards in the event of a Change in Control, shall be set forth in the applicable Award Agreement and shall be intended to comply in all respects with Section 409A of the Code, and the Plan, and the terms and conditions of such Awards shall be interpreted and administered accordingly. The Committee shall not extend the period to exercise an Option or Stock Appreciation Right to the extent that such extension would
20.14 Deferred Compensation.
 
cause the Option or Stock Appreciation Right to become subject to Code Section 409A. Unless the Committee provides otherwise in an Award Agreement, each Restricted Stock Unit, Performance Unit, Performance Share, Cash-Based Award and/or Stock Bonus Award shall be paid in full to the Participant no later than the fifteenth day of the third month after the end of the first calendar year in which such Award is no longer subject to a "substantial risk of forfeiture" within the meaning of Code Section 409A. If the Committee provides in an Award Agreement that a Restricted Stock Unit, Performance Unit, Performance Share, Cash-Based Award or Other Stock-Based Award is intended to be subject to Code Section 409A, the Award Agreement shall include terms that are intended to comply in all respects with Code Section 409A. No Dividend Equivalents shall relate to Shares underlying an Option or SAR unless such Dividend Equivalent rights are explicitly set forth as a separate arrangement and do not cause any such Option or SAR to be subject to Code Section 409A.
. The adoption of this Plan shall not be construed as creating any limitations on the power of the Board or Committee to adopt such other compensation arrangements as it may deem desirable for any Participant.
20.15 Nonexclusivity of This Plan
. Nothing in this Plan shall be construed to: (a) limit, impair, or otherwise affect the Company's or a Subsidiary's or an Affiliate's right or power to make adjustments, reclassifications, reorganizations, or changes of its capital or business structure, or to merge or consolidate, or dissolve, liquidate, sell, or transfer all or any part of its business or assets; or, (b) limit the right or power of the Company or a Subsidiary or an Affiliate to take any action which such entity deems to be necessary or appropriate.
20.16 No Constraint on Corporate Action
. The Plan and each Award Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Georgia, excluding any conflicts or choice of law rule or principle that might otherwise refer construction or interpretation of this Plan to the substantive law of another jurisdiction. Unless otherwise provided in the Award Agreement, recipients of an Award under this Plan are deemed to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction and venue of the federal or state courts of Georgia to resolve any and all issues that may arise out of or relate to this Plan or any related Award Agreement.
20.17 Governing Law
. Subject to requirements of Georgia law, each individual who is or shall have been a member of the Board, or a committee appointed by the Board, or an officer of the Company to whom authority was delegated in accordance with Article 3, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company against and from any loss, cost, liability, or expense that may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred by the Participant in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit, or proceeding to which the Participant may be a party or in which the Participant may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under this Plan and against and from any and all amounts paid by the Participant in settlement thereof, with the Company's approval, or paid by the Participant in satisfaction of any judgment in any such action, suit, or proceeding against the Participant, provided the Participant shall give the Company an opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same before the Participant undertakes to handle and defend it on the Participant's own behalf, unless such loss, cost, liability, or expense is a result of the Participant's own willful misconduct or except as expressly provided by statute.
20.18 Indemnification
The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which such individuals may be entitled under the Company's Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or any power that the Company may have to indemnify them or hold them harmless.
 
. The Company and its Affiliates shall have the right to offset against the obligations to make payment or issue any Shares to any Participant under the Plan, any outstanding amounts (including travel and entertainment advance balances, loans, tax withholding amounts paid by the employer or amounts repayable to the Company or Affiliate pursuant to tax equalization, housing, automobile or other employee programs) such Participant then owes to the Company or Affiliate and any amounts the Committee otherwise deems appropriate pursuant to any tax equalization policy or agreement.
20.19 Right of Offset
 


