FILE:BIG/BIG-8K-20031202172247.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
On December 2, 2003, Big Lots, Inc. ("Company") issued a press release announcing the appointment of John C. Martin as Executive Vice President of Merchandising. A copy of the Company's press release is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1. The information in Exhibit 99.1 is being furnished, not filed, under Item 5 of this Current Report on Form 8-K. By filing this Current Report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, the Company is making no admission as to the materiality of any information in this Current Report, including the Exhibits.
On December 1, 2003, an article appeared in The Wall Street Journal pertaining to holiday sales by certain retailers. In relevant part, when referring to the Company, the article states: "The Columbus, Ohio, retailer said it met its plan Friday for a 4% to 6% increase in same-store sales, or those at stores open at least a year. "We feel like we have some momentum going into next week," said Kent Larsson, executive vice president of marketing." By filing this Current Report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, the Company is making no admission as to the materiality of this information. The Company notes that it reports its comparable store sales for all stores that have been open for at least two years as of the beginning of the fiscal year.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: December 2, 2003

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
[BIG LOTS! LOGO]
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Media Contact: Keri Lucas Director of Public Relations 614.278.7023
COLUMBUS, OHIO (December 2, 2003)  Big Lots, America's largest broadline closeout retailer, today announced the appointment of John C. Martin, executive vice president of merchandising. Mr. Martin will report to CEO Michael Potter.
Mr. Martin will oversee all areas of merchandising for the company including merchandise planning and allocation and will be responsible for furthering the company's progress toward its long-term goals. "As we continue to execute on our company's strategic initiatives including assembling a strong team of experts and building the Big Lots brand, we are attracting the best and brightest talent from within the retail industry," said Michael J. Potter, chairman and CEO. "We've made significant progress in building our buying organization, dramatically improving our execution and better connecting the business with our customer. John's proven track record of building businesses in growth environments will contribute to and build upon Big Lots' leadership role in closeout retailing."
With 30 years of retail expertise, Martin brings extensive knowledge and leadership in the areas of merchandising and merchandise planning and control, presentation and assortment strategy, marketing, store operations and inventory management. He most recently served as President of Garden Ridge Corporation as well as holding senior management and leadership positions with Michaels Stores as president and chief operating officer; OfficeMax Inc., as president; and as divisional merchandise manager with Federated Department Stores, Gold Circle division. Mr. Martin began his retail career as a buyer with Dollar General.
Martin started his position with Big Lots yesterday and will reside in Columbus, Ohio.
Big Lots, Inc. () is the nation's largest broadline closeout retailer with annual revenues exceeding $3.8 billion. Headquartered in Columbus, Ohio, Big Lots operates more than 1400 retail stores serving 45 states. Four regional distribution centers throughout the country, ranging in size from 1 million to 3 million square feet, provide the company's stores with brand-name products from more than 3,000 manufacturers. Big Lots offers merchandise at 20 to 40 percent below most discount retailers and up to 70 percent below conventional retailers. Founded in 1967, the company employs more than 40,000 associates across the U.S. By creating excitement with brand name closeouts and bargains through a unique shopping experience, Big Lots meets the needs of customers by providing an assortment of merchandise including consumables, seasonal products, furniture and home, housewares, toys, and gifts. Big Lots is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol BLI.
www.biglots.com


