FILE:BIG/BIG-8K-20040720165553.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
On July 19, 2004, the Company issued a press release announcing the resignation of Albert J. Bell as Vice Chairman, Chief Administrative Officer, and Director of the Company, effective August 17, 2004. Attached to this Current Report as Exhibit 99 is a copy of the Company's July 19, 2004 press release. The information in Exhibit 99 is being furnished, not filed, under Item 9 of this Current Report. By furnishing the information in this Current Report and the attached exhibit, the Company is making no admission as to the materiality of any information in this Current Report or the exhibit.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 20, 2004

 
Exhibit 99
PRESS RELEASE
Columbus, Ohio  July 19, 2004  Big Lots, Inc. (NYSE: BLI) today announced the resignation of Albert J. Bell as Vice Chairman, Chief Administrative Officer, and Director of the Company, effective August 17, 2004. Mr. Bell is leaving the Company to pursue other career interests.
"Al has made important contributions to the Company during his 18 years of service and we wish him success in his personal and professional pursuits," said Michael J. Potter, Big Lots Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
Big Lots, Inc. is the nation's largest broadline closeout retailer. The Company operates a total of 1,463 stores in 46 states operating as and . Wholesale operations are conducted through and with online purchasing at www.biglotswholesale.com. The Company's website is located at www.biglots.com.
BIG LOTS
BIG LOTS FURNITURE
BIG LOTS WHOLESALE, CONSOLIDATED INTERNATIONAL, WISCONSIN TOY
 
 
 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS FOR PURPOSES OF "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF THE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the "Act") provides a "safe harbor" for forward-looking statements to encourage companies to provide prospective information, so long as those statements are identified as forward-looking and are accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the statement. The Company wishes to take advantage of the "safe harbor" provisions of the Act.
This release, as well as other verbal or written statements or reports made by or on the behalf of the Company, may contain or may incorporate material by reference which includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Act. By their nature, all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. Statements, other than those based on historical facts, which address activities, events, or developments that the Company expects or anticipates will or may occur in the future, including such things as future capital expenditures (including the amount and nature thereof), business strategy, expansion and growth of the Company's business and operations, future earnings, store openings and new market entries, anticipated inventory turn, and other similar matters, as well as statements expressing optimism or pessimism about future operating results or events, are forward-looking statements, which are based upon a number of assumptions concerning future conditions that may ultimately prove to be inaccurate. The words "believe," "anticipate," "project," "plan," "expect," "estimate," "objective," "forecast," "goal," "intend," "will," and similar expressions generally identify forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements are and will be based upon management's then-current views and assumptions regarding future events and operating performance, and are applicable only as of the dates of such statements. Although the Company believes the expectations expressed in forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions within the bounds of its knowledge of its business, actual events and results may materially differ from anticipated results described in such statements.
The Company's ability to achieve the results contemplated by forward-looking statements are subject to a number of factors, any one or a combination of, which could materially affect the Company's business, financial condition, or results of operations. These factors may include, but are not limited to:
 
 
 
The foregoing list is not exhaustive. There can be no assurances that the Company has correctly and completely identified, assessed, and accounted for all factors that do or may affect its business, financial condition, or results of operations. Additional risks not presently known to the Company or that it believes to be immaterial also may adversely impact the Company. Should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have material adverse effects on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations. Consequently, all of the forward-looking statements are qualified by these cautionary statements, and there can be no assurance that the results or developments anticipated by the Company will be realized or that they will have the expected effects on the Company or its business or operations.
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date thereof. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements contained in this release, or to update them to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this release, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Readers are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures the Company may make on related subjects in its public announcements and filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 


