FILE:BIG/BIG-8K-20050112171223.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On January 6, 2005, Big Lots, Inc. (the "Company") announced that Michael J. Potter will transition from his role as Chief Executive Officer ("CEO") and President to the newly created position of Chief Strategy Officer ("CSO"). Mr. Potter will continue to serve as CEO and President until a successor is appointed. Mr. Potter intends to continue to serve as Chairman of the Board and stand for re-election in May 2005.
In connection with the transition plan, Mr. Potter's Employment Agreement dated June 26, 2000 (the "Old Employment Agreement"), was voluntarily terminated by Mr. Potter and the Company, and, in consideration of the mutual termination of the Old Employment Agreement, Mr. Potter entered into a new Employment Agreement with the Company on January 6, 2005 (the "New Employment Agreement"). Under the terms of the New Employment Agreement, Mr. Potter will continue as the Company's CEO and President until a successor is appointed. Thereafter, he will become the Company's Chief Strategy Officer ("CSO"). The CSO is a newly created position that will report directly to the Board and focus on assisting the successor CEO to transition into his or her new position and perform such services as may be reasonably requested by the Board. The New Employment Agreement provides Mr. Potter with a base salary of $765,000 so long as he continues as CEO and President, and $382,500 once he becomes CSO. At the end of Mr. Potter's service as CSO, he will receive a payment of $765,000 in exchange for two-year non-competition and non-solicitation covenants. Additionally, Mr. Potter will be eligible for: (a) an annual bonus under the 1998 Big Lots, Inc. Key Associate Annual Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended (the "Bonus Plan") so long as he continues as CEO and President; (b) equity awards under the Company's 1996 Performance Incentive Plan, as amended (the "Incentive Plan"); and (c) continued participation in the Company's retirement and health plans and such other programs as the Company provides for its employees. Mr. Potter's bonus is based upon the Company's achievement of specific earnings targets established by the Nominating and Compensation Committee (the "Committee") in accordance with the Bonus Plan. Equity awards under the Incentive Plan may be granted to Mr. Potter at the discretion of the Committee. The New Employment Agreement is furnished herewith as Exhibit 10.1. This summary of the New Employment Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibit 10.1.
Also on January 6, 2005, the Company provided a retention package (the "Retention Package") to certain of its officers (the "Affected Officers"), including Brad A. Waite, Executive Vice President, Human Resources, Loss Prevention, Real Estate and Risk Management; John C. Martin, Executive Vice President, Merchandising; Joe R. Cooper, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Charles W. Haubiel II, Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary. The purpose of the Retention Package is to provide additional incentives for the Affected Officers to remain with the Company throughout the transition of the CEO position from Mr. Potter to his replacement. In accordance with the Retention Package, if the Affected Officer remains employed with the Company through February 1, 2006, or if the Affected Officer is involuntarily terminated before such date for any reason other than cause, he or she will receive a bonus. Mr. Waite's bonus is equal to 75% of his base salary, Mr. Martin's bonus is equal to 60% of his base salary, and Messrs. Cooper and Haubiel's bonus is equal to 50% of their respective base salaries. The bonus received by the Affected Officers pursuant to the Retention Package will reduce their respective bonuses which would be otherwise received under the Bonus Plan for fiscal 2005.
Also in connection with the Retention Package, the Company granted to the Affected Officers restricted common shares of the Company. The restricted stock grants were made in accordance with the Incentive Plan and are subject to a Restricted Stock Award Agreement dated January 6, 2005. The restricted stock grants vest equally over a three year period and will fully vest if the Affected Officer is involuntarily terminated for any reason other than cause before the lapse of such three year period. The restricted stock grants will be forfeited, in whole or in part, as applicable, if the Affected Officer voluntarily terminates his or her employment or if the Affected Officer is involuntarily terminated for cause. Under the Retention Package, Messrs. Waite, Martin, Cooper and Haubiel received 50,000, 30,000, 16,000 and 10,000 shares, respectively.
A form of the Retention Package memorandum is furnished herewith as Exhibit 10.2. A form of the Restricted Stock Award Agreement is furnished herewith as Exhibit 10.3. This summary of the Retention Package is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibit 10.2 and Exhibit 10.3.
Item 1.02 Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement.
The discussion of Mr. Potter's Old Employment Agreement set forth in response to Item 1.01 above is incorporated herein by reference. The Old Employment Agreement is incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10.4 from the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 29, 2000. The summary of the Old Employment Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibit 10.4.
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 6, 2005, the Company issued a press release and conducted a conference call, both of which reported the Company's retail sales for the five week period ended January 1, 2005. Also in the press release and on the conference call, the Company provided revised earnings and sales guidance for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004.
Attached as exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K are copies of the Company's January 6, 2005 press release (Exhibit 99.1), and the transcript of the Company's January 6, 2005 conference call (Exhibit 99.2), including information concerning forward-looking statements and factors that may affect the Company's future results. The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K. By furnishing the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K and the attached exhibits, the Company is making no admission as to the materiality of any information in this Current Report or the exhibits.
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
The discussion of Mr. Potter's transition from CEO and President to CSO set forth in response to Item 1.01 above is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On January 6, 2005, the Company issued a press release that announced: (i) retail sales for the five week period ended January 1, 2005; (ii) revised earnings and sales guidance for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2004; (iii) a new inventory markdown strategy; and (iv) Mr. Potter's transition from CEO and President to CSO. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

EXHIBIT 10.1 EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT BY AND AMONG BIG LOTS, INC., BIG LOTS STORES, INC. AND MICHAEL J. POTTER This employment agreement ("Agreement") by and among Big Lots, Inc. ("BLI"), Big Lots Stores, Inc. ("Big Lots") and their affiliates, predecessor, successor, subsidiaries and other related companies (collectively the "Company") and Michael J. Potter (the "Executive"), collectively, the "Parties," is effective as of the date signed ("Effective Date") and supersedes and replaces any other oral or written employment-related agreement between the Executive and the Company, including, except as specifically provided, the employment agreement dated June 26, 2000 between the Executive and the Company's predecessor ("Prior Agreement"). The Executive has been employed by the Company since 1991 and has served as the Company's Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President since 2000. It is the Executive's desire, in a modified capacity, to continue to provide services to the Company and the Company's desire to benefit from the continuation of the Executive's future services. It is the expectation of the Parties that the Executive will continue to serve as the Company's Chief Executive Officer until a successor is appointed, and serve thereafter as the Company's Chief Strategy Officer. The Parties further intend for the Executive to continue to serve as a board member of BLI. 1.00 DURATION This Agreement will remain in effect from the Effective Date until the earlier of [1] the date it terminates as provided in Section 5.00 or [2] the last day of the twenty-fourth complete calendar month beginning on or immediately after the beginning of the CSO Period (as defined in Section 2.01[2]) and for any subsequent period (and subject to the terms) agreed upon by Big Lots and the Executive ("Term"). Any notice of termination required to be given under this Agreement must be given as provided in Section 6.00 and will be effective on the date prescribed in Section 5.00. 2.00 EXECUTIVE'S EMPLOYMENT FUNCTION 2.01 POSITION. The Executive agrees: [1] Subject to Section 2.01[2] to [a] serve as the Company's Chief Executive Officer with the authority and duties customarily associated with this position and [b] assist BLI's Board of Directors in its search for a successor Chief Executive Officer. The period required to discharge the duties described in this subsection is referred to as the "CEO Period." [2] At the conclusion of the CEO Period (which will terminate upon the employment of a successor Chief Executive Officer) and for the balance of the Term, to [a] assist the
successor Chief Executive Officer to transition into his or her new position and [b] serve as the Company's Chief Strategy Officer performing the services as may be reasonably requested by, and solely under the direction of, BLI's Board of Directors. The period described in this subsection is referred to as the "CSO Period." The Executive agrees at all times to observe and be bound by all Company rules, policies, practices, procedures and resolutions which apply to Company employees and which do not conflict with the specific terms of this Agreement. 2.02 BUSINESS DECISIONS. The Executive shall have no liability to the Company for any act or omission undertaken during the Term of this Agreement in his good faith business judgment in furtherance of his duties as prescribed in or under this Agreement. 2.03 PLACE OF PERFORMANCE. During the CEO Period, the Executive's duties will principally be performed in Columbus, Ohio, except for required travel on the Company's business. During the CSO Period, the Executive agrees to be reasonably available to perform the duties described in Section 2.01[2]; provided, however, that the Company recognizes that the Executive will be relocating from the Columbus, Ohio area and will maintain an office at his new residence. 3.00 COMPENSATION The Company will pay the Executive the amounts described in this Section 3.00 as compensation for the services described in this Agreement and in exchange for the duties and responsibilities described in Section 4.00. 3.01 BASE SALARY. The Company will pay to the Executive: [1] During the CEO Period, an annualized base salary of $765,000 ("CEO Base Salary"); and [2] During the CSO Period, an annualized base salary of $382,500 ("CSO Base Salary"). Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the Executive's CEO Base Salary and CSO Base Salary (collectively, "Base Salary") will be paid in installments that correspond with the Company's normal payroll practices. The Base Salary may be adjusted from time to time in a manner that is consistent with the Company's compensation policies in effect for executives in the same or similar job classification at the discretion of the Company, but will not be adjusted to any amount lower than, as appropriate, the CEO Base Salary during the CEO Period or the CSO Base Salary during the CSO Period. 3.02 BONUS. [1] AMOUNT OF BONUS. [a] During the CEO Period, the Executive shall be eligible to receive bonus compensation equal to the CEO Base Salary at the end of the CEO Period multiplied by the Bonus Payout percentage as determined by the Bonus Program Initials _______ Date ________ 2
set each fiscal year by the Compensation Committee of BLI's Board of Directors. Also (and subject to Section 5.00), if either [i] the CEO Period or [ii] the Term ends before the end of a fiscal year ("Bonus Termination Date"), the amount calculated under the preceding sentence will be multiplied by the number of whole and partial months between the beginning of that fiscal year and the Bonus Termination Date and divided by 12. The Bonus Program is based upon the achievement of the Company's annual financial plan. The target bonus for the Executive is 100% of CEO Base Salary and the Stretch Bonus for the Executive is 200% of CEO Base Salary, both of which are defined in the Bonus Program and are subject to adjustment by BLI's Board of Directors; provided, however, the Executive's target bonus during the CEO Period shall never fall below 100% of CEO Base Salary and, during the CEO Period, the Executive's Stretch Bonus shall never fall below 200% of CEO Base Salary. [b] During the CSO Period, the Executive will not be entitled to receive any bonus unless otherwise determined by the Compensation Committee of the BLI Board of Directors. [2] PAYMENT. Any bonuses described herein will be paid at a time consistent with payment of bonuses to other of the Company's executive officers. [3] CONTINUOUS EMPLOYMENT. Subject to Section 5.00, in order to receive any bonus as provided herein, Executive must remain continuously employed by the Company pursuant to the terms and conditions of this Agreement through the end of the CEO Period. [4] FISCAL YEAR. The term "fiscal year" shall mean the period commencing on the Sunday next following the Saturday closest to January 31st in a calendar year and ending the next following calendar year on the Saturday closest to January 31st. 3.03 BENEFIT PLANS. Subject to their terms, the Executive may participate in (or continue to participate in) any Company-sponsored employee pension or benefit plans (other than the bonus plan as described in Section 3.02) at a level commensurate with the Executive's title and position. However (and except as specifically provided), this Agreement will not affect any compensatory stock option or equity grants the Executive has received. 3.04 VACATION AND SICK LEAVE. The Executive shall, during both the CEO Period and the CSO Period, be entitled to such periods of vacation and sick leave each year which shall not be less than as provided under the Company's vacation and sick leave policy at a level commensurate with the Executive's title and position. 3.05 EXPENSES. The Executive is entitled to receive reimbursement for all normal and reasonable expenses incurred while performing services under this Agreement, including reasonable travel expenses. Reimbursement for these expenses will be made as soon as administratively feasible after the date the Executive submits appropriate evidence of the expenditure and otherwise complies with the Company's business expense reimbursement policies. Initials _______ Date ________ 3
3.06 TRANSPORTATION. During the Term, the Company will provide the Executive with a current luxury model automobile purchased or leased by the Company, in accordance with the Company's applicable policies. The Company shall pay all maintenance and repair expenses with respect to the automobile, procure and maintain in force at the Company's expense collision, comprehensive, and liability insurance coverage with respect to the automobile, and pay operating expenses with respect to the automobile to the extent such operating expenses are incurred in the conduct of the Company's business. The Executive shall be entitled to a similar vehicle every three years or 36,000 miles, whichever occurs first. 3.07 TERMINATION BENEFITS. The Company will provide the Executive with only those termination benefits described in Section 5.00. 4.00 EXECUTIVE'S OBLIGATIONS The amounts described in Sections 3.00 and 5.00 of this Agreement are provided by the Company in exchange for (and have a value to the Company equivalent to) the Executive's performance of the obligations described in this Agreement, including performance of the duties and the covenants made and entered into by and between the Executive and the Company in this Agreement. 4.01 SCOPE OF DUTIES. The Executive will: [1] During the CEO Period, devote all available business time, best efforts and undivided attention to the Company's business and affairs. During the CSO Period, the Executive shall report to BLI's Board of Directors and devote the time, effort and attention necessary to complete the services reasonably requested by the BLI Board of Directors; and [2] During the CEO Period, refrain from engaging in any other business activity, whether for gain, profit or other pecuniary benefit. During the CSO Period, the Executive shall refrain from engaging in any business activity which would prevent him from devoting the time, effort and attention necessary to complete the services reasonably requested by BLI's Board of Directors. [3] However, the restriction described in Sections 4.01[1] and [2] will not preclude the Executive from: [a] Making or holding passive investments in outstanding shares in the securities of publicly-owned companies or other businesses; or [b] Serving on corporate, civic, religious, educational and/or charitable boards or committees but only if this activity does not interfere with the performance of duties under this Agreement and only after the Executive has provided the Company with notice of his intention to serve. Initials _______ Date ________ 4
4.02 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION. [1] OBLIGATION TO PROTECT CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION. The Executive acknowledges that the Company, its parent, affiliates, predecessor, successor, subsidiaries and other related companies (collectively, "Group" and separately, "Group Member") have a legitimate and continuing proprietary interest in the protection of Confidential Information (as defined in Section 4.02[2]) and have invested, and will continue to invest, substantial sums of money to develop, maintain and protect Confidential Information. The Executive agrees [a] during and after employment with the Company and as to all Group Members [i] that any Confidential Information will be held in confidence and treated as proprietary to the Group, [ii] not to use or disclose any Confidential Information except to promote and advance the Group's business interests and [b] immediately upon termination for any reason from employment with the Company, to return to the Company any Confidential Information. [2] DEFINITION OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION. For purposes of this Agreement, Confidential Information includes any confidential data, figures, projections, estimates, pricing data, customer lists, buying manuals or procedures, distribution manuals or procedures, other policy and procedure manuals or handbooks, supplier information, tax records, personnel histories and records, information regarding sales, information regarding properties and any other Confidential Information regarding the business, operations, properties or personnel of the Company or the Group (or any Group Member) which are disclosed to or learned by the Executive as a result of employment with the Company, but will not include [a] the Executive's personal personnel records or [b] any information that [i] the Executive possessed before the date of initial employment (including periods before the Effective Date) with the Company that was a matter of public knowledge, [ii] became or becomes a matter of public knowledge through sources independent of the Executive, [iii] has been or is disclosed by any Group Member without restriction on its use or [iv] has been or is required to be disclosed by law or governmental order or regulation. The Executive also agrees that, if there is any reasonable doubt whether an item is public knowledge, to not regard the item as public knowledge until and unless the Company's General Counsel confirms to the Executive that the information is public knowledge or an arbitrator, acting under Section 9.00, finally decides that the information is public knowledge. [3] INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY. The Executive expressly acknowledges that all right, title and interest to all inventions, designs, discoveries, works of authorship, and ideas conceived, produced, created, discovered, authored, or reduced to practice during the Executive's performance of services under this Agreement, whether individually or jointly with the Company or any Group Member (the "Intellectual Property") shall be owned solely by the Company or the Group, and shall be subject to the restrictions set forth in Section 4.02[1] above. All Intellectual Property which constitutes copyrightable subject matter under the copyright laws of the United States shall, from the inception of creation, be deemed to be a "work made for hire" under the United States copyright laws and all right, title and interest in and to such copyrightable works shall vest in the Company or the Group. All right, title and interest in and to all Intellectual Property developed or produced under this Agreement by the Executive, whether constituting Initials _______ Date ________ 5
patentable subject matter or copyrightable subject matter (to the extent deemed not to be a "work made for hire") or otherwise, shall be assigned and is hereby irrevocably assigned to the Company or the Group by the Executive. The Executive shall, without any additional consideration, execute all documents and take all other actions needed to convey the Executive's complete ownership interest in any Intellectual Property to the Company or the Group or the Executive is directed so that the Company or the Group may own and protect such Intellectual Property and obtain patent, copyright and trademark registrations for it. The Executive agrees that any Group Member may alter or modify the Intellectual Property at the Group Member's sole discretion, and the Executive waives all right to claim or disclaim authorship. 4.03 SOLICITATION OF EMPLOYEES. The Executive agrees that during employment, and for two years after terminating employment with the Company [1] not, directly or indirectly, to solicit any employee of the Company or of any Group Member to leave employment with the Group, [2] not, directly or indirectly, to employ or seek to employ any employee of the Company or any Group Member and [3] not to cause or induce any of the Company's or the Group's (or Group Member's) competitors to solicit or employ any employee of the Company or any Group Member. 4.04 SOLICITATION OF THIRD PARTIES. The Executive agrees that during employment, and for two years after terminating employment with the Company not, directly or indirectly, to recruit, solicit or otherwise induce or influence any customer, supplier, sales representative, lender, lessor, lessee or any other person having a business relationship with the Company or the Group (or any Group Member) to discontinue or reduce the extent of that relationship except in the course of discharging the duties described in this Agreement and with the good faith objective of advancing the Company's or the Group's (or any Group Member's) business interests. 4.05 NON-COMPETITION. The Executive acknowledges that the principal business of the Company includes the operation of its Big Lots retail outlets, the inventories of which are acquired primarily through special purchases such as overstocks, close-outs, liquidations, bankruptcies, wholesale distribution of overstock, distress, liquidation and other volume inventories, the operation of its Big Lots Furniture stores, and its wholesale operations all of which comprise the Company's business (the "Company Business"); that Company is one of the limited number of entities which has developed such business; that the Company Business is national in scope and the Executive's work for the Company will give him access to the confidential affairs of the Company and the Group as defined in Section 4.02[2]; and the agreements and covenants of the Executive contained in Section 4.00 are essential to the business and the good will of the Company. Accordingly, and in exchange for amounts paid under this Agreement including the amount described in Section 5.00, the Executive covenants and agrees that: [1] During the term of the Executive's employment with the Company and for a period of two years (the "Restricted Period") following the termination of his employment in any manner, the Executive shall not in any location where the Company's retail stores are located throughout the United States [a] engage in the Company Business for the Executive's own account, [b] render any services to any person engaged in the Company Business (other than to the Company); or [c] become employed in any manner Initials _______ Date ________ 6
by, or consult with, Wal-Mart, Sam's Club, Kmart, Target, Dollar General, Family Dollar, Dollar Tree, Value City/Schottenstein Stores Corporation, Fred's, 99(cent) Stores, Canned Foods, Tuesday Morning and TJX Corporation, or any grocery store chain regardless of size. Further, the Executive agrees to not become employed in any manner or to act as consultant to any parent or subsidiary of the above-listed entities. In the event of a change of control as defined in Section 5.07[2] of this Agreement, the restricted period shall be for a period of six (6) months. [2] ACKNOWLEDGEMENT. The Executive acknowledges that the non-competition agreement is reasonable in light of the nature of the Company Business; that the Company has legitimate business reasons for requiring the Executive's agreement to all provisions of Section 4.00; and that he understands the restrictions, has had an opportunity to fully discuss these restrictions with the Company and accepts the restrictions. [3] MAXIMUM ENFORCEABLE RESTRICTION. In the event that any or all of the covenants set forth in this Section 4.05 are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unenforceable by reason of the temporal restrictions being too great, the geographic areas covered too great, the range of activities too great or for any other reason, then the Court is authorized and shall interpret them to extend over the maximum period of time, the maximum geographic area and the maximum range of activities or, as to any provision, in such a manner that all provisions may be given maximum restrictive effect in accordance with applicable law; provided, however, that in no event shall a court determine the maximum restrictive effect to be greater than the original covenants set forth in this Section 4.05. [4] TOLLING. The Executive agrees that if any of the obligations to the Company under this Section 4.05 are breached, then the restricted period shall be extended for the length of time that the Executive failed to fulfill his obligations under Section 4.05. 4.06 POST-TERMINATION COOPERATION. As is required of the Executive during employment, the Executive agrees that during and after employment with the Company and without additional compensation (other than reimbursement for reasonable associated expenses), to cooperate with the Company in the following areas: [1] COOPERATION WITH THE COMPANY. The Executive agrees [a] to be reasonably available to answer questions for the Company's officers regarding any matter, project, initiative or effort for which the Executive was responsible while employed by the Company and [b] to cooperate with the Company or any Group Member during the course of all third-party proceedings arising out of the Company Business about which the Executive has knowledge or information. For purposes of this Agreement, [c] "proceedings" includes internal investigations, administrative investigations or proceedings and lawsuits (including pre-trial discovery and trial testimony) and [d] "cooperation" includes [i] the Executive's being reasonably available for interviews, meetings, depositions, hearings and/or trials without the need for subpoena or assurances by the Company or any Group Member; [ii] providing any and all documents in the Initials _______ Date ________ 7
Executive's possession that relate to the proceeding; and [iii] providing assistance in locating any and all relevant notes and/or documents. [2] COOPERATION WITH THIRD PARTIES. Unless compelled to do so by lawfully-served subpoena or court order, the Executive agrees not to communicate with, or give statements or testimony to, any opposing attorney, opposing attorney's representative (including private investigator) or current or former employee relating to any matter (including pending or threatened lawsuits or administrative investigations) about which the Executive has knowledge or information (other than knowledge or information that is not Confidential Information as defined in Section 4.02[2]) except in cooperation with the Company and Group Members. The Executive also agrees to notify the Company's General Counsel immediately after being contacted by a third party or receiving a subpoena or court order to appear and testify with respect to any matter affected by this section. [3] COOPERATION WITH MEDIA. The Executive agrees not to communicate with, or give statements to, any member of the media (including print, television or radio media) relating to any matter (including pending or threatened lawsuits or administrative investigations) about which the Executive has knowledge or information (other than knowledge or information that is not Confidential Information as defined in Section 4.02[2]) except in cooperation with the Company or any Group Member. The Executive also agrees to notify the Company's General Counsel immediately after being contacted by any member of the media with respect to any matter affected by this section. 4.07 NON-DISPARAGEMENT. The Executive and the Company agree that neither will make any disparaging remarks about the other and the Executive will not make any disparaging remarks about the Company, the Company's executives or any Group Member or their executives. However, this section will not preclude [1] any remarks that may be made by the Executive under the terms of Section 4.06[2] or that are required to discharge the duties described in this Agreement or [2] the Company or Group Members from making (or eliciting from any person) disparaging remarks about the Executive concerning any conduct that may lead to a termination for Cause, as defined in Section 5.04[3] (including initiating an inquiry or investigation that may result in a termination for Cause). 4.08 NOTICE OF SUBSEQUENT EMPLOYMENT. The Executive agrees to notify the Company of any subsequent employment during the Restricted Period after employment terminates. 4.09 REMEDIES. The Executive agrees that any breach of any of the terms of this Section 4.00 would result in irreparable injury and damage to the Company for which the Company would have no adequate remedy at law; the Executive therefore also agrees that in the event of a breach or any threat of breach, the Company shall be entitled to an immediate injunction and restraining order to prevent such breach and/or threatened breach and/or continued breach by the Executive and/or any and all persons and/or entities acting for and/or with the Executive, without having to prove damages. The Executive agrees that no bond shall be required of the Company and further agrees not to defend any action seeking injunctive or other equitable relief on the basis that the Company has an adequate remedy at law in money damages or otherwise. The terms of this Section 4.09 shall not prevent the Company from pursuing any other available remedies for any Initials _______ Date ________ 8
breach or threatened breach hereof including, but not limited to, the recovery of damages from the Executive or specific performance. In addition to any other available remedies, the Company may require the Executive to account for and pay over to the Company all compensation, profits, accruals, increments or other benefits derived or received by the Executive as a result of any transaction constituting a breach of any provision of Section 4.00. The Company may set off any amounts finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be due under this section against any amount which may be owed to the Executive under this Agreement. The Parties agree that any action for breach of any of the provisions of Section 4.00 and/or injunctive relief shall be venued in the Court of Common Pleas, Franklin County, Ohio. 4.10 RETURN OF COMPANY PROPERTY. Upon termination of employment, the Executive agrees to promptly return to the Company all property belonging to the Group or any Group Member. 4.11 EFFECT OF TERMINATION. The provisions of Section 4.00 shall survive any termination of this Agreement, and the existence of any claim or cause of action by the Executive against the Company, whether predicated on this Agreement or otherwise, shall not constitute a defense to the enforcement by the Company of the covenants and agreements of this Section 4.00; provided, however, that this Section 4.11 shall not, in and of itself, preclude the Executive from defending himself against the enforceability of the covenants and agreements of Section 4.00. 5.00 TERMINATION AND RELATED BENEFITS This Agreement can only be terminated upon the occurrence of any of the events described in this section or upon expiration of the Term. 5.01 RULES OF GENERAL APPLICATION. The following rules apply generally to the implementation of Section 5.00: [1] APPLICATION OF PRO RATA. Except as provided in Section 3.02[1], any pro rata share required to be paid under Section 5.00 will be based on the number of days between the first day of the fiscal year during which the Executive terminates employment and the date that the Executive terminates employment divided by the number of days in the fiscal year during which the Executive terminates employment. [2] LIMIT ON TIME AND FORM OF PAYMENT. Subject to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), the payments described in this section will be made at the time and in the form described in this section. 5.02 TERMINATION DUE TO EXECUTIVE'S DEATH. This Agreement will terminate automatically on the date the Executive dies. As of that date, the Company will make the following payments to the person the Executive designates. [1] BASE SALARY. The unpaid Base Salary the Executive earned to the date of termination paid in a lump sum as provided under Big Lots' normal payroll program. [2] BONUS. The bonus described in Section 3.02[1] determined as described in Section 3.02[1] after the close of the fiscal year in which the termination because of death Initials _______ Date ________ 9
occurs and paid in the form and at the same time other eligible executives are paid a bonus under the same program for the same period. [3] OTHER. Any rights accruing to the Executive under any employee benefit plan, fund or program maintained by the Company will be distributed or made available as required by the terms of the plan, fund or program or as required by law. 5.03 TERMINATION DUE TO EXECUTIVE'S DISABILITY. The Company may terminate this Agreement after ascertaining that the Executive is Disabled (as defined below - "Disability") by delivering to the Executive a written notice of termination for Disability that includes the date termination for Disability is to be effective. If all requirements of this Agreement are met (including those imposed under Section 7.00), the Company will make the following payments to the Executive: [1] BASE SALARY. The unpaid Base Salary the Executive earned to the date of termination paid in a lump sum as provided under Big Lots' normal payroll program. [2] BONUS. The bonus described in Section 3.02[1] determined as described in Section 3.02[1] after the close of the fiscal year in which the termination because of Disability occurs and paid in the form and at the same time other eligible executives are paid a bonus under the same program for the same period. [3] OTHER. Any rights accruing to the Executive under any employee benefit plan, fund or program maintained by the Company will be distributed or made available as required by the terms of the plan, fund or program or as required by law; provided, however, that upon Executive's termination for Disability, Executive shall be entitled to long term disability benefits under a plan maintained by the Company at a minimum rate of twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) per month, tax free, until the age of sixty-five (65). [4] DEFINITION OF DISABILITY. For these purposes, "Disability" means that, for more than six consecutive months, the Executive is unable, with a reasonable accommodation, to perform the duties described in Section 4.01 on a full-time basis due to a physical or mental disability or infirmity. 5.04 TERMINATION FOR CAUSE. The Company may terminate the Executive's employment for Cause (as defined below - "Cause"). A termination for Cause shall only be effective after [a] the Company has delivered a written notice to the Executive stating that in the opinion of BLI's Board of Directors, the Executive may be terminated for Cause, specifying the details and [b] if the failure or action is one that can be cured, the Executive does not cure the issue giving rise to the Cause determination within 30 days after receiving notice. If the Executive is terminated for Cause and if all requirements of this Agreement are met, the Company will make the following payments to the Executive: [1] BASE SALARY. The unpaid Base Salary the Executive earned to the date of termination paid in a lump sum as provided under Big Lots' normal payroll program. Initials _______ Date ________ 10
[2] OTHER. Any rights accruing to the Executive under any employee benefit plan, fund or program maintained by the Company will be distributed or made available as required by the terms of the plan, fund or program or as required by law. [3] DEFINITION OF CAUSE. For these purposes, Cause means the Executive's [a] failure to comply with Company's policies and procedures which the Board of Directors of BLI reasonably determines has had or is likely to have a material adverse effect upon the Company; [b] willful or illegal misconduct or grossly negligent conduct that is materially injurious to the Company monetarily or otherwise; [c] violation of laws or regulations governing the Company or violation of the Company's code of ethics; [d] breach of any fiduciary duty owed to the Company; [e] misrepresentation or dishonesty which the Board of Directors of BLI reasonably determines has had or is likely to have a material adverse effect upon the Company; [f] breach of any provisions of Sections 4.02 through 4.11 of this Agreement; [g] involvement in any act of moral turpitude that has a materially injurious effect on the Company or its reputation; or [h] breach of the terms of any non-solicitation or confidentiality clauses contained in an employment agreement(s) with a former employer. [4] SUBSEQUENT INFORMATION. The terms of Section 5.04 will apply if, within 24 months after the Executive terminates under any other provision of Section 5.00, the Company learns of an event that, had it been known before the Executive terminated employment, would have justified a termination for Cause. In this case, the Company will be entitled to recover (and the Executive agrees to repay) any amounts (other than legally protected benefits) that the Executive received under any other provision of Section 5.00 reduced by the amount the Executive is entitled to receive under Section 5.04. 5.05 VOLUNTARY TERMINATION BY EXECUTIVE. The Executive may voluntarily terminate employment with the Company at any time, in which case the Company will make the following payments to the Executive: [1] BASE SALARY. The unpaid Base Salary the Executive earned to the date of termination paid in a lump sum as provided under Big Lots' normal payroll program. [2] OTHER. Any rights accruing to the Executive under any employee benefit plan, fund or program maintained by the Company will be distributed or made available as required by the terms of the plan, fund or program or as required by law. 5.06 INVOLUNTARY TERMINATION WITHOUT CAUSE. Beginning one year after the Effective Date of this Agreement, the Company may terminate the Executive's employment at any time Without Cause (as defined below) by delivering to the Executive a written notice specifying the date termination is to be effective. If all requirements of this Agreement are met (including those imposed under Section 7.00), the Company will make the following payments to the Executive: [1] BASE SALARY. The unpaid Base Salary the Executive earned to the date of termination paid in a lump sum as provided under Big Lots' normal payroll program. Initials _______ Date ________ 11
[2] BONUS. The bonus described in Section 3.02[1] determined as described in Section 3.02[1] after the close of the fiscal year in which the termination occurs and paid in the form and at the same time other eligible executives are paid a bonus under the same program for the same period. [3] PAYMENT FOR NONCOMPETITION COVENANT. A lump sum amount equal to 200 percent of the CEO Base Salary reduced by any CSO Base Salary earned by the Executive as payment for the noncompetition covenant described in Section 4.05 as soon as administratively feasible after termination. [4] HEALTH CARE. The Company will reimburse the Executive for the cost of continuing health coverage under COBRA until the last day of the twenty-fourth complete calendar month after the beginning of the CSO Period, less the amount the Executive is expected to pay as a regular employee premium for such coverage. The amounts payable hereunder shall be increased to reimburse the Executive for federal, state and local income, employment and wage taxes associated with that reimbursement. Such reimbursements will cease if the Executive becomes eligible for similar coverage under another benefit plan. [5] TRANSPORTATION. The Executive shall be entitled to continue to receive the transportation benefits described in Section 3.06 until the last day of the twenty-fourth complete calendar month after the beginning of the CSO Period. [6] OTHER. Any rights accruing to the Executive under any employee benefit plan, fund or program maintained by the Company will be distributed or made available as required by the terms of the plan, fund or program or as required by law. [7] DEFINITION OF WITHOUT CAUSE. For purposes of this Agreement, a termination "Without Cause" means that in the opinion of BLI's Board of Directors, the Executive has conducted himself or otherwise acted in a manner that has resulted in, or continues to be, a material disruption to the Company. A termination Without Cause shall only be effective after [a] the Company has delivered a written notice to the Executive describing the conduct or action giving rise to the Board's determination and [b] the Executive has not ceased the conduct or action within 30 days after receiving notice. 5.07 TERMINATION AFTER CHANGE OF CONTROL. [1] TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT. If during the CEO Period or during the first twelve months of the CSO Period there is a Change of Control (as defined herein), the Executive's employment shall automatically terminate and the provisions of this section will apply. To the extent that the provisions of this Section 5.07 are applicable, the Executive shall be entitled to the following payments and benefits, whether the Change in Control occurs during the CEO Period or the CSO Period: [a] BASE SALARY. The unpaid Base Salary the Executive earned to the date of termination paid in a lump sum as provided under Big Lots' normal payroll program. Initials _______ Date ________ 12
[b] ADDITIONAL BASE SALARY. A single lump sum payment equal to two times the CEO Base Salary paid as soon as administratively feasible after termination. [c] BONUS. A single lump sum payment equal to 400 percent of the CEO Base Salary paid as soon as administratively feasible after termination. [d] HEALTH CARE. The Company will reimburse the Executive for the cost of continuing health coverage under COBRA for a period of no more than 24 months following the date of termination, less the amount the Executive is expected to pay as a regular employee premium for such coverage. The amounts payable hereunder shall be increased to reimburse the Executive for federal, state and local income, employment and wage taxes associated with that reimbursement and, if appropriate, will be further adjusted as provided in Sections 5.07[3] and [4]. Such reimbursements (other than those provided under Sections 5.07[3] and [4]).will cease if the Executive becomes eligible for similar coverage under another benefit plan. [e] OTHER. Any rights accruing to the Executive under any employee benefit plan, fund or program maintained by the Company arising from either a Change of Control or termination of employment will be distributed or made available as required by the terms of the plan, fund or program or as required by law. [2] DEFINITION OF CHANGE OF CONTROL. For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Change of Control" means [a] any person or group [as defined for purposes of Section 13(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934] that becomes the beneficial owner of, or has the right to acquire (by contract, option, warrant, conversion of convertible securities or otherwise), 20% or more of the outstanding equity securities of BLI entitled to vote for the election of directors; [b] a majority of the Board of Directors of BLI is replaced within any period of two years or less by directors not nominated and approved by a majority of the directors of BLI in office at the beginning of such period (or their successors so nominated and approved), or a majority of the Board of Directors of BLI at any date consists of persons not so nominated and approved; [c] the stockholders of BLI approve an agreement to reorganize, merge or consolidate with another corporation (other than Big Lots Stores, Inc. or an affiliate); [d] the stockholders of BLI adopt a plan or approve an agreement to sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of BLI's assets (including without limitation, a plan of liquidation or dissolution), in a single transaction or series of related transactions. The effective date of any such Change of Control shall be the date upon which the last event occurs or last action is taken such that the definition of such Change of Control (as set forth above) has been met. For purposes of this Agreement, the term "affiliate" shall mean: [i] any person or entity qualified as part of an affiliated group which includes BLI pursuant to Section 1504 of the Code; or [ii] any person or entity qualified as part of a parent-subsidiary group of trades and businesses under common control within the meaning of Treasury Regulation Section 1.414(c)(2)(b). Determination of affiliate shall be tested as of the date immediately prior to any event constituting a Change of Control. The other provisions of this Section 5.07 notwithstanding, the term "Change of Control" shall not mean any transaction, merger, consolidation or reorganization in which BLI exchanges or offers to exchange newly Initials _______ Date ________ 13
issued or treasury shares in an amount less than 50% of the then-outstanding equity securities of BLI entitled to vote for the election of directors, for 51% or more of the outstanding equity securities entitled to vote for the election of at least the majority of the directors of a corporation other than BLI or an affiliate thereof (the "Acquired Corporation"), or for all or substantially all of the assets of the Acquired Corporation. [3] TREATMENT OF TAXES. If payments under this Agreement, when combined with payments and benefits under all other plans and programs maintained by the Company, constitute "excess" parachute payments as defined in Section 280G(b) of the Code, the Company will distribute an additional amount to the Executive sufficient to ensure that, after payment of all excise taxes arising under Section 4999 of the Code, the Executive will retain an amount equal to the amount he would have retained had no excise tax been imposed under Section 4999 of the Code. [4] EFFECT OF SUBSEQUENT TAX CLAIM. The Company will establish procedures that will apply to any inquiries regarding the treatment of tax payments under this Section 5.07. Within 30 days following the termination of the Executive's employment under Section 5.07, the Company will provide the Executive with a copy of such procedures. Also, if it subsequently is established under those procedures that the Executive has received an "excess" parachute payment as defined in Section 280G of the Code that is larger than the amount initially calculated under Section 5.07[3], the Company will distribute an additional amount to the Executive sufficient to ensure that, after payment of all additional excise taxes arising under Section 4999 of the Code, the Executive will retain an amount equal to the amount he would have retained had no additional excise tax been imposed under Section 4999 of the Code. 5.08 TERMINATION OF AGREEMENT. If the Executive continues to be employed through the end of the Term, the Executive's employment will terminate automatically on the last day of the Term; provided, however, that in the event the Executive is receiving short term disability benefits on the last day of the Term, the Executive's employment will extend until the earlier of the date the Executive ceases to qualify for short term disability benefits or six months from the date the Executive first received short term disability benefits. In the event the Executive's employment is extended under this Section 5.08 and he receives a full six months of short term disability benefits, his employment will be terminated pursuant to the provisions of Section 5.03. If the Executive's employment is terminated automatically under this Section 5.08 (and not pursuant to Section 5.03), the Company will make the following payments to the Executive: [1] BASE SALARY. The unpaid Base Salary the Executive earned to the date of termination paid in a lump sum as provided under Big Lots' normal payroll program. [2] OTHER. Any rights accruing to the Executive under any employee benefit plan, fund or program maintained by the Company will be distributed or made available as required by the terms of the plan, fund or program or as required by law. [3] PAYMENT FOR NONCOMPETITION COVENANT. A lump sum amount equal to 100 percent of the CEO Base Salary in payment for the noncompetition covenant described in Section 4.05 as soon as administratively feasible after termination. Initials _______ Date ________ 14
6.00 NOTICE 6.01 HOW GIVEN. Any notice permitted or required to be given under this Agreement must be given in writing and delivered in person or by registered, U.S. mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid; or through Federal Express, UPS, DHL or any other reputable professional delivery service that maintains a confirmation of delivery system. Any delivery must be addressed to the chairman of the Big Lots' Board of Directors and its General Counsel (and, during the CSO Period, with a copy to the Company's Chief Executive Officer) at the Company's then-current corporate offices and to the Executive at the Executive's address as contained in the Executive's personnel file. 6.02 EFFECTIVE DATE. Any notice permitted or required to be given under this Agreement will be effective on the date it is delivered, in the event of personal delivery, or on the date its receipt is acknowledged, in the event of delivery by registered mail or through a professional delivery service described in Section 6.01. 7.00 EXECUTION OF RELEASE The Executive agrees that as a condition of receiving any post-termination benefit as set forth in Section 5.00 except for earned but unpaid Base Salary to the date of termination, along with any accrued rights the Executive has under any employee benefit plan of the Company, he must execute a comprehensive release in the form as may be determined from time to time by the Company in its sole discretion. Generally, the release will require the Executive and the Executive's personal or legal representatives, executors, administrators, successors, heirs, distributees, devisees, legatees and assigns to release and forever discharge the Company (and all Group Members) and its executives, officers, directors, agents, attorneys, successors and assigns from any and all claims, suits and/or causes of action that grow out of or are in any way related to the Executive's recruitment to or employment with the Company, other than any claim that the Company has breached this Agreement. This release will include, but not be limited to, any claim that the Company violated the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974; the Age Discrimination in Employment Act; the Older Worker's Benefit Protection Act; the Americans with Disabilities Act; Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (as amended); the Family and Medical Leave Act; any state, federal law or local ordinance prohibiting discrimination, harassment or retaliation in employment; any claim for wrongful discharge in violation of public policy, claims of promissory estoppel or detrimental reliance, defamation, intentional infliction of emotional distress; or the public policy of any state; or any federal, state or local law. Upon termination, the Executive will be presented with a release and if the Executive fails to execute the release, the Executive agrees to forego any payment from the Company other than payments as if the Executive had terminated employment voluntarily under Section 5.05. The Executive acknowledges that the Executive is an experienced senior executive knowledgeable about the claims that might arise in the course of employment with the Company and knowingly agrees that the payments upon termination (except those payable in accordance with Sections 5.02, 5.04 and 5.05) provided for in this Agreement are satisfactory additional consideration for the release of all possible claims. Initials _______ Date ________ 15
8.00 INSURANCE To the extent permitted by law and its organizational documents, the Company will include the Executive under any liability insurance policy the Company maintains for employees of comparable status. The level of coverage will be at least as favorable to the Executive (in amount and each other material respect) as the coverage of other employees of comparable status. This obligation to provide insurance for the Executive will survive termination of this Agreement with respect to proceedings or threatened proceedings based on acts or omissions occurring during the Executive's employment with the Company or with any Group Member. 9.00 ARBITRATION 9.01 ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF ARBITRATION. Unless stated otherwise in this Agreement, the Parties agree that arbitration is the sole and exclusive remedy for each of them to resolve and redress any dispute, claim or controversy involving the interpretation of this Agreement or the terms, conditions or termination of this Agreement or the terms, conditions or termination of the Executive's employment with the Company, including any claims for any tort, breach of contract, violation of public policy or discrimination, whether such claim arises under federal or state law. 9.02 SCOPE OF ARBITRATION. The Executive expressly understands and agrees that claims subject to arbitration under this section include asserted violations of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974; the Age Discrimination in Employment Act; the Older Worker's Benefit Protection Act; the Americans with Disabilities Act; Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (as amended); the Family and Medical Leave Act; any law prohibiting discrimination, harassment or retaliation in employment; any claim of promissory estoppel or detrimental reliance, defamation, intentional infliction of emotional distress; or the public policy of any state, or any federal, state or local law. 9.03 EFFECT OF ARBITRATION. The Parties intend that any arbitration award relating to any matter described in Section 9.00 will be final and binding on them and that a judgment on the award may be entered in any court of competent jurisdiction, and enforcement may be had according to the terms of that award. This section will survive the termination or expiration of this Agreement. 9.04 LOCATION OF ARBITRATION. Arbitration will be held in Columbus, Ohio, and will be conducted by a retired federal judge or other qualified arbitrator. The arbitrator will be mutually agreed upon by the Parties and the arbitration will be conducted in accordance with the National Rules for the Resolution of Employment Disputes of the American Arbitration Association. The Parties will have the right to conduct discovery pursuant to the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure; provided, however, that the arbitrator will have the authority to establish an expedited discovery schedule and cutoff and to resolve any discovery disputes. The arbitrator will have no jurisdiction or authority to change any provision of this Agreement by alterations of, additions to or subtractions from the terms of this Agreement. The arbitrator's sole authority will be to interpret or apply any provision(s) of this Agreement or any public law alleged to have been violated. The arbitrator has the authority to award damages and such other relief as expressly provided by law. Initials _______ Date ________ 16
9.05 TIME FOR INITIATING ARBITRATION. Any claim or controversy not sought to be submitted to arbitration, in writing, within 60 days of the date the Party asserting the claim knew, or through reasonable diligence should have known, of the facts giving rise to that Party's claim, will be deemed waived and the Party asserting the claim will have no further right to seek arbitration or recovery with respect to that claim or controversy. Both Parties agree to strictly comply with the time limitation specified in Section 9.00. For purposes of this section, a claim or controversy is sought to be submitted to arbitration on the date the complaining Party gives written notice to the other that [1] an issue has arisen or is likely to arise that, unless resolved otherwise, may be resolved through arbitration under Section 9.00 and [2] unless the issue is resolved otherwise, the complaining Party intends to submit the matter to arbitration under the terms of Section 9.00. 9.06 COSTS OF ARBITRATION AND ATTORNEY'S FEES. The Company will bear the arbitrator's fee and other costs associated with any arbitration, unless the arbitrator, acting under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 54(d)(1), elects to award these fees to the Company. Attorney's fees may be awarded to the prevailing party if expressly authorized by statute, or otherwise each party shall bear its own attorney's fees and costs. 9.07 ARBITRATION EXCLUSIVE REMEDY. The Parties acknowledge that, because arbitration is the exclusive remedy for resolving issues arising under this Agreement, neither Party may resort to any federal, state or local court or administrative agency concerning breaches of this Agreement or any other matter subject to arbitration under Section 9.00, except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, and that the decision of the arbitrator will be a complete defense to any suit, action or proceeding instituted in any federal, state or local court before any administrative agency with respect to any arbitrable claim or controversy. 9.08 WAIVER OF JURY. The Executive and the Company each waive the right to have a claim or dispute with one another decided in a judicial forum or by a jury, except as otherwise provided in this Agreement. 10.00 GENERAL PROVISIONS 10.01 REPRESENTATION OF EXECUTIVE. The Executive represents and warrants that the Executive is not under any contractual or legal restraint that prevents or prohibits the Executive from entering into this Agreement or performing the duties and obligations described in this Agreement. 10.02 MODIFICATION OR WAIVER; ENTIRE AGREEMENT. No provision of this Agreement may be modified or waived except in a document signed by the Executive, the Chairman of the Compensation Committee of BLI's Board of Directors and an officer of the Company designated by the Company's Board of Directors. This Agreement, and any attachments referenced in the Agreement, constitute the entire agreement between the Parties regarding the employment relationship described in this Agreement, and any other agreements are terminated and of no further force or legal effect. No agreements or representations, oral or otherwise, with respect to the Executive's employment relationship with the Company have been made or relied upon by either Party which are not set forth expressly in this Agreement. Initials _______ Date ________ 17
10.03 GOVERNING LAW; SEVERABILITY. This Agreement is intended to be performed in accordance with, and only to the extent permitted by, all applicable laws, ordinances, rules and regulations. If any provision of this Agreement, or the application of any provision of this Agreement to any person or circumstance, is, for any reason and to any extent, held invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity and unenforceability will not affect the remaining provisions of this Agreement of its application to other persons or circumstances, all of which will be enforced to the greatest extent permitted by law and the Executive and the Company agree that the arbitrator (or judge) is authorized to reform the invalid or enforceable provision [1] to the extent needed to avoid the invalidity or unenforceability and [2] in a manner that is as similar as possible to the intent (as described in this Agreement). The validity, construction and interpretation of this Agreement and the rights and duties of the Parties will be governed by the laws of the State of Ohio, without reference to the Ohio choice of law rules. 10.04 NO WAIVER. Except as otherwise provided in Section 9.05, failure to insist upon strict compliance with any term of this Agreement will not be considered a waiver of any such term. 10.05 WITHHOLDING. All payments made to the Executive under this Agreement will be reduced by any amount: [1] That the Company is required to withhold in advance payment of the Executive's federal, state and local income, wage and employment tax liability; and [2] To the extent allowed by law, that the Executive owes (or, after employment is deemed to owe) to the Company. However, application of Section 10.05[2] will not extinguish the Company's right to seek additional amounts from the Executive (or to pursue other appropriate remedies) to the extent that the amount that may be recovered by application of Section 10.05[2] does not fully discharge the amount the Executive owes to the Company and does not preclude the Company from proceeding directly against the Executive without first exhausting its right of recovery under Section 10.05[2]. 10.06 SURVIVAL. The Parties agree that the covenants and promises set forth in this Agreement will survive the termination of this Agreement and continue in full force and effect. 10.07 MISCELLANEOUS. [1] The Executive may not assign any right or interest to, or in, any payments payable under this Agreement; provided, however, that this prohibition does not preclude the Executive from designating in writing one or more beneficiaries to receive any amount that may be payable after the Executive's death and does not preclude the legal representative of the Executive's estate from assigning any right under this Agreement to the person or persons entitled to it. [2] This Agreement will be binding upon and will inure to the benefit of the Executive, the Executive's heirs and legal representatives and the Company and its successors. Initials _______ Date ________ 18
[3] The headings in this Agreement are inserted for convenience of reference only and will not be a part of or control or affect the meaning of any provision of the Agreement. 10.08 SUCCESSORS TO COMPANY. This Agreement may and will be assigned or transferred to, and will be binding upon and will inure to the benefit of, any successor of the Company, and any successor will be substituted for the Company under the terms of this Agreement. As used in this Agreement, the term "successor" means any person, firm, corporation or business entity which at any time, whether by merger, purchase or otherwise, acquires all or essentially all of the assets of the business of the Company. Notwithstanding any assignment, the Company will remain, with any successor, jointly and severally liable for all its obligations under this Agreement. [Balance of Page intentionally left blank] Initials _______ Date ________ 19
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have duly executed and delivered this Agreement, which includes an arbitration provision, and consists of 20 pages. BIG LOTS, INC. By: /s/ David T. Kollat ---------------------------- Signed: January 6, 2005 BIG LOTS STORES, INC. By: /s/ Brad A. Waite ---------------------------- Signed: January 6, 2005 MICHAEL J. POTTER /s/ Michael J. Potter ------------------------------- Signed: January 6, 2005 Initials _______ Date ________ 20

EXHIBIT 10.2 To: _________________________ From: Mike Potter Date: January 6, 2005 Re: Retention Package Following are the details of the retention package provided to you on January 6, 2005. RETENTION BONUS You will earn a retention bonus equal to your 2005 target bonus if you are either still employed with Big Lots on February 1, 2006, or have been involuntarily terminated by Big Lots for any reason other than for cause. Your 2005 EPS based performance bonus will only be paid to the extent it is earned in excess of the target payout level. RESTRICTED STOCK You will receive a grant of _______ shares of restricted stock on January 6, 2005. These shares will vest equally over a 3 year period and will fully vest if you are terminated by Big Lots for any reason other than for cause. The terms and conditions of this grant are controlled by the Restricted Stock Award Agreement. Should you have any questions, please let me know. Mike Potter

EXHIBIT 10.3 BIG LOTS INC. 1996 PERFORMANCE INCENTIVE PLAN, AS AMENDED RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD AGREEMENT Big Lots, Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively, the "Company") believe that its business interests are best served by ensuring that you have an opportunity to share in the Company's success. To this end, the Company has awarded you ___________ shares of Restricted Stock, subject to the terms of this Award Agreement and the terms of the 1996 Performance Incentive Plan, as amended ("Plan") under which your Restricted Stock is granted. The Company cannot guarantee that the value of your Restricted Stock will increase. This is because the value of the Company's stock is affected by many factors. However, the Company believes that your efforts contribute to the value of the Company's stock and that Restricted Stock is an appropriate means of sharing with you the value of your contribution to the Company's business success. This Agreement describes the Restricted Stock you have been granted and the conditions that must be met before you may receive these shares. To ensure you fully understand these terms and conditions, you should carefully read this Award Agreement and the Plan, and call Chuck Haubiel, the Company's general counsel, at (614) 278-6767 if you have any questions about this Award Agreement or your Restricted Stock. DESCRIPTION OF YOUR RESTRICTED STOCK YOU HAVE BEEN AWARDED ____________ SHARES OF RESTRICTED STOCK. Restricted Stock are shares of the Company's common stock that you will own after you comply with the terms of this Restricted Stock Award Agreement. However, you will forfeit any rights to those shares (i.e., they will not be transferred to you) to the extent you do not comply with the terms of this Award Agreement. Your shares of Restricted Stock will vest and be transferred to you under the following terms: Your Restricted Stock also will be fully vested if there is a "Change in Control" as defined in the Plan while you are actively employed or if your employment is involuntarily terminated by the Company without "cause" (i.e., for reasons other than your conduct that the Company's Board of Directors concludes is injurious to the Company). However, you will forfeit unvested shares of
Restricted Stock if, before the dates shown above, you die, become disabled or voluntarily terminate employment with the Company. And, your Restricted Stock will be subject to the terms of any other relevant agreement (such as an employment agreement) between you and the Company. YOUR RIGHTS IN RESTRICTED STOCK BEFORE THE EXPIRATION DATE Until the restrictions and conditions just described have been met, your Restricted Stock certificates will be held in escrow. Also, the Company will defer distribution of any dividends that are declared on your Restricted Stock until the shares vest. These dividends will be distributed at the same time the shares vest or will be forfeited if the shares do not vest. However, you may vote your Restricted Shares before all the terms and conditions described in this Agreement are met. This is the case even though your Restricted Stock will not be distributed to you until the shares vest. TAX TREATMENT OF YOUR RESTRICTED STOCK This brief discussion of the federal tax rules that affect your Restricted Stock is provided as general information (not as personal tax advice) and is based on the Company's understanding of federal tax laws and regulations in effect as of the date of this Agreement. You should consult with a tax or financial adviser to ensure you fully understand the tax ramifications of your Restricted Stock. You are not required to pay income taxes on your Restricted Stock at the time of award. However, unless you make the special Code Section 83(b) election described below, you will be required to pay income taxes (at ordinary income tax rates) when, if and to the extent the shares vest. The amount of ordinary income you will recognize is the value of your Restricted Stock when they vest. Also, the Company is required to withhold taxes on this same amount. Generally, any appreciation of the shares after they vest will be eligible to be taxed at capital gains rates when you sell the shares. If your shares do not vest, your Restricted Stock will expire and no taxes will be due. You may increase the portion of your Restricted Stock's value that is potentially subject to capital gains tax rates by making a special election [known as a Code Section 83(b) election] within 30 days of the date of this Agreement. However: - There are important tax and investment issues that you must consider before making a Code Section 83(b) election. These should be discussed with your personal tax and investment adviser. - You may make a Code Section 83(b) election only by filing specific forms with the Internal Revenue Service (this information should be developed by your personal tax and investment adviser) within 30 days of the date of this award (see below). -2-
- Also, if you make a Code Section 83(b) election, you must notify me (at the address shown above) within 10 days of making that election. # # # You must sign this Agreement; if you do not, your Restricted Stock award will be cancelled. By signing this Agreement you acknowledge that your Restricted Stock is granted under and is subject to the terms and conditions described in this Award Agreement and in the Plan. GRANTEE BIG LOTS, INC. ________________________________ ___________________________________ (date signed) (date signed) ________________________________ ___________________________________ DATE OF THIS AGREEMENT: ________________________________ -3-

EXHIBIT 99.1 PRESS RELEASE FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Timothy A. Johnson Vice President, Strategic Planning and Investor Relations 614-278-6622 BIG LOTS REPORTS DECEMBER RETAIL SALES OF $667.5 MILLION AS COMPARABLE STORE SALES INCREASE 0.1% COMPANY REVISES FOURTH QUARTER SALES AND EARNINGS GUIDANCE COMPANY ANNOUNCES CEO TRANSITION PLAN FOR THE COMING YEAR Columbus, Ohio - January 6, 2005 - Big Lots, Inc. (NYSE: BLI) today reported retail sales for the five weeks ended January 1, 2005 of $667.5 million, a 5.3% increase compared to retail sales of $633.7 million for the same period in fiscal 2003. Comparable store sales for all stores open at least two years as of the beginning of the fiscal year increased 0.1% in December with the value of the average basket increasing 3.0% compared to last year and the number of customer transactions decreasing 2.9%. Retail sales increased 2.9% to $1,111.9 million for the nine-week quarter-to-date period ended January 1, 2005, compared to $1,081.1 million for the same period in fiscal 2003. Comparable store sales decreased 2.5% for the quarter-to-date period with the value of the average basket increasing 1.3% and the number of customer transactions decreasing 3.8%. For the forty-eight week year-to-date period ended January 1, 2005, retail sales increased 4.8% to $4,068.6 million, compared to $3,883.7 million for the same period in fiscal 2003. Comparable store sales decreased 0.3% for the year-to-date period with the value of the average basket increasing 1.9% and the number of customer transactions decreasing 2.2%. Retail sales statistics are as follows: Commenting on the monthly sales results, Michael J. Potter, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer stated, "December's sales reflect an improvement to our recent trends but results were below our expectations, principally due to continued softness in customer traffic. As expected, average basket results were above last year as sales trends of our hardlines and home decor categories improved during the month. In contrast, sales of seasonally sensitive holiday merchandise remained below plan and below last year." [BIG LOTS LOGO] Shareholder Relations Department 300 Phillipi Road Columbus, Ohio 43228-5311 Phone: (614) 278-6622 Fax: (614) 278-6666 E-mail: aschmidt@biglots.com
Mr. Potter added, "For the holiday shopping period of November and December, our 2.5% comp decline was below our plan and has resulted in current inventory levels which are above our plan. Accordingly, we have developed and are executing a more aggressive markdown strategy than originally planned in seasonal trim-a-tree, toys, and other gift giving categories to ensure we enter 2005 with fresh and relevant merchandise for our customers. Additionally, we have carefully reviewed our furniture assortment and taken price reductions on certain items including discontinued styles in an effort to maximize the early tax refund selling season in this key line of business. Clearly, we are disappointed with these sales results and the related markdown implications. However, we believe it is incredibly important that our in-store inventory is fresh and our merchants have sufficient `open to buy' to ensure we have the flexibility necessary to source the most exciting closeout merchandise available for our customers." The Company now estimates comparable store sales for the fourth quarter will decline in the low single digits. This guidance assumes a flat to slightly positive comparable store sales increase for the month of January. The combination of a sales shortfall, end of season markdowns, and merchandise mix changes resulting from the missed sales in seasonal categories has resulted in a revision of earnings expectations for the fourth fiscal quarter. For the fourth fiscal quarter, the Company now estimates income from continuing operations to be in the range of $0.48 to $0.51 per share. This guidance assumes a gross margin rate in the range of 40.2% to 40.6% and a selling and administrative expense rate in the range of 33.6% to 34.0%. Big Lots also announced today that Michael Potter will be transitioning from his role as CEO and will assume a newly created position of Chief Strategy Officer. Mr. Potter announced his desire to change his role with the organization in order to relocate his family back to the west coast. To ensure a smooth transition, Mr. Potter will continue to serve as CEO until his successor is appointed. Mr. Potter intends to continue to serve as Chairman of the Company's Board of Directors and stand for re-election in May 2005. The Board has retained Korn/Ferry International to conduct a search for CEO candidates to succeed Mr. Potter. "In his role as CEO, Mike provided Big Lots with outstanding vision and leadership during a critical period," said David T. Kollat, a 14-year member of the Company's Board of Directors and Chairman of the Board's Nominating and Compensation Committee. "While we were surprised by Mike's decision, we understand and support his desire to return to the west coast to be closer to family. We are pleased he has agreed to play a continuing role with the Company as Chief Strategy Officer and member of the Board of Directors." Since assuming the CEO role, Mr. Potter and his team executed a series of initiatives including: - moving to a single store and company brand name; improving store consistency, service and presentation; - reengineering the advertising and marketing program including launching a national television advertising campaign; - opening over 400 new stores and remodeling over 700 stores; - refining the merchandise assortment and expanding successful categories such as consumables and furniture; - improving supply chain capabilities including enhancing the planning and allocation systems and adding three new distribution centers; - strengthening the team by attracting, retaining, and developing talented new leaders. [BIG LOTS LOGO] Shareholder Relations Department 300 Phillipi Road Columbus, Ohio 43228-5311 Phone: (614) 278-6622 Fax: (614) 278-6666 E-mail: aschmidt@biglots.com
"This is an important time for my family and me," Mr. Potter stated. "We're excited about our decision to move back west and I'm looking forward to continuing with Big Lots in my new role. I remain enthusiastic about the potential for our business and I will enjoy working with my successor to ensure a seamless transition. I'd like to thank the Big Lots associates for their support, dedication, and hard work as we continue together on the journey toward our goals." Mr. Potter joined the Company in 1991 as Vice President and Controller and became Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in 1994. He was named Executive Vice President in 1995. In 2000, he was appointed Chairman and CEO. Over the course of Mr. Potter's 14-year career with Big Lots, the Company has grown from $771 million in sales with 398 stores to a $4 billion Fortune 500 retailer with over 1,500 stores in 46 states. Big Lots, Inc. will host a conference call at 8:30 a.m. EST today to discuss the Company's sales results for the holiday selling season and updated earnings expectations for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2004. The Company invites you to listen to the live webcast of the conference call at www.biglots.com. If you are unable to join the live webcast, an archive of the call will be available at www.biglots.com in the Investor Relations section of the Company's website two hours after the call ends and will remain available through midnight on Thursday, January 20. A replay of the call will be available beginning January 6 at 12:00 noon (EST) through January 20 at midnight by dialing: 800-207-7077 (United States and Canada) or 913-383-5767 (International or metro-Seattle). The pin number is 4003. Big Lots, Inc. is the nation's largest broadline closeout retailer. The Company operates a total of 1,513 stores in 46 states operating as BIG LOTS and BIG LOTS FURNITURE. Wholesale operations are conducted through BIG LOTS WHOLESALE, CONSOLIDATED INTERNATIONAL, WISCONSIN TOY and with online purchasing at www.biglotswholesale.com. The Company's website is located at www.biglots.com. [BIG LOTS LOGO] Shareholder Relations Department 300 Phillipi Road Columbus, Ohio 43228-5311 Phone: (614) 278-6622 Fax: (614) 278-6666 E-mail: aschmidt@biglots.com
AUTIONARY STATEMENT CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS FOR PURPOSES OF "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF THE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the "Act") provides a "safe harbor" for forward-looking statements to encourage companies to provide prospective information, so long as those statements are identified as forward-looking and are accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the statement. The Company wishes to take advantage of the "safe harbor" provisions of the Act. This release, as well as other verbal or written statements or reports made by or on the behalf of the Company, may contain or may incorporate material by reference, which includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Act. By their nature, all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. Statements, other than those based on historical facts, which address activities, events, or developments that the Company expects or anticipates will or may occur in the future, including such things as future capital expenditures (including the amount and nature thereof), business strategy, expansion and growth of the Company's business and operations, future earnings, store openings and new market entries, anticipated inventory turn, and other similar matters, as well as statements expressing optimism or pessimism about future operating results or events, are forward-looking statements, which are based upon a number of assumptions concerning future conditions that may ultimately prove to be inaccurate. The words "believe," "anticipate," "project," "plan," "expect," "estimate," "objective," "forecast," "goal," "intend," "will," and similar expressions generally identify forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements are and will be based upon management's then-current views and assumptions regarding future events and operating performance, and are applicable only as of the dates of such statements. Although the Company believes the expectations expressed in forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions within the bounds of its knowledge of its business, actual events and results may materially differ from anticipated results described in such statements. The Company's ability to achieve the results contemplated by forward-looking statements are subject to a number of factors, any one or a combination of, which could materially affect the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. These factors may include, but are not limited to: - the Company's ability to source and purchase merchandise on favorable terms; - the ability to attract new customers and retain existing customers; - the Company's ability to establish effective advertising, marketing, and promotional programs; - economic and weather conditions which affect buying patterns of the Company's customers; - changes in consumer spending and consumer debt levels; - the Company's ability to anticipate buying patterns and implement appropriate inventory strategies; - continued availability of capital and financing on favorable terms; - competitive pressures and pricing pressures, including competition from other retailers; - the Company's ability to comply with the terms of its credit facilities (or obtain waivers for non-compliance); - interest rate fluctuations and changes in the Company's credit rating; - the creditworthiness of the purchaser of the Company's former KB Toys business; - the Company's indemnification and guarantee obligations with respect to approximately 390 KB Toys store leases and other real property, some or all of which may be rejected or materially modified in connection with the pending KB Toys bankruptcy proceedings, as well as other potential liabilities arising out of the KB Toys bankruptcy; - litigation risks and changes in laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards and tax laws; - transportation and distribution delays or interruptions that adversely impact the Company's ability to receive and/or distribute inventory; [BIG LOTS LOGO] Shareholder Relations Department 300 Phillipi Road Columbus, Ohio 43228-5311 Phone: (614) 278-6622 Fax: (614) 278-6666 E-mail: aschmidt@biglots.com
- the impact on transportation costs from the driver hours of service regulations adopted by the Federal Motor Carriers Safety Administration that became effective in January 2004; - the effect of fuel price fluctuations on the Company's transportation costs and customer purchases; - interruptions in suppliers' businesses; - the Company's ability to achieve cost efficiencies and other benefits from various operational initiatives and technological enhancements; - the costs, interruptions, and problems associated with the implementation of, or failure to implement, new or upgraded systems and technology; - the effect of fluctuations in international freight rates and domestic transportation costs on the Company's profitability; - delays and costs associated with building, opening, and modifying the Company's distribution centers; - the Company's ability to secure suitable new store locations under favorable lease terms; - the Company's ability to successfully enter new markets; - delays associated with constructing, opening, and operating new stores; - the Company's ability to attract and retain suitable employees; and - other risks described from time to time in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in its press releases, and in other communications. The foregoing list is not exhaustive. There can be no assurances that the Company has correctly and completely identified, assessed, and accounted for all factors that do or may affect its business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. Additional risks not presently known to the Company or that it believes to be immaterial also may adversely impact the Company. Should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have material adverse effects on the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. Consequently, all of the forward-looking statements are qualified by these cautionary statements, and there can be no assurance that the results or developments anticipated by the Company will be realized or that they will have the expected effects on the Company or its business or operations. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date thereof. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements contained in this release, or to update them to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this release, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Readers are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures the Company may make on related subjects in its public announcements and filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission. [BIG LOTS LOGO] Shareholder Relations Department 300 Phillipi Road Columbus, Ohio 43228-5311 Phone: (614) 278-6622 Fax: (614) 278-6666 E-mail: aschmidt@biglots.com

. . . EXHIBIT 99.2
Thomson StreetEvents streetevents@thomson.com 617.603.7900 www.streetevents.com 1
(C)2005 Thomson Financial. Republished with permission. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial.
FINAL TRANSCRIPT BLI - BIG LOTS, INC. DECEMBER 2004 MONTHLY SALES RELEASE CONFERENCE CALL [THOMSON STREETEVENT LOGO] CONFERENCE CALL TRANSCRIPT BLI - BIG LOTS, INC. DECEMBER 2004 MONTHLY SALES RELEASE CONFERENCE CALL EVENT DATE/TIME: JAN. 06. 2005 / 8:30 AM ET EVENT DURATION: 25 MIN
Thomson StreetEvents streetevents@thomson.com 617.603.7900 www.streetevents.com 2
(C) 2005 2002 Thomson Financial. Republished with permission. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial.
FINAL TRANSCRIPT BLI - BIG LOTS, INC. DECEMBER 2004 MONTHLY SALES RELEASE CONFERENCE CALL
Thomson StreetEvents streetevents@thomson.com 617.603.7900 www.streetevents.com 3
(C) 2005 2002 Thomson Financial. Republished with permission. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial.
FINAL TRANSCRIPT BLI - BIG LOTS, INC. DECEMBER 2004 MONTHLY SALES RELEASE CONFERENCE CALL CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS MIKE POTTER Big Lots, Inc. - Chairman, CEO CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS RONALD BOOKBINDER Sterne Agee - Analyst PATRICK MCKEEVER SunTrust - Analyst MITCH KAISER Piper Jaffray - Analyst ANDREW SIDOTI William Smith & Co. - Analyst PRESENTATION OPERATOR Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Big Lots December 2004 monthly sales teleconference. During the discussion all lines will be muted until the question-and-answer portion of the call. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) At this time I would like to introduce today's first speaker, Mike Potter. Mike? MIKE POTTER - BIG LOTS, INC. - CHAIRMAN, CEO Thank you, Marie, and thanks, everyone, for joining us today. With me today is Joe Cooper, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Chuck Haubiel, Senior Vice President and General Counsel as well as Tim Johnson, Vice President of Strategic Planning and Investor Relations. I'd like to remind you that any forward-looking statements we make on today's call involve risks and uncertainties, and are subject to our Safe Harbor provisions as stated in our press release and our SEC filings and that actual results can differ materially from those described in our forward-looking statements. We'd like to accomplish a couple of things today. I want to spend some time updating you on our sales results for December and the holiday season overall and provide some clarity around the guidance changes we announced earlier this morning. After that I want to share some thoughts with you about my planned transition from the CEO role, and then we'll open it up for your questions. As the year has unfolded, sales and customer traffic have been challenging. Comps for the first quarter of this year were up 2.7% after which we have experienced a slowing sales trend throughout the rest of the year. This slowdown resulted in a slightly positive comp for the second quarter and persisted throughout the entire third quarter when comps declined 1.4%. Heading into the fourth quarter we expected comps would rebound and be in a range of flat to up 4%. We expected certain merchandising and advertising initiatives along with a favorable calendar with two extra post-Thanksgiving shopping days would help to accelerate our trends. Unfortunately November started much lower than expected and did not improve as we approached the Thanksgiving weekend. Comps for the month of November were down 6% versus a plan of down 1% to 3% with customer traffic contributing to most of the decline. For the month of December, comp trends did improve and we ended the month essentially flat to last year. However, the level of improvement was not enough to get us back to our plan of a low to mid-single digit increase or make up for any of the sales miss in November. While the value of the average basket was strong throughout the month, overall sales comps and customer traffic
Thomson StreetEvents streetevents@thomson.com 617.603.7900 www.streetevents.com 4
(C) 2005 2002 Thomson Financial. Republished with permission. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial.
FINAL TRANSCRIPT BLI - BIG LOTS, INC. DECEMBER 2004 MONTHLY SALES RELEASE CONFERENCE CALL trends were below expectations each week. On a regional basis, we experienced slight variations with the South and West performing the best. The Midwest and the Northeast regions trailed the Company particularly in the last few days before Christmas when winter weather was a hindrance to sales. At a high level, the improvement in December versus November was principally due to first moving an advertising circular forward to pre-Christmas versus post-Christmas last year; we had the same number of circulars for the month, just different timing. Additionally we had two extra shopping days between Thanksgiving and Christmas compared to last year. And then after disappointing November sales in toys, our trends improved and comps were up in the mid-single digits in that category in December due partially to promotional events and a late rush in the last several days of the month. In contrast, obviously there were some disappointments in the month as well. Primarily slow customer traffic continued and it impacted most of our major categories. In particular, seasonal Trim-a-Tree sales did not improve and comps ended down in the high single digits which I will speak to in a moment. Let me drill down a little more on category performance for the fourth quarter to date. Home decor and Hardlines continue to be our most consistent performers. Our Home Decor division, which includes Tabletop, Food Prep and Stationery, continues to show improvement. Our merchant team has done an excellent job of sourcing brand new closeout merchandise while at the same time flowing new fashion and basic goods. The Hardlines category, which is frequently featured in our ad circulars, continued its solid performance. Strength across most major departments helped offset sales challenges in the fiercely competitive Electronics category. Consumable comps were in line with the Company. The category represents some of the best branded closeouts in our store but also feeds off of traffic which has been down for several months. To the extent macro issues encourage customers to make trips to fewer stores to save on gas, consumables can be negatively impacted. Furniture comps continue to benefit from the expansion to the West Coast; however, comps in our existing stores were challenged by the continued softness in customer traffic, misses in our promoted giftable business and some weak customer response to some of our higher ticket items. Seasonally sensitive longer lead-time categories such as Trim-a-Tree and Toys have been challenging for several months and the fourth quarter has been no exception. While we still believe an assortment focused on more basics and less fashion is right for this business, comps in Trim-a-Tree declined in the high single digits during the November and December timeframe. The retail environment in this category has gotten very crowded and highly promotional. We still believe the category has potential and we know it's a significant one both in terms of the size of the business as well as the importance to our customers. However, we need to do a better job going forward of clearly differentiating ourselves through product mix, closeouts, and pricing. While toy comps improved to positive in December, we utilized unplanned markdowns in this category to help spur sales. The additional sales momentum from markdowns was not enough to make up for the earlier plan misses in November. Now I'd like to walk through the changes to our fourth quarter guidance. First, from our last communication to you, we are lowering the midpoint of our expected EPS from approximately $0.71 to approximately $0.50. The total amount of the reduction is related to sales and gross margin as our expenses continue to be well managed and have flexed down appropriately given our sales trends. One thing I should point out, our last guidance to you was in early October. Obviously we did not yet have the visibility into November/December sales numbers at that time. I believe recent Street estimates for the quarter are approximately $0.63 or so as most analysts have reduced their earnings estimates between early October and now rightfully so to adjust or the lower November sales results we released last month. So referencing back to our previous guidance, we've lowered our sales estimate by approximately $55 million from approximately a +2%comp assumption to approximately a -2% comp assumption. At our planned gross margin rate, this translates to approximately half of our EPS revision. The remaining EPS revision is attributable to additional markdowns, which I will speak to in a minute, and to a lesser extent the related IMU impact of missing sales in Seasonal and Toys, our higher margin discretionary categories. Based on the sales miss over the last 2 months, particularly in longer lead-time categories where orders were placed in the early spring, our inventory levels at the end of December were above plan. After ending the third quarter with inventory up only 2% per store, we ended December with inventory on a per store basis up 10% compared to last year. Obviously this is not acceptable at all and it inhibits our opportunity to flow fresh merchandise to our stores. Accordingly we've developed a more aggressive markdown strategy for late December and January focused on seasonally sensitive categories, giftable items with low sell through rates and selected furniture. So let me summarize the major categories of markdowns we will be incurring. First, Seasonal Trim-a-Tree was the largest category sales miss in the $55 million I mentioned earlier. The majority of that miss
Thomson StreetEvents streetevents@thomson.com 617.603.7900 www.streetevents.com 5
(C) 2005 2002 Thomson Financial. Republished with permission. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial.
FINAL TRANSCRIPT BLI - BIG LOTS, INC. DECEMBER 2004 MONTHLY SALES RELEASE CONFERENCE CALL forces us into unplanned markdowns to make sure we don't carry that inventory into 2005. Second, in Toys we were more promotional at the end of December primarily due to our November sales shortfall, and additionally we will incur some unplanned markdowns in January primarily to lower our inventory levels somewhat and also address slower moving big box toys which otherwise would occupy too much selling space during the coming spring season. Next, aside from Seasonal and Toys there are other giftable categories such as food gift sets, jewelry and domestics where the sell through rate was below plan and prices will be reduced to increase the turn of these goods. And finally, as we mentioned in our press release, we are discontinuing certain styles of furniture to create a more focused assortment that is better balanced by price point. During the year our assortment moved towards a slightly higher price point. Strategically, while it worked in some areas, in others it did not and this is something we want to correct. Additionally, certain giftable items in the furniture area have been marked down as a result of disappointing holiday sales. In summary, the lower sales base, additional markdowns, and the IMU pressure of missing sales in higher margin categories has pressured our gross margin rate for the quarter. The gross margin rate for the quarter is now expected to be in a range of 40.2% to 40.6%. As I mentioned earlier, expenses continue to be tightly managed increasing less than 2% per store for the quarter despite the persistent pressures of increasing fuel and utility prices and rising healthcare costs. Putting it altogether, we revised our fourth quarter guidance. Based on sales results to date and assuming flat to slightly positive comps for January, comps are now expected to decline in the low single digits for the quarter. Given the lower level of sales and higher-than-expected markdowns, we now expect income from continuing operations for the fourth quarter to be in a range of $0.48 to $0.51 per share. Clearly we're disappointed with the sales results and the related markdown implication. However, we believe it's incredibly important that our in-store inventory is fresh and our merchants maintain sufficient "open to buy" to ensure we maintain the flexibility necessary to source the most exciting closeout merchandise available for our customers. Now let me transition and make a few comments regarding the announcement this morning of my plan to transition out of the CEO role during 2005. As many of you know, my family's roots are on the West Coast. Both my wife and I are from there and the majority of our extended family resides there. Additionally, we have two boys ages 9 and 11, and we'd love to have them grow up with the benefits of our extended family. We decided that the time was now, particularly since we wanted to make this move before our boys reach ages in which it's more difficult to move them in terms of transitioning with friends and school. You all know my commitment and my attachment to Big Lots and so it's also my desire to stay involved and hopefully change my role so I could accomplish both my personal and professional goals. I'm real excited today to announce that the changes we've described in the press release allow me to do that. I'll continue to serve on the Board of Directors and I'll continue to play a strategic role with the Company. The Board and I have set up this transition to be planned and smooth and it's my first priority to assist our new CEO in his or her transition in any way I can. I will at this point continue to serve in my current capacity as Chairman and CEO until a new CEO is brought in and at that point I'll transition into my new role. With that I'd like to open it up to any of your questions. Marie.
Thomson StreetEvents streetevents@thomson.com 617.603.7900 www.streetevents.com 6
(C) 2005 2002 Thomson Financial. Republished with permission. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial.
QUESTION AND ANSWER OPERATOR (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) Mitch Kaiser. MITCH KAISER - PIPER JAFFRAY - ANALYST Just curious, if you look out to next year -- hopefully some of these macroeconomic factors lower -- might start working into your favor. At this point would you be willing to shed any light as to kind of what you're looking for next year? MIKE POTTER - BIG LOTS, INC. - CHAIRMAN, CEO As I think everybody that follows us knows, we don't talk about the coming year until we get into our February fourth-quarter conference call. I can give you some of our thinking right now, though, that I think will help. First of all, as I think I've said before, we really believe now we've transitioned from a number of years of significant change and significant investment in things that just had to be done to position the business. Next year is going to be very much a stripped down plan. It's going to be a low-cost, very low capital expenditure; we're looking to generate as much cash as we can. It's going to be a very simplified initiative approach by the Company. We're not going to have a lot of things on our plate. We're not going to have a lot of system changes. We're not going to have really anything major to focus on except what we think now is the most important thing for us to do and that's merchandise content. Excitement, treasure hunt, closeouts, what we talked before about, some of the things that we're doing in the merchandising area, Big Lots Capital, and other initiatives. We think in terms of what we control now it's all about exciting content. As far as the macro-environment, there's no doubt that as we look at our numbers and how they transpired throughout the year and we look at other retailers that serve a similar clientele, there's no doubt there is a macro-environment out there. I in no way want to imply that everything that has happened to this year, which is obviously a very disappointing year, is all about macro and not about us. We definitely think there are things that we need to do and things we need to change and obviously we're just not good enough right now to where we need to be to get the kind of numbers we want to have. As far as the macro, until we really see that change we have to assume that is going to continue. I'm obviously looking forward to going up against this year's comps. We obviously have relatively weak comparisons especially as we pass through the first quarter. And also I guess some of the good news of what happens when you fall short of November/December sales and you're forced into taking some markdowns, we're going to have a lot of bargains in the store right now, and it can be a pretty exciting place to be. So hopefully we can launch into next year not only with good deals in the store, but also some momentum to keep things flowing. And we have not, despite being concerned about inventory level, we have not cut back on the branded closeout deals or any of the more dramatic Big Lots Capital types of things that we want to generate to create that excitement. So while I don't have numbers to give you in terms of comp or earnings -- we're not ready to do that yet -- that's generally the way we're thinking about next year. MITCH KAISER - PIPER JAFFRAY - ANALYST That sounds good. Thank you and good luck with the move. OPERATOR Andrew Sidoti, William Smith & Co. ANDREW SIDOTI - WILLIAM SMITH & CO. - ANALYST Just to kind of follow-up on the previous question. 2006, I know you're not going to give guidance, but can you talk maybe a little bit about any adjustments to your plans as far as store expansion or given the December sales and sales in recent months how you're looking at that and your planning process going forward? MIKE POTTER - BIG LOTS, INC. - CHAIRMAN, CEO I think that what I'd be willing to say at this point is you shouldn't look for us to change very much at all what our normal store growth plan is. As you know, it's been a relatively conservative but steady kind of 5% footage or store growth, 4 to 5%. We know that is a number where we can get great closeout real estate deals. We continue to close stores that we need to close every year that aren't as strong a performer. And back to my previous point answering Mitch's question, I think it's real important that we not throw additional initiatives or additional changes or additional stress on the business but put all the attention, now that we are where we are today, on executing a great merchandise content and great flow. ANDREW SIDOTI - WILLIAM SMITH & CO. - ANALYST Okay. And my second question would be when you take a look at your business and you kind of touched on it -- adjusted this to some degree in your last guidance, you've looked at how much of the miss is economically driven versus what you can fix internally. You mentioned that you need to change a few things. And I was wondering what do you think you need to do to drive more traffic
Thomson StreetEvents streetevents@thomson.com 617.603.7900 www.streetevents.com 7
(C) 2005 Thomson Financial. Republished with permission. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial.
FINAL TRANSCRIPT BLI - BIG LOTS, INC. DECEMBER 2004 MONTHLY SALES RELEASE CONFERENCE CALL into the stores? Because obviously the traffic is the issue. Your average basket continues to improve nicely. MIKE POTTER - BIG LOTS, INC. - CHAIRMAN, CEO Well, I think the most important -- I think it starts with the content of our ads because that's obviously -- our print ads -- that's the tool that has the most direct effect on the weekly traffic. And we continue to learn that when we focus on branded closeout and frankly primarily lower price point consumable oriented merchandise, we do our best in terms of generating traffic. So we can step that up more. We already -- we're in the middle of an ad this week that if anybody gets our ads it's a good one to look at; it has a "dollar days" focus. In the past when we've done "dollar days", we've had a lot of nonbranded goods in there and that's been the tradition of the Company for 10 years or more. This one is a lot more branded and it's a lot more closeout and it's a lot more exciting and we're generating a lot of traffic from that ad. So, I still think it comes down to content. When we are right with our front-end merchandise, our closeout swing, when we're right with an ad, and that speaks to brands, closeouts and extreme values -- the kind of thing that truly differentiates us from the discount retailers, that's when we get measurable change in our results. So that's what we have to do better. ANDREW SIDOTI - WILLIAM SMITH & CO. - ANALYST Okay. Thank you. OPERATOR (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) Ronald Bookbinder, Sterne Agee. RONALD BOOKBINDER - STERNE AGEE - ANALYST Good morning. On the furniture business, do you feel that you're over inventoried on furniture and that's why you need to take discounts in this coming quarter? MIKE POTTER - BIG LOTS, INC. - CHAIRMAN, CEO Well, I think we'll feel pretty good about the inventory level when we finish January. Some of what we've addressed really does relate to slower moving SKUs, not necessarily the category in total. We've had some misses in terms of the mix of the inventory, but I wouldn't say that we're going to finish the year with inventory too high in furniture. I think it's more of addressing the things that aren't working versus the things that are. So I think we're heading into the tax season in pretty good shape. We had some out of stock issues in the fall that we've dealt with, and I think we've improved upon that. So hopefully in what is up-and-coming in the next 3 to 4 months the biggest time for our furniture business, I think we're fairly well-positioned. RONALD BOOKBINDER - STERNE AGEE - ANALYST And so you feel that you will be able to position the furniture before Q1 begins such that we won't see a gross margin impact from discounting of the furniture in the first quarter? MIKE POTTER - BIG LOTS, INC. - CHAIRMAN, CEO I don't anticipate right now anything in the first quarter margin that's going to be some explanation around a change in furniture, no. RONALD BOOKBINDER - STERNE AGEE - ANALYST Okay. Thank you. OPERATOR Patrick McKeever, SunTrust. PATRICK MCKEEVER - SUNTRUST - ANALYST Just a question on the weather in some of your core markets during the month of December. Was that an issue and if so can you quantify it in talking about the big snow storm that hit parts of Ohio, Kentucky and some other areas? MIKE POTTER - BIG LOTS, INC. - CHAIRMAN, CEO When you look at the particular markets that it affected we could definitely see the impact; but for the Company as a whole for the month of December as a comp, it's not that material. PATRICK MCKEEVER - SUNTRUST - ANALYST Okay. And how about just throughout the month in terms of the week-to-week trends, is there anything notable there that you could talk about? MIKE POTTER - BIG LOTS, INC. - CHAIRMAN, CEO Outside of the change in the timing of the ads we didn't really see any significant trend changes in terms of traffic or comps week by week.
Thomson StreetEvents streetevents@thomson.com 617.603.7900 www.streetevents.com 8
(C) 2005 2002 Thomson Financial. Republished with permission. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial.
FINAL TRANSCRIPT BLI - BIG LOTS, INC. DECEMBER 2004 MONTHLY SALES RELEASE CONFERENCE CALL PATRICK MCKEEVER - SUNTRUST - ANALYST So it was pretty flattish throughout the month? MIKE POTTER - BIG LOTS, INC. - CHAIRMAN, CEO That's right. PATRICK MCKEEVER - SUNTRUST - ANALYST And then on the inventory position, is it more content versus just quantity at this juncture in time? MIKE POTTER - BIG LOTS, INC. - CHAIRMAN, CEO Well, I mentioned that December we were looking at average store inventory up about 10% which is clearly higher than we want to be. I'd rather be in a low single digital or even closer to flat. The things that we're addressing at the sale end of December and throughout the month of January we don't have real good estimates yet, but I think you'll see a lower number on a per store basis but it will probably be high single digits, but I don't think it will break into double-digits. And I think we've addressed -- we've looked real hard at sell through by SKU in all the categories. We've looked at aging, and I think what we're addressing right now -- properly respond to the things that aren't turning well. And while we're going to be a little high, we actually won't be too much different than we were at the end of July at the end of the second quarter, and I think we're still in pretty good shape in terms of open to buy for the first quarter. So I think we're addressing it the right way to turn into 2005 and be in pretty good shape. PATRICK MCKEEVER - SUNTRUST - ANALYST And on the seasonal -- kind of seasonal decor, trim-a-tree, trim-a-home, that sort of thing -- what do you think is going on in that category in general? I don't think you're the only ones that saw weakness especially within the deep discount store space during the month of December in that area. Is it a promotional issue; is it the function of the macro-environment for that customer? What are your thoughts, Mike? MIKE POTTER - BIG LOTS, INC. - CHAIRMAN, CEO I think it was affected first of all by the general traffic, and I think it's affected clearly by the fact that there's an awful lot of choices among other retailers in terms of where you buy seasonal. And I also think it's probably one of the most blind categories from a pricing perspective that you can find out there. You've got retailers that run extreme high lows where if you're looking at the original price point on an item in a store that's ludicrously high, yet day in and day out they're running 40, 50, 60% off. And then you have everyday lower price retailers like Big Lots or others who are coming in at a great price. And I think the customer has a real hard time making that differentiation in trying to understand who has the better value. And frankly, most customers aren't able to spend enough time to really digest that. So we have to think hard about how values are communicated. We have to think hard about how we differentiate content. We've always fought to try to find more closeouts or more special opportunities that make our offerings different; I think we have to continue to challenge ourselves on that. I was pretty pleased with how '03 and '02 did in the trim seasonal business. We had corrected a pretty big markdown issue from '01, '00, '99, '98, but this year, unfortunately, even though we bought it relatively conservatively, it clearly disappointed us again. So we're going to have to step back on that category and change some things and approach it differently and protect our downside. Like I said, it's a real big category, it's important to our customer, but it's getting very cloudy out there in customer's perception of who has what and where is the best value. And obviously we win through the value and if they can't perceive that it makes our business tougher. PATRICK MCKEEVER - SUNTRUST - ANALYST And then just one last one -- and I apologize if this question was asked earlier, but I joined the call a little bit late. Just -- now I'm drawing a blank as to what my next question was. It's a busy day in the retail world, of course, as you know. I'm going to have to call back. Best of luck. OPERATOR (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) MIKE POTTER - BIG LOTS, INC. - CHAIRMAN, CEO It sounds like that's it, Marie, thank you very much. Thanks, everyone, for joining us for this call and we'll speak again at the end of our fourth quarter. OPERATOR Ladies and gentlemen, a replay of this call will be available to you within the hour. You can access the replay by dialing 1-800-207-7077 and entering pin number 4003. Again, that phone number is 1-800-207-7077, pin number 4003. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's presentation. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.
Thomson StreetEvents streetevents@thomson.com 617.603.7900 www.streetevents.com 9
(C) 2005 2002 Thomson Financial. Republished with permission. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial.
FINAL TRANSCRIPT BLI - BIG LOTS, INC. DECEMBER 2004 MONTHLY SALES RELEASE CONFERENCE CALL DISCLAIMER Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. (C) 2005, Thomson StreetEvents All Rights Reserved.
Thomson StreetEvents streetevents@thomson.com 617.603.7900 www.streetevents.com 9
(C) 2005 2002 Thomson Financial. Republished with permission. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial.


