FILE:BIG/BIG-8K-20050707160918.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
In January 2005, Big Lots, Inc. (the "Company") announced Michael J. Potter's intent to resign as Chief Executive Officer, and the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board") formed an ad hoc Search Committee with the purpose of identifying a new chief executive. On June 6, 2005, the Company announced that Steven S. Fishman had been selected to succeed Mr. Potter. On July 5, 2005, in recognition of the efforts of the four independent directors that comprised the Search Committee, the remaining Board members unanimously approved a one-time payment to each member of the Search Committee. The one-time payments are in lieu of the committee meeting fees ordinarily paid to committee members pursuant to the Big Lots, Inc. Director Compensation Package. The Board believes that the one-time payments are appropriate in amount to compensate the members of the Search Committee for their efforts in identifying Mr. Fishman, and are reflective of the unique nature of the services provided by the members of the Search Committee. Attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 8-K is a description of the compensation paid to each member of the Search Committee.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On July 7, 2005, the Company issued a press release that announced retail sales for the five week period ended July 2, 2005, and revised earnings and sales guidance for the second, third and fourth quarters of fiscal year 2005. Attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K is the Company's July 7, 2005 press release, including information concerning forward-looking statements and factors that may affect the Company's future results. The information in Exhibit 99.1 is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 7.01 of this Form 8-K. By furnishing the information in this Form 8-K and the attached exhibit, the Company is not making an admission as to the materiality of any information in this Form 8-K or the exhibit.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (c) Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
EXHIBIT 10.1

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
PRESS RELEASE
Columbus, Ohio  July 7, 2005  Big Lots, Inc. (NYSE: BLI) today reported retail sales for the five weeks ended July 2, 2005 of $408.2 million, a 6.9% increase compared to retail sales of $381.8 million for the same period in fiscal 2004. Comparable store sales for all stores open at least two years as of the beginning of the fiscal year increased 1.1% in June, with the value of the average basket increasing 2.7% and the number of customer transactions decreasing 1.6%. As a reminder, June's results were impacted by the planned reduction of an unproductive advertising circular distributed in the prior year. The Company believes the impact of one less advertising circular benefited earnings slightly, but reduced comparable store sales by an estimated 1% for the month with similar levels of decline between customer transactions and the average basket.
Retail sales increased 6.1% to $747.8 million for the nine week quarter to date period ended July 2, 2005, compared to $705.1 million for the same period in fiscal 2004. Comparable store sales increased 0.5% for the quarter to date period with the value of the average basket increasing 2.0% and the number of customer transactions decreasing 1.5%.
For the twenty-two week year to date period ended July 2, 2005, retail sales increased 7.1% to $1,833.6 million, compared to $1,712.2 million for the same period in fiscal 2004. Comparable store sales increased 1.6% for the year to date period with the value of the average basket increasing 4.0% and the number of customer transactions decreasing 2.4%.
 
The 1.1% increase in June comparable store sales was below the Company's expectations for the month, which called for a comparable store sales increase of 3% to 5%. As expected, the value of the average basket, up 2.7%, accounted for the comparable store sales increase for the month. In particular, sales of seasonal merchandise along with the growth of the Company's furniture business were the key drivers. The Company had been cautiously optimistic that customer transactions would be relatively flat in June as it began to anniversary negative transaction results of 2004. However, customer transactions declined 1.6% for the month of June, leading the Company to revise its sales expectations for the next several months.
In addition to these sales trends, the gross margin rate is trending below plan. The Company anticipates higher levels of markdowns may be necessary in order to keep inventory fresh while increasing the mix of closeout merchandise entering the holiday selling season. The Company is making progress towards its stated goal of increasing the level of closeout merchandise in its stores; however, the initial markup on this type of product is currently trending lower than the import goods it is replacing in the merchandise assortment. Additionally, similar to many other retailers, domestic transportation costs have been rising due to higher diesel fuel prices.
Based on current customer transaction trends and gross margin challenges, which are expected to exist for the next several months, the Company has revised its sales and earnings guidance for the balance of the fiscal year, which is detailed in the attached table. The Company estimates comparable store sales for the second quarter to be in a range of flat to an increase of 2%, which assumes a comparable store sales increase in the range of 1% to 3% for the month of July. Accordingly, the Company estimates the second quarter results from continuing operations will be a loss per share in the range of $0.09 to $0.12.
Recognizing this uncertain economic environment, the Company believes it is prudent to adjust sales and earnings guidance for the third and fourth quarters to reflect the anticipated continuation of the current trends in customer transactions and gross margin. The Company estimates comparable store sales will increase in the range of 1% to 3% for both the third and fourth quarters. The Company estimates this lower level of sales and gross margin will result in a loss per share from continuing operations of $0.18 to $0.22 for the third quarter. For the fourth quarter, the Company estimates earnings per share from continuing operations will be in the range of $0.54 to $0.59 as lower annual bonus expense is expected to partially offset the shortfall in sales and gross margin.
This guidance update contains no incremental provision relating to costs associated with the bankruptcy of KB Toys, formerly a subsidiary of the Company.
Big Lots, Inc. is the nation's largest broadline closeout retailer. The Company operates a total of 1,530 stores in 46 states operating as and . Wholesale operations are conducted through and with online sales at www.biglotswholesale.com. The Company's website is located at www.biglots.com.
BIG LOTS
BIG LOTS FURNITURE
BIG LOTS WHOLESALE, CONSOLIDATED INTERNATIONAL, WISCONSIN TOY
 
Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements for Purposes of "Safe Harbor" Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the "Act") provides a "safe harbor" for forward-looking statements to encourage companies to provide prospective information, so long as those statements are identified as forward-looking and are accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the statements. The Company wishes to take advantage of the "safe harbor" provisions of the Act.
This release, as well as other verbal or written statements or reports made by or on the behalf of the Company, may contain or may incorporate material by reference which includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Act. By their nature, all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. Statements, other than those based on historical facts, which address activities, events, or developments that the Company expects or anticipates will or may occur in the future, including such things as future capital expenditures (including the amount and nature thereof), business strategy, expansion and growth of the Company's business and operations, future earnings, store openings and new market entries, anticipated inventory turn, and other similar matters, as well as statements expressing optimism or pessimism about future operating results or events, are forward-looking statements, which are based upon a number of assumptions concerning future conditions that may ultimately prove to be inaccurate. The words "believe," "anticipate," "project," "plan," "expect," "estimate," "objective," "forecast," "goal," "intend," and similar expressions generally identify forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements are and will be based upon management's then-current views and assumptions regarding future events and operating performance, and are applicable only as of the dates of such statements. Although the Company believes the expectations expressed in forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions within the bounds of its knowledge of its business, actual events and results may materially differ from anticipated results described in such statements.
The Company's ability to achieve the results contemplated by forward-looking statements is subject to a number of factors, any one, or a combination, of which could materially affect the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. These factors may include, but are not limited to:
 
The foregoing list is not exhaustive. There can be no assurances that the Company has correctly and completely identified, assessed, and accounted for all factors that do or may affect its business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. Additional risks not presently known to the Company or that it believes to be immaterial also may adversely impact the Company. Should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have material adverse effects on the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. Consequently, all of the forward-looking statements are qualified by these cautionary statements, and there can be no assurance that the results or developments anticipated by the Company will be realized or that they will have the expected effects on the Company or its business or operations.
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date thereof. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements contained in this release, or to update them to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this release, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Readers are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures the Company may make on related subjects in its public announcements and SEC filings.
 


