FILE:BIG/BIG-8K-20070315163509.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On March 9, 2007, Big Lots, Inc. (Company) issued a press release and conducted a conference call/webcast, both of which reported the Companys unaudited fourth quarter and fiscal 2006 results, provided initial guidance for fiscal 2007, communicated a three-year outlook, and announced that the Companys Board of Directors (Board) had authorized the repurchase of up to $600 million of the Companys common shares. Attached as exhibits to this Form 8-K are copies of the Companys March 9, 2007 press release (Exhibit 99.1) and the transcript of the Companys March 9, 2007 conference call/webcast (Exhibit 99.2), including information concerning forward-looking statements and factors that may affect the Companys future results. The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 2.02 of this Form 8-K. By furnishing the information in this Form 8-K and the attached exhibits, the Company is making no admission as to the materiality of any information in this Form 8-K or the exhibits.
(e)
On March 9, 2007, the members of the Board who are not officers of the Company and who are not involved in the daily affairs of the Company (outside directors), upon the recommendation of the Compensation Committee of the Board (Committee), took the following actions with respect to executive compensation: (i) approved the fiscal 2007 salaries and bonus opportunities for the Companys executives, including the principal executive officer, principal financial officer and the other officers included as the named executive officers in the Companys 2006 proxy statement (collectively, the named executive officers); (ii) determined that bonuses will be paid for fiscal 2006 under the Big Lots 2006 Bonus Plan (2006 Bonus Plan); (iii) approved the fiscal 2007 performance criteria (as defined below) devised by the Committee under the 2006 Bonus Plan; (iv) approved an amendment to the employment agreement of Steven S. Fishman, the Companys Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President; and (v) approved non-qualified stock option awards and restricted stock awards for the Companys executives, including the named executive officers, pursuant to the Big Lots 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (2005 Incentive Plan). These actions are described in greater detail below and in the applicable exhibits.
Salary
As it does annually, the Committee reviewed the compensation of the Companys executives, including the named executive officers, in light of its compensation philosophy, practices and policies. Following its review, the Committee recommended to the outside directors, among the other components of executive compensation, the fiscal 2007 salaries for the Companys executives. The table below sets forth the fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2007 annual salaries for the named executive officers. The fiscal 2007 salaries will become effective on March 25, 2007. The actual salary earned in fiscal 2006 will be reflected in the Summary Compensation Table of the Companys 2007 proxy statement.
Bonus
On March 9, 2007, following a review of the Companys performance in fiscal 2006, the outside directors and Committee determined that the performance criteria established under the 2006 Bonus Plan in February 2006 were satisfied at the stretch (maximum) level. Accordingly, bonuses will be paid to the named executive officers and other participants under the 2006 Bonus Plan for fiscal 2006.
On March 9, 2007, the outside directors approved the fiscal 2007 performance criteria recommended by the Committee which, if met, will provide a bonus under the 2006 Bonus Plan to certain employees, including the named executive officers. No right to a minimum bonus exists under the 2006 Bonus Plan.
The Committee derived the corporate performance measures (performance criteria) and defined executives bonus performance goals (e.g., floor, target and stretch) from the Companys planned earnings for fiscal 2007, as established by the outside directors. The specific performance criteria adopted for fiscal 2007 bonus determinations under the 2006 Bonus Plan are the greatest of the following measures: (i) income from continuing operations; (ii) income (loss) from continuing operations before extraordinary item and/or cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (as the case may be); (iii) income before extraordinary items; and (iv) net income, with each such measure being adjusted to remove the effect of the equitable adjustments permitted by the 2006 Bonus Plan. The Companys performance criteria are established in the discretion of the Committee and the outside directors.
Executives bonus performance goals are determined as a percentage of salary. The baseline percentage of salary for each named executive officer has been established by his or her respective employment agreement. On March 9, 2007, the Committee recommended, and the outside directors approved, the following fiscal 2007 target performance goals (expressed as a percentage of the named executive officers fiscal 2007 salary), with the floor performance goals being one-half of the target and the stretch performance goals being twice the target: Mr. Fishman: 100%; Mr. Cooper: 50%; Mr. Waite: 75%; Mr. Martin: 60%; and Ms. Bachmann: 50%. Except for Mr. Fishmans performance goals, the fiscal 2007 performance goals for the named executive officers were not modified from the fiscal 2006 performance goals. Also, on March 9, 2007, the outside directors approved an amendment to Mr. Fishmans employment agreement that increases his target performance goal from 85% to 100% of his salary and increases his stretch performance goal from 170% to 200% of his salary. This summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the amendment to Mr. Fishmans employment agreement which is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.3.
Equity
On March 9, 2007, the outside directors also determined, upon the recommendation of the Committee, the form and size of equity awards to be granted to the Companys executives, including the named executive officers, pursuant to the 2005 Incentive Plan. While the form and size of the awards was established on March 9, 2007, the outside directors directed that these awards not be granted until March 13, 2007. This delayed date was established in order to allow the market to absorb and react to the Companys release of material nonpublic information, and in order to avoid even the appearance that any employees, the Committee or the Board manipulated the terms of the equity awards.
The non-qualified stock option awards are evidenced by the Big Lots 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan Non-Qualified Stock Option Award Agreement. The restricted stock awards are evidenced by the Big Lots 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan Restricted Stock Award Agreement, the form of which is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.7.
The following table sets forth the equity awards granted to each of the named executive officers on March 13, 2007.
Exhibits marked with an asterisk (*) are filed herewith. Exhibits 10.1 through 10.7 are management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
This second amendment (Amendment) to the employment agreement by and among Big Lots, Inc. (BLI), Big Lots Stores, Inc. (Big Lots) and their affiliates, predecessor, successor, subsidiaries and other related companies (collectively the Company) and Steven S. Fishman (Executive), collectively, the Parties, dated July 6, 2005, as previously amended by the first amendment to the employment agreement effective February 21, 2006 (collectively, the Agreement), is effective as of the date below (Effective Date). Capitalized terms used herein but not otherwise defined in this Amendment shall have the meanings set forth in the Agreement.
 
1.00  
 
Section 3.02.
     The fourth sentence of Section 3.02 of the Agreement is amended by deleting it in its entirety and replacing it with the following:
 
The Executives Bonus Payout percentage will consist of a Target Bonus of 100 percent of Base Salary and a Stretch Bonus of 200 percent of Base Salary.
 
2.00  
 
The Agreement.
    
Except as otherwise provided herein, all provisions of the Agreement are and shall remain in full force and effect and are hereby ratified and confirmed in all respects, and the execution, delivery and effectiveness of this Amendment shall not operate as a waiver or amendment of any provision of the Agreement not specifically amended herein. All references to the Agreement shall be deemed to include this Amendment.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have duly executed and delivered this Amendment as of March 9, 2007.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.7
In accordance with the terms of the Big Lots 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as may be amended (Plan), this Restricted Stock Award Agreement (Agreement) is entered into as of the Grant Date by and between you, the Grantee, and Big Lots, Inc., an Ohio corporation (Company), in connection with the Companys grant of the Restricted Stock to you. The Restricted Stock is subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the Plan.
This Agreement describes the Restricted Stock you have been granted and the conditions that must be met before you may receive the Restricted Stock. To ensure that you fully understand these terms and conditions, you should carefully read the Plan and this Agreement.
The Restricted Stock is the Companys common shares that you will own after the Restricted Stock vests (i.e., all restrictions lapse) and you comply with the terms of this Agreement and the Plan. However, you will forfeit any rights to the Restricted Stock (i.e., they will not be transferred to you) to the extent you do not comply with the terms of this Agreement and the Plan.
No portion of the Restricted Stock that has not vested may be sold, transferred, assigned, pledged, encumbered or otherwise disposed of by you in any way (including a transfer by operation of law); and any attempt by you to make any such sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or other disposition shall be null and void and of no effect.
If (i) you are continuously employed by the Company from the Grant Date, (ii) the First Trigger, as defined in Exhibit A, is met during your continuous employment, and (iii) one of the events described below occurs after the First Trigger is met and during your continuous employment, then your Restricted Stock will vest and will be transferred to you without restriction to the extent and upon the earlier occurrence of the following:
 
 
 
Subject to the terms of the Plan, if the First Trigger is not met before the Outside Date occurs, this Agreement will expire and all of your rights in the Restricted Stock will be forfeited.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, your Restricted Stock shall not vest before the first anniversary of the Grant Date. If the First Trigger is met and either event A or B above is also met before the first anniversary of the Grant Date, your Restricted Stock will vest on the first day of the Companys trading window first following the first anniversary of the Grant Date.
Until the restrictions and conditions described in this Agreement have been met or this Agreement expires, whichever occurs earlier, your Restricted Stock will be held in escrow. The Company will defer distribution of any dividends that are declared on your Restricted Stock until the Restricted Stock vests. These dividends will be distributed at the same time your Restricted Stock vests or will be forfeited if your Restricted Stock does not vest.
You may vote your Restricted Stock before all the terms and conditions described in this Agreement are met or until this Agreement expires, whichever occurs earlier. This is the case even though your Restricted Stock will not be distributed to you until the Restricted Stock vests.
Subject to the Companys trading policies and applicable laws and regulations, after you become vested in any portion of your Restricted Stock, you shall be free to deal with and dispose of the vested Restricted Stock, and you may request the Companys transfer agent to issue a certificate for such vested Restricted Stock in your name and free of any restrictions.
You should consult with a tax or financial adviser to ensure you fully understand the tax ramifications of your Restricted Stock.
This brief discussion of the federal tax rules that affect your Restricted Stock is provided as general information (not as personal tax advice) and is based on the Companys understanding of federal tax laws and regulations in effect as of the Grant Date. Section 13.4 of the Plan further describes the manner in which withholding may occur.
You are not required to pay income taxes on your Restricted Stock on the Grant Date. However, you will be required to pay income taxes (at ordinary income tax rates) when, if and to the extent your Restricted Stock vests. The amount of ordinary income you will recognize is the value of your Restricted Stock when it vests. Also, the Company is required to withhold taxes on this same amount. You may elect to allow the Company to withhold, upon the vesting of your Restricted Stock,
from the common shares to be issued pursuant to your vested Restricted Stock a number of common shares with an aggregate Fair Market Value, as defined in the Plan, as of the date the withholding is effected, that would satisfy the required statutory minimum (but no more than such required minimum) with respect to the Companys tax withholding obligation
. If you are at the Grant Date, or subsequently become, subject to the Companys trading windows, you may only make this election during an open trading window. If you wish to make the withholding election permitted by this paragraph, you must give notice to the Company in the manner then prescribed by the Company.
2
 
Any appreciation of your Restricted Stock after it vests could be eligible to be taxed at capital gains rates when you sell the common shares. If your Restricted Stock does not vest, your Restricted Stock will expire and no taxes will be due.
Subject to Section 13.17 of the Plan, you shall have the right to make an election under Section 83(b) of the Internal Revenue Code with respect to your Restricted Stock.
Nothing contained in this Agreement obligates the Company or a subsidiary to continue to employ you in any capacity whatsoever or prohibits or restricts the Company or a subsidiary from terminating your employment at any time or for any reason whatsoever; and this Agreement does not in any way affect any employment agreement that you may have with the Company.
This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the internal laws, and not the laws of conflicts of laws, of the State of Ohio.
If any provision of this Agreement is adjudged to be unenforceable or invalid, then such unenforceable or invalid provision shall not effect the enforceability or validity of the remaining provisions of this Agreement, and the Company and you agree to replace such unenforceable or invalid provision with an enforceable and valid arrangement which in its economic effect shall be as close as possible to the unenforceable or invalid provision.
You represent and warrant to the Company that you have the full legal power, authority and capacity to enter into this Agreement and to perform your obligations under this Agreement and that this Agreement is a valid and binding obligation, enforceable in accordance with its terms, except that the enforcement of this Agreement may be subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, or other similar laws now or hereinafter in effect relating to creditors rights generally and to general principles of equity. You also represent and warrant to the Company that you are aware of and agree to be bound by the Companys trading policies and the applicable laws and regulations relating to the receipt, ownership and transfer of the Companys securities. The Company represents and warrants to you that it has the full legal power, authority and capacity to enter into this Agreement and to perform its obligations under this Agreement and that this Agreement is a valid and binding obligation, enforceable in accordance with its terms, except that the enforcement of this Agreement may be subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, or other similar laws now or hereinafter in effect relating to creditors rights generally and to general principles of equity.
By accepting your Restricted Stock, you agree that your Restricted Stock is granted under and is subject to the terms and conditions described in this Agreement and in the Plan,
and you agree to accept as binding, conclusive and final all decisions and interpretations of the Committee upon any questions arising under this Agreement or the Plan.
3
As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
Applicable Performance Criteria
shall mean the
greater
of Performance Criteria Item (A) or (B) below; provided, however, that if none of performance criteria (A) or (B) appear on the consolidated statements of operations included in the Form 10-K for the applicable fiscal year, then the
greater
of Performance Criteria Item (C) or (D), as its appears in the Form 10-K for the applicable fiscal year, shall be the Applicable Performance Criteria.
 
First Trigger
shall mean the Company has earned at least $____ under the Applicable Performance Criteria for any fiscal year during the Restriction Period.
Performance Criteria Item
shall mean the
greater
of performance criteria (A), or (B), or under circumstances described above, the greater of (C) or (D) below, with each of (A) through (D) (as the case may be) adjusted to remove the effect of any Unusual or Non-recurring Event, Transaction, or Accrual Items:
If neither (A) nor (B) appear:
Outside Date
shall mean the ____ anniversary of the date upon which the Restricted Stock Award was granted to the Participant.
Restriction Period
shall mean the period commencing on Grant Date and continuing until the Outside Date.
Second Trigger
shall mean the Company has earned at least $____ under the Applicable Performance Criteria for any fiscal year during the Restriction Period.
Unusual or Non-recurring Event, Transaction or Accrual Item(s)
shall mean:
 
Any gain or loss as a result of litigation or lawsuit settlement (including class action lawsuits) that is specifically disclosed, reported or otherwise appears in the Companys periodic filings with the Securities Exchange Commission or the Companys annual report to shareholders.
 

PRESS RELEASE
Columbus, Ohio - March 9, 2007 - Big Lots, Inc. (NYSE: BIG) today reported fourth quarter fiscal 2006 net income of $104.3 million, or $0.94 per diluted share, compared to net income of $14.7 million, or $0.13 per diluted share for the same period of fiscal 2005. For the fifty-three week fiscal year ended February 3, 2007, net income was $124.0 million, or $1.11 per diluted share, compared to a net loss of $10.1 million, or $0.09 per diluted share, for the fifty-two week fiscal year in 2005. Results include both the continuing operations of the business and discontinued operations.
Discontinued Operations
As discussed in the Companys Form 10-K filed with the SEC on April 13, 2006, activity related to KB Toys, a former division of the Company, as well as the operating results and costs associated with 130 stores closed in January 2006 are classified as discontinued operations. For the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended February 3, 2007, net income from discontinued operations totaled $12.7 million and $11.4 million, respectively, compared to a net loss of $23.0 million and $25.8 million, respectively, for the fourth quarter and full year periods of fiscal 2005.
 
Continuing Operations
For the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, the income from continuing operations was $91.6 million, or $0.83 per diluted share, compared to income from continuing operations of $37.7 million, or $0.33 per diluted share, for the same period of fiscal 2005. For the fifty-three week fiscal year ended February 3, 2007, income from continuing operations was $112.6 million, or $1.01 per diluted share, compared to income from continuing operations of $15.7 million, or $0.14 per diluted share, for the fifty-two week fiscal year in 2005.
 
FULL YEAR FISCAL 2006 HIGHLIGHTS
 
Commenting on fiscal year 2006 results, Steve Fishman, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer stated, We made Big Lots a stronger company in 2006 by staying focused on our WIN strategy and holding our team accountable. Quarter by quarter, our execution improved and the merchandise offering in our stores got better and better. During 2006, we restored consistency in comp sales growth, turned inventory faster, and generated more cash than any other period in the Companys history. We reinvested in our business and returned cash to our shareholders by spending $150 million to repurchase 9.4 million shares of the Companys stock. Our organization worked extremely hard over the last 12 months and I firmly believe that the WIN strategy is working and were seeing the benefits of our efforts in these results. We are equally as excited about what we learned throughout 2006 which served as the basis for our strategies that have been developed for the next three years.
 
FOURTH QUARTER HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
Fourth Quarter Results
 
Fourth quarter net sales for the fourteen week fiscal quarter ended February 3, 2007, increased 10.8% to $1,545.4 million, compared to $1,394.9 million for the thirteen week fourth quarter in fiscal 2005. Comparable store sales for stores open at least two years at the beginning of the fiscal year increased 4.9% for the quarter.
 
Operating profit for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 was $137.0 million, or 8.9% of sales, compared to last years operating profit of $62.8 million, or 4.5% of sales. The improvement in operating profit performance resulted from the Companys 4.9% comparable store sales increase, a higher gross margin rate, and the continuation of expense leverage compared to the prior year. The Companys gross margin rate increased 340 basis points compared to last year principally due to improved merchandising and inventory management throughout the entire year which led to significantly less clearance merchandise compared to the prior year. Expenses as a percent of sales improved by 100 basis points resulting primarily from store and distribution center efficiencies associated with lower inventory levels and improved timing of inventory flow.
For the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company recorded net interest income of $1.9 million, a $3.0 million improvement compared to last year, which was directly attributable to the improved cash generation of the business over the last 12 months.
Inventory and Cash Management
Inventory ended the quarter at $758 million, down 9% or $78 million compared to last year. Lower inventory value resulted from a decline in store count along with an 8% decline in average store inventory levels year over year. For the fourth quarter, the Company achieved record inventory turnover results driven by improving inventory management and timely flow of merchandise along with strength in comparable store sales. Inventory turnover performance combined with improving operating results yielded higher Cash Flow for the fourth quarter compared to last year. Cash Flow for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 was $304 million compared to approximately $230 million of Cash Flow during the same period last year. The Company ended the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 with no debt and total cash and investments of $282 million, an increase of $280 million over the prior year.
Share Repurchase Update
As announced in February of 2006, the Companys Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $150 million of the Companys common shares. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company completed its $150 million program by purchasing 702,489 shares at a weighted average cost of $22.78. For fiscal 2006, the Company invested $150 million to repurchase 9,434,610 shares at a weighted average price of $15.90 per share. The shares repurchased represent approximately 8% of the total outstanding shares at the beginning of fiscal 2006.
Discontinued Operations
The Company reported income from discontinued operations of $12.7 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006 compared to a loss from discontinued operations of $23.0 million in fiscal year 2005. The income from discontinued operations for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006 was principally comprised of $13.5 million due to the release of a portion of the Companys KB Toys business bankruptcy-related indemnification reserves and $0.6 million related to the release of a portion of the remaining lease obligations of the 130 stores closed in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2005; partially offset by a $1.4 million loss due to the sale of the Pittsfield, Massachusetts distribution center (formerly owned by the KB Toys business). The Companys loss from discontinued operations in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2005 included $22.6 million primarily related to exit costs of the 130 stores closed, $1.0 million associated with the write down of the Pittsfield, Massachusetts distribution center to fair value less selling cost, upon classification as held for sale, partially offset by $0.6 million of income for the reversal of liabilities associated with the KB Toys business.
 
2007 OUTLOOK
 
 
The Company anticipates fiscal 2007 income from continuing operations of $1.18 to $1.23 per diluted share compared to income from continuing operations of $1.01 per diluted share for fiscal 2006. This guidance for EPS growth in the range of 17% to 22% compared to last year is based on an expected increase in comparable store sales of approximately 3% and continued expense leverage. Expense leverage at the planned 3% comparable store sales increase is expected to be in the range of 50 to 70 basis points. The Company estimates that a comparable store sales increase of approximately 1% is needed to leverage the expense structure of the business. The gross margin rate for fiscal 2007 is expected to be essentially flat to fiscal 2006.
The Company projects its income tax rate to be in the range of 36.0% to 39.0%. Capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $70 to $75 million with depreciation expense estimated to be in the range of $90 to $95 million. The Company estimates this financial performance combined with an inventory turnover of 3.5 times should result in Cash Flow of approximately $180 million.
For the first quarter of fiscal 2007, the Companys guidance calls for a 4% to 6% comparable store sales increase. Based on this level of sales performance, the Companys earnings are estimated to be in the range of $0.18 to $0.22 per diluted share, compared to income from continuing operations for the first quarter of fiscal 2006 of $0.13 per diluted share.
 
LONG RANGE OUTLOOK THROUGH FISCAL 2009
 
During August of 2005, the Company introduced its WIN Strategy (
W
hats
I
mportant
N
ow). The Company indicated at that time that WIN would be comprised of 3 distinctive phases: Discovery, Testing and Learning, and Execution. The Discovery phase (Q3 and Q4 of 2005) included tactical decisions to improve near-term performance along with the development of strategic changes to be implemented or tested during fiscal 2006. Throughout the Testing and Learning phase (fiscal 2006), the Company implemented or tested several merchandising, marketing, and operational strategies to better understand the business future potential. With the tactical changes made and the knowledge gained from testing and learning, the Company is entering the Execution phase, focusing on fiscal 2007 through fiscal 2009. The long-term view includes the learnings of the last 18 months and encompasses a complete assessment of all areas of the Companys operations in order to identify the key growth initiatives and strategic investments needed to improve the long-term fitness of the business. The Execution phase is a strategic and executable roadmap focused on expanding the operating profit rate, driving sustainable EPS growth, and generating significant Cash Flow to reinvest in the business or return to shareholders.
Based on the detailed strategies underlying the Execution phase (fiscal 2007 - fiscal 2009), the Company announced a three-year financial outlook based on the following assumptions: 1) an annual comparable store sales increase of approximately 3% with sales approaching $170 per selling square foot; 2) a gross margin rate that is essentially flat to actual 2006 results; and 3) expense leverage in the areas of stores, distribution and transportation, insurance costs, and lower depreciation expense based on disciplined capital allocation. Based on these longer-term assumptions, the Company has estimated that the operating profit rate would be approximately 5.5% by fiscal 2009. This operating profit rate expansion would translate to earnings per share of approximately $1.75 by fiscal 2009, or 20% annual compounded growth over the three year period.
Cash Flow for the next three years is anticipated to be approximately $550 to $600 million. Cash Flow estimates include the operating profit growth mentioned above along with an estimated $170 to $190 million of capital expenditures. Additionally, the Company expects to achieve improvements in payables leverage and expects inventory turnover to reach approximately 3.7 by fiscal 2009.
The Company also announced today its Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $600 million of the Companys common shares commencing immediately and continuing until exhausted. Based on the current share price and number of shares outstanding, the program would allow the Company to acquire approximately 22% of its outstanding shares. The Company believes that the repurchase plan builds value for shareholders. The size of the repurchase program fits well within the Companys capital structure and long range view of its Cash Flow potential. The Company said it expects the purchases to be made from time to time in the open market and/or in privately negotiated transactions at the Company's discretion, subject to market conditions and other factors. Common shares acquired through the repurchase program will be available to meet obligations under equity compensation plans and for general corporate purposes.
 
C
onference Call/Webcast
 
The Company will host a conference call today at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Time to discuss the Company's fourth quarter and fiscal 2006 financial results, its fiscal 2007 financial guidance, and provide commentary on the Companys three year outlook. The Company invites you to listen to the webcast of the conference call through the Investors section of our website (www.biglots.com).
 
If you are unable to join the live webcast, an archive of the call will be available through the Investors section of our website (www.biglots.com) beginning two hours after the call ends and will remain available through midnight on Sunday, March 25. A replay of the call will also be available beginning March 9 at 12:00 noon (Eastern Time) through March 25 at midnight by dialing: 1.800.207.7077 (United States and Canada) or 1.913.383.5767 (International or metro-Seattle). The PIN is 5326.
 
Big Lots is the nations largest broadline closeout retailer. The Company currently operates 1,375
BIG LOTS
stores in 47 states.
 
Wholesale operations are conducted through
BIG LOTS
 
WHOLESALE, CONSOLIDATED INTERNATIONAL, WISCONSIN TOY
and with online sales at www.biglotswholesale.com. The Companys website is located at www.biglots.com.
Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements in this release are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and such statements are
intended to qualify for the protection of the safe harbor provided by that Act.
The words
anticipate, estimate, expect, objective, goal, project, intend, plan, believe, will, target, forecast and similar expressions
generally identify forward-looking statements.
Similarly, descriptions of our objectives, strategies, plans, goals or targets are also forward-looking statements. Forward-looking
statements relate to the expectations of management as to future occurrences and trends, including statements expressing optimism or pessimism about future operating results or events and projected sales, earnings, capital expenditures and business strategy. Forward-looking statements are based upon a number of assumptions concerning future conditions that may ultimately prove to be inaccurate. Forward-looking statements are and will be based upon managements then-current views and assumptions regarding future events and operating performance, and are applicable only as of the dates of such statements. Although we believe the expectations expressed in forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions within the bounds of our knowledge, forward-looking statements, by their nature, involve risks, uncertainties and other factors, any one or a combination of which could materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.
Forward-looking statements that we make herein and in other reports and releases are not guarantees of future performance and actual results may differ materially from those discussed in such forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including, but not limited to, the
cost of goods, our inability to successfully execute strategic initiatives, competitive pressures, economic pressures on our customers and us, the availability of brand name closeout merchandise, trade restrictions, freight costs, the risks
discussed in the Risk Factors section of our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, and other factors discussed from time to time in our other filings with the SEC, including
Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K
. This release should be read in conjunction with such filings, and you should consider all of these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully in evaluating forward-looking statements.
 
You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date thereof. We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our public announcements and SEC filings.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

20
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


