FILE:BIG/BIG-8K-20070606163122.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Changes in Registrant.s Certifying Accountant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Changes in Registrant.s Certifying Accountant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
This Form 8-K relates solely to the Big Lots Savings Plan (Plan), a tax-qualified defined contribution plan.
On May 31, 2007, Ary Roepcke Mulchaey Stevenson, P.C. (ARMS) was engaged as the independent registered public accounting firm to audit the financial statements of the Plan for the year ended December 31, 2006.  Deloitte & Touche LLP (D&T), the independent registered public accounting firm for the Plans financial statements during the Plans two most recent years ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, was dismissed as auditors of the Plans financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2006.  The decision by the Big Lots Associate Benefits Committee, the Plan administrator, to change from D&T to ARMS for the audit of the Plans financial statements was approved by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of Big Lots, Inc., the Plan sponsor.
The reports of the independent registered public accounting firm issued by D&T on the financial statements of the Plan for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 did not contain any adverse opinion or disclaimer of opinion, and were not qualified or modified as to uncertainty, audit scope or accounting principles.  Further, during each of the Plans two most recent years in the period ended December 31, 2005, and through May 31, 2007: (i) there were no disagreements (as such term is described in Item 304(a)(1)(iv) of Regulation S-K) with D&T on any matter of accounting principles or practices, financial statement disclosure, or auditing scope or procedure in respect of the Plan, which, if not resolved to D&Ts satisfaction, would have caused D&T to make reference to the subject matter of disagreement in connection with its reports on the Plans financial statements; and (ii) there were no reportable events, as described in Item 304(a)(1)(v) of Regulation S-K.
The Plan provided D&T with a copy of the foregoing disclosures and requested that D&T furnish it with a letter addressed to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) stating whether or not it agrees with the aforementioned statements.  Attached as Exhibit 16 is a copy of D&Ts letter.
During each of the Plans two most recent years in the period ended December 31, 2005 and through May 31, 2007, neither the Plan nor anyone on the Plans behalf consulted with ARMS regarding: (i) the application of accounting principles to a specified transaction, either completed or proposed, in respect of the Plan; (ii) the type of audit opinion that may be rendered on the Plans financial statements; or (iii) any of the other matters or events described in Item 304(a)(2)(i) and (ii) of Regulation S-K as they may relate to the Plan.
 
Exhibits marked with an asterisk (*) are filed herewith.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
Exhibit 16
 
June 6, 2007
Securities and Exchange Commission
100 F Street, N.E.
Washington, D.C.   20549-7561
Dear Sirs/Madams:
We have read Item 4.01 of the Form 8-K dated June 6, 2007, filed by the Big Lots Savings Plan and have the following comments:
1.                 We agree with the statements made in the second sentence of the second paragraph and with the statements made in the third and fourth paragraphs.
2.                 We have no basis on which to agree or disagree with the statements made in the first paragraph, the statements made in the first and third sentences of the second paragraph, or with the statements made in the fifth paragraph.
Yours truly,
DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
Dayton, Ohio
 
 


