FILE:BIG/BIG-8K-20070904163410.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Big Lots, Inc. (Company) sponsors a nonqualified supplemental defined contribution plan (Supplemental Savings Plan) and a nonqualified supplemental defined benefit pension plan (Supplemental Pension Plan).  Both plans are subject to the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (Section 409A), which imposes restrictions on certain nonqualified deferred compensation plans, and are required to be amended to comply with Section 409A before January 1, 2008.  On August 28, 2007, the Company amended and restated the Supplemental Pension Plan and the Supplemental Savings Plan to comply with the requirements of Section 409A and to further improve the plan documents.  The amended and restated plans will become effective on January 1, 2008.  This summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Supplemental Savings Plan and the Supplemental Pension Plan, as each has been amended and restated, which are attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2, respectively.
On August 29, 2007, the Company issued a press release and conducted a conference call, both of which reported the Companys unaudited results for the second quarter of fiscal year 2007, updated its current share repurchase program, provided guidance for the third and fourth quarters of fiscal year 2007, and revised its previously issued guidance for fiscal year 2007.  Attached as exhibits to this Form 8-K are copies of the Companys August 29, 2007 press release (Exhibit 99.1) and the transcript of the Companys August 29, 2007 conference call (Exhibit 99.2), including information concerning forward-looking statements and factors that may affect the Companys future results.  The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 2.02 of this Form 8-K.  By furnishing the information in this Form 8-K and the attached exhibits, the Company is making no admission as to the materiality of any information in this Form 8-K or the exhibits.
 
Exhibits marked with an asterisk (*) are provided herewith.  Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2 are management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
Purpose
 
The purpose of this nonqualified deferred compensation plan is to promote the success of the Company and Affiliates who are participating Employers in the Plan (now known as the Big Lots Supplemental Savings Plan), by providing a means for certain Highly Compensated Employees to defer Compensation.
 
Concept
 
The Plan is designed to provide Participants with a supplemental vehicle through which to defer Compensation and related Matching Employer Contributions (if applicable) in a manner substantially similar to deferrals made pursuant to elections under the Companys tax-qualified 401(k) plan.
 
The Plan is intended and designed to coordinate with the Companys tax-qualified 401(k) plan in a manner consistent with the intent of the Company, as described below. All contributions deferred under the Plan shall be made without regard to the deferrals made with respect to the 401(k) plan and shall be treated as unfunded contributions. In no event may any Participant in the Plan defer an aggregate amount of Compensation in excess of one hundred percent (100%) of the Participants total Compensation.
 
The Plan is an unfunded, supplemental executive deferred compensation plan structured to benefit Participants in a manner that provides incentive to improve the profitability, competitiveness and growth of the Company and Affiliates who are participating Employers in the Plan.
 
Effective Date
 
The Plan as evidenced by this document shall become effective as of January 1, 2008, and is an amendment and restatement of the Plan originally effective as of January 1, 1991, which was subsequently amended and restated on November 16, 1992 and again on January 1, 2003, and as may be amended from time to time.
4
 
 
Section 1.1  Eligibility and Participation
 
Associates of an Employer who are considered Highly Compensated Employees shall be eligible to participate in the Plan as of the first date of their employment with the Employer.  The Committee, in its sole and final discretion, may determine which Associates who are eligible to participate in the Plan shall become Participants.  Notwithstanding, all Associates who were Participants in the Plan as of January 1, 2008 shall continue to participate in the Plan on and after said date.
 
Section 1.2  Conditions of Participation
 
An Associate shall not become a Participant until he or she completes and returns a Deferral Agreement to the Committee making such elections as are required by such Deferral Agreement within the time limits imposed by the Plan and set forth in Section 1.3 of the Plan.  By submitting a Deferral Agreement, each Participant shall be deemed conclusively, for all purposes, to have assented to the terms and provisions of the Plan and shall be bound thereby.  Certain restrictions shall apply to those Participants who constitute Officers or Directors of the Company within the meaning of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and attending regulations as adopted and interpreted by the Securities and Exchange Commission as they relate to investments (if any) in shares of the Company.
 
Section 1.3  Election to Defer
 
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
Section 1.4  Matching Employer Contributions
 
Each Employer shall cause Matching Employer Contributions to be credited to a Participants Deferred Account under the Plan, to the extent determined by the Board and in an amount as the Board, in its sole discretion, determines to be appropriate. Matching Employer Contributions shall vest according to the following schedule:
 
Section 1.5  Deferred Accounts
 
 
 
6
 
Section 1.6  Statement of Accounts
 
The Committee shall cause to be provided to each Participant (or Beneficiary as applicable), as soon as practical after the close of each calendar quarter, a statement in such form as the Company deems desirable, setting forth the Participants current Deferred Account balances.
 
7
 
 
Section 2.1 Time of Distributions
 
A Participants Deferred Account shall be distributed within ninety (90) days after a Participants Termination.
 
Section 2.2 Form of Distributions
 
Distributions from the Plan shall be paid in a lump sum cash settlement; provided, however, that Participants subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act shall receive their distributions in a manner that complies with the requirements of the Exchange Act.
 
Section 2.3  Change in Control
 
In the event that a Change in Control of the Company occurs, the Committee shall cause an immediate lump sum distribution of the Deferred Accounts (whether or not vested) under the Plan to be made to all Participants within ninety (90) days following the occurrence of the Change in Control.
 
Section 2.4  Six Month Distribution Delay of Non-Grandfathered Amounts
 
If a Participant is a specified employee, within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code and as determined under the Companys policy for determining specified employees, on the date of his or her Termination, all Non-Grandfathered Amounts shall be paid on the first business day after the date that is six (6) months following the date of Termination (or, if earlier, the Participants death).  The payment made on the first business day after the date that is six (6) months following the date of Termination shall include the cumulative amount of any amounts that could not be paid or provided during such six-month period.
 
Section 2.5  Withholding & Payroll Taxes
 
To the extent required by law, the Employer shall withhold from other amounts owed to a Participant or require the Participant to remit to the Employer an amount sufficient to satisfy federal, state and local withholding tax requirements on any distribution from a Participants Deferred Account or on the vesting, payment or cancellation of amounts owed to the Participant under the Plan.  Determinations by the Committee as to withholding shall be binding on the Participant and any applicable Beneficiary.
 
Section 2.6  Beneficiary Designation
 
Each Participant may from time to time designate any person or persons (who may be designated contingently or successively and who may be an entity other than a natural person) as their Beneficiary or Beneficiaries to whom Plan benefits are paid if the Participant dies before receipt of all such benefits. Such Beneficiary designation(s) shall not be subject to the surviving spouse limitations/requirements applicable to tax-qualified retirement plans. Each Beneficiary designation shall be filed in the written form prescribed by the Committee and will be effective only when filed with the Committee during the Participants lifetime. Each written Beneficiary designation filed shall cancel all Beneficiary designations previously filed with the Committee. A Participant may revoke a Beneficiary designation only by filing with the Committee, during the Participants lifetime, either a superseding Beneficiary designation, or such other writing in a form and manner prescribed by the  Committee. The revocation of a Beneficiary designation shall not require the consent of the designated Beneficiary(ies).
8
If any Participant is not survived by a Beneficiary as designated above, any death benefit payable hereunder shall be paid to the executor or administrator of the Participants estate.
 
A surviving Beneficiary of a Participant may designate a Beneficiary to whom Plan benefits are to be paid if (a) the Beneficiarys death occurs before receipt of all benefits otherwise payable, and (b) without survival of a secondary Beneficiary appointed by the Participant. If such a surviving Beneficiary dies before receiving the entire death benefit and has not designated a Beneficiary (or such Beneficiary has died), the remainder of such benefits shall be paid to the executor or administrator of such Beneficiarys estate.
 
9
 
 
Section 3.1  Hardship Withdrawals
 
A participant may request a distribution from all or part of his or her Deferred Account upon the occurrence of an Unforeseeable Emergency.  The amount of this distribution, however, may not be greater than the amount reasonably necessary to satisfy the emergency need or, if less, the value of the Participants Deferred Account as of the distribution date.  As a condition of receiving a distribution under this Section 3.1, the Participant must file a written application with the Committee specifying the nature of the Unforeseeable Emergency and the amount needed to address that circumstance and supplying any other information the Committee, in its discretion, may need to ensure that the conditions specified in this Section 3.1 are satisfied.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a distribution on account of an Unforeseeable Emergency may not be made to the extent that such emergency is or may be relieved through reimbursement or compensation from insurance or otherwise, by liquidation of the Participants assets, to the extent the liquidation of such assets would not cause severe financial hardship, or by cessation of deferrals under the Plan.
 
Any deferrals by a Participant who obtains a hardship distribution pursuant to Treasury Regulation 1.401(k)-(d)(3) from a tax-qualified defined contribution plan of any Employer will be cancelled following the date of such distribution.  A Participant whose deferrals have been cancelled pursuant to this Section 3.1 may elect to make later deferrals of his or Compensation only in accordance with Section 1.3 of the Plan.
 
Section 3.2  Withdrawal Procedures
 
The Committee shall from time to time adopt the necessary procedures to be followed in the event a Participant seeks to elect a hardship withdrawal under Section 3.1. All procedures instituted by the Committee shall be binding upon the Participant.
10
 
 
Section 4.1  Committee
 
The retirement committee of the Companys tax-qualified 401(k) plan shall be the Committee of the Plan in accordance with the intention of the Board, as expressed herein.
 
Section 4.2  Committee Procedures
 
A Committee member who at any time hereunder is a Participant shall not have any vote in any decision under the Plan made primarily with respect to such Committee member or such members or administrators benefits hereunder. In this event, the decision shall be made by a majority of the Committee members or if the Plan is administrated by one individual, then by the Board.
 
All actions of the Committee shall be by majority vote and may be taken with or without a meeting. If taken without a meeting, the action shall be in writing and signed by a majority of the members.
 
In the event of any disagreement among the Committee members at any time acting hereunder and authorized to act with respect to any matter, the decision of the majority of said Committee members shall be controlling and shall be binding and conclusive upon the Committee, the Participants, and their Beneficiaries and upon the respective successors, assigns, executors, administrators, heirs, next-of-kin and distributees of all the foregoing.
 
Subject to the provisions of this Section 4.2, each additional and each successor Committee member at any time acting hereunder shall have all of the rights and powers (including discretionary rights and powers) and all of the privileges and immunities hereby conferred upon the initial Committee members hereunder, and all of the duties and obligations so imposed upon the initial Committee members hereunder.
 
Except as otherwise may be required by any applicable law, no Committee member at any time acting hereunder shall be required to give any bond or other security for the faithful performance of duties as such Committee member.
11
 
 
Section 5.1  Administrative Powers and Duties
 
The Board shall designate such officer(s) of the Company to be the authorized administrator of the Plan and to have the primary administrative responsibility with respect to the Plan in coordination with and under the direction of the Committee. The administrator shall serve at the pleasure of the Board and the Committee and shall administer the Plan.  All policy and administrative functions shall be the full and total responsibility of the administrator who shall perform said functions under the direction of the Committee. The administrator shall interpret the provisions of the Plan where necessary and may adopt procedures for the administration of the Plan that are consistent with the provisions of the Plan.
 
The Committee may retain auditors, accountants, recordkeepers, legal counsel, consultants and other counsel, including persons acting in a similar capacity for an Employer and who may be Associates, to assist in the administration of the Plan. The opinion of any such counsel shall be full and complete authority and protection in respect to any action taken, suffered or omitted by the Committee or administrator designated by the Board in good faith and in accordance with such opinion.
 
Section 5.2  Expenses & Taxes
 
The Employer shall pay the reasonable expenses incurred by the Committee and others performing services relative to the administration of the Plan, including the fees and compensation of the persons referred to in Section 5.1.
 
Any gains or losses attributable to the Deferred Account of the Participants shall be gains or losses attributable to the Employer and shall be income of the Employer.
 
Section 5.3  Records
 
The Employers and the Committee shall each keep such records and shall each give reasonable notice to the other of such information, that shall be proper, necessary or desirable to effectuate the purposes of the Plan, including, without in any manner limiting the generality of the foregoing, records and information with respect to deferral elections, Deferred Accounts, dates of employment and terminations, and determinations made hereunder. In addition, the Employer and the Committee shall be protected in acting upon any notice or other communication purporting to be signed by any person and reasonably believed to be genuine and accurate, including the Participants current mailing address.
 
Section 5.4  Determinations
 
All determinations hereunder made by the Company or the Committee shall be made in the sole and absolute final discretion of the Company or of the Committee, as the case may be.
 
In the event that any dispute shall arise hereunder, including, without in any manner limiting the generality of the foregoing, any matter relating to the eligibility of any person to participate, the participation of any person, the amount payable to any person, and the applicability and the interpretation of the provisions of the Plan, the decision of the Committee upon such matter shall be binding and conclusive upon the Company, the  Committee, the Participant, and Beneficiary(ies) and the successors, assigns, heirs and distributees of all the foregoing.
12
Section 5.5  Legal Incompetency
 
The Committee may direct payment either directly to an incompetent or disabled person, whether because of minority or mental or physical disability, or to the guardian of such person, or to the person having custody, without further liability on the part of the Employer, Committee, or any person, for the amounts of such payment to the person on whose account such payment is made.
 
Section 5.6  Action by the Employer
 
Any action by an Employer under the Plan may be by resolution of the applicable board of directors (or other managing body), or by a person(s) duly authorized by resolution of said board of directors (or managing body) to take such action(s).
 
Section 5.7  Exemption From Liability; Indemnification
 
The Committee shall be free from all liability, for acts, omissions and conduct, and for the acts, omissions and conduct of duly appointed agents, in the administration of the Plan, except for those acts or omissions and conduct resulting from willful misconduct and gross negligence.
 
The Company shall indemnify the Committee and any Associate, officer or director of the Company or an applicable Employer against any claims, loss, damage, expense and liability, by insurance or otherwise, reasonably incurred by the individual in connection with any action or failure to act by reason of membership on the Committee or performance of an authorized duty or responsibility for or on behalf of the Company or any applicable Employer pursuant to the Plan unless the same is judicially determined to be the result of the individuals willful misconduct or gross negligence. Such indemnification by the Company shall be made only to the extent such expense or liability is not payable to or on behalf of such person under any liability insurance coverage. The foregoing right to indemnification shall be in addition to any other rights to which any such person may be entitled as a matter of law.
 
Section 5.8  Nonalienation of Benefits
 
Except as otherwise provided by law, no benefit, payment or distribution under the Plan shall be subject either to the claim of any creditor of a Participant or Beneficiary(ies), or to attachment, garnishment, levy, execution or other legal or equitable process, by any creditor of such person, and no such person shall have any right to alienate, commute, anticipate or assign (either at law or equity) all or any portion of any benefit, payment or distribution under the Plan.
 
The Plan shall not in any manner be liable for or subject to the debts, contracts, liabilities, engagements or torts of any person entitled to benefits hereunder.
 
In the event that any Participants benefits are garnished or attached by order of any court, the Committee may elect to bring an action for a declaratory judgment in a court of competent jurisdiction to determine the proper recipient of the benefits to be paid by the Plan. During the pendency of said action, any benefits that become payable may be paid into the court as they become payable, to be distributed by the court to the recipient as it deems proper at the close of said action.
13
 
 
Section 6.1  Inclusion of Employers
 
Any Affiliate that is authorized by the Board to participate in the Plan may elect to become an Employer by action of its own board of directors (or other managing body) and by entering into a Joinder Agreement, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit A.
 
Section 6.2  Withdrawal of Employers
 
The Company may, at any time in its sole discretion, determine to exclude any Employer from the Plan.  Any Employer may similarly elect to discontinue its participation in the Plan at any time by giving sixty (60) days prior written notice of its intent to so withdraw.
 
The exclusion or withdrawal of an Employer from the Plan shall not adversely affect the administration of amounts already credited to the Deferred Account under the Plan of any Participant employed by such Employer, with respect to which amounts the Plan shall be continued until all such amounts under the Plan have been paid by the Employer or otherwise liquidated under applicable law or judicial judgment.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, any exclusion of or withdrawal by an Employer shall not have any effect on elections made with respect to the Participants taxable year and the Companys taxable year in which the withdrawal or exclusion occurred.
 
Section 6.3  Sale or Liquidation of Employers
 
In the event the Company should sell or otherwise directly or indirectly dispose of sufficient interest in an Employer so that it no longer owns eighty (80) percent of such company, or an Employer is liquidated, the Company shall assume payment of such Employers remaining deferred compensation obligations under the Plan.
 
Section 6.4  Transfer Between Participating Employers
 
In the event that a Participants employment is transferred from one participating Employer to another, the transfer shall not adversely affect the administration of amounts then credited to the Deferred Account of such Participant on, or as of the date of, transfer and the Participants prior participating Employer shall remain obligated to pay such deferred benefits in accordance with the provisions of the Plan in effect prior to the date of such transfer. The Participants new participating Employer shall become obligated under the terms of the Plan to pay any deferred compensation amounts credited to the Participants Deferred Account upon and after said date of transfer.
14
 
 
Section 7.1  Employment and Other Rights
 
Nothing contained herein shall require an Employer to continue any Participant in its employ, nor does the Plan create any rights of any Participant or Beneficiary or any obligation on the part of an Employer other than those set forth herein. The benefits payable under the Plan shall be independent of, and in addition to, any other employment agreements that may exist from time to time concerning any other compensation or benefits payable by Employers.
 
Section 7.2  Right to Benefits
 
The sole interest of each Participant and each Beneficiary under the Plan shall be to receive the benefits provided herein as and when the same shall become due and distributable in accordance with the terms hereof and applicable elections hereunder, and neither any Participant nor any Beneficiary shall have any right, title or interest (legal or equitable) in or to any of the specific property or assets of an Employer. All benefits hereunder shall be distributed solely from the general assets of the applicable Employer and no Employer shall maintain any separate fund or other separate assets to provide any benefits hereunder. In no manner shall any property or assets of an Employer be deemed or construed through any of the provisions of the Plan to be held in trust for the benefit of any Participant or designated Beneficiary or to be collateral security for the performance of the obligations imposed by the Plan on an Employer. The rights of any Participant hereunder and any Beneficiary of the Participant shall be solely those of an unfunded and unsecured creditor in respect to the promise of an Employer to pay benefits in the future.
 
Section 7.3  Offsets to Benefits
 
Notwithstanding any provisions of the Plan to the contrary, any Employer or the Committee may, in its sole and absolute final discretion determine and offset any amounts to be paid to a Participant under the Plan against any amounts up to $5,000 which such Participant may owe to such Employer to the extent permitted by Treasury Regulation 1.409A-3(j)(4)(xiii).
 
Section 7.4  Amendment and Termination
 
While the Employers intend to continue the Plan indefinitely, the Plan may be amended, suspended or terminated at any time by the Board; provided, that no such amendment, suspension or termination shall adversely affect the administration of amounts already credited to Deferred Accounts under the Plan, with respect to which amounts the Plan shall continue until all deferred Compensation and applicable Matching Employer Contributions (if any) credited to Deferred Accounts under the Plan have been distributed in accordance with Article II. In the event it should be determined for any reason by an applicable agency of the federal government or by any court of competent jurisdiction that the Plan does not satisfy the exclusions of Section 201(2), Section 301(a)(3) and Section 401(a)(1) of ERISA, the Plan shall be deemed terminated as of the date of such determination unless alternative action by the Board is taken.
15
Section 7.5 Income Inclusion Under Section 409A of the Code
 
The Committee may accelerate the time or schedule of a distribution to a Participant to pay an amount the Participant includes in income as a result of the Plan failing to meet the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder.  Such payment may not exceed the amount required to be included in income as a result of the failure to comply with Section 409A of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
 
Section 7.6  Claims Procedure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If special circumstances require the extension of the 45-day or 90-day period described above, the claimant will be notified before the end of the initial period of the circumstances requiring the extension and the date by which the claims official expects to reach a decision.  Any extension for deciding a claim will not be for more than an additional 90-day period, or, if the claim is a claim on account of disability, for not more than two additional 30-day periods.
16
 
 
 
 
Any request or submission will be in writing and will be directed to the Committee (or its designee).  The Committee (or its designee) will have the sole responsibility for the review of any denied claim and will take all steps appropriate in the light of its findings.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17
 
In the case of a claim on account of disability, the review of the denied claim shall be conducted by a named fiduciary who is neither the individual who made the benefit determination nor a subordinate of such person and no deference shall be given to the initial benefit determination.  For issues involving medical judgment, the named fiduciary must consult with an independent health care professional who may not be the health care professional who decided the initial claim.  To the extent permitted by law, the decision of the claims official (if no review is properly requested) or the decision of the review official on review, as the case may be, will be final and binding on all parties.  No legal action for benefits under the Plan will be brought unless and until the claimant has exhausted his or her remedies under this Section 7.6.
18
 
 
For the purposes of the Plan, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings indicated, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
 
Section 8.1  Affiliate
 
Affiliate means all persons with whom the Company would be considered a single employer under Sections 414(b) and (c) of the Code.
 
Section 8.2  Associate
 
Associate means an individual who is currently employed by the Company or any other Employer.
 
Section 8.3  Base Compensation
 
Base Compensation means the gross base salary and annual bonus (other than any Performance Bonus or Fiscal Year Compensation) that, absent a deferral election under this Plan or any tax-qualified plan of the Company or an Affiliate, earned by a Participant in any year for services performed for the Company and/or any Affiliate.
Section 8.4  Beneficiary
 
Beneficiary means the person, persons, or entity designated by the Participant to receive any benefits payable under the Plan pursuant to Article II.
 
Section 8.5  Board
 
Board means the Board of Directors of the Company.
 
Section 8.6  Change in Control
 
Change in Control means the occurrence of any one of the following actions or events:
 
 
 
 
 
19
 
 
 
 
 
 
The definition of Change in Control contained herein in this subsection (b) shall be interpreted in a manner that is consistent with the definition of change in control event under Section 409A of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder.
 
Section 8.7  Code
 
Code means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
 
Section 8.8  Committee
 
Committee means that person or persons appointed by the Company to represent the Company in the administration of the Plan pursuant to the provisions of Article IV.
 
Section 8.9  Company
 
Company means Big Lots, Inc. (and prior to May 16, 2001, Consolidated Stores Corporation).
 
Section 8.10 Compensation
 
Compensation means the total remuneration paid to an individual, including Base Compensation, Fiscal Year Compensation and any Performance Bonus.
 
Section 8.11  Deferral Agreement
 
Deferral Agreement means an agreement filed by a Participant to effect deferrals of Compensation hereunder.
 
Section 8.12  Deferred Account
 
Deferred Account means the account or accounts maintained by the Committee for each Participant pursuant to Article I.  A separate Deferred Account shall be maintained for each Participant.  Additionally, separate subaccounts shall be maintained to account for Non-Grandfathered Amounts and Grandfathered Amounts as well as any other subaccount necessary to reflect the nature of the account and various investment fund allocations of the Participant.  A Participants Deferred Account shall be utilized solely as a device for the measurement and determination of the amounts to be distributed to or on behalf of a Participant pursuant to the Plan; provided, however, that such Deferred Account shall not constitute or be treated as a trust fund of any kind nor be deemed a funding arrangement under the Code or ERISA.
20
Section 8.13  Employer
 
Employer means the Company and/or an Affiliate that participates in the Plan pursuant to Section 6.1.
 
Section 8.14  ERISA
 
ERISA means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
 
Section 8.15  Fiscal Year Compensation
 
Fiscal Year Compensation means fiscal year compensation as defined under Section 409A of the Code, relating to a period of service that is coextensive with one or more consecutive taxable years of any Employer of which no amount is paid or payable during the taxable year(s) of the Associate or Participant constituting the period of service.
 
Section 8.16  Grandfathered Amounts
 
Grandfathered Amounts means the portion, if any, of a Participants Deferred Account that was earned and vested within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code under the Plan before January 1, 2005 and any earnings (whether actual or notional) attributable to such portion of the Participants Deferred Account, or to such income.
 
Section 8.17  Highly Compensated Employee
 
Highly Compensated Employee means an individual (as defined in Section 414(q) of the Code) who is employed by the Company or any other Employer.
 
Section 8.18  Matching Employer Contributions
 
Matching Employer Contributions means contributions, if any, made by the Employer pursuant to Section 1.4 of the Plan. Any Matching Employer Contributions shall be made at the sole and final discretion of the Board.
 
Section 8.19  Non-Grandfathered Amounts
 
Non-Grandfathered Amounts means the portion, if any, of a Participants Deferred Account that are not Grandfathered Amounts.
 
Section 8.20  Participant
 
Participant means any Highly Compensated Employee who becomes a participant pursuant to Section 1.1 of the Plan and who then elects to participate in the Plan as described in Article I.
21
Section 8.21  Performance Bonus
 
Performance Bonus means compensation the amount of which, or the entitlement to which, is contingent on the satisfaction of organizational or individual performance criteria relating to a performance period of at least twelve (12) consecutive months; provided that such criteria have been established in writing by not later than ninety (90) days after the commencement of the period of service to which the criteria relates and the outcome is substantially uncertain at the time the criteria are established, and that constitutes performance-based compensation within the meaning of Treasury Regulation 1.409A-1(e).
 
Section 8.22  Plan Year
 
Plan Year means the twelve (12) month period beginning each January 1 (i.e., the calendar year).
 
Section 8.23  Termination
 
Termination means a termination of the relationship between a Participant and all Affiliates that would be considered a separation from service as defined under Section 409A of the Code and Treasury Regulation 1.409A-1(h), except that for purposes of determining whether a Termination has occurred with respect to an Affiliate, Sections 1563(a)(1), (2) and (3) of the Code (for purposes of determining a controlled group of corporations under Section 414(b) of the Code) and Treasury Regulation 1.414(c)-2 (for purposes of determining trades or businesses, whether or not incorporated, that are under common control for purposes of Section 414(c) of the Code) shall be applied without substituting the phrase at least 50 percent for at least 80 percent in each place it appears in such sections.
 
Section 8.24  Unforeseeable Emergency
 
Unforeseeable Emergency means a severe financial hardship to the Participant within the meaning of Treasury Regulation 1.409A-3(i)(3) resulting from: (i) an illness or accident of the Participant or the Participants spouse, Beneficiary, or dependent (as defined in Section 152 of the Code, without reference to Sections 152(b)(1), (b)(2) and (d)(1)(B) of the Code); (ii) loss of the Participants property due to casualty; or (iii) other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant.
22
 
 
Section 9.1  ERISA Status
 
The Plan shall constitute an unfunded plan maintained primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation benefits for a group of Highly Compensated Employees of any Employer.
 
Section 9.2  Compliance with Section 409A of the Code
 
It is intended that the Plan comply with Section 409A of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder (and any subsequent notices or guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service), and the Plan will be interpreted, administered and operated accordingly.  Nothing herein shall be construed as an entitlement to or guarantee of any particular tax treatment to a Participant.
 
Section 9.3  Construction
 
In the construction of the Plan, the masculine shall include the feminine and the singular shall include the plural in all cases where such meanings would be appropriate.
 
Section 9.4  Controlling Law
 
The law of the state of the Companys incorporation shall be the controlling state law in all matters relating to the Plan and shall apply to the extent that it is not preempted by the laws of the United States of America.
 
Section 9.5  Effect of Invalidity of Provision
 
If any provision of the Plan is held invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other provisions hereof, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if such provision had not been included.
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Plan has been executed on behalf of the Company by its duly appointed officer this 28 day of August, 2007.
th
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.2
As amended and restated
Effective: January 1, 2008
Effective January 1, 1996, Consolidated Stores Corporation adopted the Consolidated Stores Corporation Supplemental Defined Benefit Pension Plan, for a select group of highly compensated employees to ensure that the overall retirement pension benefit said group of highly compensated employees would receive would be equal to what the benefit would have been had the Consolidated Stores Corporation Defined Benefit Pension Plan not been amended to freeze said employees accrued retirement pension benefits.
Effective May 16, 2001, the name of the Company changed to Big Lots, Inc. and effective as of such date the name of this Plan changed to the Big Lots, Inc. Supplemental Defined Benefit Pension Plan.  This Plan was amended and restated in its entirely effective January 1, 2003 to incorporate certain administrative changes, including the Plan name change.
This Plan is now being amended and restated again to incorporate certain changes required by Code Section 409A and to reflect other administrative changes.
This Plan is an unfunded, supplemental executive deferred compensation plan structured to benefit such employees described above in a manner that provides said employees full pension benefits and that provides the incentive for said employees to improve the profitability, competitiveness and growth of Big Lots, Inc. and its affiliates.
2
The definition of Change in Control contained herein in this subsection (b)shall be interpreted in a manner that is consistent with the definition of change in control event under Code Section 409A and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder.
 
 
 
3
 
 
4
 
5
6
7
Supplemental Retirement Benefits shall be paid to Participants in a single-lump sum within ninety (90) days following such Participants Entitlement Date; provided, however, that the payment of Supplemental Retirement Benefits to any Specified Employee shall begin on the first business day after the date that is six (6) months following the date of the Specified Employees Separation from Service (or, if earlier, the Specified Employees death).The payment made on the first business day after the date that is six (6) months following the date of Separation from Service shall include the cumulative amount of any amounts that could not be paid or provided during such six-month period.
 
 
8
9
10
11
If special circumstances require the extension of the 45-day or 90-day period described above, the claimant will be notified before the end of the initial period of the circumstances requiring the extension and the date by which the claims official expects to reach a decision.  Any extension for deciding a claim will not be for more than an additional 90-day period, or, if the claim is a claim on account of disability, for not more than two additional 30-day periods.
12
 
Any request or submission will be in writing and will be directed to the Committee (or its designee).  The Committee (or its designee) will have the sole responsibility for the review of any denied claim and will take all steps appropriate in the light of its findings.
 
13
In the case of a claim on account of disability, the review of the denied claim shall be conducted by a named fiduciary who is neither the individual who made the benefit determination nor a subordinate of such person and no deference shall be given to the initial benefit determination.  For issues involving medical judgment, the named fiduciary must consult with an independent health care professional who may not be the health care professional who decided the initial claim.  To the extent permitted by law, the decision of the claims official (if no review is properly requested) or the decision of the review official on review, as the case may be, will be final and binding on all parties.  No legal action for benefits under this Plan will be brought unless and until the claimant has exhausted his or her remedies under this Section 7.6.
 
14
15
16
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Plan to be signed, adopted and dated this 28 day of August, 2007.
th
 

Exhibit 99.1
PRESS RELEASE
 
Columbus, Ohio  August 29, 2007  Big Lots, Inc. (NYSE: BIG) today reported second quarter fiscal 2007 income from continuing operations of $22.1 million, or $0.21 per diluted share, compared to income from continuing operations of $4.7 million, or $0.04 per diluted share, in the second quarter of fiscal 2006.  Including the impact of discontinued operations, second quarter fiscal 2007 net income totaled $23.4 million, or $0.22 per diluted share, compared to $4.3 million, or $0.04 per diluted share, in the prior year.
For the year to date period ended August 4, 2007, income from continuing operations totaled $51.2 million, or $0.47 per diluted share, compared to income from continuing operations of $19.2 million, or $0.17 per diluted share, for the same period in fiscal 2006.  Including the impact of discontinued operations, year to date fiscal 2007 net income totaled $52.1 million, or $0.48 per diluted share, compared to $18.0 million, or $0.16 per diluted share, in the prior year.
 
SECOND QUARTER HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
Second Quarter Results
 
Net sales for the second quarter ended August 4, 2007, increased 2.7% to $1,084.9 million, compared to $1,056.5 million for the same period in fiscal 2006.  Comparable store sales for stores open at least two years at the beginning of the fiscal year increased 5.2% for the quarter on top of a 5.2% comparable store sales increase in the second quarter of fiscal 2006.
 
 
Operating profit for the second quarter of fiscal 2007 was $33.4 million, or 3.1% of sales, compared to last years operating profit of $7.3 million, or 0.7% of sales.  The operating profit dollar improvement to last year was the result of significant expense leverage along with the incremental gross margin dollars driven by the Companys 5.2% comparable store sales increase.  Operating expenses as a percent of sales improved by 260 basis points due to store and distribution center efficiencies, lower insurance-related costs, efficiencies in advertising spending, and the leveraging impact of a 5.2% comp.  As anticipated, this expense leverage was partially offset by a slight decline of 20 basis points in the gross margin rate due to certain lower margin promotions and a slight shift in merchandise mix towards lower margin categories.
Inventory and Cash Management
Inventory ended the quarter at $714 million, down 13% or $105 million compared to last year.  Lower inventory value resulted from a lower store count along with an 11% decline in average store inventory levels year over year.  For the sixth consecutive quarter, the Company achieved record inventory turnover results (on a comparable quarter basis) driven by improving inventory management and timely flow of merchandise along with strength in comparable store sales.  The Company ended the second quarter of fiscal 2007 with total cash and cash equivalents of $109 million (with no long-term obligations) compared to cash and cash equivalents of $1 million and long-term obligations of $31 million in the prior year.
Share Repurchase Update
As announced in March of 2007, the Companys Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $600.0 million of its common shares commencing upon authorization and continuing until exhausted (2007 Repurchase Program).
During the second quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company purchased 7.5 million shares in open market transactions for a total investment of $215.0 million or a weighted average price of $28.74 per share.  Year to date, the Company has purchased 7.9 million shares in open market transactions for a total investment of $228.7 million, or a weighted average price of $28.91 per share.
Additionally, during the first quarter of fiscal 2007 as part of the 2007 Repurchase Program, the Company received 2.8 million of its outstanding common shares representing the minimum number of shares purchased under a $100.0 million guaranteed share repurchase (GSR) transaction.  The GSR includes a forward contract indexed to the average price of our common stock that subjects the GSR to a future share settlement based on the average share price between the contractually specified price inception date of the GSR and the final settlement date.  The Company may receive up to 0.4 million additional shares of common stock from the counterparty in settlement of the GSR.  If the GSR had settled on August 4, 2007, the Company would have received approximately 0.4 million additional common shares from the counterparty based on the average price of its common stock since the contractually specified price inception date of the GSR. The GSR is expected to settle during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007.
Year to date, the Company has invested a total of $328.7 million as part of the 2007 Repurchase Program, leaving $271.3 million authorized and available for future use.  If the GSR had settled on August 4, 2007, the Company would have purchased 11.1 million shares, or approximately 10% of the actual shares outstanding at the beginning of the program, at a weighted average price of $29.54.
 
 
2007 OUTLOOK
 
 
For the third quarter of fiscal 2007, the Companys guidance calls for a 1% to 3% comparable store sales increase compared to a 5.8% comparable store sales increase for the third quarter of fiscal 2006.  Based on this level of sales performance, the Companys earnings are estimated to be in the range of $0.09 to $0.13 per diluted share, compared to income from continuing operations for the third quarter of fiscal 2006 of $0.02 per diluted share.  As a reminder, the third quarter of fiscal 2006 included litigation charges totaling $0.05 per diluted share.
 
For the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, the Companys guidance calls for a 1% to 3% comparable store sales increase compared to a 4.9% comparable store sales increase recorded last year.  Based on this level of sales performance, the Companys earnings are estimated to be in the range of $0.87 to $0.92 per diluted share, compared to income from continuing operations for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 of $0.83 per diluted share.  As a reminder, the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 included incremental earnings of approximately $0.05 per diluted share related to the extra week included in the retail calendar during fiscal 2006 (fourth quarter of 14 weeks versus a normal 13 week quarter, full year of 53 weeks versus a normal 52 week year).
 
Given the strength of the second quarter operating results and current trends in the business, the Company raised its fiscal 2007 guidance for earnings and cash flow.  The Company now anticipates fiscal 2007 income from continuing operations of $1.43 to $1.48 per diluted share, an increase of 42% to 47% compared to income from continuing operations of $1.01 per diluted share for fiscal 2006.  This EPS guidance is based on an expected increase in comparable store sales in the range of 3% to 4%.  Given this level of EPS performance and an inventory turnover assumption of approximately 3.6 times, the Company now expects approximately $240 million of cash flow for fiscal 2007.
 
C
onference Call/Webcast
 
The Company will host a conference call today at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Time to discuss the Company's financial results for the second quarter of fiscal 2007.  The Company invites you to listen to the webcast of the conference call through the Investors section of our website (www.biglots.com).
 
If you are unable to join the live webcast, an archive of the call will be available at http://www.biglots.com in the Investor Relations section of our website two hours after the call ends and will remain available through midnight on Wednesday, September 12. A replay of the call will be available beginning August 29 at 12:00 noon (Eastern Time) through September 12 at midnight by dialing: 1.866.452.0550 (United States and Canada) or 1.206.428.2805 (International or metro-Seattle). The recording ID number is 5678 and the PIN number is 7893.
 
 
Big Lots is the nations largest broadline closeout retailer.  As of the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2007 (August 4, 2007), the Company operated 1,369 stores in 47 states.Wholesale operations are conducted through and with online sales at www.biglotswholesale.com. The Companys website is located at www.biglots.com.
BIG LOTS
 
BIG LOTS
WHOLESALE, CONSOLIDATED INTERNATIONAL, WISCONSIN TOY
 
Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements in this release are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and such statements are intended to qualify for the protection of the safe harbor provided by the Act. The words anticipate, estimate, expect, objective, goal, project, intend, plan, believe, will, target, forecast and similar expressions generally identify forward-looking statements. Similarly, descriptions of our objectives, strategies, plans, goals or targets are also forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements relate to the expectations of management as to future occurrences and trends, including statements expressing optimism or pessimism about future operating results or events and projected sales, earnings, capital expenditures and business strategy. Forward-looking statements are based upon a number of assumptions concerning future conditions that may ultimately prove to be inaccurate. Forward-looking statements are and will be based upon managements then-current views and assumptions regarding future events and operating performance, and are applicable only as of the dates of such statements. Although we believe the expectations expressed in forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions within the bounds of our knowledge, forward-looking statements, by their nature, involve risks, uncertainties and other factors, any one or a combination of which could materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.
Forward-looking statements that we make herein and in other reports and releases are not guarantees of future performance and actual results may differ materially from those discussed in such forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including, but not limited to, the cost of goods, our inability to successfully execute strategic initiatives, competitive pressures, economic pressures on our customers and us, the availability of brand name closeout merchandise, trade restrictions, freight costs, the risks discussed in the Risk Factors section of our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, and other factors discussed from time to time in our other filings with the SEC, including Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K. This release should be read in conjunction with such filings, and you should consider all of these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully in evaluating forward-looking statements.
 
You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date thereof. We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our public announcements and SEC filings.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 2007 Thomson Financial. Republished with permission. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial.
1
FINAL TRANSCRIPT
Aug. 29. 2007 / 8:00AM ET, BIG - Q2 2007 Big Lots, Inc. Earnings Conference Call
 
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
 Tim Johnson
 Big Lots, Inc. - VP, Strategic Planning, IR
 Steve Fishman
 Big Lots, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
 Joe Cooper
 Big Lots, Inc. - SVP, CFO
 
 
CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS
 David Mann
 Johnson Rice - Analyst
 Matt Boss
 JPMorgan - Analyst
 Mitch Kaiser
 Piper Jaffray - Analyst
 
PRESENTATION
 
Operator
 
Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Big Lots second quarter 2007 teleconference. During this session, all lines will be muted until the question-and-answer portion of the call. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS)
At this time I would like to introduce today's first speaker, Vice President of Strategic Planning and Investor Relations, Tim Johnson.
 
 Tim Johnson
- Big Lots, Inc. - VP, Strategic Planning, IR
 
Thanks for joining us for our second quarter conference call. With me here in Columbus today are Steve Fishman, our Chairman and CEO; Joe Cooper, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Chuck Haubiel, Senior Vice President and General Counsel. We appreciate you joining us this morning a little earlier than normal. Before we get started I'd like to remind you that any forward-looking statements we make on today's call involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to our Safe Harbor provisions as stated in our press releases and our SEC filings and that actual results can differ materially from those described in our forward-looking statements.
As you can see from our earnings release this morning, our results include both continuing and discontinued operations. The discontinued operations activity in the second quarter of fiscal 2007 reflects the 130 stores closed in January, 2006, and KB Toys related matters as described in our Form 10-K. Given the amount is immaterial and we do not view discontinued operations as relevant to the ongoing operations of the business, the balance of our prepared comments will be based on results related to continuing operations. With that I'll now turn it over to Steve.
Steve Fishman
- Big Lots, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
Thanks, T.J., and good morning, everybody. Across the organization during the second quarter, I'm proud of how we continued to execute the Big Lots WIN strategy, a strategy focused on operating profit growth, and for the quarter we drove significant operating profit growth with $33 million this year versus $7 million last year. We stayed focus on what was within our control and drove record second quarter performance for this company... $0.21 per share on a 5% comp, 5% increase in gross margin dollars per store on SG&A that was down 2% per store compared to a year ago. Overall, a very well-executed quarter.
 
 
 
           
 2007 Thomson Financial. Republished with permission. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial.
      
2
FINAL TRANSCRIPT
Aug. 29. 2007 / 8:00AM ET, BIG - Q2 2007 Big Lots, Inc. Earnings Conference Call
It all starts with merchandising. Of course, over the last two years, we've thrown a number of challenges at our merchant team. From "raise the ring", to delivering more floor-ready merchandise, to generating faster inventory turnover and decreasing our cash conversion cycle. Our merchants continue to execute and drive not only comps, but the overall efficiency and cash flow of the business.
From a merchandising perspective, you'll recall that when we detailed our long-range plan, we anticipated that certain key categories would outperform the store. Categories such as Seasonal, Furniture, and Electronics in particular. I continue to be encouraged by the strength of these categories, as well as our performance across most of the major areas of the store. Specifically, Seasonal which accounts for a little less than 15% of our business annually, led the Company for the second quarter with comps up in the mid-teens. Strategically, we planned to carry heavier inventory levels later through the season in certain classifications in both Summer and Lawn and Garden. I'm speaking particularly of outdoor living, patio, grills, pools, and outdoor fun merchandise. These are classifications that carry a higher ticket and quite frankly we sold through them too early last year, particularly in some of our warmer weather markets.
Next was Furniture, which is also about 15% of our business annually. Furniture continued its strong performance with comps up in the high-single digits on top of a high-single digit comp in Q2 last year. Upholstery and the Serta mattress program were the key drivers with RTA business starting to gain some traction and consistency. Even though the home furnishing sector continues to be challenged, our team is providing extreme value to the customer with a heightened focus on quality and delivering trend-right products. It's not just about low prices.
Within the Hardlines category, which is a little less than 15% of our business annually, Electronics posted another good quarter with comps up in the high-single digits.We also bought deeper into Electrical this year, which is fans, air-conditioners, and outdoor lighting, and that paid off for us in a big way with comps up in the 20s.
Another category that we probably don't talk enough about is Consumables, which is about 30% of our business annually. Sales were above plan for the quarter with comps up in the mid-single digits and increases in all classifications including food, HBC, chemicals, paper, pet, and home organization. This category has the highest penetration of branded closeouts and this team just continues to deliver great value.
Of course, the large home furnishings deal that there was some discussion about three months ago on our last call turned out to be a successful deal for the Company. We estimated that the deal added about 2% to the comps for the quarter and as we sit here today, there is very little of the product remaining in our stores.We get deals all the time. Some are big ones like this and some are small ones and you don't necessarily hear about them, but this is our niche. We're in the closeout business and this is the type of deal that we would like to do more of ,and from an execution standpoint, we have a model that works very well for us. Just to save a little time in the Q&A, this is the extent of the financial information we'll be sharing on this deal.
What we really haven't said much about is that the comps for Q2 were actually driven more by merchandising and store execution than some of you may have thought because our ad spend for the quarter was actually down to last year in TV and in print. Specifically on print, we did run one less ad circular than last year. We were able to execute a 12-page Memorial Day ad which did slightly more volume than two four-page ads that ran around Memorial Day a year ago.
On a regional basis, our performance was strongest in the Northeast and Southern regions with the Western region lagging the Company average, as it had the fewest number of stores benefiting from the large home furnishings closeout deal in the quarter.
Shifting from comps to inventory management, our inventories are very clean and lean to start the third quarter. We ended the second quarter down $105 million or 11% per store compared to a year ago. Now that's a big number, 11% down, and we have a couple of areas that may look a little light in the stores, but I want you to know we have plenty of inventory to drive the comps we are forecasting for the balance of the year. In fact, the in-store inventory which is what customers see is really only down about 3 to 4%, but our DCs are down significantly due to the better flow strategies and record productivity by our DC teams. We believe that given the uncertainties in the macro environment and struggles in certain areas of retail, it made good business sense to challenge our merchants to remain fluid and hold back more open to buy for deals, particularly in certain areas of the businesses like toys, home, and some of our play 'n wear departments, where we're not particularly satisfied with our recent performance. So we're ready to pounce on deals as they become available and we believe they will over the next few weeks.
Moving away from the quarter, I want to update you on a couple of strategic initiatives of interest. First, we continue to make progress on our store retrofit program in Q2. At the beginning of the year I think we identified about 70 stores that were predominantly high volume and small square footage locations, principally in California. The purpose of the retrofit was to get more merchandise out on the selling floor and better allocate square footage to key categories. In approximately half of these stores, we're creating enough space to move to a full-sized furniture department from a partial department of principally RTA. I visited a number of these stores personally in California in the last couple of weeks, and I have to tell you the stores' business was solid. We learned a lot on how to execute the retrofit and I left there feeling that we accomplished what we had set out to do. The program for this year will be completed in the next few days and we'll evaluate the financial impact over the balance of this year, but my gut tells me that this will be a program that will continue into 2008 and potentially further, which is very encouraging.
 
 
 2007 Thomson Financial. Republished with permission. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial.
3
FINAL TRANSCRIPT
Aug. 29. 2007 / 8:00AM ET, BIG - Q2 2007 Big Lots, Inc. Earnings Conference Call
Also from a strategic point of view, the rollout of our new point of sale register system is moving forward very well. By the end of this month, we'll have the new system up and running in about 475 stores. By the end of Q3, we should be up and running in around 700 stores with the balance of the chain to be completed in 2008. You'll remember from our last call that this is a system that was tested during the fall last year and we're looking forward to the capabilities it will provide to the business in 2008 and beyond. Now I'm going to turn it over to Joe to speak to some of the dollars and cents. Joe?
Joe Cooper
- Big Lots, Inc. - SVP, CFO
Good morning, everyone. For the second quarter of fiscal 2007, we reported income from continuing operations of $22.1 million or $0.21 per diluted share compared to income from continuing operations of $4.7 million or $0.04 per diluted share a year ago.
Our Q2 result of $0.21 per share was ahead of our guidance of $0.07 to $0.10 per share. If you were looking at the midpoint of our communicated guidance, the favorability was approximately $0.12 and resulted from:
First higher sales contributed an extra $0.04 to $0.05 as comps came in at 5.2% versus our original guidance of 2 to 4%. The remaining $0.07 to $0.08 of favorability was SG&A related and resulted from:
First, continued operating efficiencies in both stores and distribution centers.From a stores perspective, payroll continues to be well managed and our merchant and planning teams are helping to improve our store productivity. Merchandise initiatives like "raise the ring" and "one touch" or delivering more floor-ready merchandise are having a very positive impact in our stores. "Raise the ring" is key and unless you're inside our business, I'm not sure that you can understand the significance. If per store dollar inventories are down year over year and average item retail is up, then the number of units is down even more than the inventory dollars. That's just the math, and the store managers and DC directors deal in units or cartons. It goes a long way in helping them run a more efficient store or building. Additionally, today nearly 50% of our goods come preticketed and ready to go straight to the floor. This is up from about 45% a year ago.
Also, from an operational perspective, our distribution and transportation performance was better than anticipated. Our DC productivity was at record highs for Q2 and we are starting to see benefits from our transportation initiatives a little earlier than originally anticipated.
Next, part of the SG&A favorability stems from health care and insurance-related costs. Again, this is one of our strategic initiatives and our experience in Q2 was better than anticipated. Since changing health care providers at the beginning of the year, we've been encouraged by claim trends and the higher discounts we have achieved. Finally, the business flexed very well and as sales exceeded plan, we needed very little incremental payroll dollars in order to execute.
Sales for the second quarter were $1.085 billion, an increase of 2.7% over the prior year, and as mentioned, comparable store sales increased 5.2%. The strength of the comp continues to be driven through the average basket and our "raise the ring" strategy.
Looking at the P&L, gross margin dollars increased 5% per store. As anticipated, the second quarter rate of 38.8% was slightly lower than last year's rate of 39.0% due to certain promotions as well as a slight shift in mix towards lower margin categories.
SG&A dollars per store were down approximately 2% as the SG&A rate of 35.7% was 260 basis points better than last year.Along with the natural leverage impact of a 5.2% comp, leverage for the quarter was achieved primarily through operational efficiencies in store payroll and distribution and transportation, lower insurance and occupancy-related costs, and a lower advertising spend in both print and TV during the quarter. These efficiencies were partially offset by higher bonus expense based on the overall profitability of the quarter.
Net interest income was $1.5 million for the quarter, a $0.8 million improvement compared to last year due to the company's improved operating performance and inventory management, partially offset by the use of cash to opportunistically repurchase stock during the quarter.
Our tax rate for the second quarter of fiscal 2007 was 36.6%, which was within our annual range of 36 to 39% and benefited from certain settlement-related activity. As we have mentioned on our last two conference calls, the adoption of FIN 48 can result in more quarter to quarter variance in our tax rate going forward.
 
 
 2007 Thomson Financial. Republished with permission. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial.
4
FINAL TRANSCRIPT
Aug. 29. 2007 / 8:00AM ET, BIG - Q2 2007 Big Lots, Inc. Earnings Conference Call
Turning to the balance sheet, our total inventory ended the quarter at $714 million, down $105 million or 13% compared to last year. The decline in inventory is attributed to lower store count and an 11% decrease in inventory on a per store basis. Inventory per store was down to last year in all major merchandising categories, with the exception of Seasonal, where, as Steve mentioned earlier, we plan to carry higher inventory to take advantage of sales opportunities we missed last year through Labor Day.
We ended the second quarter with total cash and investments of $109 million, compared to last year when our cash was minimal and we were in our revolver for about $31 million. Cash flow, which we define as cash provided by operating activities less cash used in investing activities was $87 million for the second quarter compared to $5 million of cash outflows last year. The variance to the prior year is a function of, first, Q2 net income was $19 million above last year. The balance of the variance is from lower inventory levels and higher AP leverage. As Steve mentioned, part of the inventory variance is related to keeping open to buy and part of the variance is timing related as we planned to flow goods differently year over year.
Capital expenditures totaled $11.8 million for the second quarter, up $2.7 million to the second quarter of last year. The increase is primarily due to our new POS rollout and store retrofit activity in approximately 70 stores. Depreciation expense for the quarter was $21.8 million or $3.1 million lower than last year.
During the second quarter, we opened one store and closed eight stores, leaving us with 1369 stores and total selling square footage of 29.2 million at the end of the second quarter. For the year, we continue to estimate a net store count reduction of approximately 35 to 40 stores.
In regards to our 2007 share repurchase program, during the second quarter of fiscal 2007, we purchased 7.5 million shares in open market transactions at a cost of $215 million at a weighted average price of $28.74. Year-to-date, we have repurchased $329 million of the $600 million authorized by our Board. $100 million under a guaranteed share repurchase or GSR program and $229 million through opportunistic repurchases. Although our GSR will not settle until the fourth quarter, if we were to assume it had settled at the end of Q2, our total number of shares repurchased would have been $11.1 million or approximately 10% of our outstanding shares. We have $271 million remaining under our current share repurchase program as of the end of the second quarter and we will continue to closely monitor the market and our share price in an effort to make the best use of our cash.
Moving on to guidance, for the third quarter comp sales are estimated to increase in the range of 1 to 3%. This guidance is on top of our best comp of the year last year when we comped 5.8% and benefited from a large drugstore liquidation deal. Q3 earnings are estimated to be in the range of $0.09 to $0.13 per diluted share compared to $0.02 per diluted share last year. As a reminder, the third quarter of fiscal 2006 included litigation charges totaling $0.05 per diluted share. We expect the gross margin rate to be flattish, with continued SG&A leverage driving the operating profit growth. Leverage drivers that have occurred in the first half of the year are expected to continue in Q3, recognizing that the amount of leverage will vary given our 1 to 3% comp guidance versus the 5% comp experienced in Q1 and Q2.
For the fourth quarter, comps are planned up in the 1 to 3% range. We expect Q4 operating margin improvement from last year from continued SG&A leverage with the gross margin rate up slightly to last year. Given these assumptions along with a lower share count due to second quarter share repurchase activity, we estimate income from continuing operations to be in the range of $0.87 to $0.92 per diluted share compared to $0.83 per diluted share last year. As a reminder, the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 included incremental earnings of approximately $0.05 per diluted share related to the extra week included in the retail calendar during fiscal 2006.
In our press release today, we increased our guidance for the full year and now expect EPS from continuing operations to be in the range of $1.43 to $1.48 per diluted share. This revised guidance represents a 42 to 47% increase over last year's income from continuing operations of $1.01 per diluted share. The increase in EPS is the result of the strength of Q2 operating results, current favorable expense trends, and a lower share count due to the significant amount of share repurchase activity that occurred in Q2. For the full year, our comparable store sales guidance remains unchanged at 3 to 4%. We are estimating 150 to 170 basis points of operating profit expansion, assuming a flat gross margin rate and leverage in SG&A.
As a result of the share repurchase activity in Q2, we have lowered our net interest income forecast to $6 million for the year.
Based on the first two quarter's activity and what is expected to occur for the balance of the year, we now expect the tax rate for the year to be in the range of 37 to 38%, or right in the middle of our prior guidance of 36 to 39%.
For modeling purposes only, assuming no additional share repurchase activity for the balance of the year, we would estimate the number of weighted average diluted shares to be approximately 106 million for the year, below our prior guidance of 110 million to 111 million. This change, driven by the repurchase activity in the second quarter contributed about $0.05 to the revised EPS guidance for the year that we announced today. However, I want to emphasize we have $271 million of remaining authorization under our current share repurchase program and have the flexibility to invest as little or as much of this as we deem appropriate over the balance of the year.
 
 
 2007 Thomson Financial. Republished with permission. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial.
5
FINAL TRANSCRIPT
Aug. 29. 2007 / 8:00AM ET, BIG - Q2 2007 Big Lots, Inc. Earnings Conference Call
Given record inventory turnover for the first half of 2007 and our current inventory position, we now expect inventory turnover of approximately 3.6 times for the year. Further, we now expect to generate $240 million of cash flow, up from prior guidance of $190 million.
We have lowered our CapEx guidance for the year to $65 million to $70 million, down from $70 million to $75 million. This change is the result of slightly lower than anticipated costs associated with our new POS rollout, along with a revised estimate of approximately seven new stores this year compared to our original plan of 10 to 15. Accordingly, we now estimate depreciation expense of approximately $90 million for the year. Steve?
 Steve Fishman
- Big Lots, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
I want to make one more comment before we get into the Q&A. During these calls, investors or analysts typically make comments and ask questions, sometimes supportive and sometimes they are contrary. But there's another audience that's very important that listens to these calls and that's our team of associates. From the executive team and its drafting of the WIN strategy back in the fall of '05 to the team of nearly 40,000 associates who have executed it beyond our expectations, I want to say job well done. We're further along than any of us, including myself, thought that we would have been at this point.
Over the last two years, we've made some very difficult and sometimes unpopular decisions, but never waivered or looked back. I wouldn't be surprised if we don't get some questions shortly on some mercurial topics like new stores or why isn't this metric higher or this one lower, but please remember this. In 2007, we now expect EPS to be 5 times what it was in 2004 before we got started. Based on our guidance, sales per square foot will be at the highest level ever at over $160 per foot this year. Gross margin dollars per foot are forecasted to be at a record high for this business.SG&A as a percent of sales is expected to be at a level that this business has not seen in ten years. And inventory turnover for this year of 3.6 times, which is our updated guidance, is nearly 20% higher than before we began our work. We've generated over $575 million in cash flow in the last 24 months and we've repurchased over $475 million worth of company stock and those of us who are running the business know that we're still making our business better. In March we outlined our long-term growth plan. We have a number of initiatives identified to continue to expand the operating profit rate of this business and ultimately drive higher EPS. So to the team that's out there listening to this call, great job. We're far from done and stay focused on the prize.
Tim Johnson
- Big Lots, Inc. - VP, Strategic Planning, IR
 Thanks, Steve. At this time we would like to go ahead and open up the lines for Q&A.
QUESTION AND ANSWER
 
Operator
(OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS)
Tim Johnson
- Big Lots, Inc. - VP, Strategic Planning, IR
Are we seeing any questions at this time?
Operator
 Yes. Hold on just a moment, please. Our first question is from the line of David Mann at Johnson Rice.
 
 
 2007 Thomson Financial. Republished with permission. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial.
6
FINAL TRANSCRIPT
Aug. 29. 2007 / 8:00AM ET, BIG - Q2 2007 Big Lots, Inc. Earnings Conference Call
 
David Mann
- Johnson Rice - Analyst
 Good morning. Nice job, guys.
 
 Steve Fishman
- Big Lots, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
 Thank you.
 
David Mann
- Johnson Rice - Analyst
In terms of the comments you made on gross margin, when we look at the back half of the year, the sequential improvement you're looking for, can you just dive down a little deeper in terms of how you expect, perhaps, your promotional cadence and the mix to affect that or any other factors in terms of that improvement?
Steve Fishman
- Big Lots, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
Well, David, from a promotional cadence, I don't think you're going to see anything significantly different from an expense standpoint than last year. Other than I will tell you we have some real surprisingly powerful plans from a marketing standpoint, particularly media. There is going to be a shift and I'll give you two seconds on it. We're going to be spending the same amount of money. Because of the efficiencies we've been able to get from the paper part of the preprints we've been able to take that savings, still run the same amount of pages and preprints that we ran last year and put additional money, that savings into media, television particularly. And I think you'll recall last year, we were real pleased with our performance last year when it came to television and the message we were able to send across to the customer base that we have out there and hopefully to some new customers. We made a change recently in the last 30 days in our advertising agency for the first time in many, many years in the Company because we felt it was rightly the time to move on to something a little bit different. We are really excited about the ideas that we have for media for the fourth quarter in particular, but to say the least I'm not going to share any of it with you right now other than to say that we think it's really different, it's really unique, it will continue to drive home what Big Lots is all about and the great brand names and savings that we offer. So from that perspective.
From a margin perspective, it's really going to be driven by the fact that initial markup continues to really be solid. Particularly because of the Global Sourcing program and we're almost 12 months into that right now. Of course, we have big plans in the second half for our Seasonal business that traditionally is higher margin businesses. We're real excited about the Seasonal business and what's been put together and that's on top of what we consider to be a real solid first Christmas last year and a very solid spring and summer season this year. Initial reaction to fall, particularly Halloween, has been good. We're real excited about it and I'm absolutely elated with the Trim a Tree program that I think you're going to see in the stores shortly and how we're going to be able to drive that. Clearly, if those programs are good, I think the gross margin will be driven by probably a reduction of markdowns versus last year.
Joe Cooper
- Big Lots, Inc. - SVP, CFO
Just tagging on, the freight initiative that really kicked in the end of the second quarter will certainly add some benefit to the gross margin in the back. And remember, from the standpoint of the markdown rate, we did exit our old mattress program in the back half of last year when we started delivering Serta. And also there were some markdowns in Home, Toys, and Apparel. So we do expect the markdown rate to benefit to Steve's point.
David Mann
- Johnson Rice - Analyst
In terms of the open to buy that you have, can you just give some comment after you've seen such success with the Pier 1 deal and the Osco deal last year, what's the prospect out there in terms of larger deals or the breadth of more medium-sized deals as you're looking right now?
 
 
 
 2007 Thomson Financial. Republished with permission. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial.
7
FINAL TRANSCRIPT
Aug. 29. 2007 / 8:00AM ET, BIG - Q2 2007 Big Lots, Inc. Earnings Conference Call
 
Steve Fishman
- Big Lots, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
I would tell you a couple of things. First and foremost, you know we don't comment on our deals because that's our business and we would never do that. We held back open to buy dollars probably a little bit more going into the third quarter than last year because of what we continue to hear out there in the way of problems with the economy and at least a lot of other retailers have stated that they're very, very concerned about it.
I would tell you only this and admit to this, deals are vibrant. I would tell you in the last couple or three weeks in particular they are at a higher level than we have seen, and that's a pretty high level. Our anticipation is that as most people get through back to school and get well into the third quarter and start thinking about the fourth quarter, we will be able to see even more deals. Some of them are small, some of them are medium-sized and I'd probably put a handle more on a lot of medium-sized deals. To me that's in the multimillions because that's effectively what's important. They are across all aspects of our business and probably a secret I shouldn't give away, coming from all areas of other retail economics that we didn't see before. What I mean by that is not just certain segments of the business, but maybe even department stores and higher-end retailers that we never saw before.
 
David Mann
- Johnson Rice - Analyst
Very good. Thank you. Congratulations.
 
 Steve Fishman
- Big Lots, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
 Thanks.
Operator
Our next question comes from the line of Charles Grom from JPMorgan.
Matt Boss
- JPMorgan - Analyst
 
Yes, good morning. This is actually Matt Boss filling in for Chuck Grom. Got a couple of questions. First, could you provide us with some additional detail regarding SG&A performance in the quarter? Was hoping maybe you could break down the benefits achieved from lower insurance, DC efficiencies, advertising, fixed cost leverage in terms of the benefits we can expect going forward from each of these. Also, which factors most came in above your expectations?
Joe Cooper
- Big Lots, Inc. - SVP, CFO
 
This is Joe, Matt. We're not going to provide that level of detail. What we will provide are the components of that, but as far as prioritizing or quantifying, we're not going to provide that. We will say that the benefits that you just outlined as we mentioned in the call, we do expect to continue through the back half of the year.
Tim Johnson
- Big Lots, Inc. - VP, Strategic Planning, IR
 
Matt, this is Tim. I would add on there to Joe's point, a couple of the items that we mentioned -- that you mentioned specifically, we do quantify in the Q, like advertising costs, for instance. That will be in the Q. I think it's fair to say now that the number this year was about 20 million versus about 25 million last year. Again, as Steve mentioned, we pulled back a little bit on TV and we did run one less preprint year over year. Now, if you'll remember, we had about the exact same dynamic going the other way in first quarter. It's just how we've planned the business and how we're executing it that really looks at the variance to last year. The distribution and transportation costs we also quantify separately in the Q and you'll see that and that was about in the neighborhood of, say 50 to 60 basis points of the leverage as was advertising.
The balance of the leverage that we continued to see in the business, and I would go on to say that we forecasted for the rest of the year, is coming from areas like store payroll, like our new insurance program. The move to Anthem has been a good thing for the business and those types of things. What we've experienced in the first half, we've done our best job to try to forecast for the back half.
 
 
 2007 Thomson Financial. Republished with permission. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial.
8
FINAL TRANSCRIPT
Aug. 29. 2007 / 8:00AM ET, BIG - Q2 2007 Big Lots, Inc. Earnings Conference Call
 
Matt Boss
- JPMorgan - Analyst
Okay. That's very helpful. Second question. Given the margin assumptions that Joe walked through in terms of the second half guidance, it now appears that gross profit is going to be down on a full-year basis as opposed to flat that you guys had previously forecasted. Could you just list some of the factors driving this revision and what are you guys seeing in terms of a mix perspective now versus what are you looking for going forward?
Joe Cooper
- Big Lots, Inc. - SVP, CFO
 
Actually, we did not revise the gross margin guidance, Matt. What we said, we are about 40 basis points down year-to-date. What we're talking about is flat in the third quarter and up in the fourth and flat for the year. So there was no revision.
Matt Boss
- JPMorgan - Analyst
 
Could you provide us with some of the details in the fourth quarter in terms of the gross profit increase?
Joe Cooper
- Big Lots, Inc. - SVP, CFO
 
Well, we didn't provide by quarter, but that's essentially what we just answered for David Mann.
Matt Boss
- JPMorgan - Analyst
 
Okay.
Joe Cooper
- Big Lots, Inc. - SVP, CFO
 
On the gross margin. The components of that.
Matt Boss
- JPMorgan - Analyst
 
Okay. Thank you.
Joe Cooper
- Big Lots, Inc. - SVP, CFO
 
We can walk you back through that again later, Matt, if you would like. Be glad to.
Operator
 
All right. Our next question comes from the line of Mitch Kaiser from Piper Jaffray. Go ahead.
Mitch Kaiser
- Piper Jaffray - Analyst
 
Good morning, guys. Nice quarter. Congrats.
Steve Fishman
- Big Lots, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
 
Thank you, Mitch.
 
 
 
 2007 Thomson Financial. Republished with permission. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial.
9
FINAL TRANSCRIPT
Aug. 29. 2007 / 8:00AM ET, BIG - Q2 2007 Big Lots, Inc. Earnings Conference Call
 
Joe Cooper
- Big Lots, Inc. - SVP, CFO
 Thanks, Mitch.
Mitch Kaiser
- Piper Jaffray - Analyst
I was wondering, you talked about some of the categories that showed really strong performance, Seasonal, Furniture, Hardlines, Consumables. Can you talk us through some that underperformed a little bit relative to the 5.2% comp that you posted?
Steve Fishman
- Big Lots, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
 
Yes. I think I mentioned that before. We were less focused and working very hard on the Play 'n Wear division, which to you is predominantly the toy part of the business and I don't know if that's a surprise and we're clearly holding back and being reserved. Kind of expected a lot more questions on the toy issue with what's going on nationally worldwide in the last couple of weeks. We didn't get hurt all that bad and we had some goods that had to get returned but more on an open to buy standpoint, some goods that were on order. But it really won't dramatically effect the business.
The question I have in my mind, is how is the consumer going to respond to toys in general between now and the end of the year with the bad taste they may have in their mouth. We have more branded goods there than we've ever had before and we're getting offered better deals. My assumption is by holding back some of that open to buy, with what's going on, there may be even some better deals coming forward still. Remember, we're only at the end of August here. We've gotten deals as late as October 1 and November and been able to react to them still for the fourth quarter, as we did last year. We're waiting in the wings for some of these big things to happen. We haven't been happy with that business. We think we were slightly unfocused and we think we've got a better plan for the second half of the year there.
The Play 'n Wear division, there's a couple elements of that and we've worked really hard on that. I'm more encouraged about the fact that the performance hasn't been good, but I think we have a good plan for our third and particularly fourth quarter and that revolves mostly in two areas of the business. One's the jewelry and accessory part of the business and we really have revised that part of the business and you're going to be seeing a lot better quality and value prices in our stores. In fact, you may see some of it right now and you're going to see much more vibrancy in that category going into the end of the third quarter and the fourth quarter, so we're excited about that. Something that we call lingerie, which is kind of a misnomer, because it includes a lot of different things. We've been very getting some very high-end department store and mid-line department store things that have positively affected the business in the last 30 days, particularly at back-to-school, that's given me cause to believe that we're on the right track at fixing that part of the business.
The last part of the business that I would agree that none of us have been happy about, because it's a business we've driven pretty successfully is the Home parts of the business. That's broken down into two areas. The domestics, or linens and domestics part of the business has always been relatively strong and it continues to outpace the balance of the Home businesses and there are some fabulous deals that we've got planned for the third and fourth quarter in particular, branded deals, probably better than ever before. Consistent with what I think I've been saying all along. We're getting better and better deals, more branded, higher-end type goods and we like that higher price point.
The part of the business that we struggled in is the home decors and housewares part of the business and we've got a new team in there that is really focused and is committed to executing a plan for the fourth quarter and I feel good about what progress they've made so far and I'm going to feel even better as we get closer as some of the deals continue to come our way. We've seen a lot more deals recently in that part of the business. So we were unfocused. I never make excuses for our businesses that lag. Our folks know it. They're less focused than the guys who are executing the strategy, but we're back on track and I think those businesses will be a lot better.
Tim Johnson
- Big Lots, Inc. - VP, Strategic Planning, IR
 
I would also add on there, I know you follow our ad circulars very closely. The categories that we really identified and went aggressive on the front page were some of the categories that outperformed too. To a certain extent, they got a lot of the really prime real estate and focus of our marketing programs as well, rather than some of these other categories that Steve had mentioned.
 
 
 
 2007 Thomson Financial. Republished with permission. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial.
10
FINAL TRANSCRIPT
Aug. 29. 2007 / 8:00AM ET, BIG - Q2 2007 Big Lots, Inc. Earnings Conference Call
 
Mitch Kaiser
- Piper Jaffray - Analyst
Could you talk a little bit about what you're seeing on the electronics category area, specifically with TV? There's a lot of concern with the price points coming down and the supply issues on the electronic side. Are you seeing nice open to buys there and if so, what types of brands are you getting?
Steve Fishman
- Big Lots, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
 
I absolutely am not going to give you that, Mitch, and you well know that. I would say that you hit the nail on the head though. I think there's a lot of chaos going on in that industry and has been and I think we actually identified that in January when we came out of the electronics show. I think what is happening very recently and I mean within the last seven to ten days, there's a lot of deals popping up that we weren't sure if we were going to be capable of getting. But remember, as I said to you before, a number of deals came to us very late last year. Most of those deals, quite honestly, were electronics and we still anticipate that we're going to have some great value and some brand names as we always deliver in electronics going into the third and particularly the fourth quarter?
Mitch Kaiser
- Piper Jaffray - Analyst
 
Would you be willing to comment on where they're coming from and what type of brands you're getting?
Steve Fishman
- Big Lots, Inc. - Chairman, CEO
 
Of course not.
Mitch Kaiser
- Piper Jaffray - Analyst
 
Please? No, okay. Thanks, guys. Congrats.
 
Tim Johnson
- Big Lots, Inc. - VP, Strategic Planning, IR
 
I guess at this time, we're seeing no more hands up in the queue. We'd like to go ahead and end the conference call. We'd like to thank everybody for the participation and we look forward to talking to you at the end of November. Thank you.
Operator
 
Ladies and gentlemen, a replay of this call will be available to you within the hour. You can access the replay by visiting this link, HTTP://REG.linkconferencecall.com/digitalplaybackregistration.aspx?recid=5678. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's presentation. Thank you for your presentation. You may now disconnect.
 
 
 
 2007 Thomson Financial. Republished with permission. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial.
11
FINAL TRANSCRIPT
Aug. 29. 2007 / 8:00AM ET, BIG - Q2 2007 Big Lots, Inc. Earnings Conference Call
 
 
 2007 Thomson Financial. Republished with permission. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial.
 
12


