FILE:BIG/BIG-8K-20080604164624.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 29, 2008, Big Lots, Inc. (we, us or our) issued a press release and conducted a conference call, both of which reported our unaudited results for the first quarter of fiscal 2008, provided initial guidance for the second quarter for fiscal 2008, and updated guidance for fiscal 2008.  The press release and conference call both included non-GAAP financial measures as that term is defined by Rule 101 of Regulation G (17 CFR Part 244) and Item 10 of Regulation S-K (17 CFR Part 229).  Specifically, the following non-GAAP financial measures were included: (i) adjusted selling and administrative expenses; (ii) adjusted operating profit; (iii) adjusted income from continuing operations before income taxes; (iv) adjusted income tax expense; (v) adjusted income from continuing operations; (vi) adjusted net income; and (vii) adjusted earnings per common share  basic and diluted  for continuing operations and net income.
These non-GAAP financial measures exclude from the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) first quarter of fiscal 2007 income from continuing operations of $2.4 million related to the receipt of proceeds from insurance claims filed as a result of hurricanes occurring in 2005.  As required by Rule 100 of Regulation G and Item 10 of Regulation S-K, the press release, which was posted in the Investor Relations section of our website and referred to during the conference call, contained a presentation of the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance GAAP and a reconciliation of the differences between the non-GAAP financial measures and the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP.
Our management believes that the disclosure of these non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors because the non-GAAP financial measures present an alternative and more relevant method for measuring our operating performance, excluding special items included in the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, that our management believes is more indicative of our ongoing operating results and financial condition.  Our management uses these non-GAAP financial measures, along with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, in evaluating our operating performance.
Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information presented in accordance with GAAP.  Non-GAAP financial measures as reported by us may not be comparable to similarly titled items reported by other companies.
Attached as exhibits to this Form 8-K are copies of our May 29, 2008 press release (Exhibit 99.1) and the transcript of our May 29, 2008 conference call (Exhibit 99.2), including information concerning forward-looking statements and factors that may affect our future results.  The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 2.02 of this Form 8-K.  By furnishing the information in this Form 8-K and the attached exhibits, we are making no admission as to the materiality of any information in this Form 8-K or the exhibits.
  On May 29, 2008, our shareholders approved amendments to the Big Lots 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (2005 Incentive Plan).  The amendments:
(e)
 
 
 
 
The amendments were effective upon our receiving shareholder approval on May 29, 2008.  This summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the 2005 Incentive Plan, as amended and restated, which is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.1.
On May 29, 2008, in connection with our receiving shareholder approval of the amendments to the 2005 Incentive Plan, our Board of Directors terminated the Big Lots, Inc. Amended and Restated Director Stock Option Plan (Director Stock Option Plan) effective May 30, 2008.  No additional awards may be made under the Director Stock Option Plan.  The termination of the Director Stock Option Plan will have no effect on awards made under the Director Stock Option Plan prior to its termination.
Also on May 29, 2008, our Board of Directors, following the recommendation of the Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee, amended the compensation package provided to the outside directors.  the equity compensation provided annually to each outside director changed from (i) 10,000 of our common shares underlying a non-qualified stock option issued under the Director Stock Option Plan to (ii) a restricted stock award issued under the 2005 Incentive Plan having a grant date fair value equal to $75,000.  This summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the presentation of the current Big Lots, Inc. Non-Employee Director Compensation Package attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.2.
Specifically,
On June 2, 2008, the outside directors annual equity compensation was granted under the 2005 Incentive Plan.  These restricted stock awards are subject to the Big Lots 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan Restricted Stock Award Agreement for Outside Directors, the form of which is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.3.
 
Exhibits marked with an asterisk (*) are filed herewith.  Exhibits 10.1 through 10.3 are management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.1. The Plan was initially adopted on the Effective Date and is hereby amended and restated in its entirety effective on the Restatement Date.
Restatement
 
1.2. The Plan is intended to promote the Companys long-term financial success and materially increase shareholder value by motivating performance through incentive compensation. The Plan also is intended to encourage Participants to acquire ownership interests in the Company, attract and retain talented associates and enable Participants to participate in the Companys long-term growth and financial success.
Purposes
 
 
 
When used in the Plan, the following terms have the meaning given to them in this Article II unless another meaning is expressly provided elsewhere in the Plan or required by the plain context in which it is used. When applying the terms defined in this Article II and other terms used throughout the Plan, the form of any term, phrase or word will, as appropriate, include any and all of its forms.
 
2.1 means (1) in the case of an ISO, a parent corporation or a subsidiary corporation of the Company, as those terms are defined in Code 424(e) and (f), respectively; and (2) in all other cases, any other entity (other than the Company) regardless of its form that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by or is under common control with, the Company within the meaning of Code 414(b), as modified by Section 409A of the Code.
Affiliate
 
2.2 means any Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Unit or Performance Unit granted to a Participant under the Plan. At the Committees discretion, an Award may be granted as a Performance-Based Award.
Award
 
2.3 means any written or electronic agreement granting an Award to a Participant. Each Award Agreement will specify the Grant Date and describe the terms and conditions imposed on the Award.
Award Agreement
 
2.4 means any person (or entity), who (or which) has been designated by a Participant in his or her most recent written beneficiary designation filed with the Committee to receive the compensation or to exercise the rights that are due or exercisable at the Participants death. If there is no designated beneficiary, the term means any person or entity entitled by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution to receive such compensation.
Beneficiary
 
2.5 or  means the Companys board of directors.
Board of Directors
Board
 
2.6 means any one or more of the following events:
Change in Control
 
(1) Any person or group (as defined for purposes of Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act) becomes the beneficial owner of, or has the right to acquire (by contract, option, warrant, conversion of convertible securities or otherwise), 20 percent or more of the outstanding equity securities of the Company entitled to vote for the election of directors;
 
(2) A majority of the members of the Board of Directors then in office is replaced within any period of two years or less by directors not nominated and approved by a majority of the directors in office at the beginning of such period (or their successors so nominated and approved), or a majority of the Board of Directors at any date consists of persons not so nominated and approved; or
 
(3) The shareholders of the Company approve an agreement to merge or consolidate with another corporation or an agreement to sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of the Companys assets (including, without limitation, a plan of liquidation).
 
Provided, however, the other provisions of this Section 2.6 notwithstanding, the term Change in Control shall not mean any merger, consolidation, reorganization, or other transaction in which the Company exchanges or offers to exchange newly-issued or treasury Common Shares representing 20 percent or more, but less than 50 percent, of the outstanding equity securities of the Company entitled to vote for the election of directors, for 51 percent or more of the outstanding equity securities entitled to vote for the election of at least the majority of the directors of a corporation other than the Company or an Affiliate (the Acquired Corporation), or for all or substantially all of the assets of the Acquired Corporation.
 
As amended and restated effective May 29, 2008.
 
 
 
 
 
2.7 means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and any successor, along with relevant rules, regulations and authoritative interpretations the Internal Revenue Service issues.
Code
 
2.8 means the Compensation Committee of the Board or such other Board committee to which the Board assigns the responsibility of administering the Plan. The Committee shall consist of at least three members of the Board, each of whom may serve on the Committee only if the Board determines that he or she (1) is a Non-employee Director for purposes of Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act, (2) satisfies the requirements of an outside director for purposes of Code 162(m) and (3) qualifies as independent in accordance with New York Stock Exchange listing standards.
Committee
 
2.9 means shares of the Companys common shares, $0.01 par value (as such par value may be amended from time to time), whether presently or hereafter issued, and any other stock or security resulting from adjustment thereof as described hereinafter, or the Common Shares of any successor to the Company which is designated for the purpose of the Plan.
Common Shares
 
2.10  means Big Lots, Inc., an Ohio corporation.
Company
 
2.11 means a Participant whose compensation in the year of the expected payment of an Award will be subject to Code 162(m).
Covered Employee
 
2.12 means:
Disability
 
(1) With respect to ISOs, as that term is defined in Code 22(e)(3);
 
(2) With respect to any Award that is subject to Code 409A, the Participant is (a) unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, (b) by reason of any readily determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, receiving income replacement benefits for a period of at least three months under an accident and health plan covering employees of the Participants employer, or (c) determined to be totally disabled by the Social Security Administration or the Railroad Retirement Board; and
 
(3) With respect to any other Award, a physical or mental condition that, for more than six consecutive months, renders the Participant incapable, with reasonable accommodation, of performing his or her assigned duties on a full-time basis.
 
2.13  means May 17, 2005, the date upon which the Plan was initially approved by the Companys shareholders.
Effective Date
 
2.14 means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Exchange Act
 
2.15 means the price, if any, a Participant must pay to exercise an Award or the amount upon which the value of an Award is based.
Exercise Price
 
2.16 means:
Fair Market Value
 
(1) If the Common Shares are readily tradable on an established securities market, the average of the opening and closing trading prices of a Common Share on any date for which it is relevant or, if a relevant date occurs on a day other than a trading day, on the next trading day; and
 
(2) If the Common Shares are not readily tradable on an established securities market, the value determined by the Committee through the reasonable application of a reasonable method, taking into account all information material to the value of the Company, within the meaning of Code 409A and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder.
 
As amended and restated effective May 29, 2008.
 
-2-
 
 
2.17 means the later of (1) the date the Committee establishes the terms of an Award or (2) the date specified in the Award Agreement. In no event may the Grant Date be earlier than the Effective Date.
Grant Date
 
2.18 or  means any Option granted under the Plan that is designated as an incentive stock option within the meaning of Code 422.
Incentive Stock Option
ISO
 
2.19 or  means an Option granted under the Plan that (1) is not designated as an ISO or (2) an ISO that, for any reason other than exercise, ceased to be an ISO.
Non-Qualified Stock Option
NQSO
 
2.20 means a right to purchase Common Shares granted to a Participant in accordance with Article VI. An Option may be either an ISO or NQSO.
Option
 
2.21 means the period during which an Option may be exercised.
Option Period
 
2.22 means a person who satisfies the eligibility conditions of Article V and to whom an Award has been granted by the Committee under the Plan.
Participant
 
2.23 means an Award granted subject to the terms of Article X.
Performance-Based Award
 
2.24 means the period (which, with respect to a Covered Employee, may be no shorter than a fiscal quarter of the Company) established by the Committee over which the Committee measures whether or not Performance-Based Awards have been earned.
Performance Period
 
2.25 means a right granted subject to the terms and conditions established by the Committee under Article IX.
Performance Unit
 
2.26  means the Big Lots 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as herein amended and restated and as may be further amended from time to time.
Plan
 
2.27  means May 29, 2008, the date of the Companys 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
Restatement Date
 
2.28 means Common Shares granted subject to the terms and conditions established by the Committee under Section 8.1.
Restricted Stock
 
2.29 means an Award granted subject to the terms and conditions established by the Committee under Section 8.2.
Restricted Stock Unit
 
2.30 means the period over which the Committee measures whether terms and conditions (such as forfeitures) placed on Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units have been met.
Restriction Period
 
2.31 means Rule 16b-3, as from time to time in effect and applicable to the Plan and Participants, issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission under Section 16 of the Exchange Act or any successor rule.
Rule 16b-3
 
2.32 or  means a right granted to a Participant to receive, either in cash or Common Shares or a combination thereof, the appreciation in the value of a Common Share over a certain period of time. SARs are granted under Article VII.
Stock Appreciation Right
SAR
 
2.33 means the occurrence of any act or event that causes a Participant to cease being an employee of the Company or of any Affiliate, including, without limitation, death, Disability, dismissal, severance at the election of the Participant, or severance as a result of the discontinuance, liquidation, sale, or transfer by the Company or its Affiliates of a business owned or operated by the Company or any Affiliate. With respect to any person who is not an employee of the Company or any Affiliate (such as an eligible consultant as determined in accordance with Article V), the Award Agreement shall establish what act or event shall constitute a Termination of Employment for purposes of the Plan. A Termination of Employment shall occur with respect to an employee who is employed by an Affiliate if the Affiliate shall cease to be an Affiliate and the Participant shall not immediately thereafter become an employee of the Company or an Affiliate.
Termination of Employment
 
2.34 means a term in an Award Agreement that, upon achievement and certification of performance goals set forth in Section 10.3, causes the lapse of restrictions imposed on Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units to accelerate.
Vesting Acceleration Feature
 
As amended and restated effective May 29, 2008.
 
 
-3-
 
 
 
 
3.1. The Committee is granted all powers appropriate and necessary to administer the Plan. Consistent with the Plans purpose, the Committee may adopt, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan to the extent appropriate to protect the Companys interests and the Plans purpose and has complete discretion to make all other decisions necessary or advisable for the administration and interpretation of the Plan. Any action by the Committee will be final, binding and conclusive for all purposes and upon all Participants and Beneficiaries. Also, the Committee (or the Board, as appropriate) may revoke or amend the Plan and Award Agreements without any additional consideration to affected Participants, to the extent necessary to avoid penalties under Code 409A, even if that revocation or those amendments reduce, restrict or eliminate rights granted under the Plan or Award Agreement (or both) before the amendments; provided, however, that the Company or the Committee may (but neither is required to) reimburse an affected Participant for any diminution in the value of an Award associated with any such change.
Committee Duties
 
3.2. Regardless of any other provision of the Plan (1) without the prior approval of the shareholders, neither the Company nor the Committee may reprice or grant any Award in connection with the cancellation of a previously granted Award if the Exercise Price of the later granted Award is less than the Exercise Price of the earlier granted Award and (2) no Participant will be entitled (and no Committee discretion may be exercised to extend to any Participant) an automatic grant of additional Awards in connection with the exercise of an Option or otherwise.
Restrictions on Reload/Repricing
 
3.3. The Committee may authorize any one or more of its members or an officer of the Company to execute and deliver documents on behalf of the Committee. The Committee may allocate among one or more of its members, or may delegate to one or more of its agents, such duties and responsibilities as it determines. However, the Committee may not delegate any duties required to be administered by the Committee to comply with Code 162(m) or any applicable law.
Committee Actions
 
 
 
4.1. Subject to Section 4.7, the total number of Common Shares reserved and available for distribution pursuant to Awards shall be the sum of (1) 1,250,000 newly issued Common Shares, plus (2) any remaining Common Shares available for issuance under the Companys 1996 Performance Incentive Plan on December 30, 2005, plus (3) an additional .75 percent of the total number of issued Common Shares (including treasury shares) as of the start of each of the Companys fiscal years (currently comprised of a 52/53-week period which ends on the Saturday nearest to January 31) that the Plan is in effect (including Common Shares exchanged when exercising Options), plus (4) effective on the Restatement Date, 2,100,000 newly issued Common Shares. Such shares may consist, in whole or in part, of authorized and unissued Common Shares or Common Shares acquired from a third party. In any event, the total number of Common Shares underlying Awards granted under the Plan, the 1996 Performance Incentive Plan, the Big Lots, Inc. Executive Stock Option and Stock Appreciation Rights Plan and the Director Stock Option Plan shall not exceed 15 percent of the total Common Shares issued and outstanding (including treasury shares) as of any date.
Number of Shares
 
4.2. Any Common Shares subject to an Award that, for any reason, is forfeited, cancelled, terminated or relinquished may again be the subject of an Award. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the following shares shall not become available again for issuance as an Award: (1) Common Shares tendered by Participants as full or partial payment to the Company upon exercise of Awards granted under the Plan; (2) Common Shares reserved for issuance upon grant of SARs, to the extent the number of reserved shares exceeds the number of shares actually issued upon exercise of the SARs, and (3) Common Shares withheld by, or otherwise remitted to, the Company to meet the obligations described in Section 13.4.
Unfulfilled Awards
 
4.3. Common Shares issued upon exercise of an Award shall be subject to the terms and conditions specified herein and to such other terms and conditions as the Committee, in its discretion, may determine or provide in the Award Agreement. The Company shall not be required to issue or deliver any certificates for Common Shares, cash or other property prior to (1) the completion of any registration or qualification of such shares under federal, state or other law or any ruling or regulation of any government body which the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable; and (2) the satisfaction of any applicable withholding obligation in order for the Company or an Affiliate to obtain a deduction or discharge its legal obligation with respect to the exercise of an Award. The Company may cause any certificate (or other representation of title) for any Common Shares to be delivered to be properly marked with a legend or other notation reflecting any limitations on transfer of such Common Shares as provided in the Plan or as the Committee may otherwise require. The Committee may require any person exercising an Award to make such representations and furnish such information as the Committee may consider appropriate in connection with the issuance or delivery of the Common Shares in compliance with applicable law or otherwise.
Restrictions on Common Shares
 
As amended and restated effective May 29, 2008.
 
 
-4-
 
 
4.4. The maximum aggregate number of shares of Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units and Performance Units that may be issued under the Plan shall not exceed 33-1/3 percent of all awards granted pursuant to the Plan.
Restrictions on Full Value Awards
 
4.5. The maximum aggregate number of shares that may be granted under the Plan through the exercise of ISOs shall be five million (5,000,000).
ISO Restriction
 
4.6. Except as expressly provided in the Plan or Award Agreement, no Participant will have any rights as a shareholder with respect to Common Shares subject to an Award until, after proper transfer of the Common Shares subject to the Award or other action required, the shares have been recorded on the Companys official shareholder records as having been issued and transferred. Upon grant of Restricted Stock, or exercise of an Option or a SAR, or payment of any other Award or any portion thereof to be made in Common Shares, the Company will have a reasonable period (but not more than two and one-half months after the exercise or settlement date) in which to issue and transfer the shares, and the Participant will not be treated as a shareholder for any purpose whatsoever prior to such issuance and transfer, except as provided in the Plan or Award Agreement. Unless specifically provided in the Plan or Award Agreement, no adjustment shall be made for cash dividends or other rights for which the record date is prior to the date such shares are recorded as issued and transferred in the Companys official shareholder records.
Shareholder Rights
 
4.7. In the event of any Company share dividend, share split, combination or exchange of Common Shares, recapitalization or other similar change in the capital structure of the Company, corporate separation, or division of the Company (including, but not limited to, a split-up, spin-off, split-off or distribution to Company shareholders other than a normal cash dividend), reorganization, rights offering, a partial or complete liquidation, or any other corporate transaction, or event involving the Company and having an effect similar to any of the foregoing, the Committee shall make equitable adjustments or substitutions as described below in this Section 4.7. The adjustments or substitutions may relate to the number of Common Shares available for Awards under the Plan, the number of Common Shares covered by outstanding Awards, the exercise price per share of outstanding Awards and any other characteristics or terms of the Awards as the Committee deems necessary or appropriate to reflect equitably the effects of such changes to the Participants. Any adjustment or substitution made pursuant to this Section 4.7 shall be made in accordance with the requirements of Code  409A and 424, to the extent applicable.
Effect of Certain Changes
 
 
 
5.1. In the Committees discretion, any salaried employee, consultant or advisor to the Company or its Affiliates or any member of the Board may be a Participant, provided such eligibility would not jeopardize the Plans compliance with Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act or any successor rule. For purposes of the Plan, a consultant or advisor shall be eligible only if bona fide services are being rendered pursuant to a valid written agreement between the consultant or advisor and the Company, and the services rendered are not in connection with the offer or sale of securities in a capital-raising transaction and do not directly or indirectly promote or maintain a market for the Companys securities. However, no Award subject to Code 409A may be granted to any person who is performing services for an entity that is not an Affiliate.
Eligibility
 
5.2. By accepting an Award, each Participant agrees in his or her own behalf and in behalf of his or her Beneficiaries (1) to be bound by the terms of the Award Agreement and the Plan and (2) that the Committee (or the Board) may amend the Plan and the Award Agreement without any additional consideration to the extent necessary to avoid penalties arising under Code 409A, even if those amendments reduce, restrict or eliminate rights or Awards granted under the Plan or an Award Agreement (or both) before those amendments; provided, however, that the Company or the Committee may (but neither is required to) reimburse an affected Participant or Beneficiary for any diminution in the value of an Award associated with any such change.
Conditions of Participation
 
As amended and restated effective May 29, 2008.
 
 
-5-
 
 
 
 
6.1. Except as provided in Section 4.5, the Committee may grant Options to Participants at any time during the term of the Plan. However:
Grant of Options
 
(1)No Option intended to be an ISO may be granted more than seven years after the Effective Date.
 
(2)Only a person who is a common-law employee of the Company or an Affiliate on the Grant Date, may be granted an ISO. Any Option that is not designated as an ISO or which does not qualify as an ISO will be a NQSO.
 
6.2. Options shall be subject to the terms and conditions specified in the Award Agreement, including:
Terms and Conditions
 
(1). The Exercise Price shall not be less than (a) 100 percent of Fair Market Value on the Grant Date or (b) 110 percent of Fair Market Value on the Grant Date in the case of an ISO granted to an individual (a 10 percent Owner) who owns or who is deemed to own shares possessing more than 10 percent of the total combined voting power of all classes of shares of the Company or any Affiliate, as determined under Code 422.
Exercise Price
 
(2). The Option Period of each Option will be specified in the Award Agreement, provided that no Option shall be exercisable fewer than six months after the Grant Date or more than 10 years after the Grant Date (five years in the case of an ISO granted to a 10 percent Owner).
Option Period
 
(3). Subject to Article X, an Option shall be exercisable under terms specified in the Award Agreement; provided, however, that an Option (which is not a substitution under Section 13.9) shall not permit more than one-third of any Common Shares thereunder to be purchased before each of the first three anniversary dates after its Grant Date. The Committee may provide in the Award Agreement for an accelerated exercise of all or part of an Option upon specified events or conditions, including one or more of the performance goals listed in Section 10.3. Also, the Committee may accelerate the exercisability of all or part of any Option at any time. The aggregate Fair Market Value (determined at the Grant Date) of the Common Shares subject to ISOs that are exercisable by a Participant for the first time during any calendar year (under all plans of the Company and its Affiliates) shall not exceed $100,000, calculated under Code 422.
Exercisability
 
(4). Subject to the provisions of this Article VI and the Award Agreement, a Participant may exercise Options, in whole or in part, during the Option Period by giving written notice of exercise on a form provided by the Committee specifying the number of whole Common Shares subject to the Option to be purchased. Such notice must be accompanied by payment of the Exercise Price by cash or certified check or other form of payment acceptable to the Committee at the time of exercise, including (a) delivering Common Shares already owned by the Participant (for any minimum period required by the Committee) having a total Fair Market Value on the date of delivery equal to the Exercise Price; (b) the delivery of cash by a broker-dealer as a cashless exercise, provided this method of payment may not be used by an executive officer of the Company to the extent it would violate applicable provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; (c) authorizing the Company to withhold from the Common Shares to be issued pursuant to the Option a number of Common Shares having a total Fair Market Value as of the date of exercise equal to the Exercise Price; or (d) any combination of the foregoing.
Method of Exercise
 
6.3. Unless otherwise specifically provided in an Award Agreement or determined by the Committee, any exercisable Options held by a Participant who Terminates Employment may be exercised until the earlier of one year after Termination of Employment or the expiration date specified in the Award Agreement; provided, however, that a Participant may not exercise an ISO more than 3 months following such Participants Termination of Employment for any reason other than due to death or Disability or the expiration date specified in the Award Agreement, if earlier.
Effect of Termination of Employment
 
6.4. The Committee may require that a Participant exercising an ISO give a written representation, satisfactory in form and substance, upon which the Company may rely, that the Participant will report to the Company any disposition of Common Shares acquired through exercise of an ISO before expiration of the holding periods specified by Code 422(a)(1).
Notice of Disposition of Common Shares Prior to the Expiration of Specified ISO Holding Periods
 
As amended and restated effective May 29, 2008.
 
 
-6-
 
 
 
 
7.1. The Committee may grant SARs to Participants at any time during the term of the Plan, either alone or in tandem with other Awards. If all the terms and conditions specified in the Award Agreement are met, the Participant may exercise the SAR and receive Common Shares under the procedures described in this Section 7.1.
Grant of SARs
 
7.2. SARs shall be subject to the terms and conditions specified in the Award Agreement, including:
Terms and Conditions
 
(1). The Exercise Price may not be less than 100 percent of Fair Market Value on the Grant Date.
Exercise Price
 
(2). The Award Agreement will specify the period over which a SAR may be exercised and the terms and conditions that must be met before it may be exercised; provided, however, that (a) a SAR Award Agreement (which is not a substitution under Section 13.9) shall not permit more than one-third of SARs granted thereunder to be exercised before each of the first three anniversary dates after its Grant Date and (b) a SAR Award Agreement may not permit the SAR Award to be exercisable for more than 10 years after its Grant Date. The Committee may provide in the Award Agreement for an accelerated exercise of all or part of a SAR upon specified events or conditions, including one or more of the performance goals listed in Section 10.3. Also, the Committee may accelerate the exercisability of all or part of any SAR. A Participant may exercise a SAR giving written notice of exercise on a form acceptable to the Committee specifying the portion of the SAR being exercised.
Period and Exercise
 
(3). Except as otherwise provided in the Award Agreement, when a SAR is exercised, the Participant shall be entitled to receive a number of Common Shares, cash or a combination of cash or Common Shares (as determined by the Participant) as follows:  (a) if the SAR Award is settled in cash, the Participant shall receive an amount of cash equal to the product of (i) the excess of the Fair Market Value of one Common Share on the date of exercise over the Exercise Price, multiplied by (ii) the number of SARs being settled; and (b) if the SAR Award is settled in Common Shares, the Participant shall receive a number of Common Shares equal to the amount of the cash settlement, divided by the Fair Market Value of one Common Share on the date of exercise. Also, neither the Company nor an Affiliate may repurchase the Common Shares delivered in settlement of a SAR or enter into an arrangement that has a similar effect.
Settlement
 
7.3. Unless otherwise specifically provided in an Award Agreement or determined by the Committee, any exercisable SARs held by a Participant who Terminates Employment may be exercised until the earlier of one year after Termination of Employment or the expiration date specified in the Award Agreement.
Effect of Termination of Employment
 
 
 
8.1. Except as provided in Section 4.4, the Committee may grant Restricted Stock to Participants at any time during the term of the Plan.
Restricted Stock
 
(1). Each Participant receiving a Restricted Stock Award shall be issued a certificate (or other representation of title) in respect of such Restricted Stock. That certificate shall be registered in the name of such Participant and shall bear an appropriate legend describing the terms, conditions and restrictions applicable to such Award as determined by the Committee. The Committee, in its discretion, may distribute the certificate to the Participant or require that the certificate be held in escrow by the Company until the Restriction Period lapses and, as a condition of receiving any Restricted Stock Award, the Participant delivers a share power, endorsed in blank, relating to the Common Shares underlying the Restricted Stock Award.
Restricted Stock Grant, Awards and Certificates
 
As amended and restated effective May 29, 2008.
 
 
-7-
 
 
(2). Restricted Stock shall be subject to such terms and conditions as specified in the Award Agreement, including:
Terms and Conditions
 
(a). The Award Agreement will specify the Restriction Period and the terms and conditions that must be met if the Restricted Stock is to be earned. These may include an acceleration of the Restriction Period based on one or more of the performance goals listed in Section 10.3. The Committee also may impose more than one Restriction Period affecting simultaneously granted Restricted Stock Awards; provided however, that (except in the case of Restricted Stock subject to Section 10.1 or Restricted Stock substituted under Section 13.9) the Restriction Period (1) affecting no more than one-third of such Restricted Stock, may not lapse earlier than one year after the Grant Date, (2) affecting no more than one-half of the remaining Restricted Stock may not lapse earlier than two years after the Grant Date and (3) affecting the remaining Restricted Stock may not lapse earlier than three years after the Grant Date.
Restrictions
 
(b). Except as provided in Section 13.7 during the Restriction Period, a Participant receiving a Restricted Stock Award will have, with respect to the Restricted Stock, all of the rights of a shareholder of the Company holding the class of Common Shares that is the subject of the Restricted Stock, including, if applicable, the right to vote the shares and the right to receive any cash dividends. However, any dividends paid on Restricted Stock held in escrow also will be held in escrow and either will be paid to the Participant or forfeited at the end of the Restriction Period, depending on whether the Restricted Stock on which they were paid is earned or forfeited. Also, any stock dividends will be subject to the same restrictions that affect the Restricted Stock with respect to which the dividend was paid. Dividends paid out of escrow will be treated as remuneration for employment unless an election has been made under Section 13.17 of the Plan.
Rights
 
(c). Unless otherwise specifically provided in the Award Agreement, all Restricted Stock will be forfeited if the Participant Terminates Employment before the end of the Restriction Period or if applicable terms and conditions have not been met at the end of the Restriction Period. If forfeited Restricted Stock was held in escrow during the Restriction Period, it will be released from escrow. If forfeited Restricted Stock was issued to the Participant, the share certificates will be returned and cancelled.
Forfeiture
 
(d). If all terms and conditions imposed on the Restricted Stock Award are met, unlegended certificates (or other representation of title) for such Common Shares shall be delivered to the Participant.
Settlement
 
(e). The Committee may require a Participant to pay a stipulated purchase price for each share of Restricted Stock.
Price
 
8.2. Except as provided in Section 4.4, the Committee may grant Restricted Stock Units to Participants at any time during the term of the Plan. Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to the terms and conditions specified in the Award Agreement, including:
Restricted Stock Units
 
(1). The Award Agreement will specify the Restriction Period and the terms and conditions that must be met if the Restricted Stock Units are to be earned. These may include an acceleration of the Restriction Period based on one or more of the performance goals listed in Section 10.3. The Committee also may impose more than one Restriction Period affecting simultaneously granted Restricted Stock Units Award; provided however, that (except in the case of Restricted Stock Units subject to Section 10.1 or substituted under Section 13.9) the Restriction Period (a) affecting no more than one-third of such Restricted Stock Units, may not lapse earlier than one year after the Grant Date, (b) affecting no more than one-half of the remaining Restricted Stock Units may not lapse earlier than two years after the Grant Date and (c) affecting the remaining Restricted Stock Units may not lapse earlier than three years after the Grant Date.
Restrictions
 
(2). During the Restriction Period, a Participant receiving a Restricted Stock Unit Award will not have, with respect to the Restricted Stock Unit, any of the rights of a shareholder of the Company.
Rights
 
(3). Unless otherwise specifically provided in the Award Agreement, all Restricted Stock Units will be forfeited if the Participant Terminates Employment before the end of the Restriction Period or if applicable terms and conditions have not been met at the end of the Restriction Period.
Forfeiture
 
(4). Within two and one-half months after all terms and conditions imposed on the Restricted Stock Unit Award and specified in the Award Agreement have been met, the Committee, in its discretion, will issue unlegended certificates (or other representation of title) for Common Shares equal to the number of Restricted Stock Units to be settled, redeem the Restricted Stock Units for cash equal to the Fair Market Value (as of the last day of the Restriction Period) of the Restricted Stock Units being settled or deliver any combination of unlegended certificates or cash to the Participant having an aggregate value equal to the Restricted Stock Units being settled.
Settlement
 
As amended and restated effective May 29, 2008.
 
 
-8-
 
 
 
 
9.1. Except as provided in Section 4.4 of the Plan, the Committee may grant to Participants Performance Units at any time during the term of the Plan.
Grant of Performance Units
 
9.2. The Committee may, in its discretion, grant Performance Units to Participants. Performance Units may be subject to any terms and conditions, including vesting, that the Committee specifies in the Award Agreement and to the terms of the Plan; provided, however, that a Performance Unit Award Agreement (other than one executed under Section 13.9 of the Plan or subject to Section 10.1 of the Plan) shall not permit more than one-third of the Performance Units granted thereunder to vest before each of the first three anniversary dates after its Grant Date. Performance Units may constitute Performance-Based Awards, as described in Article X. The Award Agreement will state the form in which the Performance Unit is to be settled and when the Performance Unit will be settled. Common Shares issued through a Performance Unit Award may be issued with or without payment by the Participant as required by applicable law or any other consideration specified by the Committee.
Terms and Conditions
 
9.3. One Common Share will be issued for each Performance Unit to be settled unless the Award Agreement provides for settlement in cash or partially in cash and partially in Common Shares. If all or part of any Performance Unit Award is to be settled in cash, the amount distributed will be equal to the Fair Market Value (as of the settlement date specified in the Award Agreement) of the number of Common Shares that otherwise would have been distributed to settle the Performance Unit.
Settling Performance Units
 
9.4. Unless otherwise specifically provided in the Award Agreement, all Performance Units will be forfeited if the Participant Terminates Employment before meeting all applicable terms and conditions.
Forfeiture
 
 
 
10.1. Any Award may be granted in a form that qualifies as performance based compensation as defined under Code 162(m). As determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion, either the granting or vesting of Performance-Based Awards will be based on achieving one or more (or any combination of) performance objectives derived from the criteria listed below over the Performance Period established by the Committee. However, a particular Performance-Based Award Agreement shall not permit (1) the exercisability of a Performance-Based Option or Performance-Based SAR before the first anniversary date after its Grant Date, (2) the lapse of the Restriction Period in the case of a Restricted Stock Award or Restricted Stock Unit Award before the first anniversary date after its Grant Date, (3) the vesting of a Performance-Based Performance Unit before the first anniversary date after its Grant Date, or (4) except upon the attainment of the performance objectives to which the relevant Award relates, the lapse of the Restriction Period in the case of a Restricted Stock Award or a Restricted Stock Unit Award or the vesting of a Performance-Based Performance Unit in the event of a Participant's Termination of Employment (other than due to death or Disability).
Grant of Performance-Based Awards
 
10.2. With respect to Performance-Based Awards, the Committee will establish in writing the performance objectives to be applied and the Performance Period (which may not be shorter than 12 fiscal periods (which may consist of a four or five week period) of the Company except for the inaugural Performance Period in the case of an employee who first becomes a Participant after the beginning of a fiscal year of the Company) over which their achievement will be measured, the method for computing the value of the Award that may be earned if (and to the extent that) those performance objectives are met and the Participants or class of Participants to which the performance objectives apply. Performance objectives will be established in writing no later than 90 days after the beginning of the applicable Performance Period (but in no event after 25 percent of the Performance Period has elapsed).
Establishing Objectives
 
As amended and restated effective May 29, 2008.
 
 
-9-
 
 
10.3. Performance criteria imposed on Performance-Based Awards will be derived using the accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and will be reported or appear in the Companys filings with the Securities Exchange Commission (including, but not limited to, Forms 8-K, 10-Q and 10-K) or the Companys annual report to shareholders and will be derived from one or more (or any combination of one or more) of the following:
Performance Goals
 
(1)Earnings per common share from continuing operations; or
 
(2)Earnings per common share from income; or
 
(3)Operating profit (loss) or Operating income (loss) (as the case may be); or
 
(4)Income (Loss) from continuing operations before unusual or infrequent items; or
 
(5)Income (Loss) from continuing operations; or
 
(6)Income (Loss) from continuing operations before income taxes; or
 
(7)Income (Loss) from continuing operations before extraordinary item and/or cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (as the case may be); or
 
(8)Income (Loss) before extraordinary item and/or cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (as the case may be); or
 
(9)Net income (loss); or
 
(10)Income (Loss) before other comprehensive income (loss); or
 
(11)Comprehensive income (loss); or
 
(12)Income (Loss) before interest and income taxes (sometimes referred to as EBIT); or
 
(13)Income (Loss) before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization (sometimes referred to as EBITDA); or
 
(14)Any other objective and specific income (loss) category or non-GAAP financial measure that appears as a line item in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission or the annual report to shareholders; or
 
(15)Either of items (1) or (2) on a basic basis and any of items (3) through (14) on a basic earnings per share basis, as basic earnings per share is defined in the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 128 including authoritative interpretations or amendments thereof which may be issued from time to time as long as such interpretations or amendments are utilized on the consolidated statements of operations or statement of operations, as applicable, or in the notes to the consolidated financial statements; or
 
(16)Either of items (1) or (2) on a diluted basis and any of items (3) through (14) on a diluted earnings per share basis, as diluted earnings per share is defined in the FASB SFAS No. 128 including authoritative interpretations or amendments thereof which may be issued from time to time as long as such interpretations or amendments are utilized on the consolidated statements of operations or statement of operations, as applicable, or in the notes to the consolidated financial statements; or
 
(17)Common stock price; or
 
(18)Total shareholder return expressed on a dollar or percentage basis as is customarily disclosed in the proxy statement accompanying the notice of annual meetings of shareholders; or
 
(19)Percentage increase in comparable store sales; or
 
(20)Gross profit (loss) or gross margin (loss) (as the case may be); or
 
(21)Economic value added; or
 
(22)Any of items (1) through (21) with respect to any subsidiary, Affiliate, business unit, business group, business venture or legal entity, including any combination thereof, or controlled directly or indirectly by the Company whether or not such information is included in the Companys annual report to shareholders, proxy statement or notice of annual meeting of shareholders; or
 
As amended and restated effective May 29, 2008.
 
 
-10-
 
 
(23)Any of items (1) through (21) above may be determined before or after a minority interests share as designated by the Committee; or
 
(24)Any of items (1) through (21) above with respect to the period of service to which the performance goal relates whether or not such information is included in the Companys filings, annual report to shareholders, proxy statement or notice of annual meetings of shareholders; or
 
(25)Total shareholder return ranking position meaning the relative placement of the Companys total shareholder return (as determined in (18) above) compared to those publicly held companies in the Companys peer group as established by the Committee prior to the beginning of a vesting period or such later date as permitted under the Code. The peer group shall be comprised of not less than eight and not more than sixteen companies, including the Company.
 
(26)With respect to items (1), (2), (15) and (16) above, other terminology may be used for each such performance criteria (including, but not limited to, Basic EPS, income (loss) per common share, diluted EPS, or earnings per common share-assuming dilution) as contemplated by SFAS No. 128, as amended, revised or superseded;
 
The Committee, in its sole discretion in setting the performance goals in the time prescribed in Section 10.2, may provide for the making of adjustments (including the income tax effects attributable thereto), singularly or in combination, to the goals/targets in recognition of the following categories (or any particular item(s) within the following categories or portion(s) thereof):
 
(27)Asset impairments as described in SFAS No. 144, as amended, revised or superseded; or
 
(28)Costs associated with exit or disposal activities as described by SFAS No. 146, as amended, revised or superseded; or
 
(29)Impairment charges (excluding the amortization thereof) related to goodwill or other intangible assets, as described by SFAS No. 142, as amended, revised or superseded; or
 
(30)Merger integration costs; or
 
(31)Merger transaction costs; or
 
(32)Any profit or loss attributable to the business operations of a specified segment as described by SFAS No. 131 as amended, revised or superseded; or
 
(33)Any profit or loss attributable to a specified segment as described by SFAS No. 131, as amended, revised or superseded or an entity or entities acquired during the period of service to which the performance goal relates; or
 
(34)Any tax settlement(s) with a tax authority; or
 
(35)Any extraordinary item, event or transaction as described in Accounting Principles Board Opinion (APB) No. 30, as amended, revised or superseded; or
 
(36)Any unusual in nature, or infrequent in occurrence items, events or transactions (that are not extraordinary items) as described in APB No. 30, as amended, revised or superseded; or
 
(37)Any other non-recurring items, any events or transactions that do not constitute ongoing operations, or other non-GAAP financial measures (not otherwise listed); or
 
(38)Any change in accounting principle as described in SFAS No. 154, as amended, revised or superseded; or
 
(39)Unrealized gains or losses on investments in debt and equity securities as described in SFAS No. 115, as amended, revised or superseded; or
 
(40)Any gain or loss recognized as a result of derivative instrument transactions or other hedging activities as described in SFAS No. 133, as amended, revised or superseded; or
 
As amended and restated effective May 29, 2008.
 
-11-
 
 
(41)Stock-based compensation charges as described in SFAS No. 123R, as amended, revised or superseded; or
 
(42)Any gain or loss as reported as a component of other comprehensive income as described in SFAS No. 130, as amended, revised or superseded; or
 
(43)Any expense (or reversal thereof) as a result of incurring an obligation for a direct or indirect guarantee, as described in FASB Interpretations (FIN) No. 45, as amended, revised or superseded; or
 
(44)Any profit or loss as the result of the consolidation of a variable interest entity as described in FIN No. 46R, as amended, revised or superseded; or
 
(45)Any expense, gain or loss (including, but not limited to, judgments, interest on judgments, settlement amounts, attorneys fees and costs, filing fees, experts fees, and damages sustained as a result of the imposition of injunctive relief) as a result of claims, litigation or lawsuit settlement (including collective actions or class action lawsuits); or
 
(46)Any charges associated with the early retirement of debt; or
 
(47) The relevant tax effect(s) of tax laws or regulations, or amendments thereto, that become effective after the beginning of the applicable Performance Period.
 
10.4. Any Award intended to qualify as performance based compensation as defined under Code 162(m) shall not be paid until the Committee certifies in writing that the performance goals and any other material terms were in fact satisfied. In the manner required by Code 162(m), the Committee shall, promptly after the date on which the necessary financial and other information for a particular Performance Period becomes available, certify the extent to which performance goals have been achieved with respect to any Award intended to qualify as performance-based compensation under Code 162(m). In addition, the Committee may, in its discretion, reduce or eliminate the amount of any Award payable to any Participant, based on such factors as the Committee may deem relevant.
Certification of Performance Goals
 
10.5. The following limits, which are subject to automatic adjustment under Section 4.7, will apply to Performance-Based Awards:
Limitation on Awards
 
(1)In no event may the number of Restricted Stock shares awarded to any Covered Employee for any fiscal year exceed 2,000,000 Common Shares.
 
(2)During any three consecutive calendar-year period, the maximum number of Common Shares for which Options and SARs, in the aggregate, may be granted to any Covered Employee may not exceed 3,000,000 Common Shares. If an Option is cancelled, the cancelled Option continues to be counted against the maximum number of shares for which Options may be granted to the Covered Employee under the Plan.
 
(3)For Performance Unit Awards that are intended to be performance-based compensation (as that term is used in Code 162(m))  no more than $6,000,000 may be subject to such Awards granted to any Covered Employee during any three consecutive calendar-year period.
 
 
 
11.1. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary and unless otherwise specifically provided in an Award Agreement, in the event of a Change in Control:
Impact of Event
 
(1)Any Options and SARs outstanding as of the date of such Change in Control and not then exercisable shall become fully exercisable to the full extent of the original grant;
 
(2)All remaining Restriction Periods shall be accelerated and any remaining restrictions applicable to any Restricted Stock Awards shall lapse and such Restricted Stock shall become free of all restrictions and become fully vested and transferable to the full extent of the original grant;
 
(3)All remaining Restriction Periods shall be accelerated and any remaining restrictions applicable to any Restricted Stock Unit shall lapse and such Restricted Stock Unit shall become free of all restrictions and become fully vested and transferable to the full extent of the original grant (i.e., the Restriction Period shall lapse); and
 
As amended and restated effective May 29, 2008.
 
-12-
 
 
(4)Any performance goal or other condition with respect to any Performance Units shall be deemed to have been satisfied in full, and the Common Shares or cash subject to such Award shall be fully distributable.
 
11.2. Except as otherwise provided in the Award Agreement or any other written agreement between the Participant and the Company or any Affiliate in effect on the date of the Change in Control, if the sum (or value) due under Section 11.1 that are characterizable as parachute payments, when combined with other parachute payments attributable to the same Change in Control, constitute excess parachute payments as defined in Code 280G(b)(1), the entity responsible for making those payments or its successor or successors (collectively, Payor) will reduce the Participants benefits under the Plan by the smaller of (1) the value of the sum or the value of the payments due under Section 11.1 or (2) the amount necessary to ensure that the Participants total parachute payment as defined in Code 280G(b)(2)(A) under the Plan and all other agreements will be $1.00 less than the amount that would generate an excise tax under Code 4999. Any reduction pursuant to this Section 11.2 shall be first applied against parachute payments (as determined above) that are not subject to Code 409A and, thereafter, shall be applied against all remaining parachute payments (as determined above) subject to Code 409A on a pro rata basis.
Effect of Code 280G
 
 
 
12.1 .  Except to the extent required by applicable securities laws, none of the Company, an Affiliate or the Committee shall have any duty or obligation to affirmatively disclose material information to a record or beneficial holder of Common Shares or an Award, and such holder shall have no right to be advised of any material information regarding the Company or any Affiliate at any time prior to, upon or in connection with receipt or the exercise or distribution of an Award. The Company makes no representation or warranty as to the future value of the Common Shares that may be issued or acquired under of the Plan.
No Obligation to Disclose Material Information
 
12.2 .  Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, if a Participant is a specified employee, within the meaning of Code 409A and as determined under the Companys policy for determining specified employees, on the date of his or her separation from service (as that phrase is used for purposes of Code 409A), all Awards subject to Code 409A shall be paid, distributed or settled, as applicable, on the first business day of the seventh month following the Participants separation from service (or, if earlier, the Participants death).  This payment shall include the cumulative amount of any amounts that could not be paid or provided during such period.
Six-Month Distribution Delay
 
 
 
13.1. The Board may amend, alter or terminate the Plan at any time, but no amendment, alteration or termination shall be made which would impair the rights of a Participant under an Award theretofore granted without the Participants consent. Notwithstanding the immediately preceding sentence, an amendment may be made to (1) cause the Plan to comply with applicable law (including, but not limited to, any changes needed to comply with Code 409A), (2) permit the Company, or an Affiliate a tax deduction under applicable law, or (3) avoid an expense charge to the Company or an Affiliate. Subject to the requirements of Code 409A and except to the extent prohibited by Code 162(m), the Committee may amend, alter or terminate any Award Agreement prospectively or retroactively, on the same conditions and limits (and exceptions to limitations) that apply to the Board and further subject to any approval or limitations the Board may impose and any amendment to the terms of an Award Agreement which has the effect of accelerating the exercisability (with respect to any Option or SAR Award), causing the remaining restrictions to lapse (in the case of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Unit Awards), or satisfying any performance goal or other condition (with respect to any Performance Unit Award) may only be made after, in the Committees sole discretion, an extraordinary, unusual or nonrecurring event has occurred. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any material amendments to the Plan or any Award Agreement shall require shareholder approval to the extent required by the rules of the New York Stock Exchange or other national securities exchange or market that regulates the securities of the Company.
Amendment, Alteration and Termination
 
As amended and restated effective May 29, 2008.
 
 
-13-
 
 
13.2. It is intended that the Plan be an unfunded plan for incentive compensation. The Committee may authorize the creation of trusts or other arrangements to meet the obligations created under the Plan to deliver Common Shares or make payments; provided, however, that, unless the Committee otherwise determines, the existence of such trusts or other arrangements is consistent with the unfunded status of the Plan.
Unfunded Status of Plan
 
13.3. Nothing contained in the Plan shall prevent the Company or an Affiliate from adopting other or additional compensation or benefit arrangements for its employees.
No Additional Obligation
 
13.4. As soon as practicable after the date as of which the amount first becomes includible in the gross income of the Participant (but no later than the last business day of the calendar quarter during which the amount first becomes includible in gross income), the Participant shall pay to the Company or an Affiliate (or other entity identified by the Committee), or make arrangements satisfactory to the Company or other entity identified by the Committee regarding the payment of any federal, state, or local taxes of any kind (including any employment taxes) required by law to be withheld with respect to such income. The obligations of the Company under the Plan shall be conditional on such payment or arrangements, and the Company and its Affiliates shall, to the extent permitted by law, have the right to deduct any such taxes from any payment otherwise due to the Participant. Subject to approval by the Committee, a Participant may elect to have such tax withholding obligation satisfied, in whole or in part, by (1) authorizing the Company to withhold from the Common Shares to be issued pursuant to any Award a number of Common Shares that would satisfy the required statutory minimum (but no more than such required minimum) with respect to the Companys withholding obligation or (2) transferring to the Company Common Shares owned by the Participant that would satisfy the required statutory minimum (but no more than such required minimum) with respect to the Companys withholding obligation.
Withholding
 
13.5. The Plan and all Awards made and actions taken thereunder shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of Ohio (other than its law respecting choice of laws). The Plan shall be construed to comply with all applicable law and to avoid liability (other than a liability expressly assumed under the Plan or an Award Agreement) to the Company, an Affiliate or a Participant. In the event of litigation arising in connection with actions under the Plan, the parties to such litigation shall submit to the jurisdiction of courts located in Franklin County, Ohio or to the federal district court that encompasses that county.
Controlling Law
 
13.6. Any amounts owed to the Company or an Affiliate by the Participant of whatever nature up to $5,000 in any taxable year of the Participant may be offset by the Company from the value of any Award to be transferred to the Participant, and no Common Shares, cash or other thing of value under the Plan or an Award Agreement shall be transferred unless and until all disputes between the Company and the Participant have been fully and finally resolved and the Participant has waived all claims to such against the Company or an Affiliate. However, no waiver of any liability (or the right to apply the offset described in this Section 13.6) may be inferred because the Company pays an Award to a Participant with an outstanding liability owed to the Company or an Affiliate.
Offset
 
13.7. No Award or Common Shares subject to an Award shall be assignable or transferable by the Participant otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution or pursuant to a beneficiary designation, and Awards shall be exercisable during the Participants lifetime only by the Participant (or by the Participants legal representatives in the event of the Participants incapacity). Each Participant may designate a Beneficiary to exercise any Option or SAR or receive any Award held by the Participant at the time of the Participants death or to be assigned any other Award outstanding at the time of the Participants death. No Award or Common Shares subject to an Award shall be subject to the debts of a Participant or Beneficiary or subject to attachment or execution or process in any court action or proceeding unless otherwise provided in the Plan. If a deceased Participant has named no Beneficiary, any Award held by the Participant at the time of death shall be transferred as provided in his or her will or by the applicable laws of descent and distribution. Except in the case of the Participants incapacity, only the Participant may exercise an Option or SAR.
Nontransferability; Beneficiaries
 
13.8. Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to alter the relationship between the Company or an Affiliate and a Participant, or the contractual relationship between a Participant and the Company or an Affiliate if there is a written contract regarding such relationship. Nothing contained herein shall be construed to constitute a contract of employment between the Company or an Affiliate and a Participant. The Company or an Affiliate and each of the Participants continue to have the right to Terminate the Employment or service relationship at any time for any reason, except as provided in a written contract. The Company or an Affiliate shall have no obligation to retain the Participant in its employ or service as a result of the Plan. There shall be no inference as to the length of employment or service hereby, and the Company or an Affiliate reserves the same rights to Terminate the Employment or service of the Participant as existed prior to the individual becoming a Participant in the Plan.
No Rights with Respect to Continuance of Employment
 
As amended and restated effective May 29, 2008.
 
 
-14-
 
 
13.9. Awards may be granted under the Plan from time to time in substitution for awards held by employees, directors or service providers of other corporations who are about to become officers or employees of the Company or an Affiliate (and will be eligible to be Participants) as the result of a transaction described in Code 424. The terms and conditions of the Awards so granted may vary from the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan at the time of such grant as the majority of the members of the Committee may deem appropriate to conform, in whole or in part, to the provisions of the awards in substitution for which they are granted and to ensure that the requirements imposed under Code 409A and 424, to the extent applicable, are met.
Awards in Substitution for Awards Granted by Other Corporations
 
13.10. To the extent the Company uses certificates to represent Common Shares, certificates to be delivered to Participants under the Plan shall be deemed delivered for all purposes when the Company or a stock transfer agent of the Company shall have placed such certificates in the United States mail, addressed to the Participant, at the Participants last known address on file with the Company. Any reference in this Section 13.10 or elsewhere in the Plan or an Award Agreement to actual stock certificates and/or the delivery of actual stock certificates shall be deemed satisfied by the electronic record-keeping and electronic delivery of Common Shares or other mechanism then utilized by the Company and its agents for reflecting ownership of such Common Shares.
Delivery of Stock Certificates
 
13.11. To the maximum extent permitted under the Companys Articles of Incorporation and Code of Regulations, each person who is or shall have been a member of the Committee, or of the Board, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company against and from (1) any loss, cost, liability or expense (including attorneys fees) that may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit or proceeding to which he or she may be a party or in which he or she may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under the Plan or any Award Agreement, and (2) from any and all amounts paid by him or her in settlement thereof, with the Companys prior written approval, or paid by him or her in satisfaction of any judgment in any such claim, action, suit or proceeding against him or her; provided, however, that he or she shall give the Company an opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same before he or she undertakes to handle and defend it on his or her own behalf. The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which such persons may be entitled under the Companys Articles of Incorporation or Code of Regulations, by contract, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or under any power that the Company may have to indemnify them or hold them harmless.
Indemnification
 
13.12. No fractional Common Shares shall be issued or delivered under the Plan or any Award granted hereunder, provided that the Committee, in its sole discretion, may round fractional shares down to the nearest whole share or settle fractional shares in cash.
No Fractional Shares
 
13.13. If any provision of the Plan shall for any reason be held to be invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not effect any other provision hereof, and the Plan shall be construed as if such invalid or unenforceable provision were omitted.
Severability
 
13.14. The Plan shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon each successor and assign of the Company. All obligations imposed upon a Participant, and all rights granted to the Company hereunder, shall be binding upon the Participants heirs, legal representatives and successors.
Successors and Assigns
 
13.15. Except as expressly provided otherwise, the Plan and any Award Agreement constitute the entire agreement with respect to the subject matter hereof and thereof, provided that in the event of any inconsistency between the Plan and any Award Agreement, the terms and conditions of the Plan shall control.
Entire Agreement
 
13.16. No Award shall be granted under the Plan after May 16, 2012.
Term
 
13.17. At the Committees discretion, any Participant may make an early inclusion election under Code 83(b) but only by complying with procedures developed by the Committee and rules issued under Code 83(b).
Application of Section 83(b)
 
13.18. The headings of the Articles and their subparts contained in the Plan are for the convenience of reading and reference purposes only and shall not affect the meaning, interpretation or be meant to be of substantive significance of the Plan.
Headings
 
As amended and restated effective May 29, 2008.
 
 
-15-
 
 
13.19 .  It is intended that the Plan comply with Code 409A and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder (and any subsequent notices or guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service), and the Plan shall be interpreted, administered and operated accordingly.  Nothing in the Plan or any Award Agreement shall be construed as an entitlement to or guarantee of any particular tax treatment to a Participant.
Compliance with Code 409A
 
13.20 .  The Company may accelerate the time or schedule of distribution, exercise or settlement of an Award to a Participant to pay an amount the Participant includes in income as a result of the Plan failing to meet the requirements of Code 409A and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder.  Such payment may not exceed the amount required to be included in income as a result of the failure to comply with Code 409A and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder.
Inclusion in Income under Code 409A
 
As amended and restated effective May 29, 2008.
 
 
-16-

EXHIBIT 10.2
 
 
______________________________
 
Equity awards are granted pursuant to the Big Lots 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan.
1
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
 
In accordance with the terms of the Big Lots 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as may be amended (), this Restricted Stock Award Agreement for Outside Directors () is entered into as of the Grant Date by and between you, the Grantee, and Big Lots, Inc., an Ohio corporation (), in connection with the Companys grant of the Restricted Stock to you.  The Restricted Stock is subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the Plan.
Plan
Agreement
Company
This Agreement describes the Restricted Stock you have been granted and the conditions that must be met before you may receive the Restricted Stock.  To ensure that you fully understand these terms and conditions, you should carefully read the Plan and this Agreement.
Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, capitalized terms used but not defined in this Agreement shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them in the Plan.  For purposes of this Agreement:
 means the earlier of the (i) Grantees death or (ii) Grantees Disability;
Acceleration Event
 means ________________________;
Grant Date
 means __________________________;
Grantee
 means the Trading Day immediately preceding the Companys annual meeting of shareholders first following the Grant Date;
Outside Date
 means the _____________ common shares of the Company, par value $0.01 per share, underlying the Award made by this Agreement;
Restricted Stock
 means the period commencing on Grant Date and continuing until the Outside Date;
Restriction Period
 or  means any act or event, other than an Acceleration Event, that causes the Grantee to cease serving as a member of the Board of Directors; and
Termination of Employment
Employment Terminates
 means a day on which the principal national securities exchange on which the Common Shares are listed is open for business.
Trading Day
 
The Restricted Stock is the Companys Common Shares that you will own after the Restricted Stock vests (i.e., all restrictions lapse) and you comply with the terms of this Agreement and the Plan.  However, you will forfeit any rights in the Restricted Stock (i.e., they will not be transferred to you) to the extent you do not comply with the terms of this Agreement and the Plan.  No portion of the Restricted Stock that has not vested may be sold, transferred, assigned, pledged, encumbered or otherwise disposed of by you in any way (including a transfer by operation of law); and any attempt by you to make any such sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or other disposition shall be null and void and of no effect.
 
 
 
 
The Restriction Period shall lapse and your Restricted Stock shall vest and be transferred to you without restriction on the earlier of (i) the Outside Date or (ii) the day on which an Acceleration Event occurs; , if your Employment Terminates before the Outside Date or the occurrence of an Acceleration Event, then this Agreement will expire and all of your rights in your Restricted Stock will be forfeited.
provided, however
Until the earlier of the date on which (i) your Restricted Stock vests in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and the Plan or (ii) this Agreement expires, your Restricted Stock will be held in escrow.  The Company will defer distribution of any dividends that are declared on your Restricted Stock until the Restricted Stock vests.  These dividends will be distributed at the same time your Restricted Stock vests or will be forfeited if your Restricted Stock does not vest.
During the Restriction Period, you may vote your Restricted Stock.  This is the case even though your Restricted Stock will not be distributed to you unless and until your Restricted Stock vests.
Subject to the Companys trading policies and applicable laws and regulations, after you become vested in your Restricted Stock, you shall be free to deal with and dispose of the vested Restricted Stock, and you may request the Companys transfer agent to issue a certificate for such vested Restricted Stock in your name and free of any restrictions.
You should consult with a tax or financial adviser to ensure you fully understand the tax ramifications of your Restricted Stock.
This brief discussion of the federal tax rules that affect your Restricted Stock is provided as general information (not as personal tax advice) and is based on the Companys understanding of federal tax laws and regulations in effect as of the Grant Date.  Section 13.4 of the Plan further describes the manner in which withholding may occur.
You are not required to pay income taxes on your Restricted Stock on the Grant Date.  However, you will be required to pay income taxes (at ordinary income tax rates) when, if and to the extent your Restricted Stock vests.  The amount of ordinary income you will recognize is the value of your Restricted Stock when it vests.  Also, the Company is required to withhold taxes on this same amount.  You may elect to allow the Company to withhold, upon the vesting of your Restricted Stock, from the common shares to be issued pursuant to your vested Restricted Stock a number of Common Shares that would satisfy the required statutory minimum (but no more than such required minimum) with respect to the Companys tax withholding obligation.  If you are at the Grant Date, or subsequently become, subject to the Companys trading windows, you may only make this election during an open trading window.  If you wish to make the withholding election permitted by this paragraph, you must give notice to the Company in the manner then prescribed by the Company.
Any appreciation of your Restricted Stock after it vests could be eligible to be taxed at capital gains rates when you sell the common shares.  If your Restricted Stock does not vest, your Restricted Stock will expire and no taxes will be due.
 
2
 
 
Subject to Section 13.17 of the Plan, you shall have the right to make an election under Section 83(b) of the Internal Revenue Code with respect to your Restricted Stock.
Nothing contained in this Agreement obligates the Company or a subsidiary to employ you in any capacity whatsoever or prohibits or restricts the Company or a subsidiary from terminating your service as a member of the Board of Directors at any time or for any reason whatsoever; and this Agreement does not in any way affect any other agreement that you may have with the Company.
This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the internal laws, and not the laws of conflicts of laws, of the State of Ohio.
If any provision of this Agreement is adjudged to be unenforceable or invalid, then such unenforceable or invalid provision shall not effect the enforceability or validity of the remaining provisions of this Agreement, and the Company and you agree to replace such unenforceable or invalid provision with an enforceable and valid arrangement which in its economic effect shall be as close as possible to the unenforceable or invalid provision.
You represent and warrant to the Company that you have the full legal power, authority and capacity to enter into this Agreement and to perform your obligations under this Agreement and that this Agreement is a valid and binding obligation, enforceable in accordance with its terms, except that the enforcement of this Agreement may be subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, or other similar laws now or hereinafter in effect relating to creditors rights generally and to general principles of equity.  You also represent and warrant to the Company that you are aware of and agree to be bound by the Companys trading policies and the applicable laws and regulations relating to the receipt, ownership and transfer of the Companys securities. The Company represents and warrants to you that it has the full legal power, authority and capacity to enter into this Agreement and to perform its obligations under this Agreement and that this Agreement is a valid and binding obligation, enforceable in accordance with its terms, except that the enforcement of this Agreement may be subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, or other similar laws now or hereinafter in effect relating to creditors rights generally and to general principles of equity.
By accepting your Restricted Stock, you agree that your Restricted Stock is granted under and is subject to the terms and conditions described in this Agreement and in the Plan, and you agree to accept as binding, conclusive and final all decisions and interpretations of the Committee upon any questions arising under this Agreement or the Plan.
Grantee hereby accepts the Restricted Stock and acknowledges receipt of a copy of the Plan, as in effect on the Grant Date.

Exhibit 99.1
 
PRESS RELEASE
Columbus, Ohio  May 29, 2008  Big Lots, Inc. (NYSE: BIG) today reported net income of $34.5 million, or $0.42 per diluted share, for the first quarter of fiscal 2008 ended May 3, 2008.  This compares to net income of $28.8 million, or $0.26 per diluted share, for the first quarter of fiscal 2007.  Results include both continuing operations and discontinued operations.  Discontinued operations activity was minimal in the first quarter of both fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007 and is discussed later in this release.
Continuing Operations
For the first quarter of fiscal 2008, income from continuing operations was $34.5 million, or $0.42 per diluted share, compared to income from continuing operations of $29.0 million, or $0.26 per diluted share, for the same period of fiscal 2007.
 
For the first quarter of fiscal 2007, results from continuing operations included insurance proceeds recovered from claims filed as a result of hurricanes occurring during fiscal 2005 which we believe are not directly related to our ongoing operations.  Therefore, we have provided supplemental non-GAAP first quarter results and a complementary schedule entitled Unaudited Adjusted Results and Reconciliation that exclude this item.  We believe that non-GAAP financial measures should facilitate analysis by investors and others who follow our financial performance.  In the supplemental non-GAAP disclosures, the insurance proceeds excluded from continuing operations represent net income of $2.4 million, or $0.02 per diluted share, for the first quarter of fiscal 2007.  Excluding these insurance proceeds, the first quarter of fiscal 2007 income from continuing operations was $26.7 million, or $0.24 per diluted share.
FIRST QUARTER HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
First Quarter Results (on a non-GAAP basis)
 
Net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2008 increased 2.1% to $1,151.6 million, compared to $1,128.4 million for the same period in fiscal 2007.  Comparable store sales for stores open at least two years at the beginning of the fiscal year increased 3.4% for the quarter.
Operating profit for the first quarter of fiscal 2008 was $58.2 million, or 5.1% of sales, compared to last years operating profit of $38.6 million, or 3.4% of sales.  The 51% improvement in operating profit dollars was the result of significant expense leverage driven by our 3.4% comparable store sales increase along with improvement in the gross margin rate.  Operating expenses as a percent of sales improved by 100 basis points primarily due to store and distribution center efficiencies and the leveraging impact of a 3.4% comp over certain fixed expenses.  Our gross margin rate for the quarter increased 70 basis points compared to last year due to improved initial markup, favorable costs resulting from our inbound freight initiatives, and shrink results related to physical inventories taken and recorded in fiscal 2008.
For the first quarter of fiscal 2008, net interest expense was $1.4 million compared to net interest income of $2.9 million last year.  The incremental $4.3 million of net interest expense was directly attributable to the investment of $750 million to repurchase over 32 million shares of our common stock during the period of March 2007 through February 2008.  The effective income tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2008 was 39.2% compared to 35.7% last year.
Inventory and Cash Management
Inventory ended the first quarter of fiscal 2008 at $725 million compared to $798 million last year.  The 9% decline in overall inventory resulted from a combination of an 8% decrease in average store inventory and a 1% reduction in store count compared to last year.  We continue to achieve record inventory turnover results driven by improving inventory management and timely flow of merchandise along with strength in comparable store sales.  We ended the first quarter of fiscal 2008 with debt of $165 million which was directly attributable to $750 million of share repurchase activity during the March 2007 through February 2008 timeframe.
Share Repurchase Update
As previously communicated on March 5, 2008, during the first four weeks of fiscal 2008, we completed a $150 million share repurchase program that was authorized by our Board of Directors in November 2007 (November 2007 Repurchase Program) by investing the remaining $37 million to purchase 2.2 million shares at a weighted average price of $17.28.   In total, 9.2 million shares were purchased at a weighted average price of $16.38 under the November 2007 Repurchase Program.
Discontinued Operations
As discussed in our Form 10-K filed with the SEC on April 1, 2008, activity related to KB Toys, our former division, as well as the operating results and costs associated with 130 stores closed in January 2006 are classified as discontinued operations.  Income from discontinued operations for the first quarter of fiscal 2008 totaled less than $0.1 million compared to a net loss from discontinued operations of $0.3 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2007.
 
 
 
 
 
2008 OUTLOOK
 
For the second quarter of fiscal 2008, we anticipate a 1% to 2% comparable store sales increase compared to a 5.2% comparable store sales increase recorded last year.  Based on this level of sales performance, our earnings are estimated to be in the range of $0.21 to $0.25 per diluted share, compared to income from continuing operations (on a non-GAAP basis) for the second quarter of fiscal 2007 of $0.20 per diluted share.
 
Given the strength of the first quarter operating results and trends in the business, we raised our fiscal 2008 guidance for earnings from continuing operations and cash flow.  We now anticipate fiscal 2008 income from continuing operations of $1.80 to $1.90 per diluted share, an increase of 28% to 35%, respectively, compared to income from continuing operations (on a non-GAAP basis) of $1.41 per diluted share for fiscal 2007.  This EPS guidance is based on an expected fiscal 2008 increase in comparable store sales of approximately 2% and an operating profit rate in the range of 5.3% to 5.5%.  We also now expect Cash Flow of approximately $185 million.
 
C
onference Call/Webcast
 
We will host a conference call today at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Time to discuss our financial results for the first quarter and provide commentary on our outlook for fiscal 2008.  We invite you to listen to the webcast of the conference call through the Investor Relations section of our website ().
www.biglots.com
 
If you are unable to join the live webcast, an archive of the call will be available through the Investor Relations section of our website () beginning two hours after the call ends and will remain available through midnight on Thursday, June 12. A replay of the call will be available beginning May 29 at 12:00 noon (Eastern Time) through June 12 at midnight by dialing: 1.800.207.7077 (United States and Canada) or 1.913.383.5767 (International or metro-Seattle). The PIN number is 6298.
www.biglots.com
 
Big Lots is the nations largest broadline closeout retailer.  As of the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2008 (May 3, 2008), we operated 1,354 stores in 47 states.Wholesale operations are conducted through andOur website is located at www.biglots.com.
BIG LOTS
 
BIG LOTS
WHOLESALE, CONSOLIDATED INTERNATIONAL,
WISCONSIN TOY.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements in this release are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and such statements are intended to qualify for the protection of the safe harbor provided by the Act. The words anticipate, estimate, expect, objective, goal, project, intend, plan, believe, will, should, may, target, forecast, guidance, outlook, and similar expressions generally identify forward-looking statements. Similarly, descriptions of our objectives, strategies, plans, goals or targets are also forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements relate to the expectations of management as to future occurrences and trends, including statements expressing optimism or pessimism about future operating results or events and projected sales, earnings, capital expenditures and business strategy. Forward-looking statements are based upon a number of assumptions concerning future conditions that may ultimately prove to be inaccurate. Forward-looking statements are and will be based upon managements then-current views and assumptions regarding future events and operating performance, and are applicable only as of the dates of such statements. Although we believe the expectations expressed in forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions within the bounds of our knowledge, forward-looking statements, by their nature, involve risks, uncertainties and other factors, any one or a combination of which could materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.
Forward-looking statements that we make herein and in other reports and releases are not guarantees of future performance and actual results may differ materially from those discussed in such forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including, but not limited to, the cost of goods, our inability to successfully execute strategic initiatives, competitive pressures, economic pressures on our customers and us, the availability of brand name closeout merchandise, trade restrictions, freight costs, the risks discussed in the Risk Factors section of our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, and other factors discussed from time to time in our other filings with the SEC, including Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K. This release should be read in conjunction with such filings, and you should consider all of these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully in evaluating forward-looking statements.
 
You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date thereof. We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our public announcements and SEC filings.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 2008 Thomson Financial. Republished with permission. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial.
 
 
 
 
Final Transcript
 
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
 
 Tim Johnson
 Big Lots, Inc. - VP Strategic Planning & IR
 
 Steve Fishman
 Big Lots, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
 
 Joe Cooper
 Big Lots, Inc. - SVP & CFO
 
 
CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS
 
 Charles Grom
 JPMorgan - - Analyst
 
 David Mann
 Johnson Rice - Analyst
 
 Patrick McKeever
 MKM Partners - Analyst
 
 John Zolidis
 Buckingham Research - Analyst
 
 Joan Storms
 Wedbush Morgan - Analyst
 
 William Keller
 FTN Midwest - Analyst
 
 Jeff Stein
 Soleil Securities / Stein Research - Analyst
 
 PRESENTATION
 
Operator
 
 Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Big Lots first quarter 2008 teleconference. During this session, all lines will be muted until the question-and-answer portion of your call. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) At this time, I would like to introduce today's first speaker, Vice President of Strategic Planning and Investor Relations, Tim Johnson.
 
 Tim Johnson
- Big Lots, Inc. - VP Strategic Planning & IR
 
 Thanks, Anthony, and thank you, everyone, for joining us for our first quarter conference call. With me here in Columbus today are Steve Fishman, our Chairman and CEO, Joe Cooper, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and Chuck Haubiel, Senior Vice President Legal and Real Estate and General Counsel.
We appreciate you joining us this morning a little earlier than normal. As many of you may be aware, our annual meeting of shareholders is scheduled to begin at 9:00 a.m., so we will do our best to keep our comments brief and allow sufficient time for Q&A.
Before we get started I would like to remind you that any forward-looking statements we make on today's call involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to our safe harbor provisions as stated in our press release and our SEC filings and that actual results can differ materially from those described in our forward-looking statements.
As discussed in detail in this morning's press release, our results include discontinued operations as well as an item included in last year's Q1 continuing operations that was not directly related to the Company's on going operations. Therefore, we have provided supplemental non-GAAP information for first quarter that excludes this item. A presentation of the most directly comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP and a reconciliation between the GAAP financial measures and the non-GAAP financial measures are also included in our press release, which is posted on our website at www.biglots.com under the "Investor Relations - Press Releases" caption. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures should facilitate analysis by investors and others who follow our financial performance.
 
 
 2008 Thomson Financial. Republished with permission. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial.
 
 
 
Final Transcript
In the supplemental non-GAAP disclosures the item excluded from last year's Q1 continuing operations represents hurricane insurance proceeds recovered from claims filed during fiscal 2005. The proceeds resulted in net income of $2.4 million or $0.02 per diluted share for the first quarter of fiscal 2007.
Since we do not view discontinued operations or the hurricane proceeds as relevant to the ongoing operations of the business, the balance of our prepared comments will be based on results related to continuing operations on a non-GAAP basis as adjusted in the supplemental schedules. With that I would like to turn it over to Steve.
 
Steve Fishman
- Big Lots, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
 
Thanks and good morning, everyone. I want to take just a couple minutes and talk about the quarter and provide an update on our WIN strategy initiatives.
From a sales perspective, I was pleased with the first quarter. Our 3.4% comp against a strong 4.9% comp from a year ago exceeded our expectations that we gave you back in March. As we indicated in our sales release, approximately 1.5% to 2% of the comp was related to a large furniture closeout deal and a drugstore liquidation deal. Excluding the sales on those deals and the sales on the Osco deal from a year ago, our comps would have been up in the 1.5% to 2% range, which represents a pretty significant change in trend coming off of the back half of 2007 when the comps were slightly negative. We offered the customer a much better assortment in Q1, featuring better brands and better quality goods, which I believe was largely responsible for our results.
Our Consumables business was strong again in the first quarter, with comps up in the high single-digits. Across the category, whether it was Food, HBC, Household Chemicals, Paper or Pet, our business was good. This is particularly encouraging when you think about the drugstore liquidation deal which probably had some cannibalization effect against our Consumables business. The deal is not part of the Consumables comp, but instead is in a separate category called other in our quarterly filings.
As we talked about in March, we experienced a healthy bounce back in our Furniture business during Q1. Furniture comps were also up in the high single-digits against the low double-digit comp from a year ago. Much like Consumables, this is particularly encouraging when you think about the large Furniture closeout deal, which probably had some cannibalization effect against our day-in and day-out Furniture business. The deal is not part of our Furniture comp, but instead is in a separate category. All of the components of the Furniture business experienced growth in Q1, but I'm particularly encouraged by our Case Goods business where the customer has positively responded to the newness. However, the Mattress business remains the strongest part of Furniture. Our day-in and day-out business with Serta was supplemented by impactful closeout deals, which were featured in our advertising and did very well.
Seasonal comps were up in the low single-digits in Q1. The collaboration between our merchant team and our dedicated sourcing group overseas has resulted in us delivering higher quality goods and customers seem to be responding. I'm just as excited about the deals that we are getting in some of our smaller businesses, like Apparel, Lingerie, and others. Again, small in scale but provide a nice pop in our advertising when we can put a Hanes deal or a Marvel deal on the front cover and drive customers to our stores.
We were more challenged in a couple of other businesses. Our Hardlines business was down, but up against some pretty strong numbers from a year ago, particularly in Electronics where you will remember that our comps were up some 30% plus, driven by great availability and sales of TVs. Performance in Electronics has improved as we started Q2 with TVs and digital cameras in this week's ad circular and the $3 DVD assortment that's now back in inventory and doing well.
Our Home category continued to struggle, but I want to say I am encouraged in a couple of the areas where we have started to see some positive movement, particularly in Food Prep where the team may be a little further along in executing the strategy. We are in hopes that the Home Event that we've recently delivered will have some positive impact on this business.
So the comps in Q1 were good and maybe just as impressive was our inventory position exiting the quarter. Inventories were down 8% per store, with most categories below last year and our inventory turns were at record highs for a first quarter. Our merchant and planning teams are managing the flow and have held open-to-buy to chase deals as they become available. I know this will be a question in Q&A so I will just address it now. The deal environment is good, more vibrant in some areas than others, but overall very good. The amount of phone calls we are getting has picked up a little bit, but what we are seeing is deeper or bigger deals than we normally might have seen in the past. It is really not clear to me that it is because there's more inventory out there or if the deals are bigger because we are doing a better job developing relationships with our vendor partners and helping them understand how we can do more business together. I think our vendor summits have helped in this regard, but I also believe that in this challenging environment, vendors are looking to quality, investment grade companies that they know are going to pay on time and they may be looking to make just one phone call to a Company like us who can take the whole deal.
 
 
 2008 Thomson Financial. Republished with permission. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial.
 
 
 
 
Final Transcript
 
So that's a quick merchandising overview. From a strategic perspective, we have also remained incredibly focused on the elements of our WIN strategy as well. From a real estate perspective, Chuck and I were at the ICSC Real Estate Convention earlier this month. It is probably not an event that most CEOs attend, but as the CEO of this Company I felt it was important to look across the table at our real estate partners and let them know how serious we are about real estate and opening new stores. Also from a real estate perspective, our store retrofits for the year are moving ahead on schedule and will be completed in the next few weeks.
We remain vigilant on the cost structure, which has been and will continue to be a key component of our success. I know there remains some skeptics out there on how we are doing this and if it can continue, but inside the four walls here in Columbus I can tell you that each executive "feels the heat". Across the organization, all areas are contributing. The Furniture distribution center consolidation, which will be a new key driver of efficiency in the second half of this year, is on track. We are ramping up furniture receipts in four of our five closeout distribution facilities and the Columbus Furniture distribution center operation will start to wind down over the next few weeks.
While cost structure will always be a major focus, I'm not sure that there's a good enough understanding on the street as to how much we are also investing in the future of this business. We talked about the rollout of our new store register systems and the SAP implementation as just another initiative. But please understand that these are significant investments in the future of this business. Approximately $75 million between the two of them and an unbelievable amount of investment of human capital from our IT and Stores teams and really all areas of the business. I think sometimes, since these types of initiatives have gone smoothly for us to date, that we tend to gloss over them. But I want to say to the whole team out there working on this that you are doing incredible work.
At Big Lots we take accountability very seriously, whether it is these two IT initiatives, the cost structure, real estate or delivering great value in merchandising, each member of the team of over 38,000 associates has a very clear understanding of what success looks like and when they get there, we celebrate it and reward them for it. For Q1, EPS of $0.42 is something that none of us would have dreamed of three years ago when this process started. Just a couple of quick stats and then I will turn it over to Joe. Q1 EPS of $0.42 and a 5.1% operating profit rate. Three years ago before we started, Q1 EPS was $0.07 and a 1.2% operating profit rate; amazing work in such a short period of time. Q1 was also the sixth consecutive quarter of record EPS performance for this business, a string of records that began with Q4 in 2006. Last March we detailed for you a three year long range plan. Sitting here today, our guidance suggests that we have a chance to achieve all of these goals in two years, not three years as originally anticipated. And the good news is that we know that we can still drive improvement from here. The execution plan is working and we are laser focused on our strategic initiatives. With that I will turn it over to Joe.
 
Joe Cooper
- Big Lots, Inc. - SVP & CFO
 
Thanks, Steve, and good morning, everyone. Sales for the first quarter were $1.152 billion compared to $1.128 billion for the first quarter last year. Comparable store sales increased 3.4% against a 4.9% comp increase last year.
Walking down the P&L, the first quarter gross margin rate of 40.3% was 70 basis points higher than last year's rate of 39.6%. The improvement was principally due to improved initial markup, lower in-bound freight costs due to our initiatives, and finally, lower shrink results related to physical inventories taken and recorded in fiscal 2008.
From an SG&A perspective, our Q1 rate was 100 basis points lower than last year. Leverage for the quarter was achieved through first, operational improvements in store payroll and distribution and transportation. Improved inventory flow and efficiencies gained from strategic initiatives were only partially offset by higher fuel costs. Second, as expected overall depreciation expense was $3 million lower than a year ago. The timing of how Capex will be invested throughout 2008 will narrow this gap in future quarters, as our total Capex spend for the year will increase meaningfully compared to a year ago. Additionally our advertising spend was down for Q1. This is timing related as we expect that total advertising dollars will be relatively flat year-over-year. And finally, our out performance in sales at a 3.4% comp versus our 1% to 2% expected comp has a meaningful impact on leverage. For two reasons, first you are leveraging your fixed costs at that point, and then second, we experienced only a low level of flex on expenses to support sales above our original plan. Partially offsetting this leverage was higher bonus related expenses due to record Q1 earnings.
 
 
 2008 Thomson Financial. Republished with permission. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial.
 
 
 
 
 
Final Transcript
 
As a result, a 3.4% comp, improved gross margin rate, and SG&A leverage drove first quarter 2008 operating profit dollars to $58.2 million. That's versus $38.6 million last year, an increase of 51% for the quarter. Our Q1 operating profit rate at 5.1% of sales was up 170 basis points compared to 3.4% of sales last year.
Net interest expense was $1.4 million for the quarter compared to net interest income of $2.9 million last year. This change is directly related to the repurchase of $750 million of Company stock during March, 2007 through February, 2008.
Our tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2008 was 39.2% compared to 35.7% last year. You may recall that last year's rate was unusually low due to the release of certain valuation allowances related to capital loss carryovers.
For the first quarter of fiscal 2008 we reported income from continuing operations of $34.5 million, or $0.42 per diluted share, compared to income from continuing operations on a non-GAAP basis of $26.7 million, or $0.24 per diluted share, a year ago.
Our Q1 result of $0.42 per share was above the high end of our guidance which called for earnings of $0.30 to $0.35 per share. If you were looking at the high end of our communicated guidance, the favorability resulted from first, our Q1 sales comp of 3.4% was above the high end of our guidance and accounted for approximately $0.04 of favorability. Second, a higher gross margin rate resulted in approximately $0.03 of favorability. Finally, the SG&A efficiencies associated with a higher comp were essentially offset by higher bonus expense due to the record performance in the quarter.
Turning to the balance sheet, our total inventory ended the quarter at $725 million, down $73 million or 9% compared to last year. Lower inventory resulted from an 8% decline in average store inventory and a 1% decline in overall store count.
Cash flow, which we define as cash provided by operating activities less cash used in investing activities, was $41 million for Q1 compared to cash outflows of $9 million last year. The $50 million increase in cash flow was due to increased earnings and lower inventory levels, partially offset by higher capital expenditures. The cash flow generated was used to complete our $150 million share repurchase program as we ended the first quarter with debt of $165 million or essentially where we began fiscal 2008. We are comfortable with this level of debt and have plenty of liquidity under our $500 million credit facility. We expect to generate sufficient cash this year to be able to pay off the debt by the end of the fiscal year.
Capital expenditures totaled $18.3 million for the first quarter, up $10.3 million compared to the first quarter of last year, primarily related to the investments toward our SAP implementation and the continued rollout of our new POS register systems. Depreciation expense for the quarter was $18.8 million or $3 million lower than last year due to the runoff of fully depreciated assets, including a portion of the significant store remodeling programs from five years ago which related to the company-wide name change to Big Lots.
During the first quarter, we opened two new stores and closed one store, leaving us with 1,354 stores and total selling square footage of 28.9 million.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company completed its $150 million share repurchase program by repurchasing $37 million or 2.2 million shares at a weighted average price of $17.28 per share. In total for the $150 million program, we purchased 9.2 million shares at a weighted average price of $16.38 per share.
Moving on to guidance, for the second quarter, comp sales are forecasted up in the 1% to 2% range against a 5.2% comp increase last year. This expectation is slightly higher than our original thought process and anticipates that the better than expected trends in our core business experienced in Q1 will continue into Q2. Additionally, many of you will recall that we are up against a significant home furnishings deal from last year that added 2% to our comps in Q2 of 2007. We expect that the incremental sales from additional inventory purchases related to our Q1 drugstore liquidation deal as well as our Home Event planned in Q2 will essentially offset last year's home furnishings deal from a comp perspective.
Q2 earnings are estimated to be in the range of $0.21 to $0.25 per diluted share, compared to $0.20 per diluted share last year on a non-GAAP basis. The operating profit rate is expected to be flat or slightly up compared to a year ago based on a gross margin rate that is forecasted to be flat or slightly down to last year and slight leverage in SG&A. In fact, SG&A leverage is expected to be at its lowest level of the year in Q2. From a gross margin rate perspective, we estimate that improvements in IMU will be offset by the higher markdowns planned for the promotional cadence of the drugstore liquidation deal and the Home Event.
 
 
 2008 Thomson Financial. Republished with permission. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial.
 
 
 
 
 
Final Transcript
 
Given the strength of our Q1 results and the expectation that these sales trends will continue into Q2, we have increased our guidance by $0.10 for the full year and now expect income from continuing operations for fiscal 2008 to be in the range of $1.80 to $1.90 per diluted share compared to our original guidance of $1.70 to $1.80 per share. This represents a 28% to 35% increase over last year's income from continuing operations of $1.41 per diluted share on a non-GAAP basis.
For the full year of fiscal 2008, we now expect comparable store sales will increase approximately 2% compared to our previous guidance of 1% to 2%. Further, we estimate the gross margin rate will be slightly up to last year and the SG&A rate is anticipated to be in the range of 34.3% to 34.5% or 20 to 40 basis points below last year. At this level of comp and EPS, the operating profit rate is expected to be in the range of 5.3% to 5.5%.
Given the increase in EPS guidance, we now expect to generate $185 million of cash flow, up from prior guidance of $175 million.
 
Tim Johnson
- Big Lots, Inc. - VP Strategic Planning & IR
 
Thanks, Joe. Anthony, we would like to go ahead and open up the lines for questions at this time.
 
QUESTION AND ANSWER
 
Operator
(OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) The first questions comes from Charles Grom.
 
Charles Grom
- JPMorgan - Analyst
 
Thanks, good morning. Joe, just a question on the comp guidance. Looks like on a two year basis you are modeling a little bit of acceleration but on your prepared comments you are saying that the Q2 view you have given us is a little bit higher than the original expectations, just wondering if you can reconcile that and in the process give us a little bit of color maybe on how the first few weeks of May are trending.
 
Joe Cooper
- Big Lots, Inc. - SVP & CFO
 
The original thought process, Chuck, was with the home event deal that was so successful last year in the second quarter, we did expect the second quarter comp to be lower than the first quarter comp. That was our original guidance. Now, going through the first quarter we clearly outperformed our original expectation, so we did raise the second quarter comp slightly to reflect that trend in the business.
 
Charles Grom
- JPMorgan - Analyst
 
Okay. So as I read into that maybe May has continued the first quarter trend?
 
Joe Cooper
- Big Lots, Inc. - SVP & CFO
 
Well, clearly we take into consideration the trends quarter to date when we are giving this guidance. So, certainly May sales to date are consistent with the guidance we are communicating today.
 
Charles Grom
- JPMorgan - Analyst
 
 Okay.
 
 
 2008 Thomson Financial. Republished with permission. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial.
 
 
 
 
 
Final Transcript
 
Tim Johnson
- Big Lots, Inc. - VP Strategic Planning & IR
 
Chuck, this is T. J., just a little bit of additional color there. I think what we were focused on is when you look at the first quarter comp of 3.4%, and again, we did have two deals in that comp, so if you take those into account, on a two year basis our comps were up around about 7%, which is really where we're forecasting Q2 at this point, kind of midpoint of that guidance. When you look at a 1% to 2% on top of a 5.2%, your trends are pretty similar coming out of first quarter.
 
Charles Grom
- JPMorgan - Analyst
 
 Okay. That's helpful, thanks. My second question would be just you're taking up your free cash flow, your inventories are in great shape, just wondering the appetite to maybe establish a new buyback, stock buyback plan given that you are going to generate close to $200 million in free cash this year. Thanks.
 
Joe Cooper
- Big Lots, Inc. - SVP & CFO
 
At this point, this is Joe again. At this point we have got $165 million in debt at the end of the quarter. As we have said, the cash flow for the year we expect to be sufficient to pay down that debt. Certainly, that's something that we can discuss with the board as the year goes along, but at this point we have no plans nor no approval for an incremental share repurchase plan.
 
Steve Fishman
- Big Lots, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
 
You know, Chuck, it is Steve too. As you well know and a number of us have had this discussion, the market really likes investment grade retailers today and we have done, I think, with the support of our board of directors, who have just been spectacular, really done a pretty good job over the last 18 months of taking a tremendous amount of the stock, rightly so at a great value, out and returning it to the shareholders. If we saw that that opportunity existed we would never say no to anything. We have always been very consistent to say whether it is a stock buyback, whether it is looking at opening new stores, whether it's making investments in anything that may come up, we have an open to receive. But I think we have been very patient and very conscious and hopefully intelligent in the way we've proceeded to do it. And I think to utilize the cash flow this year and get back out of debt probably right now and combine that with hopefully the consistent trends in our business is probably real wise for us right this second.
 
Charles Grom
- JPMorgan - Analyst
 
Great. Thanks very much.
 
Operator
 
The next question comes from the line of David Mann.
 
David Mann
- Johnson Rice - Analyst
 
Yes. Thank you, good morning. In terms of gross margin, obviously the first quarter you put up some pretty strong improvement, yet for the year it looks like only a modest uptick in your guidance for gross margin. So can you reconcile that a little bit, especially given that I guess shrink was better for you versus when you came into the quarter?
 
Joe Cooper
- Big Lots, Inc. - SVP & CFO
 
Yes, I think, what I will, David, this is Joe. What I will address is really the trend from first quarter to second quarter. Clearly the first quarter up 70 basis points and the second quarter we are calling flat to slightly down. We said a number of quarters now that our focus is on gross margin dollars and not rate and you have heard that many times And from time to time, the gross margin rate can and will be lumpy depending on the deals and the timing of the deals. With that said, the Q1 rate benefited from three key items that we talked about in the release this morning, the IMU was higher across all major merchandising categories, that smarter buying by our merchants and an environment where availability and pricing really have allowed us to be more selective on the deals that we can go after.
 
 
 2008 Thomson Financial. Republished with permission. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial.
 
 
 
 
Final Transcript
 
Next, now believe it or not, our inbound freight costs were down slightly in Q1 and that is despite the rising costs of diesel fuel. The initiative we've had in place now, it is almost a year, it will lap the middle of the second quarter, where we have changed the mix of carriers, we do a much better job of consolidating loads, that's really benefited. Unfortunately with diesel prices up some 20% since the beginning of this year, the benefit was not as big as originally anticipated. And finally, the shrink results from the stores inventoried in the first quarter were better than originally anticipated, so that benefited Q1, that won't carry over into Q2. Now that we start looking at the second quarter, as I mentioned we will anniversary the inbound freight savings in the middle of the second quarter and we believe the bulk of that benefit will be offset by even higher prices in the cost of fuel.
And we see the IMU benefits continuing into the second quarter based on our inventory position and how our on-order status looks right now. However, offsetting that IMU we are anticipating higher markdown rates than a year ago. This is where the lumpiness starts coming into play. The timing of our anticipated glide path and ownership of the Home Event that is hitting the stores, that hit the stores in the last couple of weeks, that's going to result in more markdowns than a year ago. Also the timing of our mark out of stock on the first drugstore deal will start occurring in the second quarter. So, that is going to result in markdowns and on top of that, the anticipated glide path of the new drugstore merchandise delivered over the last two weeks will also generate some markdowns. Don't misunderstand me, we like these types of deals but that's promotional business. That's really what's happening to the markdown rate in the second quarter.
 
David Mann
- Johnson Rice - Analyst
 
Great. Great. That's very helpful. And just one follow-up on the, on Q2 sort of deal flow, obviously you have known about Pier 1 for a while. You have got this drugstore deal that's expanding. Given your liquidity and I guess, Steve, your comments about the marketplace and possibly more bigger deals, should we begin to expect that there are some other bigger deals that will hit during second quarter?
 
Steve Fishman
- Big Lots, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
 
If they were, David, I wouldn't tell you.
 
David Mann
- Johnson Rice - Analyst
 
I'm not asking for the brand. It is more of a function of it would seem like at this point in time you would know, you would probably have some deals done that could hit.
 
Steve Fishman
- Big Lots, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
 
Well, I think there's a couple of things. The Home sale that you are really seeing in the store is really something that, let me answer it this way. We really like big deals and you know that. They create excitement and they represent brand and significant savings to us and we can advertise them in the front of the store and hopefully generate some buzz with our customers. We have known for the last year that we are up against significant volume. In the second quarter, as an example, because of the deal that we did last year and what we can't do is assume that something may show up even though I have told you many times before, I can get a telephone call tomorrow and we are somewhere in the United States negotiating a deal and two or three weeks later something like that can come in.
The Jennifer Farrell event, or the Home Event as we are calling it, really along with the drugstore liquidation deal that was successful in the first quarter and is growing into the second quarter we hope are going to be strong enough to offset what we did last year. From a strategic standpoint, this is going to be our attempt to engineer a big deal for promotions and generate excitement. What these goods are is higher quality goods, we source them overseas, we are importing them ourselves, and we are sourcing them at costs that are going to allow us to follow a glide path. You have heard me talk about the glide paths and I think you understand it. Many of the guys understand that now, that it is similar to some of the other deals. We are going to take markdowns. We are going to generate buzz in our stores. It is the first time we are doing this and I think we are going learn a lot from it.
But hopefully this type of engineered deal is something we can lean a lot from and apply it to future deals in future quarters. With that said, we have had some phone calls on some deals that I really don't want to talk about and can't talk about from a competitive nature, that you might expect to see in some of our preprints going into June and July in names that you haven't seen before, but continue to reinforce great brand values and strategies that really our customers and hopefully new customers continue to come to us for.
 
 
 2008 Thomson Financial. Republished with permission. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial.
 
 
 
 
 
Final Transcript
 
David Mann
- Johnson Rice - Analyst
 
Steve, thanks. We will look forward to seeing them in the stores.
 
Steve Fishman
- Big Lots, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
 
Okay. Thanks.
 
Operator
 
Next question comes from the line of Patrick McKeever.
 
Patrick McKeever
- MKM Partners - Analyst
Thanks, good morning everyone.
 
Steve Fishman
- Big Lots, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
 
Morning, Patrick.
 
Patrick McKeever
- MKM Partners - Analyst
 
Hi. Stimulus, are you expect -- the economic stimulus plan and the tax rebate checks are you expecting any benefit to sales from that in the second quarter.
 
Steve Fishman
- Big Lots, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
 
Yes, the quick answer really, Patrick, is I don't know and we don't anticipate any, to be quite honest with you. We have made a conscious decision and we chosen not to cash the rebate checks and made a decision not to offer any particular discounts or promotions aimed at these rebate checks. It is just not our business. We are a closeout retailer. We are in the day-in, day-out, great price, great value relationship with prices that are meaningfully below our competition. Do I think that there's going to be some benefit to retailers and Big Lots from these checks? Probably, but I think it is anyone's guess and probably pretty quite frankly difficult to put an accurate prediction ahead of time on how much we are going to get and how much we are going to be able to take part in that.
You see the surveys and you see the current thinking of a lot of other recipients, thinking that some of the checks are there and people are stocking up on groceries and consumables and our business is strong there, but it has been strong there and there's some people who say people are going to splurge on big ticket items and that's our business today. We are continuing to advertise and promote and offer bigger ticket items and we are having success with that. A lot of people are going to pay down debt, which is what they're really supposed to be doing. The reality is get us through the second quarter and I may have a little bit better feeling for it. But it is not something we specifically are going after that consumer.
 
Patrick McKeever
- MKM Partners - Analyst
 
Okay. Thanks, Steve. How about another big topic of the day, inflation on product cost, especially as it relates to merchandise that is sourced in Asia.
 
 
 2008 Thomson Financial. Republished with permission. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial.
 
 
 
 
Final Transcript
Steve Fishman
- Big Lots, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
 
That's real, that's very real and it is interesting, Patrick, because I hear on different conference calls different people have a perspective on it. It is very real. It is really happening. It is affecting the cost of anything that you are importing, particularly from China. We have gone through the economics before. There's inflation, the devaluation of the dollar against the RMB, the fact that salaries overseas have changed dramatically, the fact that the VAT tax or the rebate that manufacturers overseas had been given have been substantially reduced or taken away, there are absolute real cost pressures coming in from overseas. With that said, we are doing everything in our power to create greater and greater value and change merchandise content as we go along. There is no such thing as absorbing those costs and I don't think there's a retailer in the United States that's absorbing those costs.
You are seeing real price increases for the first time in a long time on product. And we have the same pressures domestically from particularly the consumer type companies when it comes to HBC, food, chemicals, plastic-related things. Leggett & Platt continues to raise steel prices, which is a function of the parts that are put together inside of our mattress businesses. But we are working with the guys who are our vendor partners in this and we are recreating great value and we are going to continue to be more competitive than we have to be across all aspects of the business. But we are very conscious of it and we are very systematic about where we are taking price increases because it is a reality. I mean people don't want to sell you. You can say no to any manufacturer you want to, but at the end of the day they will say just fine we are not going to ship you. Creating value is what our business is all about in relationship to what other people are doing. They have the same cost increase pressures that we do. So we are just trying to be real smart about it.
 
Patrick McKeever
- MKM Partners - Analyst
 
I'm assuming that the dynamic is a little bit different on the closeout side of the business.
 
Steve Fishman
- Big Lots, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
 
It is. We may be benefiting to a certain degree because of that. What is happening is as the manufacturers, particularly the consumer products people, are reengineering their product in the same vein as we are reengineering our product. They're changing the pack sizes. They are changing the compositions. They are changing the put ups in the packaging to be able to reengineer product and probably get the kinds of price increases that they need. But what is happening is that is generating closeouts for us on our end because they have to alleviate the old packaging, which just creates great value for us to be able to offer to our consumer.
 
Patrick McKeever
- MKM Partners - Analyst
Got you. Okay. Thank you, Steve.
 
Operator
The next question comes from John Zolidis.
 
John Zolidis
- Buckingham Research - - Analyst
 
Hi, good morning.
 
Steve Fishman
- Big Lots, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
 
Good morning.
 
John Zolidis
- Buckingham Research - - Analyst
A question on the SG&A. SG&A dollars actually increased versus the prior year and I think, excluding the quarter that had the extra week in it, that's the first time that SG&A dollars rose on a year-over-year basis since you began the initiative to reduce costs. I was wondering if you could talk about what's going on with SG&A, is there more opportunity there, why did it rise in Q1? And then can you also quantify, please, the ad spend dollars that you said shifted out of Q1? I assume that's in the SG&A line. Thank you.
 
 
 2008 Thomson Financial. Republished with permission. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial.
 
 
 
 
 
Final Transcript
 
Joe Cooper
- Big Lots, Inc. - SVP & CFO
 
Well, yes, first the advertising spend is in SG&A and there is going to be some shifting of the ad spend between the year, between the quarters and the year, but as we said, it will be level.
 
Tim Johnson
- Big Lots, Inc. - VP Strategic Planning & IR
 
I think what Joe mentioned in his opening comments, John, was it was about $1 million and it is really out of first into fourth where we think it is going to be highly, highly competitive in an election year. In the fourth quarter we wanted to have a little bit of extra ammunition for the fourth. I'll kind of chime in on the first quarter and then ask Joe to add to it. First quarter dollars, SG&A dollars being up slightly ever so slightly year-over-year, when you look at our Q1 last year when you back out the insurance proceeds, that is the first slight increase that we've had in the last two to three years since we have been on this WIN strategy.
So although the leverage was 100 basis points over last year, factually that is true. The thing that I would point out is a couple of things that we talked about in our opening comments. First of all, record quarter for the business, obviously at the store level, the distribution center level, and hopefully at the end of the year at the general office level everyone will benefit from that in the form of higher bonuses given our comps exceeded plan. We have to recognize that expense now. And when you have a record quarter like we just finished, obviously first quarter was a much bigger part of the business than we would have originally anticipated or than it was last year.
 
Joe Cooper
- Big Lots, Inc. - SVP & CFO
 
It was $24 million, sales were $24 million higher than last year. That's certainly going to drive part of that.
 
Tim Johnson
- Big Lots, Inc. - VP Strategic Planning & IR
 
That's when you look at comparisons to last year, that's going to be one that sticks out and was just enough to push us above last year. Again, on a per square foot basis, as we said, our comps were up 3.5% and on a per square foot basis SG&A was up slightly. That's a very strong model and something that I think we would be very happy to finish the year with or the next few quarters. That's a lot of leverage coming through the model.
Joe Cooper
- Big Lots, Inc. - SVP & CFO
 
To answer the second part of the question, we clearly think that there's SG&A initiatives that we have in place to continue to drive down expense and we said before, and I think I said in my remarks, that we are relentless in that and it is far from over.
 
Tim Johnson
- Big Lots, Inc. - VP Strategic Planning & IR
 
I think that question has kind of been around now for a while and after all the work that was done in the beginning in 2005, the question was can we do it in 2006. We did it in 2006. The question became can you do it in 2007. We did it in 2007 and now here we are in the first quarter and we have done, we think, a very good job on the SG&A side again in 2008. But the question still remains. We understand that and that's where, again, inside the four walls here in Columbus, we know that the focus is on SG&A and the desire to drive that rate lower remains as strong now as when we started.
 
Operator
 
The next question comes from the line of Joan Storms.
 
Joan Storms
- Wedbush Morgan - Analyst
 
 Hi, good morning. Good quarter.
 
 
 2008 Thomson Financial. Republished with permission. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial.
 
 
 
Final Transcript
 
Steve Fishman
- Big Lots, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
 
Thank you, Joan.
 
Joan Storms
- Wedbush Morgan - Analyst
 
Let's see, I wanted to ask Steve in particular your comments in your overview discussion about going to the ICSC Real Estate Conference. I just wanted to get an update. I know that previously you have said you are not going to overpay for real estate. Has there been some change since the last conference call about what you are seeing out there in the marketplace and what your attitude might be?
 
Steve Fishman
- Big Lots, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
 
I think the answer is yes, but I think I indicated on the last conference call that we saw a crack in the armor of the real estate, the commercial real estate market. My intentions were multifaceted to go out to that show. One, to put my face in front of the real estate market and two, more importantly from my perspective, to understand and learn what's going on in the marketplace right now. I will be totally honest with you, we had this discussion yesterday and we will probably have it again today with the board during the board meeting, there are many people who are very excited about trying to understand and want to do business with us. And Chuck and I are personally working very hard at making that become a reality, not only on second and third tier real estate, which we have been known for and we traditionally are there for, but on potentially ground up real estate too, We actually have a couple of stores under roof right now, new construction, and had talked to a number of people who are motivated and want to potentially take a look at doing some more for us.
That does a lot of positive things for the future of this Company's business. And it puts us into positions and places where we haven't been able to get to before and clearly, as we try to understand and position this Company in the next five years to figure out how we want to build a store and where we want to build it and what kind of great competitors we want to have next to us for traffic purposes. That's number one. Number two, I think it was real positive for the real estate market out there to see me personally out there and to be able to ask me questions and talk about what they perceive to be and we perceive to be the really positive things happening with our business and how they can figure out how to partner up with us in what seems to be a somewhat distressed market right now. I still think and I want to make it very clear that it is going to take time and I think it is going to take time because there are a lot of other retailers that are distressed right now that are not out of business and there are a lot of retailers that have recently gone out of business.
And the major reason when you talk to any of the restructuring people who we have talked to, who we talk to constantly, is the assets that they had they overpaid for, which is real estate, which means these real estate landlords are going to have to understand that $16, $17, $18 a square foot for some of this real estate is just not going to be a reality in the near and the mid-term. And we are willing to pay a fair value for it, but not something that we can't get a return on our investment. The news is pretty consistent with what we said before, but we are encouraged and Chuck and I are going to be working really, really hard at taking a look at the balance of this year and what opportunities there are for the next couple of years, number one, and number two, this continued renegotiation and understanding of our existing portfolio.
We briefly mentioned last year we thought we would close 40, 45 stores and we closed 29 because of the renegotiations. Well, although most of the negotiations aren't going to occur until the third and the fourth quarter and we really can't, don't have anything to say about it right now, we are feeling pretty good that people want an investment grade type retailer who constantly and has never failed to pay a bill and a rent check and has done the kinds of things this Company has done to want them to be part of their real estate portfolio as they go forward. I feel pretty good about it, but only time will tell. It's always in our business time will tell.
 
Joan Storms
- Wedbush Morgan - Analyst
 
That's encouraging. Thank you. And then just a quick update on the furniture consolidation into the other DCs.
 
Steve Fishman
- Big Lots, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
 
Yes.
 
 
 2008 Thomson Financial. Republished with permission. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial.
 
 
 
 
 
Final Transcript
 
Joan Storms
- Wedbush Morgan - Analyst
 
And I guess contract for.
 
Steve Fishman
- Big Lots, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
 
Absolutely.
 
Joan Storms
- Wedbush Morgan - Analyst
 
Is benefit in the second half. What are the challenges, if you are seeing any there, in doing that consolidation.
 
Steve Fishman
- Big Lots, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
 
So far none. It is we are really lucky. I hope I just didn't jinx us, but so far none. We have been pre-planning for it the last six months. We are winding down the balance of the Columbus distribution facility and we have been moving goods into four of our five closeout facilities. We still have the furniture facility in California and in the near-term we have no plans to make any changes there. But four out of the five distribution facilities have been taking furniture in and have been moving goods out to the stores and the only positive effect we hope we are going to continue to see is instead of two trucks, one furniture and one closeout a week, they will start to get one truck with furniture and closeout inventories all in one. So the efficiencies are really, hopefully, going to start happening in the second quarter but much more in the third and the fourth quarter. We are real encouraged by it.
 
Tim Johnson
- Big Lots, Inc. - VP Strategic Planning & IR
I think that's key, Joan. This is really a transportation initiative, the two trucks versus one truck, lower miles traveled and certainly in this environment where diesel is at record highs this is definitely a needed initiative. This is not meant to be headcount initiative or anything in that light. We are doing everything we can to place as many associates as possible. We have two buildings here on campus. You have been to our campus here, the furniture building is right here right next to the closeout building. We are doing everything possible to move people between buildings. It is not a headcount play, it is a transportation savings initiative.
 
Joan Storms
- Wedbush Morgan - Analyst
 
Got it. Thank you, that was helpful.
 
Steve Fishman
- Big Lots, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Thanks, Joan.
 
Joan Storms
- Wedbush Morgan - Analyst
 
Thank you.
 
Operator
 
The next question comes from the line of David Mann.
 
 
 2008 Thomson Financial. Republished with permission. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial.
 
 
 
 
 
Final Transcript
 
 
David Mann
- Johnson Rice - Analyst
 
Yes, thank you. A couple of quick follow ups. On the inventory reduction in terms of how you ended the first quarter, how should we expect inventories to proceed over the rest of the year?
Steve Fishman
- Big Lots, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
 
David, I will answer that. Although it was great and we are working very, very hard at inventory turnover and we are consumed by it, I would have liked a little bit more inventory in some businesses, particularly the vibrant businesses that we are chasing. The really good news about that is where we were probably most underneath last year were in the businesses that are more challenged at this particular point. So from our perspective we are running an intelligent business, you don't want inventory in businesses that aren't moving. I don't think you can figure that we are going to have that kind of efficiency of 8% savings quarter to quarter going forward. And again, I don't know when we are going to get the next telephone call.
We absolutely will not try to manage a quarter or an end of a quarter to year-end business. If you will recall, we ended the year a little heavier than we wanted to because we had some of those deals. We had the furniture deal and we had the drugstore liquidation deal that we didn't plan on having. So as Joe has used the term before, slightly lumpy. I don't want to send a signal here, that doesn't mean that we are anticipating having a problem, we don't. But we are consumed with controlling our inventories and buying the inventory that's right and turning our inventory and out the door.
Tim Johnson
- Big Lots, Inc. - VP Strategic Planning & IR
 
I think, David, just for modeling purposes, quarter to quarter, as Steve mentioned and Joe mentioned, inventories can be lumpy and depending on when a deal lands et cetera, but throughout the year our guidance has been, and we have not changed it, a tenth of improvement in inventory turnover, that's about 3% improvement and we just gave comp guidance of 2%. You can do the math there that on average we will expect the inventories to be slightly down throughout the year. Again, throughout the year is what we manage. Unfortunately, you guys see at the end of each quarter, but throughout the year we would expect them to be slightly down. That's what's embedded in our guidance.
David Mann
- Johnson Rice - Analyst
 
Great. Then one question on advertising. It is a meaningful piece in SG&A. As a percentage of sales it really hasn't moved that much over the last four or five years. Can you just talk about the opportunity there in terms of the effectiveness of circulars, how important they are to the business versus perhaps some opportunity in terms of moving away from TV and saving some money there.
 
Steve Fishman
- Big Lots, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
 
Okay. Well, I will tell you right off the bat we are not going to move away from TV. In fact, I think I mentioned in the last quarter conference call that we were shifting media costs and probably as a percent to total, which was 60% print, 40% media, and media includes television and internet, to probably 55%/45% this year. We think that the branding, and hopefully you have seen some of the first quarter television promotions, we have had other people comment on them, has really been a benefit to us. You are going to see more of it into the second quarter. We are already done with back to school, although I'm clearly not going to share that with you, and Christmas is going be very, very, very important to us. We think that our television is really resonating not only with our customer base, but with new customers and that was really the charge. If you will recall it was spend the money, fix the print, have the right merchandise in it, get our core customer, who knows us very, very well and who knows us but is not shopping us very, very well, back into the store.
Once that is accomplished, which we feel like we have done, it is start to attack the customer who shops us, knows us but shops us infrequently and get them coming back into the store. We think that's what television is going to do for us. As a percent to total, although it's not gone up it hasn't gone down. Our marketing people have done an outstanding job at really controlling cost increases, because there are pressures across the board, just like there are on consumer products, on paper and on advertising, on distribution, and we have done a fabulous job at maximizing how we are operating the marketing of our business. We have spent some more money, although you don't see that, on the internet. And that, we think, is helping us an awful lot also in the same vein. We have 2.8 million going on 3 million Buzz Club members. We started that. We had 300,000 or 400,000. Our first goal was 800,000.
We are going to continue to communicate by getting the customer who knows us to shop us and communicate well with us. The other thing that we are real excited about, and we mentioned it a while ago and haven't mentioned it, is when those new register systems get in, there will be some things we are going to be capable of starting to do as we get into the back to school area and arena and communicating with them online and being capable of satisfying Buzz Club members in our store that we weren't able to do before. So we are constantly testing, we're moving, we're changing, and we are not going to spend any less in the near-term as a percent of total on marketing but the total dollar spend really hasn't changed at all. It is right around that $110 million, $107 million -- $105 million number. We are just getting a lot more out of it.
 
 
 2008 Thomson Financial. Republished with permission. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial.
 
 
 
 
 
Final Transcript
 
David Mann
- Johnson Rice - Analyst
 
Very good. Thank you.
 
Tim Johnson
- Big Lots, Inc. - VP Strategic Planning & IR
 
Anthony, we are seeing two more hands up in the queue. What we would like to do is offer each of those individuals one question and then we really need to move on to our annual meeting of shareholders.
Operator
 
 Next question is from the line of William Keller.
William Keller
- FTN Midwest - Analyst
 
Good morning. Thanks for taking my call. Just looking at the shrink again, the change on the first quarter, is any of that something that's on going or was that all sort of a one time pop? Thank you.
Joe Cooper
- Big Lots, Inc. - SVP & CFO
 
That was just the results of the cycle counts, which we run a 12 month cycle that essentially we start our PIs in January and end them in April. So those are really a reflection of the, the physical inventories taken February through April. So that is not expected to continue. That is the end of the, the physical inventory cycle. does that answer your question, Bill?
 
William Keller
- FTN Midwest - Analyst
 
Yes, thanks.
Operator
 
The last question comes from the line of Jeff Stein.
Steve Fishman
- Big Lots, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
 
Hey, Jeff.
Jeff Stein
- Soleil Securities / Stein Research - Analyst
 
I can't believe I got into the queue. I have been trying for an hour. Hey guys, how are you doing? This is not a quick question and if you have to go you have to go, but wondering what SAP does to your cost structure next year. In other words, how much embedded inflation will the implementation of SAP add to SG&A next year?
 
Joe Cooper
- Big Lots, Inc. - SVP & CFO
 
Well, next year we will bring online the financial systems, the following year the inventory systems. But at this point, we have given the total cost of SAP to be $30 million to $35 million. We have given the Capex this year and next, but we really haven't put an '09 model out on the street yet, Jeff.
Jeff Stein
- Soleil Securities / Stein Research - Analyst
 
Can I take one more quickly. You mentioned that there's not going to be a lot of SG&A leverage in the second quarter and wondering if you could just touch on that real quickly?
 
 
 2008 Thomson Financial. Republished with permission. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial.
 
 
 
 
 
Final Transcript
 
Joe Cooper
- Big Lots, Inc. - SVP & CFO
 
Sure. Yes, the Q2 leverage it is lighter than any quarter in recent memory. And you start talking the trend of leverage throughout the year. We talked about it a little bit in the prepared remarks. But when you go back and look at history, Q2 is a quarter where we made the most progress in SG&A. So, it is really the most difficult comparison. Our SG&A rate is forecasted below 36%, where just three years ago it was at 42%. We -- on the call we isolated some efficiencies that we are not going to assume will recur in Q2. The first is the comp. We had a 3.4% comp in Q1. We gave guidance of 1% to 2% in the second quarter. Depreciation, the GAAP to LY, that's going to narrow as the year goes on. And as T.J. mentioned, ad spend, there's some shift between the first quarter to the last quarter, so the first quarter ad favorability is not expected to continue into the second quarter. Next I would say that later in Q2 we will start to anniversary some of the initiatives that drove significant leverage and that's really transportation that we start anniversarying in the middle of June.
 
Tim Johnson
- Big Lots, Inc. - VP Strategic Planning & IR
 
Yes, I think I want to stress here, Jeff, we are forecasting leverage for second quarter, even in the face of fuel costs that are at all-time high. We pay very close attention to diesel prices and what the EIA is forecasting and I don't know if most people realize it or not but diesel prices are forecast to be close to 50% up just to last year and last year was a high. So we are forecasting leverage despite that kind of pressure. The distribution and transportation team has been relentless on working with carriers, putting their business out to bid, looking at the mix of one way versus round trippers to try to offset what is some pretty incredible cost pressure and we are really happy to be able to do that.
I think additionally on top of that, as we talked about earlier in our prepared comments and Steve addressed it a little bit, we do have a little bit of a timing difference here in that the furniture initiative, or the distribution center consolidation, is really the bigger impact comes in the third and fourth quarter. So we are a little bit of a difference in terms of timing there. But I can't emphasize enough and Steve drives this point home everyday, that we have made a tremendous amount of progress. But we still do not believe that we are done.
 
Jeff Stein
- Soleil Securities / Stein Research - Analyst
 
Great. Thanks a lot, Tim.
Tim Johnson
- Big Lots, Inc. - VP Strategic Planning & IR
 
Thanks, Jeff.
Steve Fishman
- Big Lots, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
 
Thanks, everybody.
 
Jeff Stein
- Soleil Securities / Stein Research - Analyst
 
Good luck.
 
 
 2008 Thomson Financial. Republished with permission. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial.
 
 
 
 
 
Final Transcript
 
 
Tim Johnson
- Big Lots, Inc. - VP Strategic Planning & IR
 
Thank you, Anthony, and we look forward to talking to everybody at the end of the second quarter.
Operator
 
Ladies and gentlemen, a replay of this call will be available to you within the hour. You can access the replay by dialing 1-800-207-7077 and entering pin number 6298. Again that phone number is 1-800-207-7077, pin number 6298. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's presentation, thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.
 
 
 2008 Thomson Financial. Republished with permission. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without the prior written consent of Thomson Financial.
 
 


