ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward looking statements which involve inherent risks and uncertainties. Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about the Companys beliefs and expectations, are forward looking statements. These statements are based upon current plans, estimates and expectations. Actual results may differ materially from those projected in such forward looking statements, and therefore undue reliance should not be placed on them. See Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements for a list of additional factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statement. This discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto presented under Item 8. Certain aspects of the Companys business have loss experience characterized as low frequency and high severity. This may result in volatility in both the Companys results of operations and financial condition. Executive Overview The Company operates on a global basis primarily in the property and casualty industry and, to a lesser extent, the financial services industry. The Company serves the insurance, reinsurance and financial services needs of institutional or corporate clients, typically the global equivalent of the Fortune 2000. The Company operates in markets where the Company believes its underwriting expertise and financial strength represent a relative advantage. The Company does not operate in any retail markets. The property and casualty insurance and reinsurance markets have historically been cyclical meaning that based on market conditions, there have been periods where premium rates are high and policy terms and conditions are more favorable (a hard market) to the Company and then there have been periods where premium rates decline and policy terms and conditions are less favorable (a soft market) to the Company. This has been driven primarily by competition in the marketplace, the supply of capital in the industry, investment yields and the frequency and severity of loss events. Managements goal is to build long term shareholder value by capitalizing on current opportunities and managing through any potential downward cycles by reducing property and casualty premiums written and exposures if and when rates deteriorate to unprofitable levels for the Company. As part of its strategy, the Company also looks to its financial products and services segment to provide a diversified stream of earnings that are not directly tied to the property and casualty cycle. In this regard, the Companys financial guarantee insurance and reinsurance operations have substantially achieved relative trading parity with its peers. The Company has grown through acquisition activity and developing new business opportunities. Acquisitions included Global Capital Underwriting Ltd in 1996, Mid Ocean Limited in 1998, ECS, Inc. and NAC Re Corp. in 1999, Winterthur International in 2001 and Le Mans R in 2002. All acquisitions have supported the Companys strategic plan to develop a global platform in insurance and reinsurance. Recent business developments include XL Capital Assurance Inc. and XL Financial Assurance Ltd., the Companys financial guarantee primary and reinsurance guarantors, XL Weather & Energy and XL Life & Annuity. As a result of these combined developments, the Company now competes as an integrated global business with more than 3,300 employees in 30 countries. The Company earns its revenue primarily from net premiums written and earned. Premium rates in the property and casualty industry began to increase in 2001 following five years of poor underwriting performance in the industry. These price increases were further compounded by the September 11 event. In the three years ended December 31, 2003, the Company experienced pricing increases and improved terms and conditions across most of the lines of business it writes. These, generally, across the board price increases were unprecedented meaning that, in the past, pricing increases and more favorable terms and conditions were not experienced across all of the Companys product lines at one point in any one cycle. Accordingly, the Company does not expect that any potential downturn in the cycle will necessarily affect all the property and casualty lines simultaneously in the future.32 A key challenge for the Company, as stated above, is to mange through the industry cycles. In relation to the insurance segment, with respect to the January 1, 2004 renewals, the Company has seen some moderation in pricing over the last several months. Although certain lines, principally liability, continue to see moderate increases, certain other lines, particularly property, which have benefited most from price increases over the last few renewals, are beginning to see increased competition and rate decreases as certain competitors improve their capital position and pursue premium growth through rate reductions and or terms and conditions more favorable to buyers / customers. The Company still believes that the insurance business remains adequately priced and above the Companys return requirements, with appropriate terms and conditions across the board. With respect to the reinsurance segment, January 1st is the most significant renewal date for the Companys general reinsurance operations. With respect to the January 1, 2004 reinsurance segment renewals, the Company has continued to see double digit rate improvements in its casualty book. These improvements are at a lesser rate than in prior years. The Company expects that these increases will largely offset the pricing pressures that the Company is currently seeing in property, property catastrophe and some other specialty lines. The Company expects overall growth rate in net written and earned premiums will be in the single digits in 2004. The Company also generates revenue from investment activities through returns on its investment portfolio. The Companys current investment strategy seeks to maximize investment returns balancing market and credit risk relative to the Companys business objective of stable earnings growth and growth in long term book value. In addition, at this stage of the interest cycle, the Company has reduced its duration of the general account portfolio from 3. 5 years as at December 31, 2002 to 3.3 years as at December 31, 2003. For the three years ended December 31, 2003, there have been declines in interest rates that have negatively impacted the Companys investment interest income. Investment interest income was under continued pressure in 2003 and continues to be under pressure due to the low interest rate environment. In 2003, the Company generated net realized gains from both its equity and fixed income portfolios reflecting the overall improvement in capital markets and narrowing of credit spreads. The Company incurred net realized losses on its investments in 2002 resulting primarily from a high level of corporate defaults. The Company expects investment interest income to rise moderately in 2004 supported by positive cash flow from operations. The Companys profitability in any given period is based upon its premium and investment revenues as noted above, less net losses incurred and expenses. Net losses incurred are based upon claims paid and changes to unpaid loss reserves. Unpaid loss reserves are estimated by the Company and include both reported loss reserves and reserves for losses incurred but not reported. The Companys results for 2003 and 2002 have been negatively impacted by an increase to reserves established in prior years primarily relating to its North American casualty business written in the 1997 through 2001 underwriting years. In the third quarter of 2003, the Company received reported claims that were in excess of the Companys expected claims and the Company increased loss reserves by $184.0 million and began an extensive claims audit review of its ceding companies for this book of business. Upon completion of this claims audit review as well as the Companys scheduled annual reserve review, the Company increased loss reserves by $694 million in the fourth quarter of 2003. This increase was net of a $197 million release of reserves relating to the September 11 event. See further information under Reinsurance General Operations below. 33 Financial measures The following are some of the financial measures management considers important in evaluating the Companys operating performance in the Companys general operations: (U.S. dollars in thousands, except ratios and per share amounts) 2003 2002 2001 Underwriting (loss) profit general operations $ (84,117) $274,701 $(1,083,892) Combined ratio general operations 102.6% 97.0% 139.7% Investment income general operations $588,428 $617,122 $ 585,858 Book value per ordinary share $ 46.74 $ 44.48 $ 40.35 Return on average ordinary shareholders equity 6.0% 6.9% NM NM Not Meaningful. In 2001, the Company had a net loss for the year due primarily to the September 11 event. Underwriting profit (loss) general operations One way that the Company evaluates the performance of its insurance and reinsurance general operations is the underwriting profit or loss. The Company does not measure performance based on the amount of gross premiums written. Underwriting profit or loss is calculated from premiums earned and fee income, less net losses incurred and expenses related to the underwriting activities. As noted above, the Companys underwriting profit and loss for the last three years have been negatively impacted by net losses incurred from adverse development of prior year loss reserves and the September 11 event. Partially offsetting this has been the increase in premium rates and favorable underwriting terms and conditions. Any changes to loss reserves affect the calculation of underwriting profit or loss but most often do not directly affect the Companys cash flow in the same period. See further discussion below. Barring any unusual catastrophic loss events, the Company expects to produce an underwriting profit in 2004. Combined ratio general operations The combined ratio for general operations is used by the Company and many other insurance and reinsurance companies as another measure of underwriting profitability. The combined ratio is calculated from the net losses incurred and underwriting expenses as a ratio of the net premiums earned for the Companys general insurance and reinsurance operations. A combined ratio of less than 100% indicates an underwriting profit and over 100%, an underwriting loss. Changes in the Companys combined ratio for the last three years have been negatively impacted by the net losses incurred as noted above. Net investment income general operations Net investment income from its general operations is an important measure which affects the Companys overall profitability. The largest liability of the Company relates to its unpaid loss reserves and the Companys investment portfolio provides liquidity for claims settlements of these reserves as they become due, and thus a significant part of the portfolio is in fixed income securities. Net investment income is affected by overall market interest rates and also the size of the portfolio. The size of the portfolio is impacted by cash flow generated from operations, which has been positive during the last three years and which the Company currently expects to be positive in 2004. Book value per ordinary share Management also views the change in the Companys book value per ordinary share as an additional measure of the Companys performance. Book value per share is calculated by dividing ordinary shareholders equity by the number of outstanding ordinary shares at any period end. Book value per ordinary share is affected primarily by the Companys net income and also any changes in the net unrealized gains and losses on its investment portfolio. The Companys book value per ordinary share increased in 2003 primarily as a result of an increase in net income and an increase in the 34 net unrealized gains on the investment portfolio and also increased in 2002 due to an increase in net income. The Companys book value per ordinary share in 2004 would be impacted by changes in market interest rates. Return on average ordinary shareholders equity Return on average ordinary shareholders equity (ROE) is a widely used measure of any companys profitability. It is calculated by dividing the net income for any period by the average of the opening and closing ordinary shareholders equity. The Company establishes minimum target ROEs for its total operations, segments and lines of business. If the Companys minimum ROE return targets over the longer term are not met with respect to any line of business, the Company seeks to exit these lines. In addition, the Companys compensation of its senior officers is significantly dependant on the achievement of the Companys performance goals to enhance shareholder value as measured by ROE. The Companys ROEs for the last three years have been mainly affected by its general operations underwriting results and investment income. In addition, there was a negative return on shareholders equity in 2001, primarily due to the September 11 event. Other Key Focuses of Management Ratings and Capital Management Management continues to focus heavily on the Companys financial strength and claims paying ratings because the Companys ability to write business is dependent on the quality of these ratings. Management seeks to maintain a strong financial strength and claims paying ratings, relative to its competitors. As noted above, the Companys results were significantly impacted in the second half of 2003 by prior period adverse development mainly from its North American casualty reinsurance business written in the 1997 through 2001 underwriting years and, accordingly, some of the Companys ratings have been downgraded. The Company currently anticipates it will raise additional capital of approximately $750 million in the first half of 2004 in the form of mandatory convertible securities. The Company currently anticipates that it will be able to successfully raise this capital, however, if the Company does not achieve this, it is likely that the Companys ratings could be lowered further which could trigger downgrade provisions contained in the Companys various capital and credit facility documents as well as impact the ability of the Company to write new business. Collateral Management Another important matter on which management is focused (and which also affects the Companys ability to underwrite business) is the availability of collateral, including letters of credit, insurance trusts and other credit facilities required to provide security to cedants (these are companies who reinsure their liabilities to the Company), particularly as required by state insurance regulation in the U.S. and at Lloyds, and also to provide the Company with liquidity as required. These facilities are provided to the Company from commercial banks and generally are renewed every year. The Company has also utilized off balance sheet transactions in order to obtain more collateral capacity (these transactions are described below under Variable Interest Entities and Other Off Balance Sheet Arrangements below). As the Company writes more business, its collateral requirements increase. A key challenge for management is to ensure that sufficient collateral capacity is available as to not hinder future writings of business. Winterthur International Net Reserve Seasoning Management is focusing on the settlement and collection of certain post closing balances under the SPA related to the 2001 acquisition of the Winterthur International operations. The SPA sets forth a process by which an adjustment payment may be made to the Company or the Seller by the other based on the unfavorable or favorable development of the acquired Winterthur International operations net reserves. Under this process, the Company is due to submit to the Seller in the third quarter of 2004 a statement of the net reserves of the acquired operations as of June 30, 2004 (the Seasoned Net Reserves Amount). The Seasoned Net Reserves Amount is then compared to such operations net reserves as of June 30, 2001 (the Initial Net Reserves Amount). If the Seasoned Net Reserves Amount is greater than the Initial Net Reserves Amount, a payment is due to be made by the Seller to the Company in accordance with a formula set forth in 35 the SPA. At December 31, 2003, the Company had recorded an unsecured reinsurance net recoverable from the Seller in the amount of $740.9 million due to unfavorable development in the acquired operations loss and unearned premium reserves. This amount remains subject to change in view of ongoing net reserve development prior to June 30, 2004. In the event that the Seller disagrees with the Seasoned Net Reserves Amount as determined by the Company, the SPA provides for a dispute resolution procedure that ultimately would result in the determination of such amount by a named independent actuary. Liquidity and cash flow As a property and casualty company, the Company must ensure that it has sufficient funds to settle claims promptly, especially in the event of a major catastrophic event. Management is focused on making sure that liquidity requirements are supported by both having lines of credit facilities available to the Company as well as the Companys general investment portfolio of which the majority is in high grade fixed income securities. The Company has had significant positive cash flow from operations in the three years ended December 31, 2003 generated from its underwriting activities (premiums less claim and expense settlements) as well as the receipt of investment income on its portfolio. This is due to current favorable underwriting conditions as well as growth of the investment portfolio and the Company expects cash flow from operations to be strong in 2004. Results of Operations The following table presents an analysis of the Companys net income (loss) available to ordinary shareholders and other financial measures (described below) for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001. (U.S. dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 2003 2002 2001 Net income (loss) available to ordinary shareholders $371,658 $395,951 $(576,135) Earnings (loss) per ordinary share basic $ 2.71 $2.92 $(4.55) Earnings (loss) per ordinary share diluted (1) $ 2.69 $2.88 $(4.55) Weighted average number of ordinary shares and ordinary share equivalents basic 136,906 135,636 126,676 Weighted average number of ordinary shares and ordinary share equivalents diluted (1) 138,187 137,388 126,676 (1) Average stock options outstanding have been excluded where anti dilutive to earnings per ordinary share. The Companys net income (loss) and other financial measures as shown above for the three years ended December 31, 2003 have been affected, among other things, by the following significant items : 1) Net adverse prior year loss development in general insurance and reinsurance operations. 2) The September 11 event. 3) Other than temporary declines in investments. 4) A favorable underwriting environment with increased premium rates and improved terms and conditions, and 5) The acquisition of Winterthur International, effective July 1, 2001. The following table summarizes the pre tax net income effect of the first three items for the years presented: (U.S. dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 2003 2002 2001 Net adverse prior period loss development (excluding the September 11 event) $(1,118,141) $(200,018) $ (175,804) The September 11 event 180,856 (200,000) (932,700) Other than temporary declines in investments (130,702) (251,500) (115,600) Total pre tax effect on net income $(1,067,987) $(651,518) $(1,224,104) 361. Net adverse prior year loss development Net adverse prior period loss development occurs when there is an increase to loss reserves recorded at the beginning of the year, resulting from actual or reported loss development for prior years exceeding expected loss development. The net adverse prior period loss development in the three years ended December 31, 2003 related primarily to the Companys general reinsurance operations and principally to losses on business written in 1997 through 2001 years in the Companys U.S. casualty reinsurance business. In the third quarter of 2003, the Company experienced a significant increase in claims reported that was in excess of the Companys expected loss development based on historical reporting patterns and recorded an increase to reserves of $184 million related to this book of business. As a result of this increase, the Company began a detailed claims audit review of the cedents contributing to this increase and the lines of business affected were primarily directors and officers, errors and omissions, medical malpractice, commercial umbrella and general liability. Upon completion of this claims audit review, the Company increased case and IBNR reserves relating to this book of business for a total of $663 million in the fourth quarter 2003. The Company monitors actual against expected reported claims on an ongoing basis.To the extent that actual experience on loss reserves differs significantly for this, or any other line of business, the Company would again expand its normal and ongoing cedant review program accordingly. See further discussion under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and within the reinsurance segment operations below. 2. The September 11 event The Company has exposure to the September 11, event with claims arising mainly from its aviation, property, personal accident and business interruption insurance and reinsurance coverages. In the year ended December 31, 2001, the Companys results were negatively impacted by a pre tax loss of $932.7 million related to the September 11 event, in the general operations insurance and reinsurance segments. During the second quarter 2002, the Company increased loss reserves by $200.0 million in both the insurance and reinsurance segments following the receipt of updated loss information. In the fourth quarter 2003, the Company released loss reserves related to the reinsurance segment, primarily aviation lines, due to the higher than expected levels of participation (97%) in the September 11 Victims Compensation Fund, a no fault compensation scheme funded by the U.S. government, which closed on December 22, 2003. This resulted in a reduction in the Companys estimated ultimate losses for this event. See further discussion within the segments below. 3. Other than temporary declines in investments The Company realized losses on securities in its investment portfolio due to declines in fair value determined to be other than temporary of $130.7 million, $251.5 million and $115.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The general economy in the United States and the investment markets improved in 2003 relative to 2002. For example, Moodys Investor Service (Moodys) reported that 77 issuers defaulted in 2003 as compared with 141 issuers in 2002. The Company experienced a reduction in the amount of write downs for securities with declines in value deemed to be other than temporary that was consistent with these figures. The write downs for 2003 occurred mainly in the first half of the year which was consistent with Moodys monthly default statistics. As a percentage of the total fixed income portfolio, the write down for other than temporary declines was 0.6% in 2003 as compared with 1.4% in 2002 and 1% in 2001. See the discussion of other than temporary declines in investments within Critical Accounting Policies and Investment Activities below. 4. A favorable underwriting environment with increased premium rates and improved terms and conditions. As noted above, in the three years ended December 31, 2003 the Company has experienced pricing increases and improved terms and conditions across most of the lines of business it writes, notably in casualty and aviation lines. This is discussed further within the segments below. 375. The acquisition of Winterthur International, effective July 1, 2001 Effective July 1, 2001, the Company acquired certain Winterthur International insurance operations primarily to extend its predominantly North American based large corporate insurance business globally. This acquisition had a significant effect on the Companys premium written, results of operations and financial condition. See further discussion in the insurance segment and Item 8, Note 6(b) to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The following are considered to be the Companys critical accounting policies and estimates due to the judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of these policies and or the likelihood that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. If actual events differ significantly from the underlying assumptions or estimates applied for any or all of the accounting policies (either individually or in the aggregate), there could be a material adverse effect on the Companys results of operations and financial condition and liquidity. These critical accounting policies have been discussed by management with the Audit Committee of the Companys Board of Directors. Other significant accounting policies are nevertheless important to an understanding of the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements. Policies such as those related to revenue recognition, financial instruments and consolidation require difficult judgments on complex matters that are often subject to multiple sources of authoritative guidance. See Item 8, Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 1) Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses and Unpaid Loss and Loss Expenses Recoverable As the Company earns premium for the underwriting risks it assumes, it also establishes an estimate of the expected ultimate losses related to the premium. Loss reserves or unpaid losses and loss expenses are established due to the significant periods of time that may lapse between the occurrence, reporting and settlement of a loss. Loss reserves include: a) Case reserves reserves for reported losses and loss expenses that have not yet been settled and, b) Losses incurred but not reported (IBNR). At December 31, 2003 and 2002, the Companys total gross reserves for unpaid losses and loss expenses were $16.6 billion and $13.2 billion, respectively, of which $8.4 billion and $7.7 billion related to case reserves for reported claims and $8.2 billion and $5.5 billion for IBNR reserves, respectively. The Company writes both short tail and long tail lines of business, meaning the time between the receipt of the premium from a policy and the final settlement of any loss. Short tail lines include property catastrophe, other property and certain marine and aviation lines where, on average, the settlement period may be up to 24 months. Long tail lines, on the other hand, include the Companys casualty business in which claims may take up to 30 years to be reported and settled. The increase in the time associated with ultimate settlement of a claim is directly related to an increase in the amount of judgment required to establish loss reserves, especially IBNR reserves. Case reserves for the Companys general operations are established by management based on amounts reported from insureds or ceding companies and consultation with legal counsel, and represent the estimated ultimate cost of events or conditions that have been reported to or specifically identified by the Company. The method of establishing case reserves for reported claims differs among the Companys operations. With respect to the Companys insurance operations, the Company is notified of insured losses and records a case reserve for the estimated amount of the settlement, if any. The estimate reflects the judgment of claims personnel based on general reserving practices, the experience and knowledge of such personnel regarding the nature of the specific claim and, where appropriate, advice of counsel. Reserves are also established to provide for the estimated expense of settling claims, including legal and other fees and the general expenses of administering the claims adjustment process. With respect 38 to the Companys reinsurance general operations, case reserves for reported claims are generally established based on reports received from ceding companies. Additional case reserves may be established by the Company to reflect the estimated ultimate cost of a loss. With respect to the Companys financial products and services financial operations, financial guaranty claims written on an insurance basis are established consistent with the Companys insurance operations and financial guaranty claims written on a reinsurance basis are established consistent with the Companys reinsurance operations. IBNR reserves relate mainly to the Companys insurance and reinsurance casualty business. IBNR reserves are calculated by the Companys actuaries using several standard actuarial methodologies including paid and incurred loss development, the Bornhuetter Ferguson incurred loss method and frequency and severity approaches. Certain aspects of the Companys casualty operations complicate the actuarial process for establishing reserves. Certain casualty business written by the Companys insurance operations is high layer excess casualty business, meaning that the Companys liability is after large deductibles including self insurance or insurance from sources other than the Company. The Company commenced writing this type of business in 1986 and issued policies in forms that were different from traditional policies used by the industry at that time. Initially, there was a lack of industry data available for this type of business. Consequently, the basis for establishing loss reserves by the Company for this type of business was largely judgmental and based upon the Companys own reported loss experience which was used as basis for determining ultimate losses, and therefore IBNR reserves. Over time, the amount of available historical loss experience data of the Company has increased. As a result, the Company has obtained a larger statistical base to assist in establishing reserves for these excess casualty insurance claims. In addition, reinsurance operations by their nature add further complications to the reserving process particularly for casualty business written, in that there is an inherent lag in the timing and reporting of a loss event from an insured or ceding company to the reinsurer. This reporting lag creates an even longer period of time between the policy inception and when a claim is finally settled. As a result, more judgment is required to establish reserves for ultimate claims in the Companys reinsurance operations. Loss and loss expenses are charged to income as they are incurred. These charges includes loss and loss expense payments and any changes in case and IBNR reserves. During the loss settlement period, additional facts regarding claims are reported. As these additional facts are reported, it may be necessary to increase or decrease the unpaid losses and loss expense reserves. The actual final liability may be significantly different than prior estimates. IBNR reserves are calculated by the Companys actuaries using standard actuarial methodologies as discussed above. Prior to the year ended December 31, 2003, the outcomes of the Companys actuarial reviews, consistent with historical practice, provided either (i) a single point reserve estimate or (ii) a range of reserve estimates from which the Company selected a best estimate. For the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company adopted a methodology that provided a single point reserve estimate separately for each line of business and also a range of possible outcomes across each single point reserve estimate. This is discussed further below. As a result, reserve ranges disclosed previously are not comparable to the reserve ranges disclosed herein. The single point reserve estimate is generally managements best estimate which the Company considers to be one that has an equal likelihood of developing a redundancy or deficiency as the loss experience matures, and this amount is recorded. The Companys actuaries utilize one set of assumptions in determining its single point estimate which include loss development factors, loss ratios, reported claim frequency and severity. These reviews and documentation are completed in accordance with professional actuarial standards appropriate to the jurisdictions where the business is written. The selected assumptions reflect the actuarys judgment based on historical data and experience combined with information concerning current underwriting, economic, judicial, regulatory and other influences on ultimate claim settlements. 39 The Companys net unpaid loss and loss expense general and financial reserves broken down by operating segment at December 31, 2003 and 2002 was as follows: (U.S. dollars in millions) December 31, 2003 December 31, 2002 Insurance $ 5,849 $4,771 Reinsurance 4,871 3,558 Financial products and services 62 36 Net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves $10,782 $8,395 The following table shows the net unpaid loss and loss expense general and financial reserves for the Company at December 31, 2003 and 2002 by line of business: (U.S. dollars in millions) December 31, 2003 December 31, 2002 Casualty insurance $ 4,005 $3,169 Casualty reinsurance 2,815 1,611 Property catastrophe 98 257 Other property 1,359 1,561 Marine, energy, aviation and satellite 1,073 996 Financial guarantee 62 36 Other (1) 1,262 718 10,674 8,348 Provision for potential non recoveries (2) 108 47 Total $10,782 $8,395 (1) Other consists of several products, including accident and health, political risk, surety and bonding. (2) The Company provides for estimated uncollectible reinsurance recoveries that are not allocated by line of business. The following table shows the recorded estimate and the high and low ends of the range of reserves for each of the lines of business noted above at December 31, 2003: (U.S. dollars in millions) Recorded High Low Casualty insurance $ 4,005 $4,452 $3,576 Casualty reinsurance 2,815 3,261 2,397 Property catastrophe 98 124 75 Other property 1,359 1,542 1,186 Marine and aviation reinsurance and insurance 1,073 1,241 915 Other (1) 1,262 1,482 1,056 10,612 Financial guarantee 62 Provision for potential non recoveries 108 Total $10,782 (1) Other consists of several products, including accident and health, political risk, surety and bonding. As shown in the table above and as noted above, for the year ended December 31, 2003 the Company developed a methodology for calculating reserve ranges around its single point reserve estimates for all its lines of business. Similar to VAR (Value At Risk) models commonly used to evaluate risk, the Company modeled a statistical distribution of potential reserve outcomes over a one year run off period. The Company used the modeled statistical distribution to calcu 40 late an 80% confidence interval for the potential reserve outcomes over this one year run off period. The high and low end points of the ranges set forth in the above table are such that there is a 10% modeled probability that the reserve will develop higher than the high point and a 10% modeled probability that the reserve will develop lower than the low point. The development of a reserve range models the uncertainty of the claim environment as well as the limited predictive power of past loss data. These uncertainties and limitations are not specific to to the Company. The ranges represent an estimate of the range of possible outcomes over a one year development period. A range of possible outcomes should not be confused with a range of best estimates. The range of best estimates will generally be much narrower than the range of possible outcomes as it will reflect reasonable actuarial and management best estimates of the expected reserve. Reserve volatility was analyzed for each line of business within each of the reinsurance and insurance segments general operations using the Companys historical data supplemented by industry data. These ranges were then aggregated to the lines of business shown above taking into account correlation between lines of business based on a study of the Companys historical data supplemented by industry data. The practical result of the correlation approach to aggregation is that the ranges by line of business disclosed above are narrower than the sum of the ranges of the individual lines of business. Similarly, the range for the Companys total reserves in the aggregate are narrower than the sum of the ranges for the lines of business disclosed above. The Company is not aware that there is a generally accepted model to perform the reserve range analysis described above and other models may also be employed to develop ranges. The Company does not calculate a range for its total net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves as it would not be appropriate to add the ranges for each line of business to obtain a range around the Companys total reserves because this would not reflect the diversification effects across the Companys various lines of business. The diversification effects result from the fact that losses across the Companys different lines of business are not completely correlated. See further discussion within the Companys operating segments below for prior year development of loss reserves. The Companys three types of reserve exposure with the longest tails are: (1) high layer excess casualty insurance; (2) casualty reinsurance; and (3) discontinued asbestos and long tail environmental business. High layer excess casualty insurance claims typically involve claims relating to (i) a shock loss such as an explosion or transportation accident causing severe damage to persons and or property over a short period of time, (ii) a non shock loss where a large number of claimants are exposed to injurious conditions over a longer period of time, such as exposure to chemicals or pharmaceuticals or (iii) a professional liability loss such as a medical malpractice claim. In each case, these claims are ultimately settled following extensive negotiations and legal proceedings. This process can typically take 5 to 15 years following the date of loss. 41 Set forth below is information regarding the numbers of claims and paid claim amounts reported and paid for high layer excess casualty insurance for December 31, 2000 through December 31, 2003: Number of cumulative claims reported as of December 31, 2000 88 Number of claims reported during 2001 16 Number of claims reported during 2002 36 Number of claims reported during 2003 28 Number of cumulative claims reported as of December 31, 2003 168 (U.S. dollars in milli\ons) Cumulative claims paid as of December 31, 2000 $2,186 Amount of claims paid during 2001 126 Cumulative claims paid as of December 31, 2001 2,312 Amount of claims paid during 2002 162 Cumulative claims paid as of December 31, 2002 2,474 Amount of claims paid during 2003 193 Cumulative claims paid as of December 31, 2003 $2,668 As at December 31, 2003 and 2002, the Companys reported claims for its high layer excess casualty business were 32 and 31 shock losses, 57 and 51 non shock losses and 84 and 63 professional liability losses, respectively. The amounts disclosed above relating to the Companys high layer excess business include information from the Companys subsidiaries that predominantly write high excess casualty insurance business. Other subsidiaries may write high excess casualty insurance business from time to time. Casualty reinsurance business involves reserving methods that generally include historical aggregated claim information as reported by ceding companies, combined with the results of claims and underwriting reviews of a sample of the ceding companys claims and underwriting files. Therefore, the Company does not ordinarily receive detailed claim information for this line of business. Discontinued asbestos and long tail environment business had been previously written by NAC Re (now known as XL Reinsurance America, Inc), prior to its acquisition by the Company, see Item 8, Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Except for certain workers compensation and long term disability liabilities, the Company does not discount its unpaid losses and loss expenses. The Company utilizes tabular reserving for workers compensation and long term disability unpaid losses that are considered fixed and determinable, and discounts such losses using an interest rate of 5% at December 31, 2003 and 7% at December 31, 2002. The interest rate approximates the average yield to maturity on specific fixed income investments that support these liabilities. A 1% reduction in the interest rate would increase unpaid loss and loss expense reserves and net incurred loss and loss expenses by approximately $24.0 million and $22.0 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, based on the current estimated amount and payout of the liabilities. See Item 8, Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Unpaid losses and loss expenses recoverable The establishment of unpaid loss and loss expense reserves also includes the estimation of related reinsurance recoverables. Due to the size of the gross losses arising from the September 11 event and the effect on the reinsurance industry, the Company, in addition to its normal review process, further analyzed the recoverability of these assets. In addition to the potential effect of the non recoverability of these assets from reinsurers disputing claims, the reinsurance market in general has experienced significant capital erosion as a result of underwriting and investment losses. Accordingly, there 42 is greater uncertainty regarding recoverability due to the reinsurers ability to pay. See Financial Condition and Liquidity and Item 8, Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 2) Future Policy Benefit Reserves Future policy benefit reserves relate to the Companys life and annuity operations and are estimated using assumptions for investment yields, mortality, expenses and provisions for adverse loss deviation. Interest rate volatility and mortality experience may affect the ultimate benefit payments. Most of the Companys future policy benefit reserves relate to immediate annuity portfolio reinsurance contracts under which the Company makes annuity payments throughout the term of the contract for a specified portfolio of policies. For certain of these contracts, a single premium is paid at inception of the contract by way of a transfer of cash and investments to the Company. Claims and expenses for individual policies within these annuity reinsurance contracts are projected over the lifetime of the contract to calculate a net present value of future cash flows. Assumptions for each element of the basis (mortality, expenses and interest) are determined at the time of issuance of the contract and these assumptions are locked in throughout the term of the contract unless a premium deficiency develops. The assumptions are best estimate assumptions plus provisions for adverse deviations on the key risk elements (i.e., mortality and interest). Provisions for adverse deviation are sufficient to cover reasonable deviations from the best estimate outcome of the contract. As the experience on the contracts emerges, the assumptions are reviewed. This occurs at least annually and includes both an analysis of experience and review of likely future experience. If such a review produced reserves in excess of those currently held then the locked in assumptions would be revised and a loss recognized. During the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, there were no adjustments to the locked in assumptions for any of these contracts. The future policy benefit reserves for these annuity portfolio reinsurance contracts amounted to $2.6 billion and $2.1 billion at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The Company holds the investment assets backing these liabilities. These investments are primarily fixed income securities with maturities that closely match the expected claims settlement profile. As stated above, the future policy benefit reserves include provisions for adverse deviation in excess of best estimate assumptions that amounted to approximately $125 million and $60 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The future policy benefit reserves would only be increased if these provisions for adverse deviation became insufficient in the light of emerging claims experience. The present value of future claims would increase by approximately $9 million if mortality rates were to decrease by 1% in all future years, relative to the reserving assumptions. A decrease of 0.1% in the investment yield would result in a $24 million increase in the value of future claims related to annuity portfolio reinsurance. The Company also provides reinsurance of disability income protection. The future policy benefit reserves for these contracts amounted to $90 million and $83 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The liabilities relate to in force blocks of business, comprising underlying insurance policies that provide an income if the policyholder becomes sick or disabled. The liabilities are therefore driven mainly by the rates at which policyholders become sick (where sickness is defined by the policy conditions) and by the rates at which these policyholders recover or die. A 1% increase in the morbidity rate would increase the value of future claims by approximately $0.1 million, while a 1% decrease in the mortality rate would increase the value of future claims by approximately $0.4 million. The Company also provides reinsurance of term assurance and critical illness policies. The future policy benefit reserves for these contracts amounted to $15 million and $1 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The liabilities relate to in force blocks of business, comprising underlying insurance policies that provide mainly lump sum benefits if the policyholder dies or becomes critically ill. For term assurance, the liabilities are therefore driven by the rates of mortality and for critical illness cover, the liabilities are driven predominantly by the rates at which policyholders become critically ill (as defined by the treaty conditions), i.e. the morbidity rates. A 1% increase in the mortality rate relative to the reserving assumption would increase the value of future claims by approximately $0.2 43 million, while a 1% increase in the morbidity rate would increase the value of future claims by approximately $0.6 million. The term assurance and critical illness treaties have been written using a variety of structures, some of which incur acquisition costs during an initial period. For such treaties, a deferred acquisition cost (DAC) asset has been established and an increase in future lapse rates could impact the recoverability of such costs from future premiums. The recoverability will also be influenced by the impact of lapses on future claims. An increase in the annual lapse rates by 1% could lead to a 5% 10% reduction in future margins available for amortizing the DAC asset. 3) Deposit Liabilities The Companys deposit liabilities at December 31, 2003 included both structured finite insurance and reinsurance transactions as well as funding agreements and municipal guaranteed reinvestment contracts. With regard to the structured finite insurance and reinsurance contracts, the Company uses a portfolio rate of return of equivalent duration to the liabilities in determining risk transfer. For these contracts, the initial deposit liability equals the cash received at inception. The Company has investment risk related to its ability to generate sufficient investment income to enable the total invested assets to cover the payment of the estimated ultimate liability. The Company establishes an initial accretion rate at inception of the contract. The deposit accretion rate is the rate of return required to fund expected future payment obligations (this is equivalent to the best estimates of future cash flows), which are determined actuarially based upon the nature of the underlying indemnifiable losses. This is a function of the ultimate size of such losses, the impact of the contractual limits upon indemnification of such losses, and the underlying loss settlement process which determines the timing of payments. An increase in the ultimate claims cost or accelerated claims settlement would potentially lead to an increase in the deposit liability accretion rate or lead to incurred losses if significant. The Company has not had any significant change in these assumptions during the last three years ended December 31, 2003. Interest expense related to the structured finite insurance and reinsurance contracts was $92.9 million, $65.9 million and $47.9 million was recorded related to the accretion of the deposit liabilities for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. For some of the Companys deposit liabilities the accretion rate is recorded at its contractual limit. For all other contracts, a 1% increase in the average accretion rate would result in an increase in deposit liabilities and interest expense by $11.9 million on an annualized basis. 4) Derivative Instruments The Company conducts activities in three main types of derivative instruments: credit derivatives, weather and energy derivatives and investment related derivative instruments. The estimate of fair value for credit derivatives and weather and energy derivatives requires managements judgment. These two activities are discussed below: a) Credit derivatives The Company enters into credit derivatives in connection with its financial guaranty business and the Company intends to hold these contracts to maturity. In determining fair value, management differentiates between investment and non investment grade exposures and models them separately. Management estimates fair value for investment grade exposures by monitoring changes in credit quality and selecting appropriate market indices to determine credit spread movements over the life of the contracts. The determination of the credit spread movements is the basis for calculating the fair value. For credit derivatives that are non investment grade and therefore do not have a readily determinable market value, the Company uses an alternative fair value methodology. The fair value is determined using a cash flow model developed by the Company and is dependent upon a number of factors, including changes in interest rates, future default rates, credit spreads, changes in credit quality, future expected recovery rates and other market factors. Installment premiums are also considered in the determination of discounted net cash flows. Other elements of the change in fair value are based upon pricing established at the inception of the contract. Changes in fair value are unrealized as the credit derivatives are not traded to realize this value. See Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for sensitivity analysis. 44 b) Weather and Energy derivatives The fair value of weather and energy derivatives is determined through the use of quoted market prices where available. Where quoted market prices are unavailable, the fair value is estimated using available market data and internal pricing models using consistent statistical methodologies. Estimating fair value of instruments which do not have quoted market prices requires managements judgment in determining amounts which could reasonably be expected to be received from, or paid to, a third party in settlement of the contracts. The amounts could be materially different from the amounts that might be realized in an actual sale transaction. Fair values are subject to change in the near term and reflect managements best estimate based on various factors including, but not limited to, actual and forecasted weather conditions, changes in commodity prices, changes in interest rates and other market factors. See Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk for sensitivity analysis. 5) Other Than Temporary Declines In Investments The Companys process for identifying declines in the fair value of investments that are other than temporary involves consideration of several factors. These factors include (i) the time period during which there has been a significant decline in value, (ii) an analysis of the liquidity, business prospects and financial condition of the issuer, (iii) the significance of the decline, (iv) an analysis of the collateral structure and other credit support, as applicable, of the securities in question and (v) the Companys intent and ability to hold the investment for a sufficient period of time for the value to recover. Where the Companys analysis of the above factors results in the Companys conclusion that declines in fair values are other than temporary, the cost of the security is written down to fair value and the previously unrealized loss is therefore realized in the period such determination is made. With respect to securities where the decline in value is determined to be temporary and the securitys value is not written down, a subsequent decision may be made to sell that security and realize a loss. Subsequent decisions on security sales are made within the context of overall risk monitoring, changing information, market conditions generally and assessing value relative to other comparable securities. Day to day management of the Companys investment portfolio is outsourced to third party investment managers. While these investment managers may, at a given point in time, believe that the preferred course of action is to hold securities with unrealized losses that are considered temporary until such losses are recovered, the dynamic nature of the portfolio management may result in a subsequent decision to sell the security and realize the loss, based upon a change in market and other factors described above. The Company believes that subsequent decisions to sell such securities are consistent with the classification of the Companys portfolio as available for sale. As mentioned above, the Company considers its intent and ability to hold a security until the value recovers as part of the process of evaluating whether a security with an unrealized loss represents an other than temporary decline. However, this factor on its own does not dictate whether or not the Company recognizes an impairment charge. The Company believes its ability to hold such securities is supported by positive and sufficient cash flow from its operations in order to meet its claims payment obligations arising from its underwriting operations without selling such investments. In this regard, cash flow from operating activities was $3.4 billion and $3.0 billion in 2003 and 2002, respectively. There are risks and uncertainties associated with determining whether declines in the fair value of investments are other than temporary. These include subsequent significant changes in general economic conditions as well as specific business conditions affecting particular issuers, subjective assessment of issue specific factors (seniority of claims, collateral value, etc.), future financial market effects, stability of foreign governments and economies, future rating agency actions and significant disclosure of accounting, fraud or corporate governance issues that may adversely affect certain investments. In addition, significant assumptions and management judgment are involved in determining if the decline is other than temporary. If management determines that a decline in fair value is temporary then a securitys value is not written down at that time, however, there are potential effects upon the Companys future earnings and financial position should management later conclude that some of the current declines in the fair value of the investments are other than temporary declines. See Investment Activities Unrealized Losses on Investments for further information.45 6) Income Taxes The Company utilizes the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. The Company has capitalized net operating tax losses of $225.2 million and $296.0 million against which a valuation allowance of $18.3 million and $50.6 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, has been established. The deferral of benefits from tax losses is evaluated based upon managements estimates of the future profitability of the Companys taxable entities based on current forecasts and the period for which losses may be carried forward. A valuation allowance may have to be established for any portion of a deferred tax asset that management believes will not be realized. Should the future income of these entities fall below expectations, a further valuation allowance would have to be established, which could be significant. In addition, if any further losses are generated by these entities, these losses may not be tax effected. Effective as of January 1, 2004, XL Re America Inc (XLRA), a subsidiary of the Company, entered into an adverse development reinsurance treaty with another reinsurance subsidiary of the Company. The treaty related to the 1985 through (and including) 2001 underwriting years covering any adverse development on reserves calculated as of December 31, 2003 between January 1, 2004 and December 31, 2005. The treaty has a limit of $500 million and will limit future loss development at XLRA relating to these underwriting years. Any commutation of this treaty requires the prior approval of the New York Department of Insurance. There is no impact of this treaty on the consolidated financial statements of the Company, however as part of managements continuing evaluation of its deferred tax asset, the treaty is critical in evaluating the future income position of the U.S. group of companies. Management believes that the treaty will protect the U.S. group from unexpected prior loss development. Absent unexpected loss development from the 2001 and prior underwriting years, management has concluded that there is sufficient positive evidence of future profitability in the U.S. and that a valuation allowance as a charge against the deferred tax asset is not required at this time. See further information under Other Revenues and Expenses and Item 8, Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 7) Intangible Assets Intangible assets are carried at or below estimated fair value. There are many assumptions and estimates underlying the fair value calculation. Principally, the Company identifies the business entity that the intangible asset is attributed to, reviews historical and forecasted performance and other underlying factors affecting such analysis, including market conditions, premium rates and loss trends. Other assumptions used could produce a significantly different result which may result in a change in the value of the intangible asset and amortization charge in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Based on the current expectations of profitability, an impairment charge would only be recognized in the event of a significant decline in the expected profitability of those operations where such intangible assets are applicable. At December 31, 2003, intangible assets were $1.8 billion of which approximately $1.35 billion and $455.5 million related to the Companys reinsurance and insurance segments, respectively. See Other Revenue and Expenses for further information. 8) Winterthur International Acquisition In connection with its acquisition of Winterthur International in July 2001 in an all cash transaction, the Company has recorded a net recoverable from Winterthur Swiss Insurance Company (the Seller) of $740.9 million at December 31, 2003 based on provisions of the sale and purchase agreement between the parties (SPA). The amount of this recoverable remains subject to change pending expiration of the three year seasoning period due to close on June 30, 2004. The SPA provides the Company with post closing protection with respect to adverse development of loss and unearned premium reserves relating to the acquired Winterthur International operations. This protection is based upon net loss development over a three year post closing seasoning period based on loss experience, collectible reinsurance, reinsurance recoveries and certain other factors set forth in the SPA. See Financial Condition and Liquidity for further informa 46 tion. The SPA provides for independent actuarial determination should the Seller and the Company disagree on the final amounts due thereunder. The Company may recognize an impairment if the amount determined to be due to the Company is less than the carrying value of the SPA recovery balance deemed due from the Seller or to the extent that any amount proves to be uncollectible from the Seller for any reason. 9) Variable Interest Entities The Company utilizes variable interest entities both directly and indirectly in the ordinary course of business. The Company must assess consolidation of variable interest entities based on whether the Company is the primary beneficiary of the entity. The company that absorbs a majority of the expected losses or residual rewards of the entity is deemed to be the primary beneficiary and is therefore required to consolidate the entity. The determination of expected losses and expected residual returns requires the Company to estimate the expected cash flows of the entities and measure the expected variability of these cash flows. The use of different assumptions to determine the expected cash flows and variability could affect the Companys determination of the primary beneficiary. The assumptions used to determine the expected cash flows depends on the type of structure and the nature of the Companys variable interest. The Company has made assumptions primarily regarding default rates, the timing of defaults and recovery rates to estimate these expected cash flows of the variable interest entities that it utilizes. Segments The Company is organized into three underwriting segments insurance, reinsurance, and financial products and services and a corporate segment, which includes the investment operations of the Company. See Item 1 and Item 8, Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. The Companys business is conducted on a global basis where several of its subsidiaries operate in foreign currencies that are the base currency of that entity. Under U.S. GAAP, revenues and expenses of those operations are translated into the U.S. dollar at average exchange rates during the year and assets and liabilities at exchange rates at the end of the year. In 2003 and 2002, with the decline in value of U.S. dollar against several currencies, including U.K. sterling, Swiss franc and the Euro, this has resulted in revenues and expenses translated into higher U.S. dollar values. This should be considered when making period to period comparisons. Insurance The following table summarizes the underwriting profit for this segment: % Change % Change (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2003 03 vs 02 2002 02 vs 01 2001 General: Gross premiums written $5,221,316 15.0% $4,539,186 61.4% $2,812,979 Net premiums written 3,725,208 16.1% 3,207,292 81.2% 1,770,376 Net premiums earned $3,640,330 28.5% $2,832,298 66.5% $1,700,802 Fee income and other 13,670 (62.8)% 36,717 100.0% 18,358 Net losses and loss expenses 2,379,499 34.3% 1,771,982 21.3% 1,461,304 Acquisition costs 542,149 13.3% 478,548 39.4% 343,247 Operating expenses 412,540 8.3% 380,901 89.7% 200,745 Exchange (gains) losses (7,858) NM (56,515) NM 8,122 Underwriting profit (loss) $ 327,670 11.4% $ 294,099 NM $ (294,258) NM Not Meaningful 47 Gross and net premiums written increased in the year ended December 31, 2003 compared with 2002 primarily due to significant pricing increases across most lines of business and new business written. The largest pricing increases in 2003 were in the professional liability, other casualty and aviation lines of business. Partially offsetting the growth in net premiums written in 2003 was a reduction related to the non renewal of specialty workers compensation and certain Lloyds international programs. Gross and net premiums written increased in 2002 over 2001 primarily due to the acquisition of Winterthur International, effective July 1, 2001 whereby only half a year of premium written was included in 2001 and significant price increases in 2002 compared with 2001. Net premiums earned increased in each of the three years ended December 31, 2003 due to the increases in net premium written in the current and prior year. Casualty insurance net premiums earned increased from $1.36 billion in the 2002 to $1.96 billion in 2003. Net premiums earned by the Winterthur International operations were $779.5 million in 2002 as compared to $353.1 million in 2001. This increase is due primarily to the inclusion of a full year of net premiums earned related to Winterthur International in 2002. Net premiums earned are expected to increase in 2004 mainly due to the growth in net premiums written during 2003. Fee income and other decreased in 2003 as compared to 2002 and increased in 2002 as compared to 2001 primarily due to $21.0 million of contingent income received in the fourth quarter of 2002 that related to a sale in 1999 of the motor business written by the Companys Lloyds syndicates. In addition, at the end of 2002, the Company discontinued certain consulting and administration services related to the Winterthur International operations for employee benefit plans of unrelated companies. Exchange gains in 2003 and 2002 were primarily due to a decline in the value of the U.S. dollar against U.K. sterling and Swiss franc in those operations that have monetary assets and liabilities denominated in these foreign currencies. The gain in 2003 was partially reduced by a hedge put in place by the Company in February 2003 to cover part of its exposure to a U.K sterling reinsurance recoverable balance. The increase in the underwriting profit in 2003 as compared with 2002 and 2002 as compared with 2001 is also reflective of the combined ratios as shown below. The following table presents the ratios for this segment for each of the three years ended December 31: 2003 2002 2001 Loss and loss expense ratio 65.4% 62.6% 85.9% Underwriting expense ratio 26.2% 30.3% 32.0% Combined ratio 91.6% 92.9% 117.9% The loss and loss expense ratio includes net losses incurred for both the current year and any adverse or favorable prior year development of loss and loss reserves held at the beginning of the year. The loss ratio was higher in 2003 as compared to 2002 due primarily to an increase in the net adverse development of prior year loss reserves that was partially offset by a relatively lower level of current year loss activity with the positive effect of continued pricing increases and improved terms and conditions across most lines written. The loss ratio was lower in 2002 as compared with 2001 due primarily to the September 11 event. 48 The following tables present the prior year adverse or favorable development of the Companys gross and net loss and loss expense reserves for its insurance operations: Gross(U.S. dollars in millions) 2003 2002 2001 Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves at the beginning of the year $8,103 $7,834 $3,046 Net adverse development of those reserves during the year 1,055 54 69 Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves re estimated one year later $9,158 $7,888 $3,115 Net(U.S. dollars in millions) 2003 2002 2001 Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves at the beginning of the year $4,771 $4,680 $2,457 Net adverse (favorable) development of those reserves during the year 153 28 (78) Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves re estimated one year later $4,924 $4,708 $2,379 During 2003, the Companys net adverse prior year development of $153 million was due primarily to increases in previously reported case reserves for excess professional liability lines of $143 million for the underwriting years 1997 through 2001. These increases in reported case reserves exceeded the Companys expected losses based on historical patterns of loss development. Specifically, the increase related to reported case reserves for directors and officers and errors and omissions coverages. During 2003, there was an increase in the amount of litigation related to certain losses. In addition, there was adverse development of $37 million related to environmental business primarily for professional liability coverage underwritten in 2000 and 2001 that was offset by favorable development of $27 million primarily in aviation, property, marine and energy coverages. The Company did not change its methodology or key assumptions used in 2003, 2002 or 2001 to determine ultimate loss reserves for any line of insurance business written. During 2003, the Companys net adverse development of its gross reserves exceeded its net reserve adverse development due principally to an increase in prior year reserves related to Winterthur International. The Company has protection with respect to any adverse development of loss and unearned premium reserves related to the acquired Winterthur International operations with effect from July 1, 2001 under the SPA with the Seller, and has recorded a recoverable of the same amount. See Financial Condition and Liquidity and Item 8, Note 6(b) to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. During 2002, the Companys net adverse prior year development of $28 million was comprised of an increase in loss reserves of $73 million relating to the September 11 event that was partially offset by a net decrease in the other reserves of $45 million. In 2002, the increase in the estimate of the ultimate losses relating to the September 11 event of $73 million related primarily to the accident and health business written in the Companys Lloyds operations. The Company had originally recorded ultimate losses for the September 11 event in the insurance segment of $318 million in 2001 based on managements best estimate at that time. This best estimate was based on an analysis which had been performed to attempt to identify all possible claims and to analyze the magnitude of the potential loss. The increase in the loss reserves occurred in the second quarter of 2002 after the Company received additional information from policyholders with regard to claims relating to their insured employee casualties, including estimates of benefits payable under U.S. workers compensation statutes.49 During 2002, the Company decreased the estimate of other reserves at the beginning of 2002 by a net amount of $45 million, consisting of a decrease in reserves relating to the excess casualty insurance business of $114 million partially offset by increases in prior year reserves for satellite lines of $30 million and other casualty insurance lines of $39 million. Estimated ultimate loss reserves were reduced for excess casualty insurance based upon lower than expected actual reported loss experience for business written in years 1997 and prior. A lack of available industry data resulted in more actuarial judgment being involved in establishing IBNR loss reserves for this line of business in the earlier years, as mentioned above under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Unpaid losses and loss expenses and unpaid loss and loss expenses recoverable. Estimated loss reserves are then regularly updated to take into account actual claims reported. The adverse development experienced in the satellite lines was due to several satellite malfunctions that caused an increase in actual reported loss activity that was greater than expected. The adverse development for the other casualty lines was for business written in 1999 through 2001. In these years, premium rates for casualty business had declined due to competitive market pressures and in 2002, there was an increase in the size of claims reported that was higher than expected. During 2001, the net favorable prior year loss development of $78 million related principally to the Companys excess casualty insurance business. 2001 favorable development related to business written in 1994 through 1997. Similar to 2002, favorable development was due primarily to judgment required in establishing reserves for this line of business due to the lack of industry data available as described above. There is no assurance that conditions and trends that have affected the development of liabilities in the past will continue. Accordingly, it may not be appropriate to extrapolate future redundancies or deficiencies based on the Companys historical results. The decrease in the underwriting expense ratio in 2003 from 2002 is due to a reduction in the acquisition expense ratio of 2.0% (14.9% as compared to 16.9%) and a reduction in the operating expense ratio of 2.1% (11.3% as compared to 13.4%). The reduction in the acquisition expense ratio is due primarily to lower commission and brokerage costs in a favorable underwriting market on certain lines of business and where there has been a change in the mix of business earned. The reduction in the operating expense ratio is due to the growth in net premiums earned where the amount of net premiums earned has increased more than the amount of increase in operating expenses, which is due primarily to the growth in the segment operations. The decrease in the underwriting expense ratio in 2002 over 2001 is due to a reduction in the acquisition expense ratio that was partially offset by an increase in the operating expense ratio. The acquisition expense ratio decreased due to a change in the mix of business earned where there has been an increase in certain lines which typically carry a lower commission and brokerage cost. In addition, 2001 net premiums earned were reduced by $25.3 million related to the September 11 event that contributed to higher ratios in 2001. Operating expenses included $181.6 million and $69.8 million in 2002 and 2001, respectively, relating to the operations of Winterthur International. This increase reflects a full year of Winterthur Internationals results in 2002 as well as costs associated with the building and integration of their infrastructure. In addition, 2002 was also affected by an increase in operating expenses at the Companys Lloyds operations, where the Company has owned 100% of the syndicate capacity since January 1, 2002. 50 Reinsurance Reinsurance General Operations The following table summarizes the underwriting results for the general operations of this segment: % Change % Change (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2003 03 vs 02 2002 02 vs 01 2001 Gross premiums written $3,402,764 7.2% $3,174,819 74.6% $1,818,491 Net premiums written 2,827,072 10.2% 2,564,334 150.1% 1,021,668 Net premiums earned $2,440,703 18.1% $2,066,775 100.7% 1,029,618 Fee income and other 25,240 125.3% 11,201 256.0% (7,180) Net losses and loss expenses 2,197,357 41.1% 1,557,065 9.0% 1,428,772 Acquisition costs 555,431 22.3% 454,300 55.5% 292,069 Operating expenses 151,332 37.8% 109,796 26.0% 87,169 Exchange (gains) losses (26,390) 10.9% (23,787) NM 4,062 Underwriting loss $ (411,787) NM $ (19,398) NM $ (789,634) Gross premiums written increased 7.2% in 2003 as compared to 2002 due mainly to new business written and increases in premium rates, primarily in casualty and international property lines. This increase was partially offset by some cancellations in treaty renewals on certain contracts in 2003 and also a reduction of $18.0 million in 2003 of reinstatement premiums related to the release of loss reserves for the September 11 event, discussed further below. Gross premiums written increased 74.6% in 2002 as compared to 2001 due primarily to new business written, premium rate increases and the acquisition of Le Mans R, now known as XL Re Europe, which had gross premiums written of $307.3 million and which was consolidated into the Companys results with effect from January 1, 2002. This was partially offset by the inclusion of reinstatement premiums of $147.9 million in 2001 related to losses arising from the September 11 event. Net premiums earned in 2003 increased 18.1% as compared to 2002 due primarily to growth in net premiums written in 2003 and 2002. Casualty reinsurance net premiums earned were $971.2 million in 2003 as compared to $792.6 million in 2002. Net premiums earned in 2002 also increased as compared to 2001 due to new business written and pricing increases, In addition, 2002 included net premiums earned of $241.5 million related to XL Re Europe. Further, net premiums earned in 2001 were also reduced by $120.4 million of net reinstatement premiums related to the September 11 event. Fee income and other relates primarily to fees earned on deposit liability contracts which are earned based on individual underlying contractual terms and conditions. The increase in 2003 as compared to 2002 is due to the reassessment and reduction of the risk period related to one contract, and accordingly is not expected to reoccur in 2004. Fee income and other in 2002 relates primarily to the earning of fees on two deposit liability contracts that were commuted in the second and third quarters of 2002. Fee income and other in 2001 was negative due to non underwriting costs for an outward reinsurance contract. There were no significant catastrophic loss events affecting the Company in 2003 or 2002. In 2001 other current year loss events, excluding the September 11 event, totaled approximately $93.0 million. Property catastrophe business has loss experience that is generally categorized as low frequency but high severity in nature. This may result in volatility in the Companys financial results for any fiscal year or quarter. 51 The following table presents the underwriting ratios for this segment: 2003 2002 2001 Loss and loss expense ratio 90.0% 75.3% 138.8% Underwriting expense ratio 29.0% 27.3% 36.8% Combined ratio 119.0% 102.6% 175.6% The loss and loss expense ratio includes net losses incurred for both the current year and any adverse or favorable prior year development of loss reserves held at the beginning of the year. The loss and loss expense ratio increased in 2003 as compared to 2002 due primarily to net adverse development of prior year loss reserves primarily related to the Companys North American casualty business written during the 1997 through 2001 underwriting years. See further discussion below. The loss ratio was lower in the year ended December 31, 2002 as compared to 2001 due primarily to a relatively lower level of current year loss activity in 2002 and the positive effect of pricing increases across most lines written. Current year loss activity in 2001 included $442.1 million of net losses incurred relating to the September 11 event. The increase in the underwriting expense ratio in 2003 as compared with 2002 was due to an increase in the acquisition expense ratio of 0.8% and operating expense ratio of 0.9%. The increase in the acquisition expense ratio was due primarily to higher ceding company profit commissions payable and a change in the mix of net premiums earned. The operating expense ratio increased due primarily to a reduction of operating expenses in 2002 of approximately $8.0 million in recognition of a curtailment gain on a Company pension plan in the U.S. The underwriting expense ratio in 2001 was affected by the negative impact of the September 11 event reinstatement premiums on net premiums earned. Excluding the effect of the reinstatement premiums the underwriting expense ratio would have been 33.0% in 2001 as compared to 27.3% in 2002. The reduction in the underwriting expense ratio in 2002 was due primarily to a change in the mix of business in net premiums earned where certain lines had a lower commission rate and also due to the growth in net premiums earned being greater than the growth in operating expenses. Operating expenses generally do not change in direct proportion to changes in net premiums earned, particularly where they are due to price changes. Partially offsetting this was a reduction in 2001 of approximately $7.0 million related to certain compensation expenses accrued in previous years. Exchange gains in 2003 and 2002 were mainly attributable to a decline in the value of the U.S. dollar against U.K. sterling and the Euro in those operations that write business globally. The following tables present the adverse prior year development of the Companys gross and net loss and loss expense reserves for its reinsurance general operations: Gross(U.S. dollars in millions) 2003 2002 2001 Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves at the beginning of the year $5,062 $3,947 $2,614 Net adverse development of those reserves during the year 821 504 381 Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves re estimated one year later $5,883 $4,451 $2,995 52 Net(U.S. dollars in millions) 2003 2002 2001 Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves at the beginning of the year $3,588 $2,467 $1,863 Net adverse development of those reserves during the year 799 385 253 Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves re estimated one year later $4,387 $2,852 $2,116 The following is an analysis of the net adverse prior year development during each of the three years ended December 31, 2003 : Net(U.S. dollars in millions) 2003 2002 2001 September 11 event reserves $(197) $127 $ Other reinsurance reserves 996 258 253 Total net adverse prior year development $ 799 $385 $253 In the fourth quarter 2003, the Company reduced aviation loss reserves related to the September 11 event by $197 million. This reduction in reserves was due to higher than expected levels of participation (97%) in the September 11 Victim Compensation Fund, a no fault compensation scheme funded by the U.S. government, which closed on December 22, 2003. This resulted in a reduction in the estimated ultimate losses by the Company for this event. During 2003, the Company increased its estimated reserves related to its reinsurance segment (excluding the September 11 event) by $996 million of which approximately $877 million related primarily to the Companys North American reinsurance operations for casualty business underwritten during the 1997 through 2001 underwriting years. Of the $877 million, $184 million was recorded in the third quarter of 2003 and $663 million in the fourth quarter of 2003 as described below. The main lines of business affected by this adverse development included general liability, medical malpractice, professional and surety lines. As previously noted, the Companys expected loss development is actuarially determined based on historical claims analysis and projected trends. Actual reported losses may vary from expected loss development from quarter to quarter. Generally, as an underwriting year matures, the level of newly reported claims decreases and typically, unless the Company receives additional reported claims that are significantly higher or lower than expected, estimated ultimate loss reserves are not adjusted prior to a full actuarial review. In the third quarter of 2003, the Company received a significant increase in reported claims that were in excess of the Companys expected claims development. In addition, the Company completed an actuarial review for the longer tail lines of this book of business, using data evaluated at March 31, 2003. As a result, the Company recorded an increase in loss reserves of $184.0 million in the third quarter of 2003. This adverse development has been due to several factors competitive market pressures on pricing during these underwriting years caused premium rates for excess casualty business to decline industry wide and there has been an increase in the number and size of claims reported in recent years as a result of increases in court filings, corporate scandals, rising tort costs and settlement awards. As a result of this increase in prior period loss reserves in the third quarter of 2003, the Company completed an extensive claims audit review at the relevant ceding companies in order to obtain information to more accurately determine an estimate of the ultimate loss reserves for this book of business. The claims audit review included both internal and external resources, a comprehensive claims audit of the largest and most significant ceding companies, and a review of loss ratios and reserve analysis procedures. Additional case reserves and potential additional loss exposure were identified during the review and upon completion of the claims review, the Company recorded a further increase to net loss reserves of $663.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2003 primarily related to the Companys North American casualty 53 reinsurance business written in the 1997 through 2001 underwriting years. This comprised additional case reserves of $124.0 million and an increase in IBNR reserves of $539.0 million. As a result of the new information obtained in the claims audit review, the Company changed its actuarial methodology and key assumptions for determining ultimate loss reserves. The Company separately reviewed the historical loss development of its major cedents using several actuarial methodologies; where the analysis of a cedents experience concluded that the experience was worse than the Companys historical loss development experience, the Company projected that cedents ultimate loss based on the cedents own experience. In addition, the Company assumed that the more recent experience was more indicative of future loss development by selecting development patterns that were based on the most recent experience rather than on the Companys longer term historical experience. Prior year reserves also developed adversely on certain other casualty business written in the 1998 through 2001 underwriting years outside of North America. These exposures were affected by trends similar to those as described above for the North American casualty reinsurance operations. The casualty exposures underwritten in these entities were much less than those of the North American operations so the impact on the prior year reserves was relatively smaller. In the second quarter 2002, the Company increased its estimated loss reserves for the September 11 event by $127 million due primarily to higher than originally estimated business interruption losses and exposure to potential claims by the Lloyds Central Guaranty Fund. The increase followed an analysis of additional new information received from the Companys ceding companies with regard to their increased estimates of claims relating to their exposures to the September 11 event. During 2001, the Company had recorded incurred losses for the September 11 event for its reinsurance operations of $442 million. Due to the size and complexity of the loss and the time lag in ceding companies reporting the information to the Company, establishing reserves for this loss within a short time period was difficult. The increase in estimate for all other reinsurance reserves in 2002 and 2001 of $258 million and $253 million, respectively, also related principally to losses on business written in 1997 through (and including) 2000 in the Companys U.S. casualty reinsurance business and for asbestos losses in years prior to 1985. The increase in 2002 was partially offset by decreases in estimates for losses related to business written in 1985 through 1996 in these same lines of business. The increases in 2002 and 2001 were also due to increases in reported claims that were in excess of the Companys expected loss development for this business from higher court settlement awards. The Company did not change its methodology or key assumptions for determining ultimate loss reserves in 2002 or 2001. During 2003, the Company reviewed its actual reported loss experience for asbestos and environmental claims for its 1985 and prior exposures. The actual loss experience was consistent with assumptions established in the Companys 2002 review and therefore there was no adverse prior year development of the Companys asbestos and environmental reserves in 2003. The reserves for these exposures represented less than 1% of the Companys total unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2003. The Company updated its assumptions for asbestos loss reserves in 2002 to take account of an increase in 2002 in the number and size of the ultimate asbestos claims that the Company anticipates on the policies underwritten during the years 1972 through 1985. These changes were based on recent increases in court filings and settlements on behalf of asbestos claimants and bankruptcies of asbestos defendants which tend to shift liabilities to other parties. The Companys increase of $30 million in 2002 increased its total net reserves for asbestos and environmental exposures to $66 million. The Company utilizes industry standard asbestos and environmental claims models to estimate its ultimate liability for these exposures. As of December 31, 2003, the Company had approximately 594 open claim files for potential asbestos exposures and 490 open claim files for potential environmental exposures on business written prior to 1986. Approximately 43% in 2003 and 44% of the open claim files for both 2002 and 2001 are due to precautionary claim notices. Precautionary claim notices are submitted by the ceding companies in order to preserve their right to receive coverage under the 54 reinsurance contract. Such notices do not contain an incurred loss amount to the Company. The development of the number of open claim files for potential asbestos and environmental claims is as follows: Asbestos Environmental Claims Claims Total number of claims outstanding at December 31, 2000 374 613 New claims reported in 2001 122 33 Claims resolved in 2001 43 103 Total number of claims outstanding at December 31, 2001 453 543 New claims reported in 2002 117 42 Claims resolved in 2002 33 70 Total number of claims outstanding at December 31, 2002 537 515 New claims reported in 2003 205 49 Claims resolved in 2003 148 74 Total number of claims outstanding at December 31, 2003 594 490 The Companys exposure to asbestos and environmental claims arises from policies written, both on a proportional and excess basis, after 1972. The Company discontinued writing policies with these exposures in 1985. Business written was across many different policies, each with a relatively small contract limit. The Companys recently reported asbestos claims related to both traditional products and premises and operations coverage. The estimation of loss and loss expense liabilities for asbestos and environmental exposures is subject to much greater uncertainty than is normally associated with the establishment of liabilities for certain other exposures due to several factors, including: (i) uncertain legal interpretation and application of insurance and reinsurance coverage and liability; (ii) the lack of reliability of available historical claims data as an indicator of future claims development; (iii) an uncertain political climate which may impact, among other areas, the nature and amount of costs for remediating waste sites; and (iv) the potential of insurers and reinsurers to reach agreements in order to avoid further significant legal costs. Due to the potential significance of these uncertainties, the Company believes that no meaningful range of loss and loss expense liabilities beyond recorded reserves can be established. As the Companys net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves related to asbestos and environmental exposures are less than 1% of the total net reserves at December 31, 2003, further adverse development is not expected to be material to the Companys overall net loss reserves. See Item 8, Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. The Company believes it has made reasonable provision for its asbestos and environmental exposures and is unaware of any specific issues that would significantly affect its estimate for loss and loss expenses. During 2001, the Companys prior estimate of the year end net reserves increased by $253 million. The increase in 2001 related principally to loss estimates for losses occurring in 1998 through (and including) 2000 related to the Companys casualty reinsurance business. The reasons were the same as those explained above. The Company did not change its methodology or key assumptions in 2001. 55 Reinsurance Life and Annuity Operations The following table summarizes the net income (loss) from life and annuity operations of this segment: % Change % Change (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2003 03 vs 02 2002 02 vs 01 2001 Gross premiums written $673,027 (32.9)% $1,003,154 44.2% $695,595 Net premiums written 655,986 (33.0)% 979,825 40.8% 695,595 Net premiums earned $664,612 (32.2)% $ 980,387 40.9% $695,595 Fee income and other 599 NM 2 NM Claims and policy benefits 750,663 (27.0)% 1,027,981 47.1% 698,675 Acquisition costs 33,090 157.7% 12,839 NM Operating expenses 9,019 54.3% 5,844 NM Net investment income 139,241 52.3% 91,451 NM Exchange gains (4,371) NM NM Net income (loss) $ 16,051 (36.2)% $ 25,176 NM $ (3,080) Life gross and net premiums written, net premiums earned and claims and policy benefits in the three years ended December 31, 2003 included the assumption of the following long duration annuity portfolios: 1. Fourth quarter of 2003 two portfolios, one U.K. and one European, for a total of approximately $390.0 million. 2. Third quarter of 2002 one U.K. portfolio of approximately $762.7 million 3. Fourth quarter of 2001 one European portfolio of approximately $549.3 million The Company acquired cash and investment assets related to the future policy benefit reserves assumed at inception of these large contracts. While the Company expects to write more of these contracts, the frequency of these transactions will likely continue to be irregular. Excluding these large contracts, net premiums earned in life reinsurance increased in 2003 compared with 2002 and 2002 compared with 2001 as the Company expanded its life and annuity reinsurance operations in Europe, as well as new annuity business and term life assurance business in 2003. Acquisition costs, operating expenses and net investment income increased in 2003 as compared to 2002 in line with the expansion of this business. Net investment income is included in the calculation of net income from life operations as it relates to income earned on portfolios of separately identified and managed life investment assets and other allocated assets. The accretion of the related future policy benefit reserves is included in claims and policy benefits. 56 Financial Products and Services Financial Products and Services Financial Operations The following table summarizes the underwriting results for this segment: % Change % Change (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2003 03 vs 02 2002 02 vs 01 2001 Gross premiums written $313,916 57.0% $199,913 112.2% $94,197 Net premiums written 299,240 68.3% 177,794 103.6% 87,327 Net premiums earned $139,622 106.1% $ 67,745 82.5% $37,113 Fee income and other 1,990 (71.7)% 7,043 7,069 Net losses and loss expenses 33,750 NM (1,732) (111.4)% 15,155 Acquisition costs 19,066 97.7% 9,644 158.6% 3,730 Operating expenses 50,147 16.4% 43,068 40.6% 30,636 Exchange losses NM 8 NM Underwriting profit (loss) $ 38,649 62.4% $ 23,800 NM $ (5,339) Investment income financial guarantee 23,273 (10.4)% 25,962 5.2% 24,670 Net realized and unrealized gains on weather and energy derivative instruments 1,103 (93.3)% 16,607 0.3% 16,556 Operating expenses weather and energy 21,837 46.8% 14,875 50.0% 9,916 Equity in net income of financial affiliates 37,108 NM 5,166 (22.5)% 6,663 Minority interest 11,424 9.6% 10,424 212.7% 3,333 Net realized and unrealized losses on credit derivatives (1) (25,787) (44.1)% (46,137) 137.5% (19,426) Net contribution from financial operations $ 41,085 NM $ 99 99.0% $ 9,875 (1) In 2003, the Company has reclassified all credit derivatives from the general operations insurance segment into the financial products and services segment. Prior period information has been reclassified to conform to current year presentation. There was no net income impact of this change in presentation. Gross and net premiums written increased in 2003 as compared to 2002, and 2002 as compared to 2001 primarily due to new financial guaranty business written. The growth in net premiums earned in 2003 as compared to 2002 was greater than the increase in net premiums written over the same period. This is due to net premiums that were earned from business written in the current and prior years that earn out over the life of the underlying exposures, which are typically longer than the risk periods related to the Companys insurance and reinsurance general operations. Fee income and other in 2002 and 2001 related primarily to liquidity facility fees earned from one of the Companys financial guaranty contracts. In 2003, fee income primarily related to an early termination fee received on one financial guaranty contract. Fee income and other is expected to decrease in 2004 as early terminations are not anticipated. 57 As with the Companys property and casualty insurance and reinsurance operations, net losses and loss expenses include current year net losses incurred and adverse or favorable development of prior year net loss and loss expenses reserves. In 2002, net losses incurred were negative due to favorable development of prior year loss and loss expense reserves, described below. The following tables present the favorable development of the Companys gross and net loss and loss expense reserves for its general financial products and services operations: Gross and Net (U.S. dollars in millions) 2003 2002 2001 Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves at the beginning of the year $ 36 $ 26 $12 Net adverse (favorable) development of those reserves during the year (15) (13) Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves re estimated one year later $ 21 $ 13 $12 The Company commenced writing financial guaranty business in 1998 and had relied entirely upon industry data to establish reserves until the end of 2001. In 2002, the Company refined its assumptions to take into account its actual historical loss experience and revised its estimated claim reporting pattern for the IBNR losses that the Company records during each loss year. The Company uses this expected loss reporting pattern, combined with changes in reported losses, to determine the prior year development amount. Using the new methodology developed in 2002, actual reported loss development was less than expected in 2003, resulting in a release of prior period reserves of $15 million. In 2002, reported losses for this business were also less than expected and with the refinement in assumptions resulted in a decrease in the estimate of reserves for prior years of $13 million. In 2001, the Company did not change its prior year loss reserves because it did not have sufficient Company specific loss experience data available to justify amending the Companys initial assumptions. In 2002, acquisition costs as a percentage of net premiums earned increased as compared to 2001, due to an increase in ceding commissions paid, lower reinsurance commissions received and increased amortization of deferred underwriting expenses. Operating expenses increased in 2003 as compared to 2002 and 2002 as compared to 2001 due to expansion of all activities in the segment. Net investment income related to the financial guaranty business decreased in 2003 as compared to 2002 due primarily to a decline in general market interest rates. The net realized and unrealized gains on weather and energy risk management derivative instruments were lower in 2003 as compared to 2002 primarily due to losses from natural gas based exposures in 2003 that was partially offset by a positive mark to market adjustment in weather based exposures. In 2003, the energy group established and traded financial gas positions in the U.S. natural gas markets but at year end December 31, 2003, both the positions and activity were significantly reduced and future participation is expected to be limited. Equity in net income of financial affiliates increased in 2003 as compared to 2002 due primarily to increased earnings of $29.6 million from the Companys investment in Primus Guaranty, Ltd (Primus), which specializes in providing credit risk protection through credit derivatives. Primus had growth in underlying business written and a positive mark to mark adjustment of approximately $19.0 million due to a significant narrowing of credit spreads in the second and third quarters of 2003 relative to spreads when the protection was originally sold. The increase in minority interest in 2003 and 2002 is due to an increase in the profitability of XL Financial Assurance Ltd., of which 15% is held by a minority shareholder. The Companys credit derivative transactions relate primarily to financial guaranty coverage that is written in swap form and pertains to tranches of collateralized debt obligations and asset backed securities, particularly the higher rated tranches with 83% covering A to AAA tranches at December 31, 2003. Prior to January 1, 2003, the Companys credit derivative transactions written at primary layers on a partially funded or finite basis were included in the insurance segment. Effective January 1, 2003 the Company has managed all credit default swap transactions in this segment and prior 58 period results have been amended to conform to this change. The Company had net realized and unrealized losses of $25.8 million, $46.1 million and $19.4 million in the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively, related to the fair value adjustment for credit derivatives. These losses are mainly unrealized and related to the deterioration of credit quality for certain credit pools, widespread ratings downgrades of corporate obligors, and certain specific credit events reported in the year on a small number of transactions. The year ended December 31, 2002 was also affected by a significant widening of credit spreads. The Company continues to monitor its credit exposures and establish reserves as required. Financial Products and Services Life and Annuity Operations The following table summarizes the net income from life and annuity operations of this segment: % Change % Change (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2003 03 vs 02 2002 02 vs 01 2001 Gross premiums written $95,062 37.6% $69,094 NM Net premiums written 83,883 91.6% 43,779 NM Net premiums earned $83,883 96.9% $42,605 NM Fee income and other 246 NM Claims and policy benefits 68,231 64.5% 41,475 NM Acquisition costs 17,450 NM Operating expenses 7,866 NM 404 NM Net investment income 28,616 NM Interest expense 12,168 NM Net income $ 7,030 NM $ 726 NM Gross and net premiums written and earned in 2003 and 2002 related to certain blocks of U.S based term life mortality reinsurance business written that were novated to the Company from an insurance affiliate in December 2002. Claims and policy benefits from this book of business are in line with the managements expectations. Net premiums earned, claims and policy benefit reserves and acquisition costs all related to this novated block of business. During the quarter ended September 30, 2003, the Company exercised its right and terminated a retrocession agreement of certain of these exposures, which led to a higher percentage increase in net premiums written than gross premiums written. The Company commenced writing municipal reinvestment contracts in 2002 and funding agreements in 2003 whereby the Company receives cash and deposits and pays interest at a contractual interest rate. The Company has investment risk related to its ability to generate sufficient investment income to enable the total invested assets to cover the payment of the ultimate liability. Net investment income and interest expense in 2003 related to these transactions and at December 31, 2003, the Company had written approximately $1.5 billion of municipal reinvestment contracts and $550 million of funding agreements. The increase in operating expenses in 2003 related to the growth of this business. 59 Investment Activities The following table illustrates the change in net investment income from general operations, equity in net income of investment affiliates, net realized gains and losses on investments and net realized and unrealized gains and losses on investment derivatives for each of the three years ended December 31, 2003. % Change % Change (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2003 03 vs 02 2002 02 vs 01 2001 Net investment income general operations $588,428 (4.6)% $ 617,122 5.3% $585,858 Equity in net income of investment affiliates (1) 133,902 107.1% 64,662 (19.8)% 80,580 Net realized gains (losses) on investments 120,195 NM (214,160) NM (93,237) Net realized and unrealized (losses) gains on investment derivative instruments (2) (2,858) NM (22,231) NM 14,638 (1) Equity in net income of investment affiliates in 2003 includes income on the alternative investment portfolio for eleven months ended November 30, 2003 as compared to twelve months in December 2002 and 2001. The Company determined it was necessary to record the investment affiliates on a one month lag in order for the Company to meet the accelerated filing deadlines as specified by the Securities and Exchange Commission. The fair market values of certain of these alternative investments often take longer to obtain as compared to other of the Companys investments and therefore are unavailable at the time of the close. (2) For a summary of realized and unrealized gains and losses on all derivative instruments, see Item 8, Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Net investment income related to general operations decreased in 2003 as compared to 2002 primarily due to the market decline in yields and the shorter duration of the investment portofolio, partially offset by growth in the investment base. The Companys total investments available for sale and cash and cash equivalents less net pending payable for investments purchased was $23.1 billion at December 31, 2003 as compared to $18.1 billion at December 31, 2002. This increase of $5.0 billion includes (i) cash flow from operations of $3.4 billion and (ii) cash flow of $1.5 billion from spread product transactions. The annualized effective yield of the total investment portfolio was 3.46% for 2003 as compared to 4.28% for 2002, a 0.82% reduction. The reduction in the effective yield of the total investment portfolio was primarily due to compression in the spreads of corporate securities and other sectors relative to government bonds and the shortening of the average duration of the total portfolio. For example, during 2003 the U.S. mortgage spread to treasuries declined 0.14%, the US investment grade corporate index spread to treasuries declined 0.91% and the U.S. high yield index spread to treasuries declined 4.53%. The reduction in the spreads offset a gradual rise in treasury yields during the year. As a result, the yield on the portfolio was lower at the end of 2003 in comparison with the end of 2002. The increase in net investment income in 2002 as compared to 2001 was due to an increase in the total investment base that was partially offset by a decline in the investment yield of the total portfolio. The annualized effective yield on the total investment portfolio was 5.52% in 2001. The reduction in the effective yield of the total investment portfolio was due to a general decline in interest rates in the U.S. and Europe, with the reduction in rates attributed to markets discounting a slowdown in economic activity. For example, during 2002 the yield on 5 Year U.S. Treasury securities declined by approximately 1.60%, the yield on the 5 Year Euro denominated government securities declined by approximately 1.00% and the yield on 5 Year U.K. Government securities declined by approximately 0.90%. The growth in the total investment base in 2002 included cash related to (i) the issuance of preference shares in the third and fourth quarters of 2002 generating proceeds of $501.2 million, (ii) $250.0 million of net proceeds relating to the issue of $600.0 million 6.5% Guaranteed Senior Notes due January 2012, after debt repayment of $350.0 million; (iii) cash flow from operations of $3.0 billion; and (iv) investment assets of approximately $653.3 million relating to the consolidation of XL Re Europe, formerly known as Le Mans R, as a subsidiary with effect from January 1, 2002. It is expected that investment income in 2004 will increase moderately due to projected increases in investments resulting from expected positive operating cash flow. However, market changes in interest rates could offset or supplement the effects of cashflow. See further discussion in Financial Condition and Liquidity. 60 Equity in net income of investment affiliates includes earnings from the Companys investments in closed end investment funds and partnerships (the alternative investment portfolio) and investment management companies. Equity in net income of investment affiliates increased in 2003 as compared to 2002 due mainly to the strong performance of certain of the Companys investment funds and investments in management companies, particularly in the second and fourth quarters of 2003 as compared to lower overall returns on these funds and management companies in 2002. In addition, as noted above, income on the alternative investment portfolio was for an eleven month period in 2003 as compared to twelve months in 2002. Equity in net income of investment affiliates in 2002 decreased as compared to 2001 due primarily to lower overall returns in the second and the third quarter of 2002 on certain of the Companys investment funds as compared to a strong performance of the funds in 2001. Investment Performance Measurement of investment performance is a function of the investment strategy and business purpose for each of the components of the investment portfolio discussed above. Investment performance is based upon total return of the portfolio that includes net investment income, net realized gains and losses on investments, net realized and unrealized gains and losses on investment derivatives and the change in the net unrealized gains and losses on investments. Within the actively managed portion of the asset/liability portfolio, the objective is to maximize total investment returns at a risk level that is managed relative to applicable public market fixed income indices. However, the deposit and regulatory holdings portion of the asset/liability portfolio is subject to investment restrictions that limit the effectiveness of active discretionary management. As a result, comparisons of the deposit and regulatory holdings portion of the Companys asset/liability portfolio with public market indices are not meaningful. Due to the unique nature of the underlying liabilities in the Companys structured product portfolio (i.e., deposit liabilities and future policy benefit reserves), customized benchmarks are used to measure performance. Finally, certain of the Companys business investments are private market transactions that cannot be meaningfully compared to certain public indices. Accordingly, only approximately 24% (2002; 40%) of the Companys total investment portfolio could be meaningfully compared to public market indices. The reduction in comparison to the public market indices is due primarily to sterling portfolios that are now managed relative to custom liability benchmarks. 61 The table below summarizes investment performance for those portions of the asset/liability and risk asset portfolios that could be meaningfully compared to public market indices for each of the years ending December 31 presented below: 2003 2002 2001 Asset/Liability Portfolios U.S. Investment Grade, Moderate Duration 4.8% 9.0% 9.2% Lehman Aggregate Bond Index 4.1% 10.3% 8.4% Relative Performance 0.7% (1.3)% 0.8% U.S. Investment Grade, Low Duration 4.9% 3.8% 10.1% Salomon 1 3 Year Treasury Index 1.9% 5.8% 8.3% Relative Performance 3.0% (2.0)% 1.8% Euro Aggregate, Unhedged 4.7% 8.1% n/a Lehman Euro Aggregate Index 4.5% 9.5% n/a Relative Performance 0.2% (1.4)% n/a Pan European, Hedged 23.9% 23.1% n/a Merrill U.K. / Merrill Pan Europe Composite 21.4% 25.2% n/a Relative Performance 2.5% (2.1)% n/a U.K. Sterling, Unhedged (Note 2) n/a 8.5% n/a Merrill U.K. Sterling Broad Index, 1 10 Years n/a 8.8% n/a Relative Performance n/a (0.3)% n/a Risk Asset Portfolios Fixed Income U.S. Moderate Grade 19.5% 1.0% 7.5% Investment Grade / High Yield Composite 12.7% 7.9% 9.7% Relative Performance 6.8% (6.9)% (2.2)% U.S. High Yield 25.6% (4.3)% 3.4% CS First Boston High Yield Index 27.9% 3.1% 5.8% Relative Performance (2.3)% (7.4)% (2.4)% Risk Asset Portfolios Equities U.S. Large Cap Growth Equity 32.0% (30.1)% (29.6)% Russell 1000 Growth Index 29.5% (28.0)% (20.5)% Relative Performance 2.5% (2.1)% (9.1)% U.S. Large Cap Value Equity 31.5% (12.5)% 3.8% Russell 1000 Value Index 29.5% (15.8)% (5.9)% Relative Performance 2.0% 3.3% 9.7% U.S. Small Cap Equity 51.3% (15.9)% 5.2% Russell 2000 Index 47.0% (20.6)% 2.3% Relative Performance 4.3% 4.7% 2.9% 62 2003 2002 2001 Non U.S. Equity 37.8% (16.1)% (18.5)% MSCI EAFE Index 38.6% (15.9)% (21.4)% Relative Performance (0.8)% (0.2)% 2.9% Risk Asset Portfolios Alternative Investments (Note 3) Alternative Investments 8.6% 6.7% 14.3% Standard and Poors 500 Index 22.3% (22.1)% (11.9)% Relative Performance (13.7)% 28.8% 26.2% (1) n/a indicates that portfolios comparable to this benchmark have been in existence for less than the period indicated. Returns are time weighted and have been annualized for periods in excess of one year. U.S. equity indices are shown net of withholding taxes. (2) In 2003, all sterling portfolios are now managed relative to custom liability benchmarks. Comparisons to market indices are no longer relevant. (3) In 2003, the return on the alternative investment portfolio was for eleven months ended November 30, 2003 as compared to twelve months in December 2002 and 2001. The fair market values of certain of these alternative investments often take longer to obtain as compared to other of the Companys investments and therefore are unavailable at the time of the close. For comparative purposes, the Standard and Poors 500 index returns are on the same basis. Net realized gains and losses on investments and other than temporary declines in the value of investments The Companys investment portfolio is classified as available for sale. Realized investment gains and losses occur through the normal turnover of the Companys investment portfolio. Realized investment losses include impairment charges relating to declines in value of securities that are considered to be other than temporary. See Critical Accounting Policies for further information. In 2003, net realized gains on investments were $120.2 million which included $344.8 million of gross realized losses on fixed income and $162.5 million of gross realized losses on equity securities. Gross realized losses in 2003 included $130.7 million of provisions for declines in fair value considered to be other than temporary. The general economy in the United States and the investment markets improved in 2003 relative to 2002. For example, Moodys Investor Service (Moodys) reported that 77 issuers defaulted in 2003 as compared with 141 issuers in 2002. The Company experienced a reduction in the amount of write downs for securities with declines in value deemed to be other than temporary that was consistent with these figures. The write downs for 2003 occurred mainly in the first half of the year which was consistent with Moodys monthly default statistics. As a percentage of the total fixed income portfolio, the write down for other than temporary declines was 0.6% in 2003 as compared with 1.6% in 2002 and 1% in 2001. During the year ended 2002, the Company had net realized losses on investments of $214.2 million. This included gross realized losses on fixed income and equity securities of $526.3 million and $160.1 million, respectively. Gross and net realized losses in 2002 included $251.5 million of provisions for declines in fair value considered to be other than temporary. Of the total provisions, $144.3 million related to fixed income securities, $77.8 million to equity securities and $29.4 million to other investments. Approximately 44% of the declines in fair value in 2002 of fixed income and equity securities considered to be other than temporary related to the communications sector, including Worldcom Inc. and Adelphia Communication Corp. in the second quarter of 2002. In addition, approximately $41.0 million of gross realized losses related to sales of Worldcom Inc. and Adelphia Communication Corp. During the year ended December 31, 2001, the Company had net realized losses on investments of $93.2 million. This included gross realized losses on fixed income and equity securities of $373.6 million and $140.9 million, respectively. Gross and net realized losses on investments included $115.5 million of provisions for declines in fair value considered to be other than temporary, $66.4 million of which related to fixed income and equity securities and $49.1 million of which related to the Companys other investments. 63 The significant circumstances that contributed to the realized losses in 2002 and 2001 included the high level of distress and default in the telecommunications sector, the Enron Corp. bankruptcy and a general rise in corporate defaults across other sectors in response to the general economic decline in the United States and elsewhere. For the securities that were sold at a loss during the year ended December 31, 2002, the fair market value of the fixed income securities and equity securities at the sales dates was approximately $8.5 billion and $306.0 million, respectively. For the securities that were sold at a loss during the year ended December 31, 2001, the fair market value of the fixed income securities and equity securities at the sales dates was approximately $8.8 billion and $350.0 million, respectively. With respect to those securities that were sold at a loss during the year ended December 31, 2003 the following is an analysis of the period of time that those securities had been in a continual unrealized loss position, the amount of the realized loss recorded in the Companys results of operations as of the sale date and the amount of the impairment charge taken in the year: Length of time in a continual unrealized loss position (U.S. dollars in thousands) Fixed Income Securities Equity Securities Less than 6 months $242,220 $ 94,151 At least 6 months but less than 12 months 13,347 9,502 At least 12 months but less than 2 years 20,614 4,444 At least 2 years but less than 3 years 245 253 Total gross realized loss from sales 276,426 108,350 Impairment charges for declines in value considered to be other than temporary 68,405 54,206 Total gross realized loss $344,831 $162,556 With respect to those securities that were sold at a loss during the year ended December 31, 2002 the following is an analysis of the period of time that those securities had been in an unrealized loss position, the amount of the realized loss recorded in the Companys results of operations as of the sale date and the amount of the impairment charge taken in the year: Length of time in a continual unrealized loss position (U.S. dollars in thousands) Fixed Income Securities Equity Securities Less than 6 months $284,259 $ 60,925 At least 6 months but less than 12 months 59,350 14,128 At least 12 months but less than 2 years 19,429 6,830 At least 2 years but less than 3 years 18,983 411 Total gross realized loss from sales 382,021 82,294 Impairment charges for declines in value considered to be other than temporary 144,255 77,832 Total gross realized loss $526,276 $160,126 The Companys process for identifying declines in the fair value of investments that are other than temporary involves consideration of several factors as discussed under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company realized losses of $20.9 million and $4.7 million upon the sale of fixed income securities and equity securities, respectively, that had been in an unrealized loss position for greater than twelve months. During the year ended December 31, 2002, the Company realized a loss of $38.4 million and $7.2 million upon the sale of fixed income securities and equity securities, respectively, that had been in an unrealized loss position for greater than twelve months. The decisions to sell these securities were made by the Companys investment managers based upon a change in market conditions and other factors (which decisions were independent of the Companys previously stated intent and ability to hold such securities). 64 The significant circumstances that contributed to the realized losses on the Companys fixed income and equity securities during the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 also affected the Companys other investments. Of the total impairment charges taken in 2003 and 2002 of $130.7 million and $251.5 million, respectively, $8.1 million and $29.4 million related to the Companys other investments. The Companys other investments include investments in private equity limited partnerships which also experienced significant market wide declines. In 2003 and 2002, the Company wrote down the carrying value of its investment in Mutual Risk Management Ltd by $3.2 million and $20.0 million, respectively. In 2001, declines in value of the Companys other investments were greatest in the technology sector and write downs in the portfolio were mainly a result of re evaluations of technology and financial services investments, reflecting the reduced business prospects of these companies. Net realized and unrealized gains on investment derivatives result from the Companys investment strategy to economically hedge against interest and foreign exchange risk within the investment portfolio. See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk, and Financial Condition and Liquidity for a more detailed analysis. Unrealized losses on investments At December 31, 2003, there were $120.0 million of gross unrealized losses on fixed income and short term investments, and $6.2 million of gross unrealized losses on equity securities. At December 31, 2002, there were $141.9 million of gross unrealized losses on fixed income and short term investments and $86.9 million of gross unrealized losses on equity securities. At December 31, 2001, there were $283.9 million of gross unrealized losses on fixed income and short term investments and $70.0 million of gross unrealized losses on equity securities. These losses include securities below investment grade as discussed below. The information shown below about the unrealized losses on the Companys investments at December 31, 2003 concerns the potential affect upon future earnings and financial position should management later conclude that some of the current declines in the fair value of these investments are other than temporary declines. Throughout 2003, significant corporate spread tightening contributed to an increase in the value of corporate security holdings resulting in a reduction of unrealized loss positions. 65 The following is an analysis of how long each of those securities at December 31, 2003 and 2002 had been in a continual unrealized loss position: Amount of Amount of Type of Securities Length of time in a continual unrealized loss at unrealized loss at (U.S. dollars in thousands) unrealized loss position December 31, 2003 December 31, 2002 Fixed Income and Short Term Less than six months $ 32,514 $ 48,188 At least 6 months but less than 12 months 82,647 47,502 At least 12 months but less than 2 years 4,355 44,879 At least 2 years but less than 3 years 517 610 At least 3 years but less than 4 years 24 656 At least 4 years but less than 5 years 109 Total $120,057 $141,944 Equities Less than six months $ 4,830 $ 20,972 At least 6 months but less than 12 months 911 62,859 At least 12 months but less than 2 years 440 2,672 At least 2 years but less than 3 years 49 367 Total $ 6,230 $ 86,870 The total gross unrealized losses represented approximately 3,436 fixed income securities out of a total of approximately 14,300 fixed income securities and 258 equity securities out of a total of approximately 1,850 equity securities at December 31, 2003. The total gross unrealized losses represented approximately 1,250 fixed income securities out of a total of approximately 10,100 fixed income securities and 1,120 equity securities out of a total of approximately 2,000 equity securities at December 31, 2002. As discussed under Item 1, Investment Structure and Strategy, the Company operates a risk asset portfolio that includes high yield (below investment grade) fixed income securities. These securities have a higher volatility to changes in fair values than investment grade securities. At December 31, 2003, approximately 5.4% of the Companys fixed income investment portfolio was invested in securities which were below investment grade. Approximately 7.7% of the unrealized losses in the Companys fixed income securities portfolio at December 31, 2003 related to securities that were below investment grade and 1.1% of securities in an unrealized loss position were not rated. At December 31, 2002, approximately 5.3% of the Companys fixed income investment portfolio was invested in securities which were below investment grade. Approximately 38% of the unrealized losses in the Companys fixed income securities portfolio at December 31, 2002 related to securities that were below investment grade and there were no unrated securities in an unrealized loss position. The following is an analysis of how long each of these below investment grade and unrated securities had been in a continual unrealized loss position at the date indicated. Amount of Amount of Length of time in a continual unrealized loss position unrealized loss at unrealized loss at (U.S. dollars in thousands) December 31, 2003 December 31, 2002 Less than six months $ 756 $12,689 At least 6 months but less than 12 months 5,722 31,498 At least 12 months but less than 2 years 1,447 25,977 At least 2 years but less than 3 years 517 924 Total $ 8,442 $71,088 Of the gross unrealized investment losses on the fixed income and short term investments portfolio at December 31, 2003 of $120.0 million, approximately $61.2 million related to corporate fixed income securities. Within the corporate fixed income securities, approximately 36.9% of the losses were in the financial sector, 16.6% in asset backed secu 66 rities, 10.1% in the communications sector, 8.1% in the utilities sector, 7.2% in the consumer non cyclical sector, 5.7% in the basic materials sector, and 5.0% in the consumer cyclical sector. No other sector was greater than 5%. Approximately 29 equity securities held by the Company with total unrealized losses of approximately $0.5 million at December 31, 2003 were in a continual unrealized loss position for at least 12 months. The largest unrealized loss in the fixed income portfolio was $8.7 million. All other individual fixed income security unrealized losses were less than $5.0 million. The largest individual unrealized loss in the equity portfolio was $0.2 million. Of the gross unrealized investment losses on the fixed income and short term investments portfolio at December 31, 2002 of $141.9 million, approximately $120.1 million related to corporate fixed income securities. Within the corporate fixed income securities, approximately 26% was in the communications sector, 21% in the energy sector, 20% in the utilities sector, 8% in the financial sector and 7% in the consumer cyclical sector. No other sector was greater than 5%. Approximately 80 equity securities held by the Company with total unrealized losses of approximately $3.0 million at December 31, 2002 were in a continual unrealized loss position for at least 12 months. The largest unrealized loss in the fixed income portfolio was $8.0 million. All other individual fixed income security unrealized losses were less than $5.0 million. The largest individual unrealized loss in the equity portfolio was $1.4 million. At December 31, 2003 and 2002, the following was the maturity profile of the fixed income securities (excluding short term) that were in a gross unrealized loss position: Maturity profile in years of fixed income Amount of Amount of securities in a continual unrealized loss position unrealized loss at unrealized loss at (U.S. dollars in thousands) December 31, 2003 December 31, 2002 At least 1 year but less than 5 years remaining $ 21,720 $22,344 At least 5 years but less than 10 years remaining 36,866 56,280 More than 10 years but less than 20 years remaining 24,862 14,969 At least 20 years or more remaining 22,713 34,419 Mortgage backed securities 12,602 10,855 Total $118,763 $138,867 Other Revenues and Expenses The following table sets forth other revenues and expenses of the Company for each of the three years ended December 31, 2003: % Change % Change (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2003 03 vs 02 2002 02 vs 01 2001 Equity in net loss of insurance affiliates (42,887) 102.9% (21,142) 76.7% (11,963) Amortization of intangible assets 4,637 (25.1)% 6,187 (89.4)% 58,569 Corporate operating expenses 145,085 21.4% 119,515 26.9% 94,207 Interest expense 187,239 11.4% 168,086 48.4% 113,272 Minority interest (2,160) NM 2,947 NM (1,220) Income tax expense (benefit) 30,049 32.7% 22,647 NM (189,914) Equity in net loss of insurance affiliates in 2003 included an other than temporary decline of $40.9 million in the value of the Companys investment in Annuity & Life Re (Holdings), Ltd. (ANR). The investment was written down to its fair value of $2.2 million at March 31, 2003. Equity in net loss of insurance affiliates in 2002 also included a loss of approximately $22.7 million relating to ANR. This loss included a write down of the goodwill component of the Companys investment of $13.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2002 due to a significant decline in the book value of ANR.67 In 2001, the equity in net loss of insurance affiliates included a loss of $10.9 million related to the Companys share of the loss in XL Re Europe, formerly known as Le Mans R, mainly related to the September 11 event in 2001, and $1.6 million in ANR. Amortization of intangible assets decreased in 2003 as compared to 2002 due primarily to a reduction in the expense related to intangible assets related to the acquisition of XL Re Europe. Amortization of intangible assets decreased in 2002 as compared to 2001 due to the adoption of FAS 142, when the Company was no longer required to amortize goodwill. Corporate operating expenses increased 21.4% in 2003 compared to 2002 due primarily to the continued build out of the Companys global infrastructure in developing a network of shared service organizations to support operations in certain locations, new costs related to the Companys global branding campaign and $5.6 million of stock option expenses associated with the adoption of FAS 123 as amended by FAS 148. See Item 8 Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Corporate operating expenses also increased in 2002 compared to 2001 due primarily to the continued integration of the Companys global operations and increased costs for directors and officers insurance in line with the market in general. Corporate operating expenses in 2001 included $14.0 million related to Winterthur International integration costs. Interest expense includes costs related to the Companys debt and collateral facilities as well as deposit liability accretion. In 2003, interest expense for debt and collateral facilities was $94.3 million as compared to $102.2 million in 2002. This decrease was due to the inclusion of amortization of debt issuance expenses in 2002 related to the issue of the Zero Coupon Convertible Debentures (CARZ) and the Liquid Yield Option Notes (LYONS). See Financial Condition and Liquidity for more information. In 2003, interest expense related to the accretion of deposit liabilities was $92.9 million as compared to $65.9 million due to new deposit liability contracts written in 2003. The increase in interest expense in 2002 as compared to 2001 was due primarily to an increase in the level of indebtedness. Notes payable and debt were $1.9 billion and $1.6 billion at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Minority interest relates to a 9% ownership in one of the Companys insurance subsidiaries. The change in the Companys income taxes in each of the three years ended December 31, 2003 principally reflects the effects of changes in losses arising from the September 11 event and the decline in the profitability of the U.S. operations for each year. The deferral of tax losses is evaluated based upon the future profitability of the Companys taxable entities and under current projections, the Company anticipates using this asset by 2007. The Companys net deferred tax asset at December 31, 2003 is $310.1 million, which consists principally of net operating losses generated by subsidiaries in the U.S. and U.K. Should the taxable income of these entities fall below expectations, a further valuation allowance may have to be established which could be significant. In addition, if any further losses are generated by these entities, these losses may not be tax effected. See Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Item 8, Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Financial Condition and Liquidity As a holding company, the Companys assets consist primarily of its investments in subsidiaries and the Companys future cash flows depend on the availability of dividends or other statutorily permissible payments from its subsidiaries. The ability to pay such dividends is limited by the applicable laws and regulations of the various countries the Company operates in, including, among others, Bermuda, the United States, Ireland, Switzerland and the United Kingdom, and those of the Society of Lloyds and certain contractual provisions. See Item 8, Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. No assurance can be given that the Company or its subsidiaries will be permitted to pay dividends in the future. The Companys ability to underwrite business is largely dependent upon the quality of its claims paying and financial strength ratings as evaluated by independent rating agencies. See Ratings for further information.68 Financial Condition The following are some of the most significant items in the Companys consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2003 and changes from December 31, 2002: a. Shareholders Equity. The Companys shareholders equity at December 31, 2003 was $6.9 billion, of which $2.5 billion was retained earnings. Included in accumulated other comprehensive income was $138.3 million of cumulative currency translation adjustments which were primarily related to unrealized losses on foreign currency exchange rate movements relating to the Companys global operations that have a functional currency that is not the U.S. dollar. b. Total Investments Available For Sale. Total investments available for sale have increased from $16.1 billion at December 31, 2002 to $20.8 billion at December 31, 2003. This increase is due primarily to cash flows from operations (see discussion below) of $3.4 billion and new deposit liability transactions of approximately $1.5 billion. c. Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses. Unpaid losses and loss expenses includes reserves on the Companys general and financial operations and relates primarily to the casualty insurance and reinsurance business written by the Company. This was $16.6 billion at December 31, 2003 which is an increase of $3.4 billion from December 31, 2002. The increase was due primarily to new business written and earned in the year, together with an increase in reserves for net adverse development in 2003 of $0.9 billion of prior period loss reserves. No assurance can be given that actual claims made and payments related thereto will not be in excess of the amounts reserved. See Item 1, Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses, Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Item 8, Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. d. Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses Recoverable and Reinsurance Balances Receivable. Unpaid losses and loss expense recoverables were $5.8 billion and $5.0 billion at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. At December 31, 2003 and 2002, reinsurance balances receivable were $1.4 billion and $1.2 billion respectively. Unpaid losses and loss expense recoverable relates to estimated reinsurance recoveries based on the unpaid loss and loss expense reserves. The Company has credit risk should any of its reinsurers be unable to settle amounts due. Of the total unpaid losses and loss expenses recoverable and reinsurance balances receivable at December 31, 2003 of $7.2 billion, no individual reinsurer accounted for 10% or more of the total. The Company is the beneficiary of letters of credit, trust accounts and funds withheld in the aggregate amount of $1.7 billion at December 31, 2003, collateralizing reinsurance recoverables with respect to certain reinsurers. Included in unpaid loss and loss expenses recoverable at December 31, 2003 is an unsecured, net reinsurance recoverable from the Seller of $740.9 million, related to the acquisition of Winterthur International. This amount is subject to ongoing adjustment, and the Seller, is currently rated A by S&P. The SPA provides the Company with post closing protection with respect to adverse development of loss and unearned premium reserves relating to the acquired Winterthur International business. This protection is based upon actual net loss experience and development over a three year post closing seasoning period based on loss development experience, collectible reinsurance, reinsurance recoveries and certain other factors set forth in the SPA. The SPA provides for independent actuarial determination should the Seller and the Company disagree on the final amounts due thereunder. The Company may recognize an impairment if the amount determined to be due to the Company was less than the carrying value of the SPA recovery balance deemed due from the Seller or to the extent that any amount proves to be uncollectible from the Seller for any reason. Excluding the recoverable from the Seller described above, approximately 72% of the total unpaid loss and loss expense recoverable and reinsurance balances receivable (excluding collateral held) outstanding at December 31, 2003 were due from reinsurers rated A or better by S&P. The following is an analysis of the total recoverable and reinsurance balances receivable at December 31, 2003 by reinsurers owing more than 3% of such total: 69 Standard and Name of reinsurer Poors rating % of total Lloyds Syndicates A 6.6 Munich Re A+ 5.7 Swiss Re AA 5.6 GE Frankona Ruckversicherungs A+ 3.7 London Life and General Reinsurance Company Ltd. * 3.2 * London Life and General Reinsurance Company is rated A by A.M. Best. In addition, at December 31, 2003, approximately $2.2 billion of the total recoverable balance of $7.2 billion related to reinsurance recoverables for the Winterthur International operations. The recoverability of these balances is also guaranteed under the SPA as described above. As at December 31, 2003 and 2002, the Company had a reserve for potential non recoveries from reinsurers of $108.0 million and $47.3 million, respectively. Liquidity Certain business written by the Company has loss experience generally characterized as having low frequency and high severity. This may result in volatility in both the Companys results and operational cash flows. See Item 8 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. There are three main sources of cash flows for the Company those provided by operations, investing activities and financing activities. Cash Flow provided by Operations Cash flow from operations is derived from two main sources : 1) The receipt of investment income on the Companys total investment portfolio, and 2) The net receipt of premiums less claims and expenses related to its underwriting activities in general, life and financial operations. Cash flow from operations was $3.4 billion in 2003 as compared to $3.0 billion in 2002. This increase in 2003 is due to an increase in the receipt of investment income in line with the growth of the investment portfolio together with an increase in net cash received from underwriting activities. Net cash received from underwriting activities is comprised of receipt of premiums, minus payment of claims and operating and acquisition costs. Premiums and acquisition expenses are settled based on terms of trade as stipulated by an underwriting contract, but generally are received within the first year of inception of a policy when the premium is written, but can be up to three years on certain reinsurance business assumed. Operating expenses are generally paid within a year of being incurred. Claims on the other hand, especially for casualty business, can take a much longer time before they are reported and ultimately settled and this is why the Company establishes reserves for unpaid losses and loss expenses. Therefore, the amount of claims paid in any one year is not necessarily related to the amount of net losses incurred as reported in the consolidated statement of income. During 2003, 2002 and 2001, the total amounts of net losses paid for the general operations were $2.8 billion, $2.8 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively, whereas the amount of net losses incurred was $4.6 billion, $3.3 billion and $2.9 billion, respectively. The larger difference between net incurred and paid losses in 2003 is due primarily to the prior period adverse development on the Companys North American casualty reinsurance book as described above, where the Company increased reserves by $877 million. The payout of the Companys casualty reserves at December 31, 2003 could be as long as thirty years period. Property claims are generally reported and settled within a much shorter period, usually up 70 to three years. Cumulative net losses paid by the Company for the September 11 event at December 31, 2003 were $380 million, or approximately half of the total net incurred losses of $763.0 million. Cash Flow used in Investing Activities Generally, positive cash flow from operations and financing activities, is invested in the Companys portfolio, including affiliates or acquisition of subsidiaries. In 2003, in addition to purchases and sales of the Companys total investment portfolio, the Company had the following significant investment cash flows: 1) In September 2003, the Company exercised its option and settled the related Euro liability to purchase the remaining 33% ownership of Le Mans R, now known as XL Re Europe, for approximately $161 million. See Item 8 Note 6(a) to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 2) In December 2003, the Company received $75.4 million relating to the settlement of the purchase price for Wintherthur International. See Item 8 Note 6(b) to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 3) In July 2003, the Company acquired new offices in London for its London headquarters. The acquisition was by a purchase, sale and leaseback transaction resulting in net cash received of $45.3 million, which was recorded as a deferred liability at December 31, 2003. The Company also recorded a capitalized lease asset and liability of approximately $150.0 million related to this transaction and there have been no significant capital expenditures for leasehold improvements during 2003. In 2002, in addition to purchases and sales of the Companys total investment portfolio, the Company had the following significant investment cash flows: 1) The Company completed the acquisition of a 67% majority shareholding in Le Mans R, increasing its shareholding from 49% at December 31, 2001. Cash paid, net of cash acquired, was $45.5 million. 2) The Company invested a further $717.5 million in alternative investment managers, related investment funds and insurance affiliates. The majority of this amount included four separate investments in funds managed by FrontPoint Partners LLC, an investment in SPhinX Ltd., a fund designed to track an S&P Hedge Fund Index, and an investment in Primus Guaranty, Ltd, which specializes in providing credit risk protection through credit derivatives. Cash Flow Provided by Financing Activities Cash flows related to financing activities include the payment of dividends, share related transactions, the issue or repayment of debt and deposit liability transactions. In 2003 and 2002, the Company received $1.5 billion and $1.2 billion of net cash relating to new deposit liability contracts. In 2003, dividends were $263 million for ordinary shares and $40 million for preferred shares. In connection with the acquisition of Winterthur International, a limited recourse receivables financing facility previously available to these operations from the Seller was made available to the Company. The balance outstanding at December 31, 2003 and 2002 was approximately $ 223.0 million and $338.6 million, respectively and is included in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Capital Resources In addition to ordinary share capital, the Company depends on external sources of finance to support its underwriting activities in the form of: a. debt, b. preference shares, and c. bank credit 71 In particular, the Company requires, among other things, Sufficient capital to maintain its financial strength, claims paying and debt ratings, as issued by several ratings agencies, at a level considered necessary by management to enable the Companys key operating subsidiaries to compete. Sufficient capital to enable its underwriting subsidiaries to meet the capital adequacy tests performed by statutory agencies in the U.S., the U.K., and other key markets. Letters of credit and other forms of collateral that are required by the Companys non U.S. operating companies that are non admitted under U.S. state insurance regulations. The Company also uses letters of credit to support its operations at Lloyds. Revolving credit to meet short term liquidity needs. The Company is currently reviewing its capital needs for 2004 and expects to raise approximately $750 million of additional capital in the first half of 2004 in the form of mandatory convertible securities. The following are possible outcomes if the Company is unable to secure the additional $750 million of capital later in 2004 Possible downgrades in the financial strength, claims paying and debt ratings assigned by rating agencies to the Companys operating subsidiaries. This could place those operating companies at a competitive disadvantage compared to higher rated competitors. Reduction in the quantity of business that the Companys principal operating subsidiaries are able to write in order to meet capital adequacy based tests. The possible ratings downgrades that could result from not issuing the anticipated additional capital could increase the cost of bank credit and letters of credit. Certain of the Companys credit facilities will expire in 2004. The following risks are associated with the Companys requirement to renew these facilities during 2004 The credit available from banks may be reduced resulting in the Companys need to pledge its investment portfolio to customers. This could result in a lower investment yield. The volume of business that the Companys non admitted subsidiaries are able to transact could be reduced if the Company is unable to renew its letter of credit facilities at an appropriate size. Recent consolidation within the banking industry may result in the aggregate amount of credit provided by to the Company being reduced. The Company attempts to mitigate this risk by identifying additional banks that could participate in the credit facilities on renewal. The Company has the option to call the CARZ and LYONs zero coupon convertibles (described below) from May 23 and September 27, 2004, respectively, onwards and the bondholders have the option to put the securities on the same date. These calls are exercisable by the Company and would require the payment of approximately $649 million for the CARZ and $317 million for the LYONs to bondholders. This would result in the subsequent retirement of the related debt securities. At present the Company is evaluating its alternatives with respect to these calls. The puts are exercisable by the investors and would also require the payment of $649 million for the CARZ and $317 million for the LYONs or the equivalent in the Companys ordinary shares at the Companys option, to the bondholders. The Company has the ability to prospectively enhance the terms of the convertibles if market conditions near to the put date indicate that this would increase the likelihood that the securities remain outstanding. 72a) Debt At December 31, 2003, banks and investors provided the Company and its subsidiaries with $2.6 billion of debt capacity, of which $1.9 billion was utilized by the Company as of December 31, 2003. This included : Revolving credit facility (revolver) of $675 million. This revolver (and its predecessor facility) was not utilized during 2003. During 2002, borrowings under such revolvers were $847 million and repayments were $600 million. Borrowings in 2002 were used to pay down two 5 year revolvers (that were subsequently cancelled) and for general corporate purposes. The revolver is a component of a $2.5 billion facility ($2 billion at December 31, 2002) provided on an unsecured basis by a syndicate of banks. It can be utilized to provide cash at any time until the facility expires at the end of June 2004. The Company anticipates that the facility will be renewed for a further year, however, the size of the facility and the price terms will depend on market conditions in the period leading up to the renewal. Senior Unsecured Notes of approximately $1 billion. These notes require the Company to pay a fixed rate of interest during their ten year lives. There are three outstanding issues of senior unsecured notes $100 million senior notes due 2005 with a fixed coupon of 7.15%. It is a publicly traded security. $255 million senior notes due 2011 with a fixed coupon of 6.58%. This transaction was privately placed it is not traded on a public exchange. $600 million senior notes due 2012 with a fixed coupon of 6.5%. The security is publicly traded. The notes were issued at $99.469 and gross proceeds were $596.8 million. Related expenses of the offering amounted to $7.9 million. Convertible securities of approximately $1 billion. There are two such convertibles that the Company issued in 2001. Both are zero cash coupon transactions that, under normal circumstances, will not require cash payments prior to the maturity of the securities in 2021. Described below are features that may result in the securities being redeemed for cash or the Companys ordinary shares prior to 2021. Rather than paying cash interest, the convertibles were issued at a discount to their redemption values known as the principal amount at maturity. In May 2001, the Company issued $1.01 billion principal amount at maturity (subject to adjustment in the event there is an upward interest adjustment) of CARZ convertibles at $593.57 per bond and, unless converted or repaid before their due date of May 2021, they will be repaid in May 2021 at $1,000 per bond at a total cost of $1.01 billion. The accretion rate is 2.625% per annum on a semi annual basis or 2.6422% per annum on an annual basis. In September 2001, the Company issued $508.8 million principal amount at maturity (subsequently increased to $514.6 million under the provisions of the upward accretion rate adjustment described below) of LYONs convertibles at an initial price of $565.01 per bond. The LYONs will be repaid at $1,011.36 each (originally $1,000.00 each but subsequently increased as a result of the accretion rate adjustment described below), unless converted or repaid before their due date of September 2021, at a total cost of $514.6 million. The accretion rate on the LYONs was originally 2.875% per annum on a semi annual basis or 2.896% per annum on an annual basis. The accretion rate for the year to September 7, 2004, was increased by 0.645% per annum on a semi annual basis to 3.52% on a semi annual basis and 3.551% per annum on an annual basis as a result of a decrease of the Companys ordinary share price in the 30 day period leading up to the second put date in September 2003. The accretion rates will revert to their original rates in September 2004. Although both the CARZ and LYONs are due to be repaid in 2021, there are several features that may result in the bonds being repaid or converted into the Companys Class A Ordinary Shares before the redemption date. As these features include market driven features and options available to the Company and bondholders, it is not possible to determine if the bonds will remain outstanding until their scheduled maturity in 2021. 73 Both the CARZ and LYONs provide the bondholders with the right to require the Company to repurchase the bonds on predetermined dates (put dates) at predetermined values (subsequently increased in the case of the LYONs as a result of the upward accretion rate adjustment described above). The remaining put dates for the CARZ occur on May 23 of 2004, 2006, 2008, 2011 and 2016. The remaining put dates for the LYONs occur on September 7 of 2004, 2006, 2008, 2011 and 2016. The Company may, at its option, pay the repurchase price in cash or Class A ordinary shares or a combination thereof. Both the CARZ and LYONs provide for a contingent conversion feature that gives the bondholders the right to convert the bonds into the Companys ordinary shares at other times during the life of the bonds if the market price of the Companys shares is at certain levels. If the Companys ordinary share price is at least 110% of the accreted conversion price for at least twenty of the thirty days during the relevant conversion period, the bondholders would have the right to convert the bonds into ordinary shares. If converted for ordinary shares, each CARZ would be converted into 5.9467 ordinary shares and each holder of a LYONs would receive 5.277 ordinary shares. The accreted values would be determined by applying the accretion rate to the initial issue price. In the example of CARZ, the accreted price on May 23, 2004 will be $641.88 determined by adding two years accretion of 2.6422% per annum on an annual basis to the original issue price of $593.57. The holders of each of the CARZ and LYONs also have the right to convert the bonds for ordinary shares in the event that the trading price of the bonds for a predetermined period falls below 95% of the value of the equivalent number of shares, provided however, if the ordinary shares are trading at a predetermined premium to the accreted price of the bonds, holders may receive cash, ordinary shares or a combination thereof in lieu of ordinary shares upon conversion. The bonds are also callable as the Company has the right to redeem the bonds for cash, in full or in part, at their accreted value at any time after May 23, 2004, in the case of the CARZ, and September 7, 2004, in the case of the LYONs. These bonds also provide for interest rates to be adjusted in the event that the Companys ordinary share price falls below certain levels specified in the relevant indenture relative to the conversion price. In the event that the credit ratings assigned to the bonds by S&Ps fall below BBB+, the bonds would be convertible into ordinary shares at 5.9467 ordinary shares per CARZ and 5.277 ordinary shares per LYON. The rating assigned to the bonds at the time of issue was A+. The ratings were lowered to A by S&P in January 2004. Some corporate transactions, such as a change of control of the Company, would give the bondholders the right to require the Company to repurchase the bonds at the accreted value of the bonds at that time. The bonds become immediately due if an event of default occurs and 25% or more of the bondholders demand repayment of the accreted value at the time of such event. Such an event of default would include failure to pay amounts due on the notes, an event of default occurring under the Companys other credit facilities, or certain other events such as bankruptcy or insolvency of the Company. Further descriptions of the events of default are contained in the indentures and consequences to the Company are described under Cross Default and Other Provisions in Debt Documents. The puts and the interest rate adjustment features embedded in the CARZ and LYONs are considered derivatives and are subject to fair value. There is currently minimal value ascribed to the puts, as the contingent events of these features are considered unlikely to occur or to the interest rate adjustment feature due to the current trading value of the bonds. Due to the contingent nature of the conversion features of these debt securities, there is no impact on fully diluted earnings (loss) per ordinary share at this time. 74 The following tables present the Companys debt under outstanding securities and lenders commitments as at December 31, 2003: Payments Due by Period Notes Payable and Debt Year of Less than 1 to 3 4 to 5 After 5 (U.S. dollars in thousands) Commitment In Use Expiry 1 Year Years Years Years 364 day revolver $ 675,000 $ 2004 $ $ $ $ 7.15% Senior Notes 99,986 99,986 2005 100,000 6.58% Guaranteed Senior Notes 255,000 255,000 2011 255,000 6.50% Guaranteed Senior Notes 597,441 597,441 2012 600,000 Zero Coupon Convertible Debentures CARZ 642,340 642,340 2021 1,010,833 Liquid Yield Option Notes LYONs 310,716 310,716 2021 514,622 Total $2,580,483 $1,905,483 $ $100,000 $ $2,380,455 Commitment and In Use data represent December 31, 2003 accreted values. After 5 years data represent ultimate redemption values. b) Preferred shares In 2002, the Company issued perpetual preferred shares as follows Series A Preferred In August 2002, the Company issued 9.2 million of 8% Series A preference ordinary shares (Series A preference shares). Gross proceeds were $230.0 million and related expenses were $7.2 million. Upon dissolution of the Company, the holders of the Series A preference shares are entitled to receive a liquidation preference of $25 per share, plus accrued dividends. Dividends on the preference Shares are cumulative from the date of original issuance and are payable when declared. The Company may redeem the Series A preference shares on or after August 14, 2007, at a redemption price of $25 per share. The Company may, under certain circumstances, redeem the Series A preference shares before August 14, 2007 at specified redemption prices, plus accrued dividends. These circumstances include an amalgamation, consolidation or other similar transaction involving the Company in which the Series A preferred shares are entitled to a class vote ($26 per share redemption price), or a change in tax laws that requires the Company to pay additional amounts with respect to the Series A preference shares ($25 per share redemption price). The proceeds were used for general corporate purposes. Series B Preferred In November 2002, the Company issued 11.5 million of 7 5/8% Series B preference ordinary shares (Series B preference shares). Gross proceeds were $287.5 million and related expenses were $9.1 million. Upon dissolution of the Company, the holders of the Series B preference shares are entitled to receive a liquidation preference of $25 per share, plus accrued dividends. Dividends on the preference shares are cumulative from the date of original issuance and are payable when declared. The Company may redeem the Series B preference ordinary shares on or after November 18, 2007, at a redemption price of $25 per share. The Company may, under certain circumstances, redeem the B preference shares before November 18, 2007 at specified redemption prices, plus accrued dividends. These circumstances include an amalgamation, consolidation or other similar transaction involving the Company in which the Series B preferred shares are entitled to a class vote ($26 per share redemption price), or a change in tax laws that requires the Company to pay additional amounts with respect to the Series B preference shares ($25 per share redemption price). The proceeds were used for general corporate purposes. c) Letter of Credit Facilities and other sources of collateral At December 31, 2003, the Company had eight letter of credit facilities in place with total availability of $3.5 billion, of which $2.7 billion was utilized at December 31, 2003.75 Amount of Commitment Expiration per period Other Commercial Commitments Year of Less than 1 to 3 4 to 5 After 5 (U.S. dollars in thousands) Commitment In Use Expiry 1 Year Years Years Years 8 Letter of credit facilities (1) $ 3,528,652 $2,695,893 2004 $3,528,652 $ $ $ (1) Of the total letter of credit facilities above, $500 million is also included in the 364 day revolver under notes payable and debt The facilities are provided on a syndicated and bilateral basis from commercial banks and are scheduled for renewal during 2004. It is anticipated that the commercial facilities will be renewed on expiry but such renewals are subject to the availability of credit from banks utilized by the Company. In the event that such credit support is insufficient, the Company could be required to provide alternative security to cedents. This could take the form of insurance trusts supported by the Companys investment portfolio or funds withheld (amounts retained by ceding companies to collateralize loss or premium reserves) using the Companys cash resources. The value of letters of credit required is driven by, among other things, loss development of existing reserves, the payment pattern of such reserves, the expansion of business written by the Company and the loss experience of such business. In addition to letters of credit, the Company has established insurance trusts in the U.S. that provide cedents with statutory relief required under state insurance regulation in the U.S. The Company reviews current and projected collateral requirements on a regular basis, as well as new sources of collateral. Managements objective is to maintain an excess amount of collateral sources over expected uses. The Company also reviews its liquidity needs on a regular basis. The following letter of credit facilities were originated or renewed during 2003: $200 million facility. In January 2003, the Company entered into a new $100.0 million letter of credit facility to provide additional capacity to support the Companys U.S. non admitted business. This facility was subsequently increased to $200.0 million in June 2003 and was fully utilized at December 31, 2003. $2.5 billion facility. In June 2003, the Company renewed its principal revolving credit and letter of credit facility. The facility was increased from $2.0 billion to $2.5 billion of which up to $675 million is available as revolving credit and up to $2.3 billion is available in the form of letters of credit, with the combined total not to exceed $2.5 billion. As at December 31, 2003 approximately $1.6 billion of this facility was in use in the form of letters of credit. 400 million facility. In November 2003, the Company renewed its unsecured syndicated letter of credit facility that supports its operations at Lloyds. The renewed facility is denominated in U.K. sterling and was approximately $712 million at December 31, 2003. In addition to the letter of credit facilities described above, the Company obtained collateral from the following transactions that were completed during 2003: $500 million commercial paper based facility. In February 2003, the Company entered into an aggregate of $300.0 million of commercial paper based credit facilities (the Credit Facilities). These facilities were increased to $500.0 million in June 2003. The proceeds of advances under the Credit Facilities were used to fund a trust account to collateralize the reinsurance obligations of the Company under an inter company quota share reinsurance agreement. The Company could face additional obligations under the Credit Facilities prior to the stated maturity of February 25, 2008, if certain events were to occur, including, but not limited to the Companys insolvency, withdrawal of assets from the Regulation 114 trust by the ceding company, the downgrade of the Companys credit ratings below certain specified levels, or the failure of the agent to have a first priority perfected security interest in the collateral posted by the Company. At maturity, the Company will be obligated to make payments in an amount equal to the principal and accrued interest outstanding under the Credit Facilities. The issued securities and the Companys repayment obligations are recorded as a net balance on the Companys balance sheet. 76 $500 million contingent capital facility. In July 2003, the Company entered into a contingent capital transaction with an aggregate value of $500.0 million. This transaction also provides the Company with an insurance trust that provides the Company with statutory relief under state insurance regulations in the U.S. Under the terms of this facility, the Company has acquired an irrevocable put option to issue preference ordinary shares into a trust in return for proceeds raised from investors. This put option may be exercised by the Company at any time. In addition, the Company may be required to issue preference ordinary shares to the trust under certain circumstances, including, but not limited to, the non payment of the put option premium and a ratings downgrade of the Company. In connection with this transaction, the fair value of the put premiums and other related costs, in total of $111.9 million was transferred from Additional paid in capital to a deferred liability which was established (included with Other liabilities) in the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2003. The Company began to amortize this liability that resulted in additional interest expense of approximately $2.0 million in 2003. Cross Default and Other Provisions in Debt Documents The following describes certain terms of the documents referred to below. All documents referred to below have been filed with the SEC and should be referred to for an assessment of the complete contractual obligations of the Company. In general, all of the Companys bank facilities, indentures and other documents relating to the Companys outstanding indebtedness, including the Credit Facilities discussed above (collectively, the Companys Debt Documents), contain cross default provisions to each other and the Companys Debt Documents (other than the LYONs, CARZ and 6.5% Guaranteed Senior Notes indentures) contain affirmative covenants. These covenants provide for, among other things, minimum required ratings of the Companys insurance and reinsurance operating subsidiaries (other than its AAA financial guaranty companies) and the level of secured indebtedness in the future. In addition, generally each of the Companys Debt Documents provide for an event of default in the event of a change of control of the Company or some events involving bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization of the Company. The Companys credit facilities and the 6.58% Guaranteed Senior Notes also contain minimum consolidated net worth covenants. Under the Companys 364 day facility and ten year private placement notes described above, in the event that the Company fails to maintain a financial strength rating of at least A from A.M. Best or the Companys insurance and reinsurance rated operating subsidiaries (other than its AAA financial guaranty companies) fail to maintain a rating of at least A from S&P, an event of default would occur. Each of the LYONs, CARZ and 6.5% Guaranteed Senior Notes indentures contains a cross default provision. In general, in the event that the Company defaults in the payment of indebtedness in the amount of $50.0 million or more, an event of default would be triggered under both the LYONs and 6.5% Guaranteed Senior Notes indentures. Under the CARZ indenture, in the event that the Company defaults in the payment of indebtedness in the amount of $100 million or more, an event of default would be triggered. Given that all of the Companys Debt Documents contain cross default provisions, this may result in all holders declaring such debt due and payable and an acceleration of all debt due under those documents. If this were to occur, the Company may not have funds sufficient at that time to repay any or all of such indebtedness. In addition, the Companys unsecured Lloyds letter of credit facility provides that, in the event that the Companys insurance and reinsurance rated operating subsidiaries fall below A (as generally measured by the lower of the financial strength rating from A.M. Best or S&P at any time), the facility would then be required to be fully secured by the Company, at which time the Company would be required to either (i) provide an amount in cash to cover an amount equal to the aggregate letters of credit outstanding at that time or (ii) deposit assets in trust securing 105% of the aggregate letters of credit outstanding at that time. If this were to occur, the Company may not be able to provide the collateral required in order to maintain this facility. See Item 8 Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.77 Long Term Contractual Obligations The following table presents the Companys long term contractual obligations and related payments as at December 31, 2003, due by period. This table excludes further commitments of $154.6 million to the Companys investment managers, related investment funds, certain limited partnerships, insurance affiliates, collateralized debt/equity investments and letter of credit facilities of $3.5 billion. See Item 8, Note 14 and Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Contractual Obligations Less than 1 less than 3 less than More than (U.S. dollars in thousands) Total 1 year 3 years 5 years 5 years Long term debt obligations (1) $1,905,483 $ $100,000 $ $2,380,455 Contingent capital facility 116,850 12,300 24,600 24,600 55,350 Capital lease obligations 352,710 10,600 22,010 23,140 296,960 Operating lease obligations 320,408 53,634 70,250 58,013 138,511 Guaranteed investment contracts (2) 3,786,344 309,987 857,861 801,917 1,816,579 Total $6,481,795 $386,521 $1,074,721 $907,669 $4,687,855 (1) The long term debt obligations include the ultimate redemption values on the CARZ and LYONs up to 2021 and therefore the total obligation amount is greater than the current notes payable and debt outstanding at December 31, 2003. See Item 8, Note 14 and Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (2) See Item 8, Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Variable Interest Entities and Other Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company utilizes variable interest entities both indirectly and directly in the ordinary course of the Companys business. The Company provides various forms of credit enhancement including financial guaranty insurance and reinsurance of structured transactions backed by pools of assets of specified types, municipal obligations supported by the issuers ability to charge fees for specified services or projects, and structured single risk based obligations including essential infrastructure projects and obligations backed by receivables from future sales of commodities and other specified services. The obligations related to these transactions are often securitized through variable interest entities. In synthetic transactions the Company guarantees payment obligations of counterparties including special purpose vehicles under credit derivatives referencing asset portfolios. The Company invests in collateralized debt obligations (CDOs), collateralized bond obligations (CBOs) and other investment vehicles that are issued through variable interest entities as part of the Companys risk asset portfolio. In 2003, the Company entered into an aggregate of $500.0 million of commercial paper based credit facilities (the Credit Facilities). The proceeds of advances under the Credit Facilities were used to fund a trust account (Trust) to collateralize the reinsurance obligations of the Company under an intercompany quota share reinsurance agreement. The issued securities and the Companys repayment obligations will be recorded as a net balance on the Companys balance sheet because the Company has a contractual legal right of offset. In the event that in the future the Company were to not have the right to offset such assets (as, for example, would be the case if the assets in the Trust were withdrawn in order to satisfy the Companys reinsurance obligations or if lender issued securities could not be held in the Trust because they did not qualify as permitted assets under the trust agreement), then all or a portion of the assets in the Trust and the Companys repayment obligations under the Credit Facilities would be required to be included as assets and liabilities on a gross basis, respectively, on the Companys balance sheet. See also Financial Condition and Liquidity for more details regarding this off balance sheet collateral arrangement. In July 2003, the Company entered into a contingent capital transaction with an aggregate value of $500.0 million. This transaction also provides the Company with an insurance trust that provides the Company with statutory relief under state insurance regulations in the U.S. Under the terms of this facility, the Company has acquired an irrevocable 78 put option to issue preference ordinary shares into a trust in return for proceeds raised from investors. This put option may be exercised by the Company at any time. In addition, the Company may be required to issue preference ordinary shares to the trust under certain circumstances, including, but not limited to, the non payment of the put option premium and a ratings downgrade of the Company. The Company has an investment in the junior notes of a collateralized debt obligation (CDO). The Company also issued financial guaranties for the senior notes of the CDO. As of December 31, 2003, the CDO had assets of $463.9 million and liabilities of $395.6 million and the Companys maximum exposure to loss as a result of its financial guaranties and investment in this variable interest entity was approximately $412.3 million. The Company could experience a loss in the event that the cash flows relating to the underlying assets are not collected as expected. The Company is not the primary beneficiary of this entity and therefore is not required to consolidate this entity. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Item 8, Note 2(r) to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion on recent accounting pronouncements. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA) provides a safe harbor for forward looking statements. Any prospectus, prospectus supplement, the Companys Annual Report to ordinary shareholders, any proxy statement, any other Form 10 K, Form 10 Q or Form 8 K of the Company or any other written or oral statements made by or on behalf of the Company may include forward looking statements which reflect the Companys current views with respect to future events and financial performance. Such statements include forward looking statements both with respect to the Company in general, and to the insurance, reinsurance and financial products and services sectors in particular (both as to underwriting and investment matters). Statements which include the words expect, intend, plan, believe, project, anticipate, will, and similar statements of a future or forward looking nature identify forward looking statements for purposes of the PSLRA or otherwise. All forward looking statements address matters that involve risks and uncertainties. Accordingly, there are or will be important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in such statements. The Company believes that these factors include, but are not limited to, the following: (i) rate increases and improvements in terms and conditions may not be as large or significant as the Company is currently projecting; (ii) the timely and full recoverability of reinsurance placed by the Company with third parties, or other amounts due to the Company, including, without limitation, amounts due to the Company from the Seller in connection with the Companys acquisition of the Winterthur International operations; (iii) the projected amount of ceded reinsurance recoverables and the ratings and creditworthiness of reinsurers may change; (iv) the timing of claims payments being faster or the receipt of reinsurance recoverables being slower than anticipated by the Company; (v) ineffectiveness or obsolescence of the Companys business strategy due to changes in current or future market conditions; (vi) increased competition on the basis of pricing, capacity, coverage terms or other factors; (vii) greater frequency or severity of claims and loss activity, including as a result of natural or man made catastrophic events, than the Companys underwriting, reserving or investment practices anticipate based on historical experience or industry data; (viii) developments in the worlds financial and capital markets which adversely affect the performance of the Companys investments and the Companys access to such markets; (ix) the potential impact on the Company from government mandated insurance coverage for acts of terrorism; (x) the potential impact of variable interest entities or other off balance sheet arrangements on the Company; (xi) developments in bankruptcy proceedings or other developments related to bankruptcies of companies insofar as they affect property and casualty insurance and reinsurance coverages or claims that the Company may have as a counterparty; (xii) availability of borrowings and letters of credit under the Companys credit facilities; (xiii) changes in regulation or tax laws applicable to the Company or its subsidiaries, brokers or customers; (xiv) acceptance of the Companys products and services, including new products and services; (xv) changes in the availability, cost or quality of reinsurance; (xvi) changes in the distribution or placement of risks due to increased consolidation of insurance and reinsurance brokers; (xvii) loss of key personnel; (xviii) 79 the effects of mergers, acquisitions and divestitures; (xix) changes in rating agency policies or practices; (xx) changes in accounting policies or practices or the application thereof; (xxi) legislative or regulatory developments; (xxii) changes in general economic conditions, including inflation, foreign currency exchange rates and other factors; (xxiii) the effects of business disruption or economic contraction due to war, terrorism or other hostilities; and (xxiv) the other factors set forth in the Companys other documents on file with the SEC. The foregoing review of important factors should not be construed as exhaustive and should be read in conjunction with the other cautionary statements that are included herein or elsewhere. The Company undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The following risk management discussion and the estimated amounts generated from the sensitivity and value at risk (VaR) analyses presented in this document are forward looking statements of market risk assuming certain adverse market conditions occur. Actual results in the future may differ materially from these estimated results due to, among other things, actual developments in the global financial markets. The results of analysis used by the Company to assess and mitigate risk should not be considered projections of future events of losses. See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements. The Company enters into derivatives and other financial instruments primarily for risk management purposes. The Companys derivative transactions can expose the Company to credit derivative risk, weather and energy risk, investment market risk, and foreign currency exchange rate risk. The Company attempts to manage these risks based on guidelines established by senior management. Derivative instruments are carried at fair value with the resulting changes in fair value recognized in income in the period in which they occur. Credit Derivative Risk The Company enters into swaps written under International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) forms as an extension of its financial guaranty business. The fair value is determined using models developed by the Company and is dependent upon a number of factors, including changes in interest rates, future default rates, changes in credit quality, future expected recovery rates and other market factors. Other elements of the change in fair value are based upon pricing established at the inception of the contract. A change in the interest, default and recovery rate assumptions indicated below would cause the fair value associated with credit derivatives to decrease as follows: Assumptions(U.S. dollars in thousands) % Change Decrease in Fair Value Interest rate 1% decrease $ 3,286 Default rate 10% increase $10,800 Recovery rate 10% decrease $ 5,355 Weather and Energy Market Risk The Company offers weather and energy risk management products in insurance or derivative form to end users, while managing the risks in the over the counter and exchange traded derivatives markets in a weather and energy derivatives trading portfolio. Fair values for the Companys natural gas derivative contracts are determined through the use of quoted market prices. As quoted market prices are not widely available in the weather derivative market, management uses available market data and internal pricing models based upon consistent statistical methodologies to estimate fair values. Estimating fair value of instruments which do not have quoted market prices requires managements judgment in determining amounts which could reasonably be expected to be received from, or paid to, a third party in respect of the contracts. The amounts could be materially different from the amounts that might be realized in an actual sale transaction. Fair values 80 are subject to change in the near term and reflect managements best estimate based on various factors including, but not limited to, realized and forecasted weather conditions, changes in interest rates and other market factors. The following table summarizes the movement in the fair value of contracts outstanding during the year ended December 31, 2003: Unrealized gain (U.S. dollars in thousands) (loss) Fair value of contracts outstanding, beginning of the year $ (6,024) Option premiums received , net of premiums realized (1) (6,608) Reclassification of settled contracts to realized (2) 206,079 Other changes in fair value (3) (204,937) Fair value of contracts outstanding, end of year $ (11,490) (1) For the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company collected $210.5 million of paid premiums and realized $203.9 million of premiums on expired transactions for a net increase in the balance sheet derivative liability of $6.6 million. (2) The Company paid $206.1 million to settle derivative positions during the year ended December 31, 2003, resulting in a reclassification of this amount from unrealized to realized and a reduction in the balance sheet derivative liability. (3) This represents the effects of changes in commodity prices, the time value of options, and other valuation adjustments of $204.9 million on the Companys derivative positions, primarily attributable to the hedges of the positions that realized $203.9 million of premiums. The change in fair value of contracts outstanding at December 31, 2003 as compared to the beginning of the year is primarily due to the increased volume of weather and energy risk management contracts written during the first half of the year, partially offset by the settlement of positions in the latter half of the year. The following table summarizes the maturity of contracts outstanding at December 31, 2003: Greater Source of Fair Value than 5 Total Fair (U.S. dollars in thousands) Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years Years Value Prices actively quoted $(30,278) $ $ $ $(30,278) Prices based on models and other valuation methods 3,026 12,391 3,371 18,788 Total fair value of contracts outstanding $(27,252) $12,391 $3,371 $ $(11,490) Market risk for the Companys weather and energy portfolio relates to changes in underlying weather conditions (i.e., changes in climatic variables such as temperature and precipitation) changes in electricity prices, and changes in natural gas prices. The Company has underwritten risks in Asia, Australia, Europe, and North America, with its primary market risk reflected in temperature changes within the United States and Europe. The Company manages its weather and energy risk portfolio through the employment of a variety of strategies. These include geographical and directional diversification of risk exposures and direct hedging within the capital and reinsurance markets. Risk management is undertaken on a portfolio wide basis, to maintain a portfolio that the Company believes is well diversified and which remains within the aggregate risk tolerance established by the Companys senior management. Value At Risk A statistical technique known as Value at Risk (VaR) is one of the tools used by management to measure, monitor and review the market risk exposures of the Companys weather risk and natural gas portfolios. VaR, as it relates to commodity risk, is at the 99% confidence level. The Companys aggregate average, low and high seasonal VaR amounts for its weather risk management portfolio, calculated at a 99% confidence level, during the year ended December 31, 2003, were $137.7 million, $100.1 mil 81 lion and $178.4 million, respectively. The corresponding levels for the weather risk management portfolio during the year ended December 31, 2002 were $102.7 million, $25.8 million and $201.3 million, respectively. The Company calculates its aggregate VaR by summing the VaR amounts for each of its seasonal portfolios. The Companys aggregation methodology yields a conservative aggregate portfolio VaR, given that current weather events and patterns have an immaterial effect on expectations for future seasons and the Company could therefore reduce or eliminate its VaR on future seasons by selling its positions prior to the beginning of a season. For the natural gas portfolio, VaR is calculated using a one day holding period. The Companys average, low and high daily VaR amounts calculated at a 99% confidence level during the year ended December 31, 2003 were $2.0 million, $0.2 million and $2.9 million, respectively. The corresponding amounts during the year ended December 31, 2002 were $0.8 million, nil and $2.9 million, respectively. For electricity price risk management products, including electricity generation outage products, VaR is calculated using an annual holding period. Management has established an annual VaR limit of $17 million for this book of business. The Companys average, low and high annual VaR amounts, calculated at a 99% confidence level during the year ended December 31, 2003 were $2.3 million, $0.8 million, and $5.3 million, respectively. Since VaR statistics are estimates based on simulations of historical market data, VaR should not be viewed as an absolute, prognostic measurement gauge of future financial performance or as a way for the Company to predict risk. There can be no assurance that the Companys actual future losses will not exceed its VaR amounts. Credit Risk The Company is exposed to credit risk, or the risk that counterparties to weather and energy transactions will fail to perform their contractual obligations leading to possible losses. In order to control its risk exposures, the Company has implemented a credit risk control framework centered on a management credit committee, credit policies and credit limits developed, enhanced and maintained by a credit officer and a credit committee comprised of senior management. All credit sensitive transactions are reviewed and approved by the Companys risk management personnel and or credit committee and exposures are reviewed with respect to authorized credit limits before the Company enters into weather derivative transactions. To address counterparty risk concerns and to support credit exposures in certain cases, the Company may require that a counterparty provide a guaranty or a letter of credit or post margin or collateral. The Company monitors its credit exposures on a daily basis to ensure adherence to all policies and limits. Investment Market Risk The Companys investment portfolio is managed by external investment professionals under the direction of the Companys management and generally in accordance with detailed investment guidelines provided and monitored by the Company. Managers are selected directly by the Company on the basis of various criteria, including investment style, track record, performance, internal controls, operational risk, and diversification implications. The vast majority of the Companys investment portfolio is managed by well established, large institutional investment professionals. The Companys investment portfolio consists of exposures to fixed income securities, equities, alternative investments, derivatives, business and other investments and cash. These securities and investments are denominated in both U.S. dollar and foreign currencies. Through the structure of the Companys investment portfolio, the Companys earnings are directly affected by changes in the valuations of the securities and investments held in the investment portfolio. These valuation changes reflect changes in interest rates (e.g., changes in the level, slope and curvature of yield curves, volatility of interest rates, mortgage prepayment speeds and credit spreads), credit quality, equity prices (e.g., changes in prices and volatilities of individual securities, equity baskets and equity indices) and foreign currency exchange rates (e.g., changes in spot prices, forward prices and volatilities of currency rates). Market risk therefore arises due to the uncertainty surrounding the future valuations of these different assets, the factors that impact their values and the impact that this could have on the Companys earnings.82 The Company seeks to manage the risks of the investment portfolio through a combination of asset class, country, industry and security level diversification and investment manager allocations. Further, individual security and issuer exposures are controlled and monitored at the investment portfolio level, via specific investment constraints outlined in investment guidelines and agreed with the external investment professionals. Additional constraints are generally agreed with the external investment professionals which may address exposures to eligible securities, prohibited investments/transactions, credit quality and general concentrations limits. The Companys direct use of investment derivatives includes futures, forwards, swaps and option contracts that derive their value from underlying assets, indices, reference rates or a combination of these factors. When investment guidelines allow for the use of derivatives, these can generally only be used for the purpose of managing interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and credit risk, provided the use of such instruments is incorporated in the overall portfolio duration, spread, convexity and other relevant portfolio metrics. The direct use of derivatives is not permitted to economically leverage the portfolio outside of the stated guidelines. Derivatives may also be used to add value to the investment portfolio where market inefficiencies are perceived to exist, to utilize cash holdings to purchase equity indexed derivatives and to adjust the duration of a portfolio of fixed income securities to match the duration of related deposit liabilities. Investment Value at Risk Central to the Companys market risk management framework is Value at Risk (VaR). VaR is a statistical risk measure, calculating the level of potential losses that could be expected to be exceeded, over a specified holding period and at a given level of confidence, in normal market conditions, due to adverse movements in the investment portfolios underlying securities and investments valuations. The Company calculates the VaR of the investment portfolio using a 1 month time horizon and a 95% level of confidence. This means that, on average, the Company could expect losses greater than predicted by the VaR results 5% of the time, or once every 20 months. The calculation of VaR is performed monthly using a full valuation based on the Monte Carlo approach and it is expressed both in terms of U.S. dollars and as a percentage of the Companys investment portfolio. The modeling of the risk of any portfolio, as measured by VaR, involves a number of assumptions and approximations. While the Company believes that its assumptions and approximations are appropriate, there is no uniform industry methodology for calculating VaR. The Company notes that different VaR results can be produced for the same portfolio dependent, not only on the approach used but also on the assumptions employed when implementing the approach. In the third quarter of 2003, the Company introduced a new, more widely used risk management system to generate the investment VaR and to stress test the investment portfolio. Although the overall methodology is consistent between the two systems, there are certain differences between these systems relating to security pricing models, time series, time periods and proxies used for individual instruments. Accordingly, the VaR for the investment portfolio and the stress tests on the investment portfolio are not directly comparable to prior periods. The VaR approach uses historical data to determine the sensitivity of each of the underlying securities to the risk factors incorporated into the models that are employed in the Monte Carlo simulations. In calculating these sensitivities, greater importance is placed on the more recent data points and information. Since the VaR approach is based on historical positions and market data, VaR results should not be viewed as an absolute and predictive gauge of future financial performance or as a way for the Company to predict risk. There is no assurance that the Companys actual future losses will not exceed its VaR and the Company expects that 5% of the time the VaR will be exceeded. Additionally, the Company acknowledges the fact that risks associated with abnormal market events can be significantly different from the VaR results and these are by definition not reflected or assessed in the VaR analysis. The VaR of the investment portfolio at December 31, 2003 was approximately $444.0 million. The VaR of all investment related derivatives excluding investments in affiliates and other investments was $9.5 million. 83 In instances where the data or time series are insufficient to determine the risk factor sensitivities, the VaR approach uses proxy time series data available for similar instruments. As at December 31, 2003, approximately $7.7 billion (31% of the Companys investment portfolio at market value) used proxy time series data. Approximately $4.1 billion related to various fixed income portfolios, $1.4 billion to alternative investments, $84.1 million to equity portfolios, $1.5 billion to various cash portfolios and $579.1 million to business and other investments. The Company reviews the proxies to ensure that an appropriate data and time series is being used in the calculations and that the proxies used are conservative. The following two tables show the Companys average, minimum and maximum VaR in percentage and dollar terms for the total investment portfolio during 2003, based upon the VaR at quarter end dates. The two tables also include the Companys VaR in percentage and dollar terms, respectively, for the total investment portfolio as at December 31, 2003. The Companys investment portfolio VaR as at December 31, 2003 is not necessarily indicative of future VaR levels. At December 31, Average VaR Minimum VaR Maximum VaR 2003 % VaR(1) % VaR(1) % VaR(1) % VaR(1) Fixed Income 1.99% 1.63% 2.39% 1.86% Alternatives (2) 0.17% 0.14% 0.25% 0.14% Equity 0.18% 0.12% 0.29% 0.12% Business and Other Investments 0.18% 0.11% 0.24% 0.11% Derivatives 0.04% 0.03% 0.08% 0.04% Cash Equivalents 0.04% 0.02% 0.06% 0.02% Total Undiversified VaR (3) 2.60% 2.27% 3.06% 2.29% Diversification VaR (4) (0.75)% NA NA (0.48)% Total Investment Portfolio VaR (5) 1.85% 1.31% 2.56% 1.81% VaR as at Average VaR Minimum VaR Maximum VaR December 31, during 2003 during 2003 during 2003 2003 (U.S. dollars in millions) $VaR(6) $VaR(6) $VaR(6) $VaR(6) Total Investment Portfolio VaR (5) 405.2 262.1 549.3 444.0 (1) Based on a 95% confidence level with a one month holding period and expressed as a percentage of the total investment portfolio. (2) The majority of the Companys alternative investment portfolio is accounted for as equity in affiliates. However, for purposes of monitoring and tracking the Companys total investment market risk, the total alternative investment portfolio is included in these calculations. The alternative investment portfolio is principally proxied to the public equity markets and fixed income markets in these VaR calculations. The actual annualized volatility of the Companys alternatives portfolio during 2003 was 2.4% versus approximately 16.8% for the public equity markets and approximately 4.3% for the fixed income markets, as proxied by the S&P 500 Index and Lehman US Aggregate Bond Index, respectively. (3) Average Total Undiversified VaR and December 31, 2003 Total Undiversified Var is the summation of the individual VaRs for each of the separate asset classes and, by construction, ignores any and all correlations between the different asset classes. The Total Undiversified VaR therefore ignores diversification benefits that exist in between these different asset classes. Maximum and Minimum Total Undiversified VaR is not necessarily the summation of the individual VaRs for each of the separate asset classes since the Maximum and Minimum VaRs for each of the asset classes and the Maximum and Minimum Total Undiversified VaR do not necessarily refer to the same point in time. (4) Diversification VaR equals the difference between the Total Investment Portfolio VaR and the Total Undiversified VaR. As the former explicitly accounts for the correlations and diversification benefits that exist between the actual asset classes and the latter explicitly does not, the difference in the two VaR results is due to the diversification benefits. These diversification benefits arise due to the risk reduction that occurs when different assets, that are not perfectly correlated, are combined in a portfolio. It will vary over time dependent on: allocations changes; changes in the correlations between the different asset classes; and changes in the general asset class risks. The NA reflects the fact that, since the Minimum and Maximum VaR for the six different asset class portfolios do not refer to the same point in time, and therefore it is not meaningful to calculate the Diversification VaR. (5) Total Investment Portfolio VaR is the Companys investment portfolio VaR based on the prescribed methodology that explicitly accounts for the diversification benefits that occur when each of the allocations to the individual asset classes are included in the investment portfolio. (6) Based on a 95% confidence level with a one month holding period, expressed in millions of US$ Dollars. 84 The Companys total investment portfolio VaR is driven by: the size of the overall investment portfolio; the size of the allocations to the different asset classes and securities in the asset classes; the risks associated with each of the asset classes and securities; and the correlations and diversification benefits between each of the asset classes and securities. Changes in any of these variables will have a direct impact on the Companys VaR. The Companys total undiversified VaR, which ignores any correlation and diversification benefits, at December 31, 2003 was 2.29% compared to a maximum of 3.06% and a minimum of 2.27% during 2003. The Companys average diversification VaR during 2003 resulted in an average reduction of the Companys total undiversified VaR of 0.75% and as at December 31, 2003 was 0.48%. The Companys total investment portfolio VaR was on average 1.85% during 2003 and as at December 31, 2003, was 1.81%. The Companys maximum and minimum total investment portfolio VaR during 2003 were 2.56% and 1.31%, respectively. The Companys largest VaR exposure during 2003 was to fixed income. The average VaR for fixed income was 1.99%, compared to a maximum of 2.39% and a minimum of 1.63%. As at December 31, 2003, the fixed income VaR was 1.86%. At December 31, 2003, the ranking for the Companys asset class risk, based on the individual asset class VaRs, was: fixed income; alternative investments; equity; business and other investments; cash equivalents and derivatives. Stress Testing VaR does not provide the means to estimate the magnitude of the loss in the 5% of occurrences that the Company expects the VaR level to be exceeded. To complement the VaR analysis based on normal market environments, the Company considers the impact on the investment portfolio in several different historical stress periods to analyze the effect of unusual market conditions. The Company establishes certain historical stress test scenarios which are applied to the actual investment portfolio. As these stress tests and estimated gains and losses are based on historical events, they will not necessarily reflect future stress events or gains and losses from such events. The results of the stress test scenarios are reviewed on a regular basis to ensure they reflect current shareholders equity, market conditions and the Companys total risk profile. The table below shows the maximum impact on the Companys investment portfolio if all events stress tested were to repeat themselves, given the actual investment portfolios allocations at quarter end dates during 2003. The Company assumes that no action is taken during the stress period to either liquidate or rebalance the portfolio. The Company believes that this fairly reflects the potential decreased liquidity that is often associated with stressed market environments. March 31, June 30, September 30, December 31, Stress Test 2003 2003 2003 2003 Maximum loss impact on portfolio (4.8)% (4.2)% (6.1)% (5.9)% Maximum gain impact on portfolio 14.2% 13.3% 19.1% 19.0% From the different scenarios that the Company analyzes, the largest downside event risk exposure during 2003 was 6.1%, based on the investment portfolio as at September 30, 2003. The largest upside risk exposure during 2003 was 19.1% as at September 30, 2003. Given the investment portfolio allocations as at December 31, 2003, the Company would expect to lose approximately 5.9% of the portfolio if the most damaging event stress tested was repeated, all other things held equal. Given the investment portfolio allocations as at December 31, 2003, the Company would expect to gain approximately 19.0% of the portfolio if the most favorable event stress tested was repeated, all other things held equal. 85Fixed Income Portfolio The Companys fixed income portfolio is exposed to credit and interest rate risk through its portfolio of debt securities, and includes fixed maturities and short term investments. The fixed income portfolio includes fixed maturities, short term investments, cash and cash equivalents and net payable for investments purchased. As at December 31, 2003, the value of the Companys fixed income portfolio including cash and cash equivalents and net payable for investments purchased as approximately $22.5 billion as compared to approximately $17.5 billion as at December 31, 2002. As at December 31, 2003, the fixed income portfolio consisted of approximately 88.5% of the total investment portfolio (including cash and cash equivalents, accrued investment income and net payable for investments purchased) as compared to approximately 86.6% as at December 31, 2002. The Company manages credit risk in the investment portfolio through the credit research performed by the external investment professionals and limitations on the investment portfolios exposure to individual credits, as set by the Company. Limits are set for each credit quality rating and are a function of the probability of default and the expected loss in the event of default. Limits ensure that potential losses from individual defaults should not exceed predetermined levels. The Company reviews on a regular basis its corporate debt concentration, credit quality and compliance with established credit limits. Any obligor over its credit limits, experiencing financial difficulties, material credit quality deterioration or potentially subject to fore coming credit quality deterioration is placed on a Watch List for closer monitoring. Where appropriate, exposures are reduced or prevented from increasing. The table below shows the Companys fixed income portfolio by credit rating in percentage terms of the Companys total fixed income exposure (including fixed maturities, short term investments, cash and cash equivalents and net payable for investments purchased) as at December 31, 2003. Total AAA 56.7% AA 13.1% A 15.5% BBB 9.3% BB & below 5.0% NR 0.4% Total 100.0% At December 31, 2003 and 2002, the average credit quality of the Companys total fixed income portfolio was AA. As at December 31, 2003, the top 10 corporate holdings represented approximately 6.2% of the total fixed income portfolio and approximately 13.6% of all corporate holdings. The top 10 corporate holdings listed below utilizes a conservative approach to aggregation as it includes unsecured as well as securitized, credit enhanced and collateralized securities issued by parent companies and their affiliates. 86 Percentage of Total Top 10 Corporate Holdings (2) Fixed Income Portfolio (1) JPMorgan Chase & Co 0.86% Citigroup Inc 0.79% General Electric Company 0.72% Morgan Stanley 0.71% HSBC Holdings plc 0.66% Bank of America Corporation 0.52% American International Group Inc. 0.52% Bear Sterns & Co 0.49% General Motors Corporation 0.49% Ford Motor Company 0.46% (1) Including fixed maturities, short term investments, cash and cash equivalents and net payable for investments purchased. (2) Corporate holdings include parent and affiliated companies that issue fixed income securities. In some cases a portion of the market value may be invested in bonds that are securitized or have sufficient credit enhancement that provides a long term credit rating that is higher than the rating of the unsecured debt of the parent company. The Companys fixed income portfolio is exposed to interest rate risk. Interest rate risk is the price sensitivity of a fixed income security to changes in interest rates. The Company manages interest rate risk within the context of its overall asset liability management strategy by setting duration targets for its investment portfolio in line with the estimated duration of its liabilities, thus mitigating the overall economic effect of interest rate risk. The Company remains nevertheless exposed to accounting interest rate risk since the assets are marked to market, thus subject to market conditions, while liabilities are accrued at a static rate. The hypothetical case of an immediate 100 basis point adverse parallel shift in global bond curves as at December 31, 2003 would decrease the fair value of the Companys fixed income portfolio by approximately 4.7% or $1.1 billion. Based on historical observations, it is unlikely that all global yield curves would shift in the same direction and at the same time. In addition, the Company has short term debt and long term debt outstanding. Interest rates on short term debt are LIBOR based. Accordingly, any changes in interest rates will affect interest expense. Equity Portfolio As at December 31, 2003, the Companys equity portfolio was $583 million as compared to $575 million as at December 31, 2002. As at December 31, 2003, the Companys allocation to equity securities was approximately 2.3% of the total investment portfolio (including cash and cash equivalents, accrued investment income and net payable for investments purchased) as compared to approximately 2.9% as at December 31, 2002. As at December 31, 2003, approximately 62% of the equity portfolio was invested in U.S. companies as compared to approximately 60% as at December 31, 2002. As at December 31, 2003, the top ten equity holdings represented approximately 11.6% of the Companys total equity portfolio. The Companys equity portfolio is exposed to price risk. Equity price risk is the potential loss arising from decreases in the market value of equities. An immediate hypothetical 10% change in the value of each equity position would affect the fair value of the portfolio by approximately $58.3 million as at December 31, 2003. Alternative Investment Portfolio A portion of the Companys portfolio is invested in funds that pursue alternative investment strategies, with the investment objective of attaining high risk adjusted total return whilst maintaining a low level of correlation to the traditional asset classes and realizing a low volatility. Investments within this portfolio are generally fund investments in limited partnerships or similar vehicles, with each fund pursuing different absolute return investment mandates, typically 87 investing in one or more of the traditional asset classes including equities, fixed income, credit, currency and commodity markets. Various strategies can be pursued and the Company classifies each fund allocation into three general style categories established by S&P. The three styles are: Event driven, which includes strategies that pursue merger arbitrage, distressed and special situations opportunities; Directional/tactical, which includes strategies that pursue long/short equity, managed futures and macro opportunities; and Arbitrage, which includes strategies that pursue equity market neutral, fixed income arbitrage and convertible arbitrage opportunities. During 2003, the Company implemented additional risk and portfolio management analytics and processes to enhance the overall management and assessment of the alternative investment portfolio. Central to the portfolio and risk management processes is the receipt of information on each of its allocations that is sufficient to assess risks and exposures of the fund allocations and to monitor how the portfolio and associated risk changes over time. The level and frequency of information required by the Company on each investment depends on the type of strategy that a fund pursues; the expected risk profile and types of risk that the fund and underlying securities are exposed to; the liquidity of the fund and underlying securities; and the size of the allocation. The Companys alternative investment portfolio had over 100 separate investments in different funds at December 31, 2003 with a total exposure of $1.4 billion making up approximately 5.9% of the total investments compared to December 31, 2002 where the Company had over 100 separate fund investments with a total exposure of $1.3 billion representing approximately 6.7% of the total investments. At December 31, 2003, the alternative investment style allocation was 35% in arbitrage strategies, 39% in directional/tactical strategies and 26% in event driven strategies. Private Investment Portfolio A portion of the Companys portfolio is invested in limited partnerships and other entities which are not publicly traded. In addition to normal market risks, these positions may also be exposed to liquidity risk, risks related to distressed investments, and risks specific to startup or small companies. As at December 31, 2003, the Companys exposure to Private Investments was approximately $200.0 million compared to $236.0 million as at December 31, 2002. As at December 31, 2003, the Companys exposure to private investments consisted of approximately 0.8% of the total investment portfolio (including cash and cash equivalents, accrued investment income and net payable for investments purchased), as compared to 1.2% as at December 31, 2002. Bond and Stock Index Futures Exposure At December 31, 2003, bond and stock index futures outstanding were $241.1 million with underlying investments having a market value of $801.1 million. Losses of $6.3 million were realized on these contracts for the year ended December 31, 2003. A 10% appreciation or depreciation of these derivative instruments would have resulted in realized gains and realized losses of $24.1 million respectively. The Company reduces its exposure to these futures through offsetting transactions, including options and forwards. Foreign Currency Exchange Risk The Company uses foreign exchange contracts to manage its exposure to the effects of fluctuating foreign currencies on the value of certain of its foreign currency fixed maturities and equity investments. These contracts are not designated as specific hedges for financial reporting purposes and therefore, realized and unrealized gains and losses on these contracts are recorded in income in the period in which they occur. These contracts generally have maturities of three months or less. At December 31, 2003, forward foreign exchange contracts with notional principal amounts totaling $193.0 million were outstanding. The fair value of these contracts as at December 31, 2003 was $189.4 million with unrealized gains of $3.5 million. For the year ended December 31, 2003, realized gains of $1.0 million and unrealized gains of $3.3 mil 88 lion were recorded in net realized and unrealized gains and losses on derivative instruments. Based on this value, a 10% appreciation or depreciation of the U.S. dollar as compared to the level of other currencies under contract at December 31, 2003 would have resulted in approximately $9.8 million of unrealized gains and $12.1 million in unrealized losses, respectively. The Company attempts to manage the exchange volatility arising on certain administration costs denominated in foreign currencies. Throughout the year, forward contracts are entered into to acquire foreign currencies at an agreed rate in the future. At December 31, 2003, the Company had forward contracts outstanding for the purchase of $25.9 million Euros and $70.2 million U.K. sterling at fixed rates. The unrealized loss on these contracts at December 31, 2003 was $2.5 million and $7.7 million, respectively. Credit Risk The Company is exposed to credit risk in the event of non performance by the other parties to the forward contracts, however the Company does not anticipate non performance. The difference between the notional principal amounts and the associated market value is the Companys maximum credit exposure. Embedded Derivatives The puts and the interest rate adjustment features embedded in the CARZ and LYONs are considered derivatives and are subject to fair value. There is currently minimal fair value ascribed to (i) the puts, as the contingent events of these features are considered unlikely to occur or (ii) the interest rate adjustment feature due to the current trading value of the bonds. 
 
