ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward looking statements which involve inherent risks and uncertainties. Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about the Companys beliefs and expectations, are forward looking statements. These statements are based upon current plans, estimates and expectations. Actual results may differ materially from those projected in such forward looking statements, and therefore undue reliance should not be placed on them. See Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements for a list of additional factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statement. This discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto presented under Item 8. Certain aspects of the Companys business have loss experience characterized as low frequency and high severity. This may result in volatility in both the Companys results of operations and financial condition. Executive Overview The Company operates on a global basis primarily in the property and casualty industry and, to a lesser extent, the financial services industry. The Company serves the insurance, reinsurance and financial services needs of institutional or corporate clients, typically the global equivalent of the Fortune 2000. The Company operates in markets where the Company believes its underwriting expertise and financial strength represent a relative advantage. The Company does not operate in any retail markets. The property and casualty insurance and reinsurance markets have historically been cyclical, meaning that based on market conditions, there have been periods where premium rates are high and policy terms and conditions are more favorable (a hard market) to the Company and there have been periods where premium rates decline and policy terms and conditions are less favorable (a soft market) to the Company. This has been driven primarily by competition in the marketplace, the supply of capital in the industry, investment yields and the frequency and severity of loss events. Managements goal is to build long term shareholder value by capitalizing on current opportunities and managing through any potential downward cycles by reducing its property and casualty book of business and exposures if and when rates deteriorate to unprofitable levels for the Company. As part of its long term strategy, the Company also looks to its financial products and services segment to provide a diversified stream of earnings that are not directly tied to the property and casualty cycle. In this regard, the Companys financial guaranty operations have substantially achieved relative trading parity with its peers. The Company has grown through acquisition activity and development of new business opportunities. Acquisitions included Global Capital Underwriting Ltd in 1996, Mid Ocean Limited in 1998, ECS, Inc. and NAC Re Corp. in 1999, Winterthur International in 2001 and Le Mans R in 2002. All acquisitions have supported the Companys strategic plan to develop a global platform in insurance and reinsurance. Recent business developments include XL Capital Assurance Inc. and XL Financial Assurance Ltd., the Companys financial guaranty primary and reinsurance guarantors, XL Weather & Energy and XL Life & Annuity. As a result of these combined developments, the Company now competes as an integrated global business with more than 3,500 employees in 29 countries. The Company earns its revenue primarily from net premiums written and earned. Premium rates in the property and casualty industry began to increase in 2001 following five years of poor underwriting performance in the industry. These price increases were further compounded by the September 11 event. In the three years ended December 31, 2003, the Company experienced pricing increases and improved terms and conditions across most of the lines of business it writes. These generally, across the board price increases were unprecedented meaning that, in the past, pricing increases and more favorable terms and conditions were not experienced across all of the Companys product lines at one point in any one cycle. 37Property and casualty market conditions overall remain attractive although price competition continued to increase throughout 2004, most notably in regards to property and professional lines. Accordingly, the Company continued to focus on disciplined risk selection. Based on continued solid demand and the benefits of price increases and improved terms achieved over the last several years renewals, the Company believes that overall business in the insurance and reinsurance markets was adequately priced. In relation to insurance and reinsurance, with respect to current market conditions and January 1, 2005 renewals, the Company has seen competitive pressures continue. The impact of the 2004 storm season, the backdrop of continued emergence of adverse development related to the market of the late 1990s and concerns about reinsurer financial strength, all served to reinforce a sense of discipline in the market. Marine rates were flat to down 10%, energy rates were up 10 to 15% reflecting the substantial impact of Hurricane Ivan. Casualty rates appear to have remained flat on average. In accordance with this increasingly competitive market environment, the Companys expectation is for flat earned premium growth for full year 2005, with insurance flat to up low single digits and reinsurance flat to down low single digits. The Company also generates revenue from investment activities through returns on its investment portfolio. The Companys current investment strategy seeks to support the liabilities arising from the operations of the Company, generate investment income and build book value over the longer term. During 2004, interest rates in the U.S. increased moderately and the yield on the benchmark 5 year treasury rose from 3.25% to 3.61%. Interest rates declined in the U.K., where the yield on the benchmark 5 yr Gilt fell from 4.60% to 4.49% and in the Euro zone, where the yield on the benchmark 5 yr German Bund fell from 3.50% to 3.03%. For the three years up to December 31, 2003, there were declines in interest rates that negatively impacted the Companys net investment income. The Company expects net investment income to rise in 2005 supported by positive cash flow from operations and anticipated moderate increases in market interest rates. In 2004, the Company generated net realized gains from both its equity and fixed income portfolios reflecting the overall performance of capital markets and the deterioration of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies. In 2003, the Company generated net realized gains from both its equity and fixed income portfolios reflecting the overall improvement in capital markets and narrowing of credit spreads. The Companys profitability in any given period is based upon its premium and investment revenues as noted above, less net losses incurred and expenses. Net losses incurred are based upon claims paid and changes to unpaid loss reserves. Unpaid loss reserves are estimated by the Company and include both reported loss reserves and reserves for losses incurred but not reported. The Companys results for 2004 were significantly impacted by the catastrophe activity in the year which resulted in $591.2 million in estimated net loss and loss expenses, combined with adverse prior year development in certain lines of the Companys insurance segment. See further information below. The Companys results for 2003 and 2002 were negatively impacted by an increase to reserves established in prior years primarily relating to its North American casualty reinsurance business written in the 1997 through 2001 underwriting years. In the third quarter of 2003, the Company received reported claims that were in excess of the Companys expected claims and the Company increased loss reserves by $184.0 million and began an extensive claims audit review of its ceding companies for this book of business. Upon completion of this claims audit review as well as the Companys scheduled annual reserve review, the Company increased loss reserves by $694 million in the fourth quarter of 2003. This increase was net of a $197 million release of reserves relating to the September 11 event. See further information under Reinsurance General Operations below. 38 Financial measures The following are some of the financial measures management considers important in evaluating the Companys operating performance in the Companys general operations: (U.S. dollars in thousands, except ratios and per share amounts) 2004 2003 2002 Underwriting profit (loss) general operations $349,308 $ (84,117) $274,701 Combined ratio general operations 96.0% 102.6% 97.0% Investment income general operations $661,535 $588,428 $617,122 Book value per ordinary share $ 51.98 $ 46.74 $ 44.48 Return on average ordinary shareholders equity 16.5% 6.0% 6.9% Underwriting profit (loss) general operations One way that the Company evaluates the performance of its insurance and reinsurance general operations is the underwriting profit or loss. The Company does not measure performance based on the amount of gross premiums written. Underwriting profit or loss is calculated from premiums earned and fee income, less net losses incurred and expenses related to the underwriting activities. As noted above, the Companys underwriting profit and loss for the last three years have been negatively impacted by net losses incurred from catastrophic losses and adverse development of prior year loss reserves. Partially offsetting this has been the increase in premium rates and favorable underwriting terms and conditions during 2002 and 2003. Any changes to loss reserves affect the calculation of underwriting profit or loss but most often do not directly affect the Companys cash flow in the same period. See further discussion below. Barring any unusual catastrophic loss events, the Company expects to produce an underwriting profit in 2005. Combined ratio general operations The combined ratio for general operations is used by the Company and many other insurance and reinsurance companies as another measure of underwriting profitability. The combined ratio is calculated from the net losses incurred and underwriting expenses as a ratio of the net premiums earned for the Companys general insurance and reinsurance operations. A combined ratio of less than 100% indicates an underwriting profit and over 100% indicates an underwriting loss. Changes in the Companys combined ratio for the last three years have been negatively impacted by the net losses incurred, related to 2004 catastrophe activity and prior period development in all three years. The improvement in 2004 was primarily a result of the severity of the prior period development in 2003 offset by the catastrophe losses noted in 2004. Net investment income general operations Net investment income from its general operations is an important measure which affects the Companys overall profitability. The largest liability of the Company relates to its unpaid loss reserves and the Companys investment portfolio provides liquidity for claims settlements of these reserves as they become due, and thus a significant part of the portfolio is in fixed income securities. Net investment income is affected both by the size of the portfolio and the level of market interest rates. In 2004 U.S. interest rates increased moderately while interest rates in the U.K. and Euro zone declined. The size of the portfolio is also impacted by cash flow generated from operations which has been positive during the last three years and which the Company currently expects to be positive in 2005. Book value per ordinary share Management also views the change in the Companys book value per ordinary share as an additional measure of the Companys performance. Book value per share is calculated by dividing ordinary shareholders equity by the number of outstanding ordinary shares at any period end. Book value per ordinary share is affected primarily by the Companys net income and also any changes in the net unrealized gains and losses on its investment portfolio. The Companys book value per ordinary share increased in 2004 primarily as a result of an increase in net income com 39 bined with an increase in the net unrealized gains on the investment portfolio. The increase in unrealized gains on the Companys fixed income portfolio was primarily a result of the foreign exchange benefits for non U.S. dollar investments partially offset by a moderate increase in interest rates in the U.S. Return on average ordinary shareholders equity Return on average ordinary shareholders equity (ROE) is a widely used measure of any companys profitability. It is calculated by dividing the net income for any period by the average of the opening and closing ordinary shareholders equity. The Company establishes minimum target ROEs for its total operations, segments and lines of business. If the Companys minimum ROE targets over the longer term are not met with respect to any line of business, the Company seeks to exit these lines. In addition, the Companys compensation of its senior officers is significantly dependant on the achievement of the Companys performance goals to enhance shareholder value as measured by ROE. The Companys ROEs for the last three years have been mainly affected by its general operations underwriting results and investment income. In addition to those items, in 2004 the Company had realized gains from investments and derivatives of $324 million which contributed 5.1% to the ROE. Other Key Focuses of Management Winterthur International Net Reserve Seasoning Management continues to focus on the settlement and collection of certain post closing balances under the sale and purchase agreement, as amended (SPA) and other contractual agreements, related to the 2001 acquisition of the Winterthur International operations from Winterthur Swiss Insurance Company. For further information, see Unpaid losses and loss expenses recoverable Item 8, Note 5(b) to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Ratings and Capital Management Management continues to focus heavily on the Companys financial strength and claims paying ratings because the Companys ability to write business is dependent upon the quality of these ratings. Management seeks to maintain strong financial strength and claims paying ratings, relative to its competitors. In January 2004, several internationally recognized agencies lowered their financial strength ratings at the Companys principle insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries and pools following the announcement that the Company increased prior period reserves in the fourth quarter of 2003. In February 2005, Fitch placed the Companys financial strength and claims paying ratings on Rating Watch Negative and Moodys confirmed the Companys ratings and changed the outlooks to Negative. Collateral Management Another important matter on which management is focused (and which also affects the Companys ability to underwrite business) is the availability of collateral. Collateral includes letters of credit, insurance trusts and other credit facilities required to provide security to cedants (which are companies who reinsure their liabilities to the Company), particularly as required by state insurance regulation in the U.S. and at Lloyds, and also to provide the Company with liquidity as required. These facilities are provided to the Company from commercial banks and generally are renewed every year. The Company has also utilized off balance sheet transactions in order to obtain more collateral capacity (these transactions are described below under Variable Interest Entities and Other Off Balance Sheet Arrangements). As the Company writes more business, its collateral requirements will increase. A key challenge for management is to ensure that sufficient collateral capacity is available as to not hinder future writing of business. Liquidity and cash flow As a property and casualty company, the Company must ensure that it has sufficient funds to settle claims promptly, especially in the event of a major catastrophic event. Management is focused on making sure that liquidity requirements are supported by both having lines of credit facilities available to the Company as well as the 40 Companys general investment portfolio of which the majority is in high grade fixed income securities. The Company has had significant positive cash flow from operations in the three years ended December 31, 2004 generated from its underwriting activities (premiums less claim and expense settlements) as well as the receipt of investment income on its portfolio. The Company expects cash flow from operations to be strong in 2005. Results of Operations The following table presents an analysis of the Companys net income available to ordinary shareholders and other financial measures (described below) for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002: (U.S. dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts) 2004 2003 2002 Net income available to ordinary shareholders $1,126,292 $371,658 $395,951 Earnings per ordinary share basic $8.17 $2.71 $2.92 Earnings per ordinary share diluted $8.13 $2.69 $2.88 Weighted average number of ordinary shares and ordinary share equivalents basic 137,903 136,906 135,636 Weighted average number of ordinary shares and ordinary share equivalents diluted 138,582 138,187 137,388 The Companys net income and other financial measures as shown above for the three years ended December 31, 2004 have been affected, among other things, by the following significant items: 1) Significant large catastrophe activity in 2004 (Florida hurricanes and the Tsunami in South Asia); 2) Net adverse prior year loss development in general insurance and reinsurance operations; 3) Growing asset base and positive performance from investments in affiliates; 4) A favorable underwriting environment in 2002 and 2003 with increased competition in 2004; 5) Other than temporary declines in investments in 2002 and 2003. 1. Significant large catastrophe activity in 2004. (Florida hurricanes and the Tsunami in South Asia) The 2004 Atlantic hurricane season resulted in four insured hurricane losses aggregating to the largest seasonal loss in history and had a substantial impact on the results of the Company for 2004. The following table sets forth the impact of Hurricanes Frances, Charley, Ivan and Jeanne as well as the Tsunami in South Asia on the Companys statement of operations for 2004 by operating segment. The Company estimated net hurricane losses and loss expenses incurred of $516.6 million net of reinsurance recoverables, based on preliminary reports and estimates of loss and damage. In addition, the Company incurred net losses and loss expenses of $74.6 million in 2004 as a result of the earthquake and the subsequent Tsunami that struck South Asia on December 26, 2004. The bulk of expected claims relate to property exposure, with personal accident and marine exposures also affected. While these are managements best estimates at this time, they could change as more information becomes available. In estimating the impact of these catastrophes on the Company, premium payments required to reinstate reinsurance policies have been accrued. Premiums from insureds required to reinstate their insurance or reinsurance coverage with the Company have also been accrued in the estimate. 41 (U.S. dollars in millions, except ratios and per share amounts) Insurance Reinsurance Total Operating Data: Net reinstatement premiums earned: Charley $ $ 7.7 $ 7.7 Frances 3.5 3.5 Ivan (12.2) (6.5) (18.7) Jeanne 2.7 2.7 South Asia Tsunami Total net premiums earned $(12.2) $ 7.4 (4.8) Gross losses and loss expenses: Charley $ 72.8 $ 85.5 $158.3 Frances 93.4 83.2 176.6 Ivan 168.4 186.5 354.9 Jeanne 37.6 49.5 87.1 South Asia Tsunami 50.0 24.6 74.6 Total gross losses and loss expenses $422.2 $429.3 $851.5 Losses and loss expenses recoverable: Charley $ 16.9 $ 10.8 $ 27.7 Frances 21.9 10.2 32.1 Ivan 77.7 111.5 189.2 Jeanne 7.4 3.9 11.3 South Asia Tsunami Total losses and losses expense recoveries $123.9 $136.4 $260.3 Underwriting loss $310.5 $285.5 $596.0 Income tax benefit $ 37.7 Net loss $558.3 Loss ratio impact for the year ended December 31, 2004 7.5% 10.0% 8.5% Combined ratio impact for the year ended December 31, 2004 7.6% 10.0% 8.4% 2. Net adverse prior year loss development Net adverse prior year loss development occurs when there is an increase to loss reserves recorded at the beginning of the year, resulting from actual or reported loss development for prior years exceeding expected loss development. The net adverse prior year loss development in 2004 related to the Companys general insurance operations most notably in the casualty and professional lines of business. During 2004, the Companys net adverse prior year development of $268 million was a result of increases in reported insurance case reserves for excess professional liability, excess casualty liability and specialty lines within the insurance segment offset by net prior year releases in the reinsurance segment. These increases in reported insurance case reserves exceeded the Companys expected losses based on historical patterns of loss development. Strengthening of $144 million in professional lines was caused by few large directors and officers claims in pre 2002 business, and increases in errors and omissions reserves were caused by claims related to large accounting firms and to insurance/reinsurance brokers. For specialty lines, strengthening of $135 million was caused by reported loss increases in discontinued programs business with workers compensation exposure, environmental related coverages, and Lloyds; as well as high severity claims on the surety book. 42 The net adverse prior period loss development in the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 related primarily to the Companys general reinsurance operations and principally to losses on business written in the 1997 through 2001 underwriting years in the Companys U.S. casualty reinsurance business. In the third quarter of 2003, the Company experienced a significant increase in claims reported that was in excess of the Companys expected loss development based on historical reporting patterns and recorded an increase to reserves of $184 million related to this book of business. As a result of this increase, the Company began a detailed claims audit review of the cedents contributing to this increase and the lines of business affected were primarily directors and officers, errors and omissions, medical malpractice, commercial umbrella and general liability. Upon completion of this claims audit review, the Company increased case and IBNR reserves relating to this book of business for a total of $663 million in the fourth quarter of 2003. The Company monitors actual against expected reported claims on an ongoing basis. To the extent that actual experience on loss reserves differs significantly for this, or any other line of business, the Company would again expand its normal and ongoing cedant review program accordingly. See further discussion under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and under Segments Reinsurance below. 3. Growing asset base and positive performance from investments in affiliates. Net investment income was $995 million in 2004 as compared to $779.6 million in 2003 due primarily to a higher investment base. The investment portfolio increased due to positive operating cash flows and growth in structured and spread balances, combined with capital raising activities. In addition, net realized gains produced by the investment portfolio and the equity earnings from the Companys affiliates also contributed positively to the year. Net realized gains on investments were $246.5 million in 2004 compared to $120.2 million in 2003. Net income from investment affiliates was $124.0 million in 2004 compared to $119.2 million in 2003. Net income from operating affiliates (including insurance, financial and investment manager affiliates) was $147.4 million in 2004 compared to $8.9 million in 2003. Earnings from operating affiliates during 2004 included $102.1 million of income in connection with the sales of Admiral Group Ltd and Pareto Partners and its affiliated companies. 4. A favorable underwriting environment in 2003 and 2002 with increased competition in 2004. As noted above, competition increased in 2004 in most lines of business resulting in some pricing reductions and general softening of the market. In the two years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, the Company had experienced pricing increases and improved terms and conditions across most of the lines of business it writes. This is discussed further within the segments below. 5. Other than temporary declines in investments in 2003 and 2002. The Company realized losses on securities in its investment portfolio due to declines in fair value determined to be other than temporary of $6.4 million, $130.7 million and $251.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The general economy in the U.S. and the investment markets improved in 2004 relative to 2003. For example, Moodys reported that 57 issuers defaulted in 2004 as compared with 77 issuers in 2003. The Company experienced better default experience than the Moodys default data would have indicated. As a percentage of the total fixed income portfolio, the write down for other than temporary declines was negligible in 2004 as compared with 0.6% in 2003 and 1.4% in 2002. See the discussion of other than temporary declines in investments within Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Investment Activities below. 43 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The following are considered to be the Companys critical accounting policies and estimates due to the judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of these policies and or the likelihood that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. If actual events differ significantly from the underlying assumptions or estimates applied for any or all of the accounting policies (either individually or in the aggregate), there could be a material adverse effect on the Companys results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. These critical accounting policies have been discussed by management with the Audit Committee of the Companys Board of Directors. Other significant accounting policies are nevertheless important to an understanding of the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements. Policies such as those related to revenue recognition, financial instruments and consolidation require difficult judgments on complex matters that are often subject to multiple sources of authoritative guidance. See Item 8, Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 1) Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses and Unpaid Loss and Loss Expenses Recoverable As the Company earns premiums for the underwriting risks it assumes, it also establishes an estimate of the expected ultimate losses related to the premium. Loss reserves or unpaid losses and loss expenses are established due to the significant periods of time that may lapse between the occurrence, reporting and settlement of a loss. The process of establishing reserves for unpaid property and casualty claims can be complex and is subject to considerable variability as it requires the use of informed estimates and judgments. These estimates and judgments are based on numerous factors, and may be revised as additional experience and other data become available and are reviewed, as new or improved methodologies are developed or as current laws change. Loss reserves include: a) Case reserves reserves for reported losses and loss expenses that have not yet been settled and, b) Losses incurred but not reported (IBNR). At December 31, 2004 and 2003, the Companys total gross reserves for unpaid losses and loss expenses were $19.6 billion and $16.6 billion, respectively, of which $9.5 billion and $8.4 billion related to case reserves for reported claims and $10.1 billion and $8.2 billion for IBNR reserves, respectively. Case reserves for the Companys general operations are established by management based on amounts reported from insureds or ceding companies and consultation with legal counsel, and represent the estimated ultimate cost of events or conditions that have been reported to or specifically identified by the Company. The method of establishing case reserves for reported claims differs among the Companys operations. With respect to the Companys insurance operations, the Company is notified of insured losses and records a case reserve for the estimated amount of the settlement, if any. The estimate reflects the judgment of claims personnel based on general reserving practices, the experience and knowledge of such personnel regarding the nature of the specific claim and, where appropriate, advice of legal counsel. Reserves are also established to provide for the estimated expense of settling claims, including legal and other fees and the general expenses of administering the claims adjustment process. With respect to the Companys reinsurance general operations, case reserves for reported claims are generally established based on reports received from ceding companies. Additional case reserves may be established by the Company to reflect the estimated ultimate cost of a loss. With respect to the Companys financial products and services financial operations, financial guaranty claims incurred on policies written on an insurance basis are established consistent with the Companys insurance operations and financial guaranty claims incurred on policies written on a reinsurance basis are established consistent with the Companys reinsurance operations. IBNR reserves relate mainly to the Companys insurance and reinsurance casualty business. IBNR reserves are calculated by the Companys actuaries using several standard actuarial methodologies including paid and incurred loss development, the Bornhuetter Ferguson incurred loss method and frequency and severity approaches. 44 IBNR reserves are calculated by the Companys actuaries using standard actuarial methodologies as discussed above. Prior to the year ended December 31, 2003, the outcomes of the Companys actuarial reviews, consistent with historical practice, provided either (i) a single point reserve estimate or (ii) a range of reserve estimates from which the Company selected a best estimate. Since the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company adopted a methodology that provided a single point reserve estimate separately for each line of business and also a range of possible outcomes across each single point reserve estimate. This is discussed further below. As a result, reserve ranges disclosed previously are not comparable to the reserve ranges disclosed herein. While the proportion of unpaid loss and loss expenses represented by IBNR is sensitive to a number of factors, the most significant ones have historically been accelerating business growth and changes in business mix. Other factors which have affected the ratio in the past include; additions to prior period reserves, catastrophic occurrences, settlement of large claims and changes in claims settlement patterns. The ratio of IBNR to total reserves has increased in recent years due to the growth of casualty business written over that period. The ratio of IBNR to total reserves is higher for more recent years business because these immature years have relatively fewer claims reported and, as a result, a higher proportion of claims reserves are based on experience in respect of incurred but not reported losses. As each prior year of business matures and claims become known, the ratio of IBNR to total reserves will typically decline, all other factors remaining constant. Since the Company has experienced rapid premium volume growth in recent years, the ratio of IBNR to total reserves has increased because the Companys aggregate exposure has become relatively less mature. Conversely, in a situation of declining premium volume, this ratio will typically decline, all other factors remaining constant. The Company writes insurance and reinsurance business in many different lines. Typically, the ratio of IBNR to total reserves is greater for casualty lines (which are longer tail in nature) than for property lines due to the policy forms utilized and timing of loss reporting. In recent years, casualty lines have increased as a proportion of the Companys business when compared to property lines (which are shorter tail in nature). The single point reserve estimate is generally managements best estimate, which the Company considers to be one that has an equal likelihood of developing a redundancy or deficiency as the loss experience matures, and this amount is recorded. The Companys actuaries utilize one set of assumptions in determining its single point estimate which include loss development factors, loss ratios, reported claim frequency and severity. These reviews and documentation are completed in accordance with professional actuarial standards appropriate to the jurisdictions where the business is written. The selected assumptions reflect the actuarys judgment based on historical data and experience combined with information concerning current underwriting, economic, judicial, regulatory and other influences on ultimate claim settlements. Loss and loss expenses are charged to income as they are incurred. These charges include loss and loss expense payments and any changes in case and IBNR reserves. During the loss settlement period, additional facts regarding claims are reported. As these additional facts are reported, it may be necessary to increase or decrease the unpaid losses and loss expense reserves. The actual final liability may be significantly different than prior estimates. The Companys net unpaid loss and loss expense general and financial reserves broken down by operating segment at December 31, 2004 and 2003 were as follows: (U.S. dollars in millions) 2004 2003 Insurance $ 7,036 $ 5,849 Reinsurance 5,726 4,871 Financial products and services 120 62 Net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves $12,882 $10,782 45 The following table shows the recorded estimate and the high and low ends of the range of reserves for each of the lines of business noted above at December 31, 2004: (U.S. dollars in millions) Recorded High Low Casualty insurance $ 4,715 $5,316 $4,135 Casualty reinsurance 3,717 4,217 3,244 Property catastrophe 312 380 250 Other property 1,242 1,428 1,067 Marine and aviation reinsurance and insurance 1,184 1,350 1,027 Other (1) 1,313 1,457 1,126 Total 12,483 Financial Operations 120 Provision for potential non recoveries 279 Total $12,882 (1) Other consists of several products, including accident and health, political risk, surety and bonding. Actual development of recorded reserves as of December 31, 2003 during 2004 was within the estimated reserve range. As shown in the table above and as previously noted, for the year ended December 31, 2004 the Company developed a methodology for calculating reserve ranges around its single point reserve estimates for all its lines of business. Similar to VAR (Value At Risk) models commonly used to evaluate risk, the Company modeled a statistical distribution of potential reserve outcomes over a one year run off period. The Company used the modeled statistical distribution to calculate an 80% confidence interval for the potential reserve outcomes over this one year run off period. The high and low end points of the ranges set forth in the above table are such that there is a 10% modeled probability that the reserve will develop higher than the high point and a 10% modeled probability that the reserve will develop lower than the low point. The development of a reserve range models the uncertainty of the claim environment as well as the limited predictive power of past loss data. These uncertainties and limitations are not specific to the Company. The ranges represent an estimate of the range of possible outcomes over a one year development period. A range of possible outcomes should not be confused with a range of best estimates. The range of best estimates will generally be much narrower than the range of possible outcomes as it will reflect reasonable actuarial and management best estimates of the expected reserve. Reserve volatility was analyzed for each line of business within each of the reinsurance and insurance segments general operations using the Companys historical data supplemented by industry data. These ranges were then aggregated to the lines of business shown above taking into account correlation between lines of business based on a study of the Companys historical data supplemented by industry data. The practical result of the correlation approach to aggregation is that the ranges by line of business disclosed above are narrower than the sum of the ranges of the individual lines of business. Similarly, the range for the Companys total reserves in the aggregate is narrower than the sum of the ranges for the lines of business disclosed above. The Company is not aware that there is a generally accepted model to perform the reserve range analysis described above and other models may also be employed to develop ranges. The Company does not calculate a range for its total net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves as it would not be appropriate to add the ranges for each line of business to obtain a range around the Companys total reserves because this would not reflect the diversification effects across the Companys various lines of business. The diversification effects result from the fact that losses across the Companys different lines of business are not completely correlated. 46 The Company writes both short tail and long tail lines of business. Short tail and long tail describe the time between the receipt of the premium from a policy and the final settlement of any loss incurred under such policy. Short tail lines include property catastrophe, other property and certain marine and aviation lines where, on average, the settlement period may be up to 24 months. Long tail lines, on the other hand, include the Companys casualty business in which claims may take up to 30 years to be reported and settled. The increase in the time associated with ultimate settlement of a claim is directly related to an increase in the amount of judgment required to establish loss reserves, especially IBNR reserves. See further discussion under Segments below for prior year development of loss reserves. The Companys three types of reserve exposure with the longest tails are: (1) high layer excess casualty insurance; (2) casualty reinsurance; and (3) discontinued asbestos and long tail environmental business. Certain aspects of the Companys casualty operations complicate the actuarial process for establishing reserves. Certain casualty business written by the Companys insurance operations is high layer excess casualty business, meaning that the Companys liability attaches after large deductibles including self insurance or insurance from sources other than the Company. The Company commenced writing this type of business in 1986 and issued policies in forms that were different from traditional policies used by the industry at that time. Initially, there was a lack of industry data available for this type of business. Consequently, the basis for establishing loss reserves by the Company for this type of business was largely judgmental and based upon the Companys own reported loss experience which was used as basis for determining ultimate losses, and therefore IBNR reserves. Over time, the amount of available historical loss experience data has increased. As a result, the Company has obtained a larger statistical base to assist in establishing reserves for these excess casualty insurance claims. High layer excess casualty insurance claims typically involve claims relating to (i) a shock loss such as an explosion or transportation accident causing severe damage to persons and or property over a short period of time, (ii) a non shock loss where a large number of claimants are exposed to injurious conditions over a longer period of time, such as exposure to chemicals or pharmaceuticals or (iii) a professional liability loss such as a medical malpractice claim. In each case, these claims are ultimately settled following extensive negotiations and legal proceedings. This process can typically take 5 to 15 years following the date of loss. Reinsurance operations by their nature add further complications to the reserving process, particularly for casualty business written, in that there is an inherent lag in the timing and reporting of a loss event from an insured or ceding company to the reinsurer. This reporting lag creates an even longer period of time between the policy inception and when a claim is finally settled. As a result, more judgment is required to establish reserves for ultimate claims in the Companys reinsurance operations. In the Companys reinsurance general operations, case reserves for reported claims are generally established based on reports received from ceding companies. Additional case reserves may be established by the Company to reflect the estimated ultimate cost of a loss. Casualty reinsurance business involves reserving methods that generally include historical aggregated claim information as reported by ceding companies, combined with the results of claims and underwriting reviews of a sample of the ceding companys claims and underwriting files. Therefore, the Company does not always receive detailed claim information for this line of business. Discontinued asbestos and long tail environment business had been previously written by NAC Re (now known as XL Reinsurance America Inc), prior to its acquisition by the Company. 47 Except for certain workers compensation and long term disability liabilities, the Company does not discount its unpaid losses and loss expenses. The Company utilizes tabular reserving for workers compensation and long term disability unpaid losses that are considered fixed and determinable, and discounts such losses using an interest rate of 5% at December 31, 2004 and 2003. The interest rate approximates the average yield to maturity on specific fixed income investments that support these liabilities. A 1% reduction in the interest rate would increase unpaid loss and loss expense reserves and net incurred loss and loss expenses by approximately $25.7 million and $24.0 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, based on the current estimated amount and payout of the liabilities. See Item 8, Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Financial Guaranty Loss Reserving The Company is aware of the SECs recent review of the loss reserving practices in the financial guaranty industry. The Company recognizes that there is diversity in practice among financial guaranty insurers and reinsurers with respect to their accounting policies. Current accounting literature, specifically FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 60 Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises (FAS 60) and FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 97 Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Long Duration Contracts and for Realized Gains and Losses from the Sale of Investments (FAS 97), do not specifically address the unique characteristics of financial guaranty insurance contracts. Consequently, the accounting principles applied by the industry have evolved over time and incorporate the concepts of both short duration and long duration contracts accounting under the provisions of FAS 60 and FAS 97. It is the Companys understanding that the SEC has requested that the FASB review this matter and provide guidance for the accounting of financial guaranty insurance contracts. The Company will continue its loss reserving methodology as noted in Note 2 (k) to the Consolidated Financial Statements until further guidance is provided by the SEC or the FASB. The Company had net reserves for financial guaranty insurance contracts of $120.2 million and $62.0 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Unpaid losses and loss expenses recoverable The recognition of unpaid losses and loss expenses recoverable requires two key judgments. The first judgment involves the Companys estimation of the amount of gross IBNR to be ceded to reinsurers. Ceded IBNR is generally developed as part of the Companys loss reserving process and consequently, its estimation is subject to similar risks and uncertainties as the estimation of gross IBNR (see Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Unpaid losses and loss expenses and unpaid loss and loss expense recoverable). The second judgment involves the Companys estimate of the amount of the reinsurance recoverable balance that the Company will ultimately be unable to recover from related reinsurers due to insolvency, contractual dispute, or for other reasons. Amounts estimated to be uncollectible are reflected in a bad debt provision that reduces the reinsurance recoverable balance and shareholders equity. Changes in the bad debt provision are reflected in net income. Due to the size of the gross losses arising from the September 11 event and its effect on the reinsurance industry, the Company, in addition to its normal review process, further analyzed the recoverability of these assets. In addition to the potential effect of the non recoverability of these assets from reinsurers disputing claims, the reinsurance market in general has experienced significant capital erosion as a result of underwriting and investment losses. Accordingly, there is greater uncertainty regarding recoverability due to the reinsurers ability to pay. See Financial Condition and Liquidity and Item 8, Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Included in unpaid loss and loss expenses recoverable at December 31, 2004 is an unsecured reinsurance recoverable from Winterthur Swiss Insurance Company (the Seller) of $1.45 billion, related to certain contractual arrangements with the sale and purchase agreement, as amended (SPA) from the Companys acquisition of Winterthur International in July 2001. The Seller is currently rated A by S&P. The Seller provides the Company with post closing protection determined as of June 30, 2004 with respect to, among other things, adverse development of net loss and unearned premium reserves relating to the acquired Winterthur International business (Winterthur Business). This protection is based upon net loss experience and development over a three year, post closing season 48 ing period based on actual loss development experience, collectible reinsurance and certain other factors set forth in the SPA. The SPA includes a process for determining the amount due from the Seller by an independent actuarial process whereby the independent actuary develops a value of the seasoned net reserves. The actual final seasoned amount will be the submission that is closest to the number developed by the independent actuary. As the Company and the Seller were unable to come to an agreement, the Company submitted to the Seller notice to trigger the independent actuarial process as contemplated by the SPA. On February 3, 2005, both the Company and the Seller made submissions for the independent actuarial process. The Companys submission would result in a net payable to the Company of approximately $1.45 billion in aggregate and the Sellers submission would result in a net payable to the Company of $541 million in aggregate. At the completion of the independent actuarial process, the Company will be entitled to a lump sum payment. In addition, the Seller provides protection to the Company with respect to third party reinsurance receivables and recoverables related to the Winterthur Business which are $2.0 billion in the aggregate as of December 31, 2004. There are two levels of protection from the Seller for these balances: 1. At the time of this transaction, the Company entered into a liquidity facility with the Seller. At the time of the payment of the net reserve seasoned amount, the Company has the right to repay up to the balances outstanding on this facility by assignment to the Seller of an equal amount of receivables relating to reinsurance recoverables selected by the Company. The payable balance related to this facility is included within Other liabilities on the Companys balance sheet at December 31, 2004 and amounted to approximately $281 million at that date. 2. Under two retrocession agreements the Company has reinsurance protection on the remaining portion of reinsurance recoverables with respect to incurred losses seasoned as of June 30, 2004 to the extent that the Company does not receive payment of such amounts from applicable reinsurers with one agreement providing a limit of $1.3 billion for the insurance written in the period to June 30, 2001 and the other agreement providing a limit of $1.3 billion for the insurance written in the period to December 31, 2000. At December 31, 2004, certain reinsurers responsible for some portions of the reinsurance of the Winterthur Business have raised issues as to whether amounts claimed are due and the resolution of those discussions is also currently ongoing. The Company may record a loss in future periods if any or all of the following occur: (i) The Sellers submission is closer to the valuation developed by the independent actuary and, as such, the Sellers submission is the actual final seasoned amount; (ii) There is deterioration of the net losses from what is reported in the Companys December 31, 2004 financial statements; (iii) The Company is unable to make full recovery of the reinsurance recoverables related to the Winterthur Business, either from third parties or from the Seller under the additional protections; or (iv) Any amount due from the Seller proves to be uncollectible from the Seller for any reason. 2) Future Policy Benefit Reserves Future policy benefit reserves relate to the Companys life operations and are estimated using assumptions for investment yields, mortality, expenses and provisions for adverse loss deviation. Uncertainties related to interest rate volatility and mortality experience make it difficult to project and value the ultimate benefit payments. Most of the Companys future policy benefit reserves relate to annuity portfolio reinsurance contracts under which the Company makes annuity payments throughout the term of the contract for a specified portfolio of policies. 49 For certain of these contracts, a single premium is paid at inception of the contract by way of a transfer of cash and investments to the Company. The reserving methodology for these annuity portfolio reinsurance contracts is described in FAS 60 as amended by FAS 97. These contracts subject the Company to risks arising from policyholder mortality over a period that extends beyond the periods in which premiums are collected. Liabilities for future policy benefit reserves are established in accordance with the provisions of FAS 60. Claims and expenses for individual policies within these annuity reinsurance contracts are projected over the lifetime of the contract to calculate a net present value of future cash flows. Assumptions for each element of the basis (mortality, expenses and interest) are determined at the issue of the contract and these assumptions are locked in throughout the term of the contract unless a premium deficiency exists. The assumptions are best estimate assumptions plus provisions for adverse deviations on the key risk elements (i.e., mortality and interest). Provisions for adverse deviation are sufficient to cover reasonable deviations from the best estimate outcome of the contract. As the experience on the contracts emerges, the assumptions are reviewed. This occurs at least annually and includes both an analysis of experience and review of likely future experience. If such review would produce reserves in excess of those currently held then lock in assumptions will be revised and a loss recognized. During the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002, there were no adjustments to the locked in assumptions for any of these contracts. The future policy benefit reserves for these annuity portfolio reinsurance contracts amounted to $3.9 billion and $2.7 billion at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The Company holds the investment assets backing these liabilities. These investments are primarily fixed income securities with maturities that closely match the expected claims settlement profile. A 0.1% decrease in the investment yield assumption would result in a $36 million increase in the value of future claims related to annuity portfolio reinsurance. As stated above, the future policy benefit reserves include provisions for adverse deviation in excess of best estimate assumptions that amounted to approximately $145 million and $125 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The future policy benefit reserves would only be increased if these provisions for adverse deviation became insufficient in the light of emerging claims experience. The present value of future claims would increase by approximately $13 million if mortality rates were to decrease by 1% in all future years, relative to the reserving assumptions. The Company also provides reinsurance of disability income protection. The future policy benefit reserves for these contracts amounted to $86 million and $89 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Future policy benefit reserves are established in accordance with the provisions of FAS 60, including the lock in of padded assumptions at inception with periodic review against experience. The liabilities relate to in force blocks of business, comprising underlying insurance policies that provide an income if the policyholder becomes sick or disabled. The liabilities are therefore driven mainly by the rates at which policyholders become sick (where sickness is defined by the policy conditions) and by the rates at which these policyholders recover or die. A 1% increase in the incidence rate would increase the value of future claims by approximately $0.1 million, while a decrease in the termination rate would increase the value of future claims by approximately $0.4 million. The Company also provides reinsurance of term assurance and critical illness policies. The future policy benefit reserves for these contracts amounted to $41 million and $15 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Future policy benefit reserves are established in accordance with the provisions of FAS 60, including the lock in of padded assumptions at inception with periodic review against experience. The liabilities relate to in force blocks of business, comprising underlying insurance policies that provide mainly lump sum benefits if the policyholder dies or becomes sick. For term assurance, the liabilities are therefore driven by the rates of mortality and for critical illness cover, the liabilities are driven predominantly by the rates at which policyholders become sick (where sickness is defined by the treaty conditions), i.e., the morbidity rates. A 1% increase in the mortality rate relative to the reserving assumption would increase the value of future claims by approximately $0.4 million, while a 1% increase in the morbidity rate would increase the value of future claims by approximately $0.4 million. 50The term assurance and critical illness treaties have been written using a variety of structures, some of which incur acquisition costs during an initial period. For such treaties, a deferred acquisition cost (DAC) asset has been established and an increase in future lapse rates could impact the recoverability of such costs from future premiums. The recoverability will also be influenced by the impact of lapses on future claims. An increase in the annual lapse rates by 1% could lead to a 5% 10% reduction in future margins available for amortizing the DAC asset. Following a review of lapse experience, the locked in assumptions were revised in respect of one contract during the year ended December 31, 2004. The overall affect of using the revised assumptions was a reduction in income of $0.4 million. 3) Deposit Liabilities The Companys deposit liabilities at December 31, 2004 reflect obligations assumed under funding agreements, municipal guaranteed reinvestment contracts, payment undertaking agreements and certain structured insurance and reinsurance agreements. For each of these contracts, the Company establishes a deposit liability equal to the net cash received at inception. Each deposit liability accrues at a rate equal to the internal rate of return of the payment receipts and obligations due during the life of the agreement. Where the timing and or amount of future payments are uncertain, cash flows reflecting the Companys actuarially determined best estimates are utilized. The ultimate size of underlying losses, the impact of the contractual limits upon settlement of such losses, and the impact of the underlying loss settlement process on the timing of payments are considered as appropriate. Where uncertainty is present, an increase in the ultimate claims cost or accelerated claims settlement would potentially lead to an increase in the deposit liability accretion rate or lead to incurred losses if significant. The Company has not had any significant change in these assumptions during the last three years ended December 31, 2004. The interest expense reported due to the accretion of deposit liabilities associated with structured insurance and reinsurance contracts was $59.4 million, $92.9 million and $65.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. For some of the Companys deposit liabilities the accretion rate is recorded at its contractual maximum level. For all other contracts, a 1% increase in the average accretion rate would result in an increase in deposit liabilities and interest expense by $14.1 million on an annualized basis. 4) Derivative Instruments The Company conducts activities in three main types of derivative instruments: credit derivatives, weather and energy derivatives and investment related derivative instruments. The estimate of fair value for credit derivatives and weather and energy derivatives requires managements judgment. These two activities are discussed below: a) Credit Derivatives The Company enters into credit derivatives in connection with its financial guaranty business and the Company intends to hold these contracts to maturity. In determining fair value, management differentiates between investment and non investment grade exposures and models them separately. Management estimates fair value for investment grade exposures by monitoring changes in credit quality and selecting appropriate market indices to determine credit spread movements over the life of the contracts. The determination of the credit spread movements is the basis for calculating the fair value. For credit derivatives that are non investment grade and therefore do not have a readily determinable market value, the Company uses an alternative fair value methodology. The fair value is determined using a cash flow model developed by the Company and is dependent upon a number of factors, including changes in interest rates, future default rates, credit spreads, changes in credit quality, future expected recovery rates and other market factors. Installment premiums are also considered in the determination of discounted net cash flows. Other elements of the change in fair value are based upon pricing established at the inception of the contract. Changes in fair value are unrealized as the credit derivatives are not traded to realize this value. See Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for sensitivity analysis. 51b) Weather and Energy Derivatives The fair value of weather and energy derivatives is determined through the use of quoted market prices where available. Where quoted market prices are unavailable, the fair value is estimated using available market data and internal pricing models using consistent statistical methodologies. Estimating fair value of instruments which do not have quoted market prices requires managements judgment in determining amounts which could reasonably be expected to be received from, or paid to, a third party in settlement of the contracts. The amounts could be materially different from the amounts that might be realized in an actual sale transaction. Fair values are subject to change in the near term and reflect managements best estimate based on various factors including, but not limited to, actual and forecasted weather conditions, changes in commodity prices, changes in interest rates and other market factors. See Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for sensitivity analysis. 5) Other Than Temporary Declines In Investments The Companys process for identifying declines in the fair value of investments that are other than temporary involves consideration of several factors. These factors include (i) the time period during which there has been a significant decline in value, (ii) an analysis of the liquidity, business prospects and financial condition of the issuer, (iii) the significance of the decline, (iv) an analysis of the collateral structure and other credit support, as applicable, of the securities in question and (v) the Companys intent and ability to hold the investment for a sufficient period of time for the value to recover. Where the Companys analysis of the above factors results in the Companys conclusion that declines in fair values are other than temporary, the cost of the security is written down to fair value and the previously unrealized loss is therefore realized in the period such determination is made. With respect to securities where the decline in value is determined to be temporary and the securitys value is not written down, a subsequent decision may be made to sell that security and realize a loss. Subsequent decisions on security sales are made within the context of overall risk monitoring, changing information, market conditions generally and assessing value relative to other comparable securities. Day to day management of the Companys investment portfolio is outsourced to third party investment managers. While these investment managers may, at a given point in time, believe that the preferred course of action is to hold securities with unrealized losses that are considered temporary until such losses are recovered, the dynamic nature of the portfolio management may result in a subsequent decision to sell the security and realize the loss, based upon a change in market and other factors described above. The Company believes that subsequent decisions to sell such securities are consistent with the classification of the Companys portfolio as available for sale. As mentioned above, the Company considers its intent and ability to hold a security until the value recovers as part of the process of evaluating whether a security with an unrealized loss represents an other than temporary decline. However, this factor on its own does not dictate whether or not the Company recognizes an impairment charge. The Company believes its ability to hold such securities is supported by positive and sufficient cash flow from its operations and from maturities within its investment portfolio in order to meet its claims payment obligations arising from its underwriting operations without selling such investments. In this regard, cash flow from operating activities was $4.4 billion and $3.4 billion in 2004 and 2003, respectively. There are risks and uncertainties associated with determining whether declines in the fair value of investments are other than temporary. These include subsequent significant changes in general economic conditions as well as specific business conditions affecting particular issuers, subjective assessment of issue specific factors (seniority of claims, collateral value, etc.), future financial market effects, stability of foreign governments and economies, future rating agency actions and significant disclosure of accounting, fraud or corporate governance issues that may adversely affect certain investments. In addition, significant assumptions and management judgment are involved in determining if the decline is other than temporary. If management determines that a decline in fair value is temporary then a securitys value is not written down at that time. However, there are potential effects upon the Companys future earnings and financial position should management later conclude that some of the current declines in the fair value of the investments are other than temporary declines. See Investment Activities Unrealized losses on investments for further information. 526) Income Taxes The Company utilizes the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. The Company has capitalized net operating tax losses of $186 million and $225.2 million against which a valuation allowance of $68.5 million and $18.3 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, has been established. The deferral of benefits from tax losses is evaluated based upon managements estimates of the future profitability of the Companys taxable entities based on current forecasts and the period for which losses may be carried forward. A valuation allowance may have to be established for any portion of a deferred tax asset that management believes will not be realized. Should the future income of these entities fall below expectations, a further valuation allowance would have to be established, which could be significant. In addition, if any further losses are generated by these entities, these losses may not be tax effected. Effective as of January 1, 2004, XL Re America Inc (XLRA), a subsidiary of the Company, entered into an adverse development reinsurance treaty with another reinsurance subsidiary of the Company. The treaty related to the 1985 through (and including) 2000 underwriting years covering any adverse development on reserves calculated as of December 31, 2003 between January 1, 2004 and December 31, 2005. The treaty has a limit of $500 million and will limit future loss development at XLRA relating to these underwriting years. Any commutation of this treaty requires the prior approval of the New York Department of Insurance. There is no impact of this treaty on the consolidated financial statements of the Company, however, as part of managements continuing evaluation of its deferred tax asset, the treaty is critical in evaluating the future income position of the U.S. group of companies. Management believes that the treaty will protect the U.S. group from unexpected prior loss development. Absent unexpected loss development from the 2000 and prior underwriting years, management has concluded that there is sufficient positive evidence of future profitability in the U.S. and that a valuation allowance as a charge against the deferred tax asset is not required at this time. See further information under Other Revenues and Expenses and Item 8, Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 7) Intangible Assets Intangible assets are carried at or below estimated fair value. There are many assumptions and estimates underlying the fair value calculation. Principally, the Company identifies the business entity that the intangible asset is attributed to, reviews historical and forecasted performance and other underlying factors affecting such analysis, including market conditions, premium rates and loss trends. Other assumptions used could produce a significantly different result which may result in a change in the value of the intangible asset and related amortization charge in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Based on the current expectations of profitability, an impairment charge would only be recognized in the event of a significant decline in the expected profitability of those operations where such intangible assets are applicable. At December 31, 2004, intangible assets were $1.8 billion of which approximately $1.38 billion and $450 million related to the Companys reinsurance and insurance segments, respectively. See Other Revenue and Expenses for further information. 8) Variable Interest Entities The Company utilizes variable interest entities both directly and indirectly or not in the ordinary course of business. The Company must assess consolidation of variable interest entities based on whether the Company is the primary beneficiary of the entity. The company that absorbs a majority of the expected losses or residual rewards of the entity is deemed to be the primary beneficiary and is therefore required to consolidate the entity. The determination of expected losses and expected residual returns requires the Company to estimate the expected cash flows of the entities and measure the expected variability of these cash flows. The use of different assumptions to determine the expected cash flows and variability could affect the Companys determination of the primary beneficiary. The assumptions used 53 to determine the expected cash flows depend on the type of structure and the nature of the Companys variable interest. The Company has made assumptions primarily regarding default rates, the timing of defaults and recovery rates to estimate these expected cash flows of the variable interest entities that it utilizes. 9) Reinsurance Premium Estimates The company writes business on both an excess of loss and proportional basis. In the case of excess of loss contracts, the subject written premium is generally outlined within the treaty and the Company receives a minimum and or deposit premium on a quarterly basis which is normally followed by an adjustment premium based on the ultimate subject premium for the contract. The Company estimates the premium written on the basis of the expected subject premium and regularly reviews this against actual quarterly statements to revise the estimate based on the information provided by the cedant. On proportional contracts, written premiums are estimated to expected ultimate premiums based on information provided by the ceding companies. An estimate of premium is recorded at the inception of the contract. When the actual premium is reported by the ceding company, normally on a quarterly basis, it may be materially higher or lower than the estimate. Adjustments arising from the reporting of actual premium by the ceding companies are recorded in the period in which they are determined. Written premiums on excess of loss contracts are earned in accordance with the loss occurring period defined within the treaty; normally 12 months following inception of the contract. Written premiums on proportional contracts are earned over the risk periods of the underlying policies issues and renewed, normally 24 months. For both excess of loss and proportional contracts, the earned premium is recognized ratably over the earning period, namely 12 24 months. The portion of the premium related to the unexpired portion of the policy at the end of any reporting period is reflected in unearned premiums. Reinsurance operations by their nature add further complications in that generally the ultimate premium due under a specific contract will not be known at the time the contract is entered into. As a result, more judgment and ongoing monitoring is required to establish premiums written and earned in the Companys reinsurance operations. Reinstatement premiums are recognized at the time a loss event occurs where coverage limits for the remaining life of the contract are reinstated under pre defined contract terms and are fully earned when recognized. Accrual of reinstatement premiums is based on the Companys estimate of loss and loss adjustment expense reserves, which involves management judgment as described below. Segments The Company is organized into three underwriting segments insurance, reinsurance, and financial products and services and a corporate segment, which includes the investment operations of the Company. See Item 1 and Item 8, Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. The Companys business is conducted on a global basis where several of its subsidiaries operate in foreign currencies which are the base currency of that entity. Under U.S. GAAP, revenues and expenses of those operations are translated into the U.S. dollar at average exchange rates during the year and assets and liabilities at exchange rates at the end of the year. In the three years ended December 31, 2004 with the decline in value of the U.S. dollar against several currencies, including U.K. sterling, Swiss franc and the Euro, this has resulted in revenues and expenses translated into higher U.S. dollar values. This should be considered when making period to period comparisons. 54 Insurance The following table summarizes the underwriting profit for this segment: % Change % Change (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2004 04 vs 03 2003 03 vs 02 2002 General: Gross premiums written $5,956,978 14.1% $5,221,316 15.0% $4,539,186 Net premiums written 4,426,519 18.8% 3,725,208 16.1% 3,207,292 Net premiums earned $4,083,153 12.2% $3,640,330 28.5% $2,832,298 Fee income and other 24,229 77.2% 13,670 (62.8)% 36,717 Net losses and loss expenses 2,869,114 20.6% 2,379,499 34.3% 1,771,982 Acquisition costs 542,827 0.1% 542,149 13.3% 478,548 Operating expenses 535,443 29.8% 412,540 8.3% 380,901 Foreign exchange (gains) (9,911) (26.1)% (7,858) NM (56,515) Underwriting profit $ 169,909 (48.1)% $ 327,670 11.4% $ 294,099 NM Not Meaningful Gross and net premiums written increased by 14.1% and 18.8%, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared with the year ended December 31, 2003. These increases were primarily due to new business in the casualty and professional lines, multi year contracts written in the year and favorable foreign exchange movements. The most significant growth was due to new business product offerings in the areas of primary casualty, specialty professional and property catastrophe risks. The new insurance initiatives added, in total, approximately $280.0 million to gross premiums written for the year. The strengthening of the U.K. sterling and the Euro against the U.S. dollar, as compared to 2003, accounted for approximately $173.0 million of the increase in gross premiums written in the year. Partially offsetting the growth in gross and net premiums written in 2004 were rate reductions in most property and professional lines as well as growing rate pressures on most casualty lines. Net premiums written have grown by a larger percentage than gross premiums written primarily as a result of ceded reinsurance commutations related to professional lines. Increases in gross and net premiums written in 2003 as compared to 2002 were due to significant price increases across most lines of business, partially offset by the non renewal of certain workers compensation and Lloyds international programs. Net premiums earned increased in each of the three years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 due to the increases in net premium written in the current and prior years, as noted above. Growth in net premiums earned in 2004 and 2003 were partially offset by several non renewed portfolios as the earned premium impact of the non renewed business lags behind the written premium impact. Combined casualty and professional liability insurance net premiums earned increased from $1.36 billion in 2002 to $1.96 billion in 2003 to $2.36 billion in 2004. Fee income and other increased in 2004 as compared to 2003 primarily due to the income recorded on the sale of property in London, combined with fees generated by the Companys professional lines start up businesses for administration of third party portfolios. Fee income and other decreased in 2003 as compared to 2002 primarily due to $21.0 million of contingent income received in the fourth quarter of 2002 that related to a sale in 1999 of the motor business written by the Companys Lloyds syndicates. In addition, at the end of 2002, the Company discontinued certain consulting and administration services related to the Winterthur International operations for employee benefit plans of unrelated companies. Exchange gains in each of the last three years were primarily due to a decline in the value of the U.S. dollar against U.K. sterling, Euro and Swiss franc in those operations that have those currencies as their functional currency and are exposed to net monetary liabilities denominated in U.S. dollars. The gain in 2003 was partially reduced by a hedge put in place by the Company in February 2003 to cover part of its exposure to a U.K. sterling reinsurance recoverable balance. 55The decrease in the underwriting profit in 2004 as compared with 2003 and the increases in 2003 as compared with 2002 were also reflective of the combined ratios, as shown below. The following table presents the ratios for the insurance segment for each of the three years ended December 31: 2004 2003 2002 Loss and loss expense ratio 70.3% 65.4% 62.6% Underwriting expense ratio 26.4% 26.2% 30.3% Combined ratio 96.7% 91.6% 92.9% The loss and loss expense ratio includes net losses incurred for both the current year and any adverse or favorable prior year development of loss and loss reserves held at the beginning of the year. The loss and loss expense ratio for the insurance segment for the year ended December 31, 2004 increased compared with the year ended December 31, 2003 primarily due to net hurricane losses of $248.3 million in the property and marine lines combined with prior year reserve strengthening as discussed below, and losses and loss expenses related to the tsunami in South Asia. Losses due to hurricanes Charley, Frances, Ivan and Jeanne combined with the South Asia Tsunami increased the loss ratio for the year by 7.5%. The loss ratio was higher in 2003 as compared to 2002 due primarily to an increase in the net adverse development of prior year loss reserves which was partially offset by a relatively lower level of current year loss activity and the positive effect of continued pricing increases and improved terms and conditions across most lines written. The following tables present the prior year adverse or favorable development of the Companys gross and net loss and loss expense reserves for its insurance operations: Gross (U.S. dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves at the beginning of the year $10,225 $8,103 $7,834 Net adverse development of those reserves during the year 1,674 1,055 54 Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves re estimated one year later $11,899 $9,158 $7,888 Net (U.S. dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves at the beginning of the year $5,849 $4,771 $4,680 Net adverse development of those reserves during the year 292 153 28 Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves re estimated one year later $6,141 $4,924 $4,708 The Company did not change its methodology or key assumptions used in 2004, 2003 or 2002 to determine ultimate loss reserves for any line of insurance business written. During 2004, the Segments net adverse development of $292 million was driven primarily by increases in reported case reserves for excess professional liability, excess casualty liability and specialty lines. These increases in reported case reserves exceeded the Companys expected losses based on historical patterns of loss development. Strengthening of $122 million in professional lines was caused by a few large directors and officers claims in pre 2002 business, while increases in errors and omisions reserves were caused by loss related to large accounting firms and insurance and reinsurance brokers. For specialty lines, strengthening of $152 million was caused by reported loss 56 increases in discontinued programs business with workers compensation exposure, environmental related coverages, certain Lloyds business and high severity claims on the surety book. During 2003, the Companys net adverse prior year development of $153 million was due primarily to increases in previously reported case reserves for excess professional liability lines of $143 million for the underwriting years 1997 through 2001. These increases in reported case reserves exceeded the Companys expected losses based on historical patterns of loss development. Specifically, the increase related to reported case reserves for directors and officers and errors and omissions coverages. During 2003, there was an increase in the amount of litigation related to certain losses. During 2004 and 2003, the Companys net adverse development of its gross reserves greatly exceeded its net reserve adverse development due principally to an increase in prior year reserves related to Winterthur International. The Company has protection with respect to any adverse loss or premium development related to the acquired Winterthur International operations with effect from July 1, 2001 under the SPA with the Seller, and has recorded a recoverable of the same amount. See Liquidity and Capital Resources and Item 8, Note 5(b) to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. During 2002, the Companys net adverse prior year development of $28 million was comprised of an increase in loss reserves of $73 million relating to the September 11 event which was partially offset by a net decrease in the other reserves of $45 million. In 2002, the increase in the estimate of the ultimate losses relating to the September 11 event of $73 million related primarily to the accident and health business written in the Companys Lloyds operations. The Company had originally recorded ultimate losses for the September 11 event in the insurance segment of $318 million in 2001 based on managements best estimate at that time. This best estimate was based on an analysis which had been performed to attempt to identify all possible claims and to analyze the magnitude of the potential loss. The increase in the loss reserves occurred in the second quarter of 2002 after the Company received additional information from policyholders with regard to claims relating to their insured employee casualties, including estimates of benefits payable under U.S. workers compensation statutes. During 2002, the Company decreased the estimate of other reserves at the beginning of 2002 by a net amount of $45 million, consisting of a decrease in reserves relating to the excess casualty insurance business of $114 million partially offset by increases in prior year reserves for satellite lines of $30 million and other casualty insurance lines of $39 million. Estimated ultimate loss reserves were reduced for excess casualty insurance based upon lower than expected actual reported loss experience for business written in years 1997 and prior. A lack of available industry data resulted in more actuarial judgment being involved in establishing IBNR loss reserves for this line of business in the earlier years, as mentioned above under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Unpaid losses and loss expenses and unpaid loss and loss expenses recoverable. Estimated loss reserves were then regularly updated to take into account actual claims reported. The adverse development experienced in the satellite lines was due to several satellite malfunctions which caused an increase in actual reported loss activity that was greater than expected. The adverse development for the other casualty lines was for business written in 1999 through 2001. In these years, premium rates for casualty business had declined due to competitive market pressures and in 2002, there was an increase in the size of claims reported that was higher than expected. There is no assurance that conditions and trends that have affected the development of liabilities in the past will continue. Accordingly, it may not be appropriate to extrapolate future redundancies or deficiencies based on the Companys historical results. The underwriting expense ratio for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the same period in 2003 increased slightly. The decrease in the acquisition expense ratio of 1.6 points (13.3% as compared to 14.9%) was offset by an increase in the operating expense ratio of 1.8 points (13.1% as compared to 11.3%). The reduction in the acquisition expense ratio was due primarily to a change in the mix of business earned compared to the same period in the prior year and changes in the commission structure with certain brokers. The increase in the operating expense 57 ratio was due primarily to the increased costs associated with supporting new business growth in the segment operations globally, including start up operations, an allocation of certain corporate expenses to the insurance segment and the impact of foreign exchange movements. The decrease in the underwriting expense ratio in 2003 from 2002 was due to a reduction in the acquisition expense ratio of 2.0% (14.9% as compared to 16.9%) and a reduction in the operating expense ratio of 2.1% (11.3% as compared to 13.4%). The reduction in the acquisition expense ratio was due primarily to lower commission and brokerage costs in a favorable underwriting market on certain lines of business and where there has been a change in the mix of business earned. The reduction in the operating expense ratio was due to the growth in net premiums earned where the amount of net premiums earned was increased more than the amount of increase in operating expenses, which was due primarily to the growth in the insurance segment operations. Reinsurance Reinsurance General Operations The following table summarizes the underwriting results for the general operations of this segment: % Change % Change (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2004 04 vs 03 2003 03 vs 02 2002 Gross premiums written $3,420,570 0.5% $3,402,764 7.2% $3,174,819 Net premiums written $2,840,655 0.5% $2,827,072 10.2% $2,564,334 Net premiums earned $2,899,396 18.8% $2,440,703 18.1% $2,066,775 Fee income and other 7,623 (69.8)% 25,240 125.3% 11,201 Net losses and loss expenses 1,921,771 (12.5)% 2,197,357 41.1% 1,557,065 Acquisition costs 639,799 15.2% 555,431 22.3% 454,300 Operating expenses 194,995 28.9% 151,332 37.8% 109,796 Foreign exchange (gains) (28,945) 9.7% (26,390) 10.9% (23,787) Underwriting profit (loss) $ 179,399 NM $ (411,787) NM $ (19,398) Gross premiums written increased slightly for the year ended December 31, 2004 as compared to 2003. Most lines of business remained relatively flat as a result of rate decreases being offset by selective new premium volume growth. Casualty rates have remained stronger than the shorter tail lines of business. The high frequency of catastrophic events prompted some stabilization of rates in the property catastrophe business most impacted by the losses, namely in Florida, in the latter half of the year. In addition, the increasingly competitive market has resulted in the non renewal of certain Latin American property programs. Favorable foreign exchange movements also contributed $107.3 million to the growth in gross premiums written. Net premiums written reflect the above gross changes, together with higher retentions, offset by the effects of retrocessional reinstatement premiums and growth in certain large proportional programs that are largely retroceded. Gross premiums written increased 7.2% in 2003 as compared to 2002 due mainly to new business written and increases in premium rates, primarily in casualty. These increases were partially offset by some cancellations in treaty renewals in 2003 and also a reduction of $18.0 million in 2003 attributable to reinstatement premiums related to the release of loss reserves for the September 11 event, discussed further below. Net premiums earned in 2004 increased 18.8% as compared to 2003 and net premiums earned in 2003 increased 18.1% as compared to 2002 due primarily to the earning of net written premium growth over the last several years, most notably in casualty and professional lines of business. Net premiums earned for casualty and professional reinsurance lines combined were $1.2 billion in 2004 as compared to $971.2 million in 2003 and $792.6 in 2002. 58 The following table presents the underwriting ratios for this segment: 2004 2003 2002 Loss and loss expense ratio 66.3% 90.0% 75.3% Underwriting expense ratio 28.8% 29.0% 27.3% Combined ratio 95.1% 119.0% 102.6% The loss and loss expense ratio includes net losses incurred for both the current year and any adverse or favorable prior year development of loss reserves held at the beginning of the year. The decrease in the loss and loss expense ratio for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to 2003 was primarily due to the fact that 2003 included significant adverse prior period development related to the Companys North American casualty business. See further discussion below. The segment experienced losses in 2004 resulting from hurricanes Charley, Frances, Ivan and Jeanne, from which the segment incurred a combined $268.3 million of net losses and loss expenses. In addition, the segment incurred net losses and loss expenses of $24.6 million as a result of the earthquake and tsunami in South Asia. These large catastrophe losses contributed 10.0% to the segment loss ratio for the year ended December 31, 2004. Catastrophe losses were partially offset by lower than expected incurred loss development in the year relating to shorter tail lines prior underwriting years and price improvements on earned premiums from prior periods. The loss and loss expense ratio increased in 2003 as compared to 2002 due primarily to net adverse development of prior year loss reserves related to the Companys North American casualty business written during the 1997 through 2001 underwriting years. See further discussion below. The following tables present the adverse prior year development of the Companys gross and net loss and loss expense reserves for its reinsurance general operations: Gross (U.S. dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves at the beginning of the year $6,270 $5,062 $3,947 Net (favorable) adverse development of those reserves during the year (32) 821 504 Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves re estimated one year later $6,238 $5,883 $4,451 Net (U.S. dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves at the beginning of the year $4,871 $3,588 $2,467 Net (favorable) adverse development of those reserves during the year (24) 799 385 Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves re estimated one year later $4,847 $4,387 $2,852 During 2004, net prior year reserves across the reinsurance segment developed favorably by $24 million. Releases of $144 million in the property, aviation, marine and other lines of business were partially offset by strengthening of casualty and accident and health reserves amounting to approximately $122 million. Property catastrophe and property other reserve releases totaled approximately $101 million net related primarily to the 2002 and 2003 underwriting years where loss experience has been exceptionally good for the property line. The strengthening of casualty reserves totaled $77 million and related most significantly to professional liability reserves which were strengthened 59 by $32 million for Enron, Worldcom and Laddering claims. The accident & health reserve strengthening of $45 million relates to a portfolio of business underwritten by certain of the Companys Lloyds syndicates. During 2003, the Company increased its estimated reserves related to its reinsurance segment (excluding the September 11 event) by $996 million, of which approximately $877 million related primarily to the Companys North American reinsurance operations for casualty business underwritten during the 1997 through 2001 underwriting years. The main lines of business affected by this adverse development included general liability, medical malpractice, professional and surety lines. This adverse development was due to competitive market pressures on pricing during these underwriting years combined with an increase in the number and size of claims reported in recent years as a result of increases in court filings, corporate scandals, rising tort costs and settlement awards. Prior year reserves also developed adversely on certain other casualty business written in the 1998 through 2001 underwriting years outside of North America. These exposures were affected by trends similar to those as described above for the North American casualty reinsurance operations. The casualty exposures underwritten in these entities were much less than those of the North American operations, so the impact on the prior year reserves was relatively smaller. In the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company reduced aviation loss reserves related to the September 11 event by $197 million. This reduction in reserves was due to higher than expected levels of participation (97%) in the September 11 Victim Compensation Fund, a no fault compensation scheme funded by the U.S. government, which closed on December 22, 2003. This resulted in a reduction of the estimated ultimate losses by the Company for this event. In the second quarter of 2002, the segment increased its estimated loss reserves for the September 11 event by $127 million due primarily to higher than originally estimated business interruption losses and exposure to potential claims by the Lloyds Central Guaranty Fund. The increase followed an analysis of additional new information received from the Companys ceding companies with regard to their increased estimates of claims relating to their exposures to the September 11 event. Due to the size and complexity of the loss and the time lag in ceding companies reporting the information to the segment, establishing reserves for this loss within a short time period was difficult. The increase in estimate for all other reinsurance reserves in 2002 of $258 million also related principally to losses on business written in 1997 through (and including) 2000 in the Companys U.S. casualty reinsurance business and for asbestos losses on business written prior to 1985. The segments reserving process includes a continuing evaluation of the potential impact on unpaid liabilities from exposure to asbestos and environmental claims, including related loss adjustment expenses. Liabilities are established to cover both known and incurred but not reported claims. A reconciliation of the opening and closing unpaid losses and loss expenses related to asbestos and environmental exposure claims related to business written prior to 1986 for the years indicated is as follows: Year Ended December 31 (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2004 2003 2002 Net unpaid losses and loss expenses at beginning of year $ 60,525 $ 66,130 $ 33,152 Net incurred losses and loss expenses (1,000) 35,870 Less net paid losses and loss expenses 3,125 4,605 2,892 Net decrease in unpaid losses and loss expenses (3,125) (5,605) (32,978) Net unpaid losses and loss expenses at end of year 57,400 60,525 66,130 Unpaid losses and loss expenses recoverable at end of year 82,922 86,576 92,167 Gross unpaid losses and loss expenses at end of year $140,322 $147,100 $158,297 Incurred but not reported losses, net of reinsurance, included in the above table was $22.5 million at December 31, 2004, $27.0 million at December 31, 2003 and $33.1 million at December 31, 2002. Unpaid losses recoverable are net of potential uncollectible amounts. 60 The Company utilizes industry standard asbestos and environmental claims models to estimate its ultimate liability for these exposures. The Company reviews its actual reported loss experience for asbestos and environmental claims for its 1985 and prior exposures annually. The actual loss experience was consistent with assumptions established, and, therefore, there was no adverse prior year development of the Companys asbestos and environmental reserves in 2003 or 2004. The reserves for these exposures represented less than 1% of the Companys total unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2004. The Company believes it has made reasonable provision for its asbestos and environmental exposures and is unaware of any specific issues that would significantly affect its estimate for loss and loss expenses. For further information see Item 8, Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The decrease in the underwriting expense ratio for the year ended December 31, 2004 as compared with 2003 was primarily due to a decrease in acquisition cost ratio driven by reduced profit commissions as a result of the years catastrophic losses. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in the operating expense ratio resulting from additional allocations of corporate expenses as well as the adverse impact of foreign exchange and the continued build up of the European reinsurance platform. The increase in the underwriting expense ratio in 2003 as compared with 2002 was due to an increase in the acquisition expense ratio of 0.8% and operating expense ratio of 0.9%. The increase in the acquisition expense ratio was due primarily to higher ceding company profit commissions payable and a change in the mix of net premiums earned. The operating expense ratio increased due primarily to a reduction of operating expenses in 2002 of approximately $8.0 million in recognition of a curtailment gain on a Company pension plan in the U.S. Exchange gains in 2004 and 2003 were mainly attributable to a decline in the value of the U.S. dollar against U.K. sterling and the Euro in Bermuda based operations that write business globally. Reinsurance Life and Annuity Operations The following table summarizes the net income from life and annuity operations of this segment: % Change % Change (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2004 04 vs 03 2003 03 vs 02 2002 Gross premiums written $1,343,507 99.6% $ 673,027 (32.9)% $1,003,154 Net premiums written 1,308,634 99.5% 655,986 (33.0)% 979,825 Net premiums earned $1,310,986 97.3% $ 664,612 (32.2)% $ 980,387 Fee income and other 93 NM 599 NM 2 Claims and policy benefits 1,403,710 87.0% 750,663 (27.0)% 1,027,981 Acquisition costs 42,587 28.7% 33,090 157.7% 12,839 Operating expenses 16,697 85.1% 9,019 54.3% 5,844 Net investment income 204,637 47.0% 139,241 52.3% 91,451 Foreign exchange gains (1,340) NM (4,371) NM Net income $ 54,062 NM $ 16,051 (36.2)% $ 25,176 Life and annuity gross and net premiums written, net premiums earned and claims and policy benefits in each of the three years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 included the assumption of the following long duration annuity portfolios: 1. Second and fourth quarters of 2004 two large U.K. portfolio contracts, representing $995 million in net premiums earned and related claims and policy benefits. 2. Fourth quarter of 2003 two portfolios, one U.K. and one European, for a total of approximately $395.5 million in net premiums earned and related claims and policy benefits. 61 3. Third quarter of 2002 one U.K. portfolio of approximately $762.7 million in net premiums earned and related claims and policy benefits. The Company acquired cash and investment assets related to the future policy benefit reserves assumed at inception of these large contracts. While the Company expects to write more of these contracts, the frequency of these transactions will likely continue to be irregular. Excluding these large contracts, net premiums earned in life and annuity reinsurance increased in 2004 compared with 2003 and 2003 compared with 2002 as the Company expanded its life and annuity reinsurance operations in Europe combined with additional regular premium term assurance contracts written in 2003 which generated further premiums written in 2004. Acquisition costs, operating expenses and net investment income have increased in line with the expansion of this business. Net investment income is included in the calculation of net income from life and annuity operations as it relates to income earned on portfolios of separately identified and managed life investment assets and other allocated assets. The accretion of the related future policy benefit reserves is included in claims and policy benefits. Financial Products and Services Financial Products and Services Financial Operations The following table summarizes the underwriting results for this segment: % Change % Change (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2004 04 vs 03 2003 03 vs 02 2002 Gross premiums written $276,079 (12.1)% $313,916 57.0% $199,913 Net premiums written 255,524 (14.6)% 299,240 68.3% 177,794 Net premiums earned $161,285 15.5% $139,622 106.1% $ 67,745 Fee income and other 2,787 40.1% 1,990 (71.7)% 7,043 Net losses and loss expenses 73,055 116.5% 33,750 NM (1,732) Acquisition costs 18,670 (2.1)% 19,066 97.7% 9,644 Operating expenses 73,955 47.5% 50,147 16.4% 43,068 Foreign exchange (gains) losses (482) NM NM 8 Underwriting profit (loss) $ (1,126) NM $ 38,649 62.4% $ 23,800 Investment income financial guarantee 40,780 75.2% 23,273 (10.4)% 25,962 Net realized and unrealized gains on weather and energy derivative instruments 1,997 81.1% 1,103 (93.3)% 16,607 Operating expenses weather and energy 25,020 14.6% 21,837 46.8% 14,875 Equity in net income of financial affiliates 12,622 (66.0)% 37,108 NM 5,166 Minority interest 8,708 (23.8)% 11,424 9.6% 10,424 Net realized and unrealized gains (losses) on credit derivatives (1) 52,897 NM (25,787) (44.1)% (46,137) Net contribution from financial operations $ 73,442 78.8% $ 41,085 NM $ 99 (1) In 2003, the Company reclassified all credit derivatives from the general operations insurance segment into the financial products and services segment. Prior period information has been reclassified to conform to current year presentation. There was no net income impact of this change in presentation. Gross and net premiums written primarily relate to the financial guaranty line of business and reflect premiums received and accrued for in the period and do not include the present value of future cash receipts expected from installment premium policies written in the period. Decreases in gross and net premiums written of 12.1% and 14.6%, respectively, in the year ended December 31, 2004, as compared to the same period in 2003, were primarily due to the combination of conscious underwriting discipline during generally weaker market conditions and a smaller amount of 62 large upfront premium contracts written. Market conditions are being driven by credit spread compression, higher interest rates, increased competition and reduced public financing. Gross and net premiums written increased in 2003 compared to 2002 reflecting an increase in the volume of insured debt obligations, enhanced market penetration by the Companys financial guaranty platform, and expansion of the platform into the public finance market. Net premiums earned also primarily relate to the financial guaranty line of business. Premiums written on such business are earned over the life of the insured debt obligations based on par amount of risk outstanding. Accordingly, as the in force business grows, so will the level of premiums earned from period to period. The increase in net premiums earned in 2004, as compared to the prior year, is primarily due to growth in the financial guaranty in force book of business, in conjunction with the acceleration of $23.3 million in premium earnings associated with an insured project financing structure on which a full limit loss was recognized during the year (see discussion below regarding Net losses and expenses for further details). This increase was partially offset by the impact in earned premiums in 2003 related to the refunding of certain insured structures and certain short term contract enhancements not repeated in 2004. The increase in net premiums earned in 2003 as compared to 2002 was primarily due the growth in the financial guaranty in force book of business Premiums earned do not include premiums from the issuance of credit default swaps, which are derivative contracts. Such contracts are reported at fair value and changes therein are included in Net realized and unrealized gains (losses) on credit derivatives (see discussion below regarding Net realized and unrealized gains (losses) on credit derivatives for further details). Net losses and loss expenses include current year net losses incurred and adverse or favorable development of prior year net loss and loss expenses reserves. Net losses and loss expenses in 2004 increased by 116.5% compared to 2003. The increase was primarily the result of a provision for losses of approximately $41.7 million, representing the present value of a $50.0 million loss relating to the subordinate layer of an insured project financing structure, as well as a net increase in reserves resulting from the growth in the financial guaranty in force business. Management continues to monitor its loss exposures and will revise its loss estimates as necessary, as additional information becomes available. The Company commenced writing financial guaranty business in 1998 and had relied entirely upon industry data to establish reserves until the end of 2001. In 2002, the Company refined its assumptions to take into account its actual historical loss experience and revised its estimated claim reporting pattern. The Company uses this expected loss reporting pattern, combined with changes in known losses, to determine the prior year development amount. Using the new methodology developed in 2002, actual reported loss development was less than expected in 2004 and 2003, resulting in a release of prior period reserves of $10.5 million and $15 million. In 2002, reported losses for this business were also less than expected and the refinement in assumptions resulted in a decrease in the estimate of reserves for prior years of $13 million. In the year ended December 31, 2004 acquisition costs decreased compared with the prior year reflecting a change in the average life of the financial guaranty in force book of business over which such costs are expensed. Acquisition costs increased in 2003 as compared to 2002 in line with the growth of the business. Operating expenses increased in 2004 as compared to 2003, and in 2003 as compared to 2002, due to the investment in segment infrastructure over the last year as well as an increase in the allocation of certain corporate expenses. Net investment income related to the financial guaranty business increased in 2004, as compared to 2003, due to the larger investment portfolio created by growth in premium receipts and a $100.0 million capital infusion to this business in the fourth quarter of 2003. Net investment income related to the financial guaranty business decreased in 2003, as compared to 2002, due primarily to a decline in general market interest rates. The net realized and unrealized positions on weather and energy risk management derivative instruments resulted in a small gain for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003. The gain in 2004 was the result of gains in the weather portfolio due to warm temperatures late in the year, partially offset by losses due to higher than expected temperature volatility in the first half of the year and costs associated with exiting natural gas positions. During 2004 63 the positions and activities in the gas area were significantly reduced, those in the weather area have been increased slightly, and new contingent risk products were introduced. Net income from financial affiliates decreased in 2004, as compared to 2003, due primarily to the Companys investment in Primus Guaranty Ltd. Primus specializes in providing credit risk protection through credit derivatives. Primus had a mark to market adjustment in the year which was less favorable than that recorded in the 2003. This decrease was partially offset by income from the sale of a portion of the Companys investment in Primus, in connection with its Initial Public Offering. Net income from financial affiliates increased in 2003, as compared to 2002, due primarily to increased earnings from the Companys investment in Primus. These increased earnings were due to a significant narrowing of credit spreads in the second and third quarters of 2003 relative to spreads when the protection was originally sold. The decrease in minority interest in 2004, as compared to 2003, reflects the fact that the minority interest holders return on investment is contractually capped. The minority interest relates to an equity position in XL Financial Assurance Ltd., which is held by a third party. The increase in minority interest in 2003, as compared to 2002 was due to an increase in the profitability of XL Financial Assurance Ltd. The Companys credit derivative transactions relate primarily to financial guaranty coverage that is written in swap form and pertain to tranches of collateralized debt obligations and asset backed securities. The net realized and unrealized gains during the year ended December 31, 2004 relate to the fair value adjustments for transactions written in derivative form, as well as the premiums earned associated with these transactions. These gains, which were mainly unrealized, related to the improvement of credit quality for certain credit pools and were partially offset by several individual credit events in the year. During 2003 and 2002, the opposite conditions existed and the fair value change was negative. The Company continues to monitor its credit exposures and adjust the fair value of these derivatives as required. Financial Products and Services Life and Annuity Operations The following table summarizes the net income from life and annuity operations of this segment: % Change % Change (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2004 04 vs 03 2003 03 vs 02 2002 Gross premiums written $94,597 (0.5)% $95,062 37.6% $69,094 Net premiums written 94,713 12.9% 83,883 91.6% 43,779 Net premiums earned $94,713 12.9% $83,883 96.9% $42,605 Fee income and other 585 137.8% 246 NM Claims and policy benefits 96,418 41.3% 68,231 64.5% 41,475 Acquisition costs 20,981 20.2% 17,450 NM Operating expenses 10,376 31.9% 7,866 NM 404 Net investment income 88,090 NM 28,616 NM Interest expense 54,454 NM 12,168 NM Net income $ 1,159 (83.5)% $ 7,030 NM $ 726 Gross and net premiums earned, claims and policy benefit reserves and acquisition costs relate to certain blocks of U.S based term life mortality reinsurance business written that were novated to the Company from an insurance affiliate in December 2002. During the quarter ended September 30, 2003, the Company exercised its right and terminated a retrocession agreement of certain of these exposures which led to the significant increase in net premiums earned and claims and policy benefits in 2004 compared to 2003. In 2004, approximately $7.0 million in additional claims and policy benefit reserves were recorded related to this block of business due to adverse claim experience. Net investment income and interest expense relate to municipal reinvestment contracts and funding agreement transactions. The increase in investment income and the related interest expense were due to the initiation of the fund 64 ing agreements in the second quarter of 2003 combined with increases in the average balances outstanding related to the book of municipal reinvestment contracts. The balances outstanding for funding agreements and municipal reinvestment contracts increased from $0.6 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively, as at December 31, 2003 to $1.1 billion and $2.6 billion, respectively, as at December 31, 2004. Investment Activities The following table illustrates the change in net investment income from general operations, net income from investment affiliates, net realized gains and losses on investments and net realized and unrealized gains and losses on investment derivatives for each of the three years ended December 31, 2004. % Change % Change (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2004 04 vs 03 2003 03 vs 02 2002 Net investment income general operations $661,535 12.4% $588,428 (4.6)% $617,122 Net income from investment affiliates (1) 124,008 4.0% 119,200 120.2% 54,143 Net realized gains (losses) on investments 246,547 105.1% 120,195 NM (214,160) Net realized and unrealized gains (losses) on investment derivative instruments (2) 23,125 NM (2,858) NM (22,231) (1) Net income from investment affiliates in 2004 reflects the twelve months to November 30, 2004, as compared to the eleven months ended November 30, 2003 in 2003 and the twelve months ended December 31, 2002 in 2002. The Company records the investment affiliates on a one month lag in order for the Company to meet the accelerated filing deadlines as specified by the SEC. (2) For a summary of realized and unrealized gains and losses on all derivative instruments, see Item 8, Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Net investment income related to general operations increased in 2004 as compared to 2003 primarily due to growth in the investment base, as well as moderate increases in the yield of the portfolio. The Companys total investments available for sale and cash and cash equivalents less net pending payable for investments purchased was $29.9 billion at December 31, 2004 as compared to $23.1 billion at December 31, 2003. This increase of $6.8 billion includes (i) cash flow from operations of $4.4 billion and (ii) cash flow of $1.5 billion from spread product transactions. The annualized effective yield of the total investment portfolio was 3.8% for 2004 as compared to 3.5% for 2003, a 0.3% increase. The increase in the effective yield of the total investment portfolio was primarily due to general interest rate increases in the U.S., and the growth in assets invested in non U.S. markets, particularly the United Kingdom, where investment grade yields are generally higher than in the U.S. Net investment income related to general operations decreased in 2003 as compared to 2002 primarily due to the market decline in yields and the shorter duration of the investment portfolio, partially offset by growth in the investment base. The Companys total investments available for sale and cash and cash equivalents less net pending payable for investments purchased was $23.1 billion at December 31, 2003 as compared to $18.1 billion at December 31, 2002. This increase of $5.0 billion includes (i) cash flow from operations of $3.4 billion and (ii) cash flow of $1.5 billion from spread product transactions. The annualized effective yield of the total investment portfolio was 3.5% for 2003 as compared to 4.3% for 2002, a 0.8% decrease. It is expected that net investment income in 2005 will increase due to projected increases in investments resulting from expected positive operating cash flow and growth in structured and spread balances, as well as anticipated increases in market yields on reinvestment of existing assets and investment of new cash flows. However, actual market changes in interest rates could offset or supplement the effects of cash flow. See further discussion in Liquidity and Capital Resources. Net income from investment affiliates includes earnings from the Companys investments in closed end investment funds and partnerships and similar vehicles. Net income from investment affiliates increased in 2004 as compared to 2003 primarily due to an increase in the size of the alternative investment portfolio. Net income from investment affiliates increased significantly in 2003 as compared to 2002 due mainly to the strong 65 performance of certain of the Companys investment funds, particularly in the second and fourth quarters of 2003 as compared to lower overall returns on these funds in 2002. In addition, as noted above, income on the alternative investment portfolio was for an eleven month period in 2003 as compared to a twelve months period in 2002. Investment Performance The Company manages its investment grade fixed income securities using an asset/liability management framework. Due to the unique nature of the underlying liabilities, customized benchmarks are used to measure investment performance and comparison to standard market indices is not meaningful. However, the risk asset portfolios managed by the Company may be compared to appropriate market indices. Investment performance is not monitored for certain assets primarily consisting of operating cash and special regulatory deposits. The following is a summary of the investment portfolio returns for each of the two years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 of the general account asset/liability portfolio, structured and spread product portfolio and risk asset portfolios. 2004 2003 (1) (1) General Account Asset/Liability Portfolio USD fixed income portfolio 3.5% 10.0% Non USD fixed income portfolio 10.0% 15.2% Structured and Spread Product Portfolio USD fixed income portfolio 4.8% 5.3% Non USD fixed income portfolio 9.1% 7.4% Risk Asset Portfolio Alternative portfolio (2) 8.2% 8.6% Equity portfolio 18.0% 41.1% High Yield fixed income portfolio 6.9% 25.6% (1) Portfolio returns are calculated by dividing the sum of the net investment income, realized gains (loss) and unrealized gains, (loss) by the daily weighted average market value of each portfolio. (2) Performance on the alternative portolio in 2004 reflects the 12 months to November 30, 2004, as compared to the 11 months ended November 30, 2003 in 2003. Net realized gains and losses on investments and other than temporary declines in the value of investments The Companys investment portfolio is classified as available for sale. Realized investment gains and losses occur through the normal turnover of the Companys investment portfolio. Realized investment losses include impairment charges relating to declines in value of securities that are considered to be other than temporary. See Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates for further information. In 2004, net realized gains on investments were $246.5 million which includes $265.9 million of gross realized losses on fixed income and $48.8 million of gross realized losses on equity securities. Gross realized losses in 2004 included $6.4 million of provisions for declines in fair value considered to be other than temporary. In the United States there was a general reduction in the level of corporate defaults. For example, Moodys Investor Service (Moodys) reported that 57 issuers defaulted in 2004 as compared with 77 issuers in 2003 and 141 issuers in 2002. The Companys exposure to these defaults was even more limited in 2004 resulting in a significant reduction in the write down for other than temporary declines. Of the write downs in 2004, 50% related to credit impairments within the airlines industry. As a percentage of the total fixed income portfolio, the write down for other than temporary declines was negligible in 2004 as compared with 0.6% in 2003 and 1.6% in 2002. 66 In 2003, net realized gains on investments were $120.2 million which included $344.8 million of gross realized losses on fixed income and $162.5 million of gross realized losses on equity securities. Gross realized losses in 2003 included $130.7 million of provisions for declines in fair value considered to be other than temporary. The general economy in the United States and the investment markets improved in 2003 relative to 2002. During the year ended 2002, the Company had net realized losses on investments of $214.2 million. This included gross realized losses on fixed income and equity securities of $526.3 million and $160.1 million, respectively. Gross and net realized losses in 2002 included $251.5 million of provisions for declines in fair value considered to be other than temporary. Of the total provisions, $144.3 million related to fixed income securities, $77.8 million to equity securities and $29.4 million to other investments. Approximately 44% of the declines in fair value in 2002 of fixed income and equity securities considered to be other than temporary related to the communications sector, including Worldcom Inc. and Adelphia Communication Corp. in the second quarter of 2002. In addition, approximately $41.0 million of gross realized losses related to sales of Worldcom Inc. and Adelphia Communication Corp. The significant circumstances that contributed to the realized losses in 2002 included the high level of distress and default in the telecommunications sector, the Enron Corp. bankruptcy and a general rise in corporate defaults across other sectors in response to the general economic decline in the United States and elsewhere. With respect to those investment securities that were sold at a loss during the year ended December 31, 2004 the following is an analysis of the period of time that those securities had been in a continual unrealized loss position, the amount of the realized loss recorded in the Companys results of operations as of the sale date and the amount of the impairment charge taken in the year: Length of time in a continual unrealized loss position Fixed Income Equity (U.S. dollars in thousands) Securities Securities Less than 6 months $220,127 $37,893 At least 6 months but less than 12 months 22,686 5,688 At least 12 months but less than 2 years 11,877 3,342 At least 2 years 7,020 Total gross realized loss from sales 261,710 46,923 Impairment charges for declines in value considered to be other than temporary 4,144 1,870 Total gross realized loss $265,854 $48,793 With respect to those securities that were sold at a loss during the year ended December 31, 2003 the following is an analysis of the period of time that those securities had been in a continual unrealized loss position, the amount of the realized loss recorded in the Companys results of operations as of the sale date and the amount of the impairment charge taken in the year: Length of time in a continual unrealized loss position Fixed Income Equity (U.S. dollars in thousands) Securities Securities Less than 6 months $242,220 $ 94,151 At least 6 months but less than 12 months 13,347 9,502 At least 12 months but less than 2 years 20,614 4,444 At least 2 years 245 253 Total gross realized loss from sales 276,426 108,350 Impairment charges for declines in value considered to be other than temporary 68,405 54,206 Total gross realized loss $344,831 $162,556 67The Companys process for identifying declines in the fair value of investments that are other than temporary involves consideration of several factors as discussed under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company realized losses of $18.9 million and $3.3 million upon the sale of fixed income securities and equity securities, respectively, that had been in an unrealized loss position for greater than twelve months. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company realized losses of $20.9 million and $4.7 million upon the sale of fixed income securities and equity securities, respectively, that had been in an unrealized loss position for greater than twelve months. During the year ended December 31, 2002, the Company realized a loss of $38.4 million and $7.2 million upon the sale of fixed income securities and equity securities, respectively, that had been in an unrealized loss position for greater than twelve months. The decisions to sell these securities were made by the Companys investment managers based upon a change in market conditions and other factors (these decisions were independent of the Companys previously stated intent and ability to hold such securities). Net realized and unrealized gains on investment derivatives result from the Companys investment strategy to economically hedge against interest and foreign exchange risk within the investment portfolio. See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, and Liquidity and Capital Resources for a more detailed analysis. Unrealized losses on investments At December 31, 2004, there were $119.7 million of gross unrealized losses on fixed income and short term investments, and $7.2 million of gross unrealized losses on equity securities. At December 31, 2003, there were $120.0 million of gross unrealized losses on fixed income and short term investments, and $6.2 million of gross unrealized losses on equity securities. These losses include securities below investment grade as discussed below. The information shown below about the unrealized losses on the Companys investments at December 31, 2004 concerns the potential effect upon future earnings and financial position should management later conclude that some of the current declines in the fair value of these investments are other than temporary declines. The following is an analysis of the length of each of those investment securities at December 31, 2004 and 2003 had been in a continual unrealized loss position: Amount of Amount of Type of Securities Length of time in a continual unrealized loss at unrealized loss at (U.S. dollars in thousands) unrealized loss position December 31, 2004 December 31, 2003 Fixed Income and Short Term Less than six months $ 43,383 $ 32,514 At least 6 months but less than 12 months 46,613 82,647 At least 12 months but less than 2 years 29,453 4,355 At least 2 years but less than 3 years 217 517 At least 3 years but less than 4 years 23 Total $119,666 $120,056 Equities Less than six months $ 3,067 $ 4,830 At least 6 months but less than 12 months 2,287 911 At least 12 months but less than 2 years 1,862 440 At least 2 years but less than 3 years 49 Total $ 7,216 $ 6,230 At December 31, 2004, the total gross unrealized losses represented approximately 5,100 fixed income securities out of a total of approximately 15,300, and approximately 200 equity securities out of a total of approximately 1,600. At December 31, 2003, the total gross unrealized losses represented approximately 3,400 fixed income securities out of a total of approximately 14,300 and approximately 300 equity securities out of a total of approximately 1,800. 68 As discussed under Item 1, Investments Investment Structure and Strategy, the Company operates a risk asset portfolio that includes high yield (below investment grade) fixed income securities. These securities are more sensitive to credit risk than investment grade securities. At December 31, 2004, approximately 4.6% of the Companys fixed income investment portfolio was invested in securities which were below investment grade or not rated. Approximately 5.8% of the unrealized losses in the Companys fixed income securities portfolio at December 31, 2004, related to securities that were below investment grade or not rated. At December 31, 2003, approximately 5.4% of the Companys fixed income investment portfolio was invested in securities which were below investment grade or not rated. Approximately 8.8% of the unrealized losses in the Companys fixed income securities portfolio at December 31, 2003 related to securities that were below investment grade or not rated. The following is an analysis of how long each of these below investment grade and unrated securities had been in a continual unrealized loss position at the date indicated. Amount of Amount of Length of time in a continual unrealized loss position unrealized loss at unrealized loss at (U.S. dollars in thousands) December 31, 2004 December 31, 2003 Less than six months $4,768 $ 756 At least 6 months but less than 12 months 1,764 5,722 At least 12 months but less than 2 years 358 1,447 At least 2 years but less than 3 years 106 517 Total $6,996 $8,442 Of the gross unrealized investment losses on the fixed income and short term investments portfolio at December 31, 2004 of $119.7 million, approximately $45.2 million related to corporate fixed income securities. Within the corporate fixed income securities, approximately 43.8% of the losses were in the financial sector, 11.0% in the communications sector, 8.4% in the utilities sector, 8.2% in the consumer, non cyclical sector and 7.1% in the consumer cyclical sector. No other sector was greater than 5%. The largest individual unrealized loss in the fixed income portfolio was $4.9 million. Approximately 20 equity securities held by the Company with total unrealized losses of approximately $2.0 million at December 31, 2004 were in a continual unrealized loss position for at least 12 months. The largest individual unrealized loss in the equity portfolio was $1.0 million. Of the gross unrealized investment losses on the fixed income and short term investments portfolio at December 31, 2003 of $120.0 million, approximately $61.2 million related to corporate fixed income securities. Within the corporate fixed income securities, approximately 36.9% of the losses were in the financial sector, 16.6% in asset backed securities, 10.1% in the communications sector, 8.1% in the utilities sector, 7.2% in the consumer non cyclical sector, 5.7% in the basic materials sector, and 5.0% in the consumer cyclical sector. No other sector was greater than 5%. The largest unrealized loss in the fixed income portfolio was $8.7 million. All other individual fixed income security unrealized losses were less than $5.0 million Approximately 29 equity securities held by the Company with total unrealized losses of approximately $0.5 million at December 31, 2003 were in a continual unrealized loss position for at least 12 months. The largest individual unrealized loss in the equity portfolio was $0.2 million. 69 At December 31, 2004 and 2003, the following was the maturity profile of the fixed income securities (excluding short term) that were in a gross unrealized loss position: Maturity profile in years of fixed income Amount of Amount of securities in a continual unrealized loss position unrealized loss at unrealized loss at (U.S. dollars in thousands) December 31, 2004 December 31, 2003 At least 1 year but less than 5 years remaining $ 35,880 $ 19,867 At least 5 years but less than 10 years remaining 19,220 33,722 More than 10 years but less than 20 years remaining 11,908 22,742 At least 20 years or more remaining 6,665 20,776 Mortgage and asset backed securities 41,176 21,656 Total $114,849 $118,763 Other Revenues and Expenses The following table sets forth other revenues and expenses of the general operations of the Company for each of the three years ended December 31, 2004: % Change % Change (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2004 04 vs 03 2003 03 vs 02 2002 Net income from operating affiliates 147,357 NM 8,923 (16.0)% 10,623 Amortization of intangible assets 15,827 NM 4,637 (25.1)% 6,187 Corporate operating expenses 196,649 35.5% 145,085 21.4% 119,515 Interest expense 204,627 9.3% 187,239 11.4% 168,086 Minority interest (321) (85.1)% (2,160) NM 2,947 Income tax expense 84,526 NM 30,049 32.7% 22,647 In 2004, the increase in net income from operating affiliates included strong performance by the Companys investment management affiliates combined with income of $66.7 million on the sale of the Companys investment in the Admiral Group Ltd. and $35.4 million of income from the sale of the Companys stake in Pareto Partners and its affiliated companies, as well as strong growth in assets managed by these minority owned managers. In 2003, net income from investment manager affiliates increased due to growth in assets managed by these minority owned managers. Net income from operating affiliates in 2003 included an other than temporary decline of $40.9 million in the value of the Companys investment in ANR. The investment was written down to its fair value of $2.2 million at March 31, 2003. Net income from operating affiliates in 2002 also included a loss of approximately $22.7 million relating to ANR. This loss included a write down of the goodwill component of the Companys investment of $13.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2002 due to a significant decline in the book value of ANR. Amortization of intangible assets increased in 2004 as compared to 2003 due primarily to the acquisition of a book of business related to XL Re Europe at the end of 2003. Amortization of intangible assets decreased in 2003 as compared to 2002 due primarily to a reduction in the expense related to intangible assets related to the acquisition of XL Re Europe. Corporate operating expenses in 2004 increased 36.0% compared to 2003 due to the continued build out of the Companys global infrastructure and personnel in developing its network of shared service organizations to support operations in certain locations, costs related to compliance with the Sarbanes Oxley Act, and adverse foreign exchange impacts. Corporate operating expenses increased 21.4% in 2003 compared to 2002 due primarily to the continued build out of the Companys global infrastructure in developing a network of shared service organizations to 70support operations in certain locations, new costs related to the Companys global branding campaign and $5.6 million of stock option expenses associated with the adoption of FAS 123 as amended by FAS 148. See Item 8 Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Interest expense includes costs related to the Companys debt and collateral facilities as well as deposit liability accretion. In 2004, interest expense has increased primarily as a result of the additional interest related to the senior notes issued in March, August and November of 2004, partially offset by the reduced interest as a result of the redemption of the Liquid Yield Option Notes (LYONs) and Zero Coupon Convertible Debentures (CARZ) during the year. In 2003, interest expense for debt and collateral facilities was $94.3 million as compared to $102.2 million in 2002. This decrease was due to the inclusion of amortization of debt issuance expenses in 2002 related to the issue of the CARZ and the LYONs. See Liquidity and Capital Resources for more information. In 2003, interest expense related to the accretion of deposit liabilities was $92.9 million as compared to $65.9 million due to new deposit liability contracts written in 2003. The change in the Companys income taxes in each of the three years ended December 31, 2004 principally reflects the effects of changes in the profitability of the U.S. operations for each year. The deferral of tax losses is evaluated based upon the future profitability of the Companys taxable entities and, under current projections, the Company anticipates using this asset by 2007. The Companys net deferred tax asset at December 31, 2004 was $288.6 million, which consists primarily of net operating losses generated by subsidiaries in the U.S. and U.K. Should the taxable income of these entities fall below expectations, a further valuation allowance may have to be established which could be significant. In addition, if any further losses are generated by these entities, these losses may not be tax effected. See Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Item 8, Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Investments The primary objective of the investment strategy is to support the liabilities arising from the operations of the Company, generate stable investment income and to build book value for the Company over the longer term. The strategy strives to maximize investment returns while taking into account market and credit risk. The Companys overall investment portfolio is structured to take into account a number of variables including local regulatory requirements, business needs, collateral management and risk tolerance. 71 At December 31, 2004 and 2003, total investments and cash and cash equivalents were $32.1 billion and $25.1 billion, respectively. The following table summarizes the composition of the Companys invested assets at December 31, 2004 and 2003: Market Value Percent of Market Value Percent of (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2004 Total 2003 Total Cash and cash equivalents $ 2,304,303 7.2% $ 2,829,627 11.2% Net payable for investments purchased (273,535) (0.9)% (523,077) (2.1)% Fixed maturities U.S. Government and Government agency $ 4,112,075 12.7% $ 2,267,154 9.0% Corporate 11,349,847 35.4% 10,336,912 41.1% Mortgage and asset backed securities 6,928,558 21.6% 3,707,910 14.8% U.S. States and political subdivisions of the States 63,056 0.2% 38,722 0.2% Non U.S. Sovereign Government 2,646,658 8.3% 3,143,658 12.5% Total fixed maturities $25,100,194 78.2% $19,494,356 77.6% Short term investments 1,760,714 5.5% 697,450 2.8% Total equity securities 962,920 3.0% 583,450 2.3% Investments in affiliates 1,936,852 6.0% 1,903,341 7.6% Other investments 305,160 1.0% 142,567 0.6% Total investments and cash and cash equivalents $32,096,608 100% $25,127,714 100% The Company reviews on a regular basis its corporate debt concentration, credit quality and compliance with established guidelines. At December 31, 2004 and 2003, the average credit quality of the Companys total fixed income portfolio was AA. Approximately 58% of the fixed income portfolio was rated AAA by one or more of the principal ratings agencies. Approximately 4.6% was below investment grade or not rated. Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses Unpaid losses and loss expenses include reserves on the Companys general and financial operations and relates primarily to the casualty insurance and reinsurance business written by the Company. The balance was $19.6 billion at December 31, 2004 which is an increase of $3.0 billion from December 31, 2003. The increase was due primarily to new business earned in the year, together with an increase in reserves for net adverse development in 2004 of $1.6 billion of prior period loss reserves principally related to the book of business purchased from Winterthur Swiss Insurance Company in 2001 which is covered by the SPA. See Item 8, Note 5(b) to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. The table below represents a reconciliation of the Companys unpaid losses and loss expenses for the year ended December 31, 2004: Gross unpaid Unpaid losses and Net unpaid losses losses and loss loss expenses and loss (U.S. dollars in thousands) expenses recoverable expenses Balance at December 31, 2003 $16,558,788 $5,776,410 $10,782,378 Losses and loss expenses incurred 7,830,132 2,966,193 4,863,940 Losses and loss expenses paid/recovered 4,926,421 1,851,932 3,074,489 Other (including foreign exchange revaluation) 136,032 (173,737) 309,768 Balance at December 31, 2004 $19,598,531 $6,716,934 $12,881,597 72While the Company reviews the adequacy of established reserves for unpaid losses and loss expenses regularly, no assurance can be given that actual claims made and payments related thereto will not be in excess of the amounts reserved. In the future if such reserves develop adversely, such deficiency would have a negative impact on future results of operations. See Item 1, Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Item 8, Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses Recoverable and Reinsurance Balances Receivable In the normal course of business, the Company seeks to reduce the potential amount of loss arising from claims events by reinsuring certain levels of risk assumed in various areas of exposure with other insurers or reinsurers. While reinsurance agreements are designed to limit the Companys losses from large exposures and permit recovery of a portion of direct unpaid losses, reinsurance does not relieve the Company of its ultimate liability to the Companys insureds. Accordingly, the losses and loss expense reserves on the balance sheet represent the Companys total unpaid gross losses. Unpaid losses and loss expense recoverable relates to estimated reinsurance recoveries on the unpaid loss and loss expense reserves. Unpaid losses and loss expense recoverables were $6.7 billion and $5.8 billion at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. At December 31, 2004 and 2003, reinsurance balances receivable were $1.1 billion and $1.4 billion respectively. The table below presents the Companys net reinsurance recoverable at December 31, 2004 and 2003. December 31, December 31, (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2004 2003 Reinsurance balances receivable $ 1,097,709 $ 1,369,331 Bad debt reserve on reinsurance balances receivable (1,970) (9,845) Reinsurance recoverable on future policy benefits 23,585 3,587 Reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses recoverable 6,995,643 5,883,970 Bad debt reserve on unpaid losses and loss expenses recoverable (278,709) (107,560) Net paid and unpaid losses and loss expenses recoverable and reinsurance balances receivable $ 7,836,258 $ 7,139,483 The Company has credit risk should any of its reinsurers be unable to settle amounts due. Of the $78 billion total unpaid losses and loss expenses recoverable and reinsurance balances receivable at December 31, 2004, no individual reinsurer accounted for 10% or more of the total. The Company is the beneficiary of letters of credit, trust accounts and funds withheld in the aggregate amount of $1.6 billion at December 31, 2004, collateralizing reinsurance recoverables with respect to certain reinsurers. The provision for uncollectible reinsurance is required principally due to the failure of reinsurers to indemnify the Company primarily because of disputes under reinsurance contracts and insolvencies. As at December 31, 2004 and 2003, the Company had a reserve for potential non recoveries from reinsurers of $278.7 million and $107.6 million, respectively. Included in unpaid loss and loss expenses recoverable at December 31, 2004 is an unsecured reinsurance recoverable from Winterthur Swiss Insurance Company (the Seller) of $1.45 billion, related to certain contractual arrangements in the sale and purchase agreement, as amended (SPA) relating to the Companys acquisition of Winterthur International in July 2001. The Seller is currently rated A by S&P. The Seller provides the Company with post closing protection determined as of June 30, 2004 with respect to, among other things, adverse development of incurred losses and premium balances relating to the acquired Winterthur International business (Winterthur Business). This protection is based upon net loss experience and development over a three year, post closing seasoning period based on actual loss development experience, collectible reinsurance and certain other factors set forth in the SPA. The SPA includes an independent actuarial process for determining the net amount due to the Company from the Seller. In the process, each of the Company and the Seller submits their respective net reserves and seasoned premium amounts. The independent actuary develops its own value of the seasoned net reserves and seasoned premium amounts and the actual final seasoned amount would be, in each case, the submission that is closest to the number developed by the independent actuary. 73 As the Company and the Seller were unable to come to an agreement, the Company submitted to the Seller notice to trigger the independent actuarial process as contemplated by the SPA. On February 3, 2005, both the Company and the Seller made submissions for the independent actuarial process. The Companys submissions would result in a net payable to the Company of approximately $1.45 billion in aggregate and the Sellers submissions would result in a net payable to the Company of $541 million in aggregate. Approximately $855 million of the total $909 million dollar difference between the Seller and the Company relates to seasoned losses, the remainder relates to premium seasoning At the completion of the independent actuarial process, the Company will be entitled to a lump sum payment. In addition, the Seller provides protection to the Company with respect to third party reinsurance receivables and recoverables related to the Winterthur Business which are $2.0 billion in the aggregate as of December 31, 2004. There are two levels of protection from the Seller for these balances: 1. At the time of the Winterthur International acquisition, the Seller provided to the Company a liquidity facility. At the time of the payment of the net reserve seasoned amount, the Company has the right to repay up to the balances outstanding on this facility by assignment to the Seller of an equal amount of receivables relating to reinsurance recoverables selected by the Company. The payable balance related to this facility is included within Other liabilities on the Companys balance sheet at December 31, 2004 and amounted to approximately $281 million at that date. 2. Under two retrocession agreements the Company has reinsurance protection on the remaining portion of reinsurance recoverables with respect to incurred losses seasoned as of June 30, 2004 to the extent that the Company does not receive payment of such amounts from applicable reinsurers with one agreement providing a limit of $1.3 billion for the insurance written in the period to June 30, 2001 and the other agreement providing a limit of $1.3 billion for the insurance written in the period to December 31, 2000. At December 31, 2004, certain reinsurers responsible for some portions of the reinsurance of the acquired Winterthur Business have raised issues as to whether amounts claimed are due and the resolution of those discussions is also currently ongoing. The Company may record a loss in future periods if any or some of the following occur: (i) A submission of the Seller is closer to the valuation developed by the independent actuary; (ii) There is deterioration of the net reserves and premium balances, relating to the Winterthur Business, from what is reported in the Companys December 31, 2004 financial statements; (iii) The Company is unable to make full recovery of the reinsurance recoverables related to the Winterthur Business, either from third parties or from the Seller under the additional protections; or (iv) Any amount due from the Seller proves to be uncollectible from the Seller for any reason. Excluding the recoverable from the Seller described above, approximately 69% of the total unpaid loss and loss expense recoverable and reinsurance balances receivable (excluding collateral held) outstanding at December 31, 2004 were due from reinsurers rated A or better by S&P. The following is an analysis of the total recoverable and reinsurance balances receivable at December 31, 2004 by reinsurers owing more than 3% of such total: Standard and Name of reinsurer Poors rating % of total Employers Reinsurance Corp. A+/Watch Negative 8.4% Lloyds Syndicates A/Stable 6.7% Munich Reinsurance Co. A+/Stable 5.9% Swiss Reinsurance Co. AA/Negative 4.9% Transatlantic Reinsurance Company AA/Stable 3.0% 74Liquidity and Capital Resources As a holding company, the Companys assets consist primarily of its investments in subsidiaries, and the Companys future cash flows depend upon the availability of dividends or other statutorily permissible payments from its subsidiaries. The ability to pay such dividends is limited by the applicable laws and regulations of the various countries in which the Company operates, including, among others, Bermuda, the United States, Ireland, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and those of the Society of Lloyds and certain contractual provisions. See Item 8, Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. No assurance can be given that the Company or its subsidiaries will be permitted to pay dividends in the future. Liquidity Certain business written by the Company has loss experience generally characterized as having low frequency and high severity. This may result in volatility in both the Companys results and operational cash flows. See Item 8 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. There are three main sources of cash flows for the Company those provided by operations, investing activities and financing activities. Cash Flow provided by Operations Cash flow from operations is derived from two main sources: 1) The receipt of investment income on the Companys total investment portfolio; and 2) The net receipt of premiums less claims and expenses related to its underwriting activities in general, life and financial operations. Cash flow from operations was $4.4 billion in 2004 as compared to $3.4 billion in 2003. This increase in 2004 is due to an increase in the receipt of investment income in line with the growth of the investment portfolio together with an increase in net cash received from underwriting activities. Net cash received from underwriting activities is comprised of receipt of premiums, minus payment of claims and operating and acquisition costs. Premiums and acquisition expenses are settled based on terms of trade as stipulated by an underwriting contract, and generally are received within the first year of inception of a policy when the premium is written, but can be up to three years on certain reinsurance business assumed. Operating expenses are generally paid within a year of being incurred. Claims on the other hand, especially for casualty business, may take a much longer time before they are reported and ultimately settled and this is why the Company establishes reserves for unpaid losses and loss expenses. Therefore, the amount of claims paid in any one year is not necessarily related to the amount of net losses incurred as reported in the consolidated statement of income. During 2004, 2003 and 2002, the total amounts of net losses paid for the general operations were $3.1 billion, $2.8 billion and $2.8 billion, respectively, whereas the amount of net losses incurred was $4.9 billion, $4.6 billion and $3.3 billion, respectively. The difference between net incurred and paid losses in 2004 is primarily due to adverse development in the insurance segment and the hurricane losses, many of which are not yet paid. The difference between net incurred and paid losses in 2003 is due primarily to the prior period adverse development on the Companys North American casualty reinsurance book as described above, where the Company increased reserves by $877 million. The payout of the Companys casualty reserves at December 31, 2004 could be as long as a thirty year period. Property claims are generally reported and settled within a much shorter period, usually up to three years. Cumulative net losses paid by the Company for the September 11 event at December 31, 2004 were $512 million, or approximately 66% of the total net incurred losses of $775 million. Cash Flow used in Investing Activities Generally, positive cash flow from operations and financing activities is invested in the Companys portfolio, including affiliates or acquisition of subsidiaries. In 2004, in addition to purchases and sales of the Companys total investment portfolio, the Company sold its interests in Admiral Group Ltd and Pareto Partners and its affiliated companies for $66.7 million and $45.1 million respectively. 75 In 2003, in addition to purchases and sales of the Companys total investment portfolio, the Company had the following significant investment cash flows: 1) In September 2003, the Company exercised its option and settled the related Euro liability to purchase the remaining 33% ownership of Le Mans R, now known as XL Re Europe, for approximately $161 million. See Item 8; Note 5(a) to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 2) In December 2003, the Company received $75.4 million relating to the settlement of the purchase price for Winterthur International. See Item 8; Note 5(b) to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 3) In July 2003, the Company acquired new offices in London for its London headquarters. The acquisition was by a purchase, sale and leaseback transaction resulting in net cash received of $45.3 million, which was recorded as a deferred liability at December 31, 2003. The Company also recorded a capitalized lease asset and liability of approximately $150.0 million related to this transaction and there were no significant capital expenditures for leasehold improvements during 2003. Cash Flow provided by Financing Activities Cash flows related to financing activities include the payment of dividends, share related transactions, the issue or repayment of debt and deposit liability transactions. In 2004 and 2003, the Company received $1.5 billion and $1.5 billion of net cash relating to new deposit liability contracts. In 2004, dividends were $270.5 million for ordinary shares and $40.3 million for preferred shares. In connection with the acquisition of Winterthur International, a limited recourse receivables financing facility previously available to these operations from the Seller was made available to the Company. The balance outstanding at December 31, 2004 and 2003 was approximately $ 281.0 million and $223.0 million, respectively, and is included in Other Liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. In addition, in 2004 and 2003 the Company executed a number of debt and equity transactions which affect the cash flow from financing activities described below in Capital Resources. Capital Resources In addition to ordinary share capital, the Company depends on external sources of financing to support its underwriting activities in the form of: a. debt, b. preference shares, and, c. contingent capital, d. letters of credit facilities and other sources of collateral In particular, the Company requires, among other things: Sufficient capital to maintain its financial strength, claims paying and debt ratings, as issued by several ratings agencies, at a level considered necessary by management to enable the Companys key operating subsidiaries to compete. Sufficient capital to enable its underwriting subsidiaries to meet the capital adequacy tests performed by statutory agencies in the U.S., the U.K., and other key markets. Letters of credit and other forms of collateral that are required by the Companys non U.S. operating companies that are non admitted under U.S. state insurance regulations. The Company also uses letters of credit to support its operations at Lloyds. Revolving credit to meet short term liquidity needs. 76 Certain of the Companys credit facilities will expire in 2005. The following risks are associated with the Companys requirement to renew these facilities during 2005: The credit available from banks may be reduced resulting in the Companys need to pledge its investment portfolio to customers. This could result in a lower investment yield. The volume of business that the Companys non admitted subsidiaries are able to transact could be reduced if the Company is unable to renew its letter of credit facilities at an appropriate amount. Continued consolidation within the banking industry may result in the aggregate amount of credit provided to the Company being reduced. The Company attempts to mitigate this risk by identifying and or selecting additional banks that can participate in the credit facilities upon renewal. a) Debt At December 31, 2004, banks and investors provided the Company and its subsidiaries with $3.4 billion of debt capacity, of which $2.7 billion was utilized by the Company. These facilities consist of: Revolving credit facilities (revolvers) of $660 million in aggregate. These revolvers (and their predecessor facilities) were not utilized during 2004 or 2003. The revolvers are components of a $2.0 billion 3 year facility, a $1 billion 364 day facility, and a $100 million 364 day facility. At December 31, 2003, the Company had a single $2.5 billion 364 day facility. These facilities are provided on an unsecured basis by a syndicate of banks (the $2.0 billion and $1.0 billion facilities) or on a bilateral basis in the case of the $100 million facility. The revolvers can be utilized to provide cash at any time until the facilities expire. The Company anticipates that the 364 day facilities will be renewed for a further year in 2005, however, the size of the facilities and the price terms will depend on market conditions in the period leading up to the renewal. Senior Unsecured Notes of approximately $2.7 billion. These notes require the Company to pay a fixed rate of interest during their lives. There are six outstanding issues of senior unsecured notes: $100 million senior notes due November 2005 with a fixed coupon of 7.15%. The security is publicly traded. $255 million senior notes due April 2011 with a fixed coupon of 6.58%. This transaction was privately placed. The security is not traded on a public exchange. $600 million senior notes due January 2012 with a fixed coupon of 6.5%. The security is publicly traded. The notes were issued at $99.469 and gross proceeds were $596.8 million. Related expenses of the offering amounted to $7.9 million. $600 million senior notes due September 2014 with a fixed coupon of 5.25%. The security is publicly traded. The notes were issued in two tranches of $300 million aggregate principal amount each one tranche at 99.432% and the other at 98.419%. Aggregate gross proceeds were $593.6 million. Related expenses of the offering amounted to $4 million. $350 million senior notes due November 2024 with a fixed coupon of 6.375%. The security is publicly traded. The notes were issued at 100.000% and gross proceeds were $350 million. Related expenses of the offering amounted to $2 million. $825 million of senior notes due May 2009 with a fixed coupon of 2.53%. These securities are a component of Equity Security Units (Units) that are publicly traded. In addition to the coupon paid on the senior notes, contract adjustment payments of 3.97% per annum are paid on forward purchase contracts for the Companys common shares for a total distribution of 6.50% per annum. The purchase contracts mature in 2007, and the senior notes mature in 2009. In May 2007, the senior notes will be remarketed whereby the interest rate will be reset in order to generate sufficient remarketing proceeds to satisfy the Unit holders obligations under the purchase contract. 77The following tables present the Companys debt under outstanding securities and lenders commitments as at December 31, 2004: Payments Due by Period Notes Payable and Debt Year of Less than 1 to 3 4 to 5 After 5 (U.S. dollars in thousands) Commitment In Use Expiry 1 Year Years Years Years 364 day and 3 year revolvers $ 660,000 $ 2005/7 $ $ $ $ 7.15% Senior Notes 100,000 100,000 2005 100,000 2.53% Senior Notes 825,000 825,000 2009 825,000 6.58% Guaranteed Senior Notes 255,000 255,000 2011 255,000 6.50% Guaranteed Senior Notes 597,761 597,761 2012 600,000 5.25% Senior Notes 593,670 593,670 2014 600,000 6.375% Senior Notes 350,000 350,000 2024 350,000 Total $3,381,431 $2,721,431 $ $100,000 $825,000 $1,805,000 Commitment and In Use data represent December 31, 2004 accreted values. After 5 years data represent ultimate redemption values. b) Preferred shares In 2002, the Company issued preferred shares as follows: Series A Preferred In August 2002, the Company issued 9.2 million of 8% Series A preference ordinary shares (Series A preference shares). Gross proceeds were $230.0 million and related expenses were $7.2 million. Upon dissolution of the Company, the holders of the Series A preference shares are entitled to receive a liquidation preference of $25 per share, plus accrued dividends. Dividends on the preference Shares are cumulative from the date of original issuance and are payable when declared. The Company may redeem the Series A preference shares on or after August 14, 2007, at a redemption price of $25 per share. The Company may, under certain circumstances, redeem the Series A preference shares before August 14, 2007 at specified redemption prices, plus accrued dividends. These circumstances include an amalgamation, consolidation or other similar transaction involving the Company in which the Series A preferred shares are entitled to a class vote ($26 per share redemption price), or a change in tax laws that requires the Company to pay additional amounts with respect to the Series A preference shares ($25 per share redemption price). The proceeds were used for general corporate purposes. Series B Preferred In November 2002, the Company issued 11.5 million of 7 5/8% Series B preference ordinary shares (Series B preference shares). Gross proceeds were $287.5 million and related expenses were $9.1 million. Upon dissolution of the Company, the holders of the Series B preference shares are entitled to receive a liquidation preference of $25 per share, plus accrued dividends. Dividends on the preference shares are cumulative from the date of original issuance and are payable when declared. The Company may redeem the Series B preference ordinary shares on or after November 18, 2007, at a redemption price of $25 per share. The Company may, under certain circumstances, redeem the B preference shares before November 18, 2007 at specified redemption prices, plus accrued dividends. These circumstances include an amalgamation, consolidation or other similar transaction involving the Company in which the Series B preferred shares are entitled to a class vote ($26 per share redemption price), or a change in tax laws that requires the Company to pay additional amounts with respect to the Series B preference shares ($25 per share redemption price). The proceeds were used for general corporate purposes. c) Contingent Capital In addition to funded debt transactions, the Company and a majority owned subsidiary, (XL Financial Assurance Ltd. (XLFA)) have entered into contingent capital transactions. No up front proceeds were received by the Company or XLFA under these transactions, however, in the event that the associated irrevocable put option 78 agreements are exercised, proceeds previously raised from investors from the issuance of pass through trust securities would be received in return for the issuance of preferred shares. On December 10, 2004, XLFA entered into a put option agreement and an asset trust expense reimbursement agreement with Twin Reefs Asset Trust (the Asset Trust). The put option agreement provides XLFA with the irrevocable right to require the Asset Trust at any time and from time to time to purchase XLFAs non cumulative perpetual Series B Preferred Shares with an aggregate liquidation preference of up to $200 million. There is no limit to the number of times that XLFA may exercise the put option, redeem the Series B Preferred Shares from the Asset Trust and exercise the put option again. XLFA is obligated to reimburse the Asset Trust for certain fees and ordinary expenses. To the extent that any Series B Preferred Shares are put to the Asset Trust and remain outstanding, a corresponding portion of such fees and ordinary expenses will be payable by XLFA pursuant to the asset trust expense reimbursement agreement. The put option agreement is perpetual but would terminate on delivery of notice by XLFA on or after December 9, 2009, or under certain defined circumstances, such as the failure of XLFA to pay the put option premium when due or bankruptcy. The premium payable by XLFA is the sum of certain trustee and investment managers expenses, the distribution of income paid to holders of the pass through trust securities, less the investment yield on the eligible assets purchased using the proceeds originally raised from the issuance of the pass through securities. In July 2003, the Company entered into a contingent capital transaction with an aggregate value of $500.0 million. This transaction provides the Company with an insurance trust that provides the Company with statutory relief under state insurance regulations in the U.S. Under the terms of this facility, the Company has acquired an irrevocable put option to issue preference ordinary shares into a trust in return for proceeds raised from investors. This put option may be exercised by the Company at any time. In addition, the Company may be required to issue preference ordinary shares to the trust under certain circumstances, including, but not limited to, the non payment of the put option premium and a ratings downgrade of the Company. In connection with this transaction, the fair value of the put premiums and other related costs, in total of $111.9 million was transferred from Additional paid in capital to a deferred liability which was established (included with Other liabilities) in the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2003. The Company amortizes this liability that resulted in an interest expense of approximately $3.5 million in 2004 and $2.0 million in 2003. d) Letter of Credit Facilities and other sources of collateral At December 31, 2004, the Company had eight letter of credit facilities in place with total availability of $4.4 billion, of which $3.0 billion was utilized. Amount of Commitment Expiration per period Other Commercial Commitments Year of Less than 1 to 3 4 to 5 After 5 (U.S. dollars in thousands) Commitment In Use Expiry 1 Year Years Years Years 7 Letter of credit facilities (1) $2,371,167 $1,141,192 2005 $2,371,167 $ $ $ 1 Letter of credit facility (1) $2,000,000 $1,850,484 2007 $ $2,000,000 $ $ 8 $4,371,167 $2,991,676 $2,371,167 $2,000,000 $ $ (1) Of the total letter of credit facilities above, $660 million is also included in the revolvers under notes payable and debt The facilities are provided on a syndicated and bilateral basis from commercial banks and are scheduled for renewal during 2005 and 2007. It is anticipated that the commercial facilities will be renewed on expiry but such renewals are subject to the availability of credit from banks utilized by the Company. In the event that such credit support is insufficient, the Company could be required to provide alternative security to cedents. This could take the form of insurance trusts supported by the Companys investment portfolio or funds withheld (amounts retained by ceding companies to collateralize loss or premium reserves) using the Companys cash resources. The value of letters of credit required is driven by, among other things, loss development of existing reserves, the payment pattern of such reserves, the expansion of business written by the Company and the loss experience of such business. In addition to letters of credit, the Company has established insurance trusts in the U.S. that provide cedents with statutory relief required under state insurance regulation in the U.S. 79The Company reviews current and projected collateral requirements on a regular basis, as well as new sources of collateral. Managements objective is to maintain an excess amount of collateral sources over expected uses. The Company also reviews its liquidity needs on a regular basis. The following letter of credit facilities were originated or renewed during 2004: During 2004, the Company renewed a $200 million unsecured bilateral letter of credit facility that was fully utilized throughout 2004 and at December 31, 2004. In September 2004, the Company created a new $100 million unsecured bilateral credit facility that was unutilized during 2004 and at December 31, 2004. Of the aggregate amount of $100 million, $60 million is available as revolving credit and up to $100 million is available in the form of letters of credit, with the combined total not to exceed $100 million. In June 2004, the Company replaced its principal revolving credit and letter of credit facility that had amounted to $2.5 billion with two facilities one $2.0 billion facility with a tenor of 3 years and a $1.0 billion facility with a tenor of 364 days. Of the aggregate amount of $3.0 billion, $600 million is available as revolving credit and up to $3.0 billion is available in the form of letters of credit, with the combined total not to exceed $3.0 billion. As at December 31, 2004 approximately $1.9 billion of the 3 year facility was in use in the form of letters of credit while the 364 day facility was unutilized at that date. In November 2004, the Company renewed its unsecured syndicated letter of credit facility that supports its operations at Lloyds. The renewed facility is denominated in U.K. sterling and was increased in size from 400 million at December 31, 2003, to 450 million (approximately $863 million) at December 31, 2004. In addition to the letter of credit facilities described above, the Company has the following facility: $500 million commercial paper based facility. In February 2003, the Company entered into an aggregate of $300.0 million of commercial paper based credit facilities (the Credit Facilities). These facilities were increased to $500.0 million in June 2003. The proceeds of advances under the Credit Facilities were used to fund a trust account to collateralize the reinsurance obligations of the Company under an inter company quota share reinsurance agreement. The Company could face additional obligations under the Credit Facilities prior to the stated maturity of February 25, 2008, if certain events were to occur, including, but not limited to the Companys insolvency, withdrawal of assets from the Regulation 114 trust by the ceding company, the downgrade of the Companys credit ratings below certain specified levels, or the failure of the agent to have a first priority perfected security interest in the collateral posted by the Company. At maturity, the Company will be obligated to make payments in an amount equal to the principal and accrued interest outstanding under the Credit Facilities. The issued securities and the Companys repayment obligations are recorded as a net balance on the Companys balance sheet. Cross Default and Other Provisions in Debt Documents The following describes certain terms of the documents referred to below. All documents referred to below have been filed with the SEC and should be referred to for an assessment of the complete contractual obligations of the Company. In general, all of the Companys bank facilities, indentures and other documents relating to the Companys outstanding indebtedness, including the Credit Facilities discussed above (collectively, the Companys Debt Documents), contain cross default provisions to each other and the Companys Debt Documents contain affirmative covenants. These covenants provide for, among other things, minimum required ratings of the Companys insurance and reinsurance operating subsidiaries (other than its AAA financial guaranty companies) and the level of secured indebtedness in the future. In addition, generally each of the Companys Debt Documents provide for an event of default in the event of a change of control of the Company or some events involving bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization of the Company. The Companys credit facilities and the 6.58% Guaranteed Senior Notes also contain minimum consolidated net worth covenants. 80Under the Companys credit facilities and ten year private placement notes described above, in the event that the Company fails to maintain a financial strength rating of at least A from A.M. Best or the Companys insurance and reinsurance rated operating subsidiaries (other than its AAA financial guaranty companies) fail to maintain a rating of at least A from S&P, an event of default would occur. The 6.5% Guaranteed Senior Notes indentures contains a cross default provision. In general, in the event that the Company defaults in the payment of indebtedness in the amount of $50.0 million or more, an event of default would be triggered under the Guaranteed Senior Notes indentures. Given that all of the Companys Debt Documents contain cross default provisions, this may result in all holders declaring such debt due and payable and an acceleration of all debt due under those documents. If this were to occur, the Company may not have funds sufficient at that time to repay any or all of such indebtedness. In addition, the Companys unsecured Lloyds letter of credit facility provides that, in the event that the Companys insurance and reinsurance rated operating subsidiaries in Bermuda fall below A. The facility would then be required to be fully secured by the Company, at which time the Company would be required to either (i) provide an amount in cash to cover an amount equal to the aggregate letters of credit outstanding at that time or (ii) deposit assets in trust securing 105% of the aggregate letters of credit outstanding at that time. If this were to occur, the Company may not be able to provide the collateral required in order to maintain this facility. See Item 8, Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Long Term Contractual Obligations The following table presents the Companys long term contractual obligations and related payments as at December 31, 2004, due by period. This table excludes further commitments of $49.1 million to the Companys investment managers, related investment funds, certain limited partnerships, insurance affiliates, collateralized debt/equity investments and letter of credit facilities of $3.5 billion. See Item 8, Note 14 and Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in the Companys Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2003 for further information. Contractual Obligations Less than 1 to 3 to More than (U.S. dollars in thousands) Total 1 year 3 years 5 years 5 years Long term debt obligations $ 2,730,000 $ $ 100,000 $ 825,000 $ 1,805,000 Interest in long term debt 1,226,853 136,720 260,928 247,883 581,322 Contingent capital facilities 104,550 12,300 24,600 24,600 43,050 Equity Units 81,882 32,753 49,129 Capital lease obligations 369,500 11,747 24,381 25,616 307,756 Operating lease obligations 258,217 33,925 60,614 47,028 116,650 Deposit liabilities (1) 7,787,028 1,050,998 2,443,650 968,100 3,324,280 Future policy benefits (3) 7,858,210 546,053 630,956 640,000 6,041,201 Unpaid losses and loss expenses (2) 19,893,631 6,535,077 6,648,085 2,783,864 3,926,605 Total $40,309,871 $8,359,573 $10,242,343 $5,562,091 $16,145,864 (1) Deposit liabilities on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2004 amounted to $5,725,590. The payment related to these liabilities varies primarily based on interest rates. The ultimate payments associated with these liabilities could differ from the Companys estimate. See Item 8, Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (2) The unpaid loss and loss expenses amounted to $19,598,531 on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2004. The timing and amounts of actual claims payments related to these reserves vary based on many factors including large individual losses, changes in the legal environment, as well as general market conditions. The ultimate amount of the claims payments could differ materially from the Companys estimated amounts. For information regarding the estimates for unpaid loss and loss expenses as well as factors effecting potential payment patterns of reserves for actual and potential claims related the Companys different lines of business see Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above. Certain lines of business written by the Company, such as excess casualty, have loss experience characterized as low frequency and high severity. This may result in significant variability in loss payment patterns and, therefore, may impact the related 81 asset/liability investment management process. In order to be in a position, if necessary, to make these payments, the Companys liquidity requirements are supported by having revolving lines of credit facilities available to the Company and significant reinsurance programs, in addition to the Companys general high grade fixed income investment portfolio. For information regarding the cash and investments available to pay claims related to these liabilities. (3) Future policy benefit reserves on life and annuity business amounted to $4,547,688 on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2004. Amounts included above include an allowance for future premiums in respect of contracts under which premiums are payable throughout the life of the underlying policy. The value of the discount is also included for those lines of business that have reserves where future claim payments and future premium receipts can be estimated using actuarial principles. The timing and amounts of actual claims payments and premium receipts related to these reserves vary based on the underlying experience of the portfolio. Typical elements of the experience include mortality, morbidity and persistency. The ultimate amount of the claims payments and premium receipts could differ materially from the Companys estimated amounts. (4) Contingent capital facilities related payments include an estimate at the payments due under the past option agreement of $200 per month. Actual payments depend on the return on certain assets and LIBOR. Variable Interest Entities and Other Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company utilizes variable interest entities both indirectly and directly in the ordinary course of the Companys business. The Company provides various forms of credit enhancement including financial guaranty insurance and reinsurance of structured transactions backed by pools of assets of specified types, municipal obligations supported by the issuers ability to charge fees for specified services or projects, and structured single risk based obligations including essential infrastructure projects and obligations backed by receivables from future sales of commodities and other specified services. The obligations related to these transactions are often securitized through variable interest entities. In synthetic transactions, the Company guarantees payment obligations of counterparties including special purpose vehicles under credit derivatives referencing asset portfolios. The Company invests in collateralized debt obligations (CDOs), and other investment vehicles that are issued through variable interest entities as part of the Companys risk asset portfolio. In 2003, the Company entered into an aggregate of $500.0 million of commercial paper based credit facilities (the Credit Facilities). The proceeds of advances under the Credit Facilities were used to fund a trust account (Trust) to collateralize the reinsurance obligations of the Company under an intercompany quota share reinsurance agreement. The issued securities and the Companys repayment obligations will be recorded as a net balance on the Companys balance sheet because the Company has a contractual legal right of offset. In the event that in the future the Company were to not have the right to offset such assets (as, for example, would be the case if the assets in the Trust were withdrawn in order to satisfy the Companys reinsurance obligations or if lender issued securities could not be held in the Trust because they did not qualify as permitted assets under the trust agreement), then all or a portion of the assets in the Trust and the Companys repayment obligations under the Credit Facilities would be required to be included as assets and liabilities on a gross basis, respectively, on the Companys balance sheet. See also Liquidity and Capital Resources for more details regarding this off balance sheet collateral arrangement. In December 2004, XLFA entered into a put option agreement and an asset trust expense reimbursement agreement with the Asset Trust. The put option agreement provides XLFA with the irrevocable right to require the Asset Trust at any time and from time to time to purchase XLFAs non cumulative perpetual Series B Preferred Shares with an aggregate liquidation preference of up to $200 million. XLFA is obligated to reimburse the Asset Trust for certain fees and ordinary expenses. To the extent that any Series B Preferred Shares are put to the Asset Trust and remain outstanding, a corresponding portion of such fees and ordinary expenses will be payable by XLFA pursuant to the asset trust expense reimbursement agreement. The put option agreement is perpetual but would terminate on delivery of notice by XLFA on or after December 9, 2009, or under certain defined circumstances, such as the failure of XLFA to pay the put option premium when due or bankruptcy. The put option is recorded at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in earnings. In July 2003, the Company entered into a contingent capital transaction with an aggregate value of $500.0 million. This transaction also provides the Company with an insurance trust that provides the Company with statutory relief under state insurance regulations in the U.S. Under the terms of this facility, the Company has acquired an irrevocable put option to issue preference ordinary shares into a trust in return for proceeds raised from investors. This put option may be exercised by the Company at any time. In addition, the Company may be required to issue preference ordinary shares to the trust under certain circumstances, including, but not limited to, the non payment of the put option premium and a ratings downgrade of the Company. The Company has an investment in the junior notes of a collateralized debt obligation (CDO). The Company also issued financial guaranties for the senior notes of the CDO. As of December 31, 2004, the CDO had assets of $468.2 million and liabilities of $395.6 million and the Companys maximum exposure to loss as a result of its financial guaranties and investment in this variable interest entity was approximately $412.3 million. The Company could 82experience a loss in the event that the cash flows relating to the underlying assets are not collected as expected. The Company is not the primary beneficiary of this entity and therefore is not required to consolidate this entity. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Item 8, Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion on recent accounting pronouncements. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA) provides a safe harbor for forward looking statements. Any prospectus, prospectus supplement, the Companys Annual Report to ordinary shareholders, any proxy statement, any other Form 10 K, Form 10 Q or Form 8 K of the Company or any other written or oral statements made by or on behalf of the Company may include forward looking statements that reflect the Companys current views with respect to future events and financial performance. Such statements include forward looking statements both with respect to the Company in general, and to the insurance, reinsurance and financial products and services sectors in particular (both as to underwriting and investment matters). Statements that include the words expect, intend, plan, believe, project, anticipate, will, may, and similar statements of a future or forward looking nature identify forward looking statements for purposes of the PSLRA or otherwise. All forward looking statements address matters that involve risks and uncertainties. Accordingly, there are or will be important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in such statements. The Company believes that these factors include, but are not limited to, the following: (i) the timely and full recoverability of reinsurance placed by the Company with third parties, or other amounts due to the Company, including, without limitation, amounts due to the Company from the Seller in connection with the Companys acquisition of the Winterthur International operations; (ii) the projected amount of ceded reinsurance recoverables and the ratings and creditworthiness of reinsurers may change; (iii) the size of the Companys claims relating to the hurricane and tsunami losses described herein may change due to the preliminary nature of some of the reports and estimates of loss and damage to date; (iv) the timing of claims payments being faster or the receipt of reinsurance recoverables being slower than anticipated by the Company; (v) ineffectiveness or obsolescence of the Companys business strategy due to changes in current or future market conditions; (vi) increased competition on the basis of pricing, capacity, coverage terms or other factors; (vii) greater frequency or severity of claims and loss activity, including as a result of natural or man made catastrophic events, than the Companys underwriting, reserving or investment practices anticipate based on historical experience or industry data; (viii) developments in the worlds financial and capital markets that adversely affect the performance of the Companys investments and the Companys access to such markets; (ix) the potential impact on the Company from government mandated insurance coverage for acts of terrorism; (x) the potential impact of variable interest entities or other off balance sheet arrangements on the Company; (xi) developments in bankruptcy proceedings or other developments related to bankruptcies of companies insofar as they affect property and casualty insurance and reinsurance coverages or claims that the Company may have as a counterparty; (xii) availability of borrowings and letters of credit under the Companys credit facilities; (xiii) changes in regulation or tax laws applicable to the Company or its subsidiaries, brokers or customers; (xiv) acceptance of the Companys products and services, including new products and services; (xv) changes in the availability, cost or quality of reinsurance; (xvi) changes in the distribution or placement of risks due to increased consolidation of insurance and reinsurance brokers; (xvii) loss of key personnel; (xviii) the effects of mergers, acquisitions and divestitures; (xix) changes in ratings, rating agency policies or practices; (xx) changes in accounting policies or practices or the application thereof; (xxi) legislative or regulatory developments; (xxii) changes in general economic conditions, including inflation, foreign currency exchange rates and other factors; (xxiii) the effects of business disruption or economic contraction due to war, terrorism or other hostilities; and (xxiv) the other factors set forth in the Companys other documents on file with the SEC. The foregoing review of important factors should not be construed as exhaustive and should be read in conjunction with the other cautionary statements that are included herein or elsewhere. The Company undertakes no 83 obligation to update publicly or revise any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The following risk management discussion and the estimated amounts generated from the sensitivity and value at risk (VaR) analyses presented in this document are forward looking statements of market risk assuming certain adverse market conditions occur. Actual results in the future may differ materially from these estimated results due to, among other things, actual developments in the global financial markets. The results of analysis used by the Company to assess and mitigate risk should not be considered projections of future events of losses. See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements. The Company enters into derivatives and other financial instruments primarily for risk management purposes. The Companys derivative transactions can expose the Company to credit derivative risk, weather and energy risk, investment market risk, and foreign currency exchange rate risk. The Company attempts to manage these risks based on guidelines established by senior management. Derivative instruments are carried at fair value with the resulting changes in fair value recognized in income in the period in which they occur. Credit Derivative Risk The Company enters into swaps written under International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) forms as an extension of its financial guaranty business. The fair value is determined using models developed by the Company and is dependent upon a number of factors, including changes in interest rates, future default rates, changes in credit quality, future expected recovery rates and other market factors. Other elements of the change in fair value are based upon pricing established at the inception of the contract. A change in the interest, default and recovery rate assumptions indicated below would cause the fair value associated with credit derivatives to decrease as follows: Assumptions (U.S. dollars in thousands) % Change Decrease in Fair Value Interest rate 1% decrease $1,779 Default rate 10% increase $3,648 Recovery rate 10% decrease $6,583 Weather and Energy Market Risk The Company offers weather and contingent energy risk management products in insurance or derivative form to end users, while managing the risks in the over the counter and exchange traded derivatives markets or through the use of quota share or excess of loss arrangements. Fair values for the Companys natural gas derivative contracts are determined through the use of quoted market prices. As quoted market prices are not widely available in the weather derivative market, management uses available market data and internal pricing models based upon consistent statistical methodologies to estimate fair values. Estimating fair value of instruments which do not have quoted market prices requires managements judgment in determining amounts which could reasonably be expected to be received from, or paid to, a third party in respect of the contracts. The amounts could be materially different from the amounts that might be realized in an actual sale transaction. Fair values are subject to change in the near term and reflect managements best estimate based on various factors including, but not limited to, realized and forecasted weather conditions, changes in interest rates and other market factors. 84 The following table summarizes the movement in the fair value of contracts outstanding during the year ended December 31, 2004: Unrealized gain (U.S. dollars in thousands) (loss) Fair value of contracts outstanding, beginning of the year $(11,490) Option premiums received, net of premiums realized (1) 8,554 Reclassification of settled contracts to realized (2) 51,588 Other changes in fair value (3) (41,433) Fair value of contracts outstanding, end of year $ 7,219 (1) For the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company collected $34.9 million of paid premiums and realized $43.5 million of premiums on expired transactions for a net decrease in the balance sheet derivative liability of $8.6 million. (2) The Company paid $51.6 million to settle derivative positions during the year ended December 31, 2004, resulting in a reclassification of this amount from unrealized to realized and a reduction in the balance sheet derivative liability. (3) This represents the effects of changes in commodity prices, the time value of options, and other valuation adjustments of $41.4 million on the Companys derivative positions, primarily attributable to the hedges of the positions that realized $43.5 million of premiums. The change in fair value of contracts outstanding at December 31, 2004 as compared to the beginning of the year is primarily due to the settlement of negative fair value positions during the first half of the year. The following table summarizes the maturity of contracts outstanding at December 31, 2004: Greater Source of Fair Value Less than than 5 Total Fair (U.S. dollars in thousands) 1 Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years Years Value Prices actively quoted $ $ $ $ $ Prices based on models and other valuation methods (2,502) 10,229 (508) 7,219 Total fair value of contracts outstanding $(2,502) $10,229 $(508) $ $7,219 Market risk for the Companys weather and energy portfolio relates to changes in underlying weather conditions (i.e., changes in climatic variables such as temperature and precipitation) changes in electricity prices, and changes in natural gas prices. The Company has underwritten risks in Asia, Australia, Europe, and North America, with its primary market risk reflected in temperature changes within the United States and Europe. The Company manages its weather and energy risk portfolio through the employment of a variety of strategies. These include geographical and directional diversification of risk exposures and direct hedging within the capital and reinsurance markets. Risk management is undertaken on a portfolio wide basis, to maintain a portfolio that the Company believes is well diversified and which remains within the aggregate risk tolerance established by the Companys senior management. Value At Risk Related to Weather and Energy Activities A statistical technique known as Value at Risk (VaR) is one of the tools used by management to measure, monitor and review the market risk exposures of the Companys weather risk, natural gas and electricity price risk management portfolios. The Companys VaR is calculated at the 99% confidence level. The Companys aggregate average, low and high seasonal VaR amounts for its weather risk management portfolio, calculated at a 99% confidence level, during the year ended December 31, 2004, were $173.7 million, $126.5 million and $232.4 million, respectively. The corresponding levels for the weather risk management portfolio during the year ended December 31, 2003, were $137.7 million, $100.1 million and $178.4 million, respectively. The Company calculates its aggregate VaR by summing the VaR amounts for each of its seasonal portfolios. The 85Companys aggregation methodology yields a conservative aggregate portfolio VaR, given that current weather events and patterns have an immaterial effect on expectations for future seasons and the Company could therefore reduce or eliminate its VaR on future seasons by selling its positions prior to the beginning of a season. For the natural gas portfolio, VaR is calculated using a one day holding period. The Companys average, low and high daily VaR amounts calculated at a 99% confidence level during the year ended December 31, 2004 were nil, nil and, $0.2 million, respectively. The corresponding amounts during the year ended December 31, 2003 were $2.0 million, $0.2 million and $2.9 million, respectively. For electricity price risk management products, including electricity generation outage products, VaR is calculated using an annual holding period. Management has established an annual VaR limit of $17 million for this book of business. The Companys average, low and high annual VaR amounts, calculated at a 99% confidence level during the year ended December 31, 2004, were $4.9 million, $2.6 million and $12.8 million, respectively. The corresponding levels during the year ended December 31, 2003 were $2.3 million, $0.8 million, and $5.3 million, respectively. Since VaR statistics are estimates based on simulations of historical market data, VaR should not be viewed as an absolute, prognostic measurement gauge of future financial performance or as a way for the Company to predict risk. There can be no assurance that the Companys actual future losses will not exceed its VaR amounts. Credit Risk Related to Weather and Energy Activities The Company is exposed to credit risk, or the risk that counterparties to weather and contingent energy transactions will fail to perform their contractual obligations leading to possible losses. In order to control its risk exposures, the Company has implemented a credit risk control framework centered on a credit management process, credit policies and credit limits developed, enhanced and maintained by a credit officer and a credit committee comprised of senior management. All credit sensitive transactions are reviewed and approved by the Companys risk management personnel and or credit committee and exposures are reviewed with respect to authorized credit limits before the Company enters into weather or contingent energy derivative transactions. To address counterparty risk concerns and to support credit exposures in certain cases, the Company may require that a counterparty provide a guaranty or a letter of credit or post margin or collateral. The Company monitors its credit exposures on a daily basis to ensure adherence to all policies and limits. Investment Market Risk The Companys investment portfolio is managed by external investment professionals under the direction of the Companys management and generally in accordance with detailed investment guidelines provided and monitored by the Company. Managers are selected directly by the Company on the basis of various criteria, including investment style, track record, performance, internal controls, operational risk, and diversification implications. The vast majority of the Companys investment portfolio is managed by well established, large institutional investment professionals. The Companys investment portfolio consists of exposures to fixed income securities, equities, alternative investments, derivatives, business and other investments and cash. These securities and investments are denominated in both U.S. dollar and foreign currencies. Through the structure of the Companys investment portfolio, the Companys earnings and book value are directly affected by changes in the valuations of the securities and investments held in the investment portfolio. These valuation changes reflect changes in interest rates (e.g., changes in the level, slope and curvature of yield curves, volatility of interest rates, mortgage prepayment speeds and credit spreads), credit quality, equity prices (e.g., changes in prices and volatilities of individual securities, equity baskets and equity indices) and foreign currency exchange rates (e.g., changes in spot prices, forward prices and volatilities of currency rates). Market risk therefore arises due to the uncertainty surrounding the future valuations of these different assets, the factors that impact their values and the impact that this could have on the Companys earnings.86 The Company seeks to manage the risks of the investment portfolio through a combination of asset class, country, industry and security level diversification and investment manager allocations. These allocation decisions are made relative to the liability profile of the Company and the Companys surplus. Further, individual security and issuer exposures are controlled and monitored at the investment portfolio level, via specific investment constraints outlined in investment guidelines and agreed with the external investment professionals. Additional constraints are generally agreed with the external investment professionals, which may address exposures to eligible securities, prohibited investments/transactions, credit quality and general concentrations limits. The Companys direct use of investment derivatives includes futures, forwards, swaps and option contracts that derive their value from underlying assets, indices, reference rates or a combination of these factors. When investment guidelines allow for the use of derivatives, these can generally only be used for the purpose of managing interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk, credit risk and replicating permitted investments, provided the use of such instruments is incorporated in the overall portfolio duration, spread, convexity and other relevant portfolio metrics. The direct use of derivatives is generally not permitted to economically leverage the portfolio outside of the stated guidelines. Derivatives may also be used to add value to the investment portfolio where market inefficiencies are perceived to exist, to utilize cash holdings to purchase equity indexed derivatives and to adjust the duration of a portfolio of fixed income securities to match the duration of related deposit liabilities. Investment Value at Risk Central to the Companys market risk management framework is VaR. VaR is a statistical risk measure, calculating the level of potential losses that could be expected to be exceeded, over a specified holding period and at a given level of confidence, in normal market conditions, due to adverse movements in the investment portfolios underlying securities and investments valuations. The Company calculates the VaR of the investment portfolio using a 1 month time horizon and a 95% level of confidence. This means that, on average, the Company could expect losses greater than predicted by the VaR results 5% of the time, or once every 20 months. The calculation of VaR is performed monthly using a full valuation based on the Monte Carlo approach and it is expressed both in terms of U.S. dollars and as a percentage of the Companys investment portfolio. The modeling of the risk of any portfolio, as measured by VaR, involves a number of assumptions and approximations. While the Company believes that its assumptions and approximations are appropriate, there is no uniform industry methodology for calculating VaR. The Company notes that different VaR results can be produced for the same portfolio dependent, not only on the approach used but also on the assumptions employed when implementing the approach. The VaR approach uses historical data to determine the sensitivity of each of the underlying securities to the risk factors incorporated into the models that are employed in the Monte Carlo simulations. In calculating these sensitivities, greater importance is placed on the more recent data points and information. Since the VaR approach is based on historical positions and market data, VaR results should not be viewed as an absolute and predictive gauge of future financial performance or as a way for the Company to predict risk. There is no assurance that the Companys actual future losses will not exceed its VaR and the Company expects that 5% of the time the VaR will be exceeded. Additionally, the Company acknowledges the fact that risks associated with abnormal market events can be significantly different from the VaR results and these are by definition not reflected or assessed in the VaR analysis. The VaR of the investment portfolio at December 31, 2004 was approximately $487.3 million. The VaR of all investment relative derivatives excluding investments in affiliates and other investments was $15.1 million at December 31, 2004. In instances where the data or time series are insufficient to determine the risk factor sensitivities, the VaR approach uses proxy time series data available for similar instruments. As at December 31, 2004, approximately $12.3 billion (39% of the Companys investment portfolio at market value) used proxy time series data. 87 Approximately $8.7 billion related to various fixed income portfolios, $1.7 billion to alternative investments, $77.5 million to equity portfolios, ($26.2) million to derivatives, $1.6 billion to various cash portfolios and $205 million to private investments. The Company reviews the proxies to ensure that an appropriate data and time series is being used in the calculations and that the proxies used are conservative. The following two tables show the Companys average, minimum and maximum VaR in percentage and dollar terms for the total investment portfolio during 2004, based upon the VaR at quarter end dates. The two tables also include the Companys VaR in percentage and dollar terms, respectively, for the total investment portfolio as at December 31, 2004. The Companys investment portfolio VaR as at December 31, 2004 is not necessarily indicative of future VaR levels. At December 31, Average VaR Minimum VaR Maximum VaR 2004 % VaR(1) % VaR(1) % VaR(1) % VaR(1) Fixed Income 1.86% 1.40% 2.21% 1.47% Alternatives (2) 0.07% 0.05% 0.09% 0.08% Equity 0.11% 0.09% 0.15% 0.09% Private Investments 0.05% 0.04% 0.06% 0.04% Derivatives 0.04% 0.03% 0.05% 0.05% Cash Equivalents 0.04% 0.02% 0.08% 0.02% Total Undiversified VaR (3) 2.17% 1.67% 2.61% 1.75% Diversification VaR (4) (0.21)% NA NA (0.19)% Total Investment Portfolio VaR (5) 1.96% 1.49% 2.36% 1.56% NA not applicable VaR as at Average VaR Minimum VaR Maximum VaR December 31, during 2004 during 2004 during 2004 2004 (U.S. dollars in millions) $VaR(6) $VaR(6) $VaR(6) $VaR(6) Total Investment Portfolio VaR (5) 540.0 457.1 609.5 487.3 (1) Based on a 95% confidence level with a one month holding period and expressed as a percentage of the total investment portfolio. (2) The majority of the Companys alternative investment portfolio is accounted for as investments in affiliates. However, for purposes of monitoring and tracking the Companys total investment market risk, the total alternative investment portfolio is included in these calculations. (3) Average Total Undiversified VaR for the year ended December 31, 2004 and Total Undiversified VaR at December 31, 2004 is the summation of the individual VaRs for each of the separate asset classes and, by construction, ignores any and all correlations between the different asset classes. The Total Undiversified VaR therefore ignores diversification benefits that exist in between these different asset classes. Maximum and Minimum Total Undiversified VaR is not necessarily the summation of the individual VaRs for each of the separate asset classes since the Maximum and Minimum VaRs for each of the asset classes and the Maximum and Minimum Total Undiversified VaR do not necessarily refer to the same point in time. (4) Diversification VaR equals the difference between the Total Investment Portfolio VaR and the Total Undiversified VaR. As the former explicitly accounts for the correlations and diversification benefits that exist between the actual asset classes and the latter explicitly does not, the difference in the two VaR results is due to the diversification benefits. These diversification benefits arise due to the risk reduction that occurs when different assets, that are not perfectly correlated, are combined in a portfolio. It will vary over time dependent on: allocations changes; changes in the correlations between the different asset classes; and changes in the general asset class risks. The NA reflects the fact that, since the Minimum and Maximum VaR for the six different asset class portfolios do not refer to the same point in time, and therefore it is not meaningful to calculate the Diversification VaR. (5) Total Investment Portfolio VaR is the Companys investment portfolio VaR based on the prescribed methodology that explicitly accounts for the diversification benefits that occur when each of the allocations to the individual asset classes are included in the investment portfolio. (6) Based on a 95% confidence level with a one month holding period, expressed in millions of U.S. Dollars. The Companys total investment portfolio VaR is driven by: the size of the overall investment portfolio; the size of the allocations to the different asset classes and securities in the asset classes; the risks associated with each of the asset classes and securities; and the correlations and diversification benefits between each of the asset classes and securities. Changes in any of these variables will have a direct impact on the Companys VaR. 88 The Companys total undiversified VaR, which ignores any correlation and diversification benefits, at December 31, 2004 was 1.75% compared to a maximum of 2.61% and a minimum of 1.67% during 2004. The Companys average diversification VaR during 2004 resulted in an average reduction of the Companys total undiversified VaR of 0.21% and as at December 31, 2004 was 0.19%. The Companys total investment portfolio VaR was on average 1.96% during 2004 and as at December 31, 2004, was 1.56%. The Companys maximum and minimum total investment portfolio VaR during 2004 were 2.36% and 1.49%, respectively. The Companys largest VaR exposure during 2004 was to fixed income. The average VaR for fixed income was 1.86%, compared to a maximum of 2.21% and a minimum of 1.40%. As at December 31, 2004, the fixed income VaR was 1.47%. At December 31, 2004, the ranking for the Companys asset class risk, based on the individual asset class VaRs, was: fixed income; equity; alternative investments; derivatives; private investments; and cash equivalents. Stress Testing VaR does not provide the means to estimate the magnitude of the loss in the 5% of occurrences that the Company expects the VaR level to be exceeded. To complement the VaR analysis based on normal market environments, the Company considers the impact on the investment portfolio in several different historical stress periods to analyze the effect of unusual market conditions. The Company establishes certain historical stress test scenarios which are applied to the actual investment portfolio. As these stress tests and estimated gains and losses are based on historical events, they will not necessarily reflect future stress events or gains and losses from such events. The results of the stress test scenarios are reviewed on a regular basis to ensure they are appropriate, based on current shareholders equity, market conditions and the Companys total risk tolerance. The table below shows the maximum impact on the Companys investment portfolio if all events stress tested were to repeat themselves, given the actual investment portfolios allocations at quarter end dates during 2004. The Company assumes that no action is taken during the stress period to either liquidate or rebalance the portfolio. The Company believes that this fairly reflects the potential decreased liquidity that is often associated with stressed market environments. March 31, June 30, September 30, December 31, Stress Test 2004 2004 2004 2004 Maximum loss impact on portfolio (5.6%) (5.6%) (5.6%) (5.7%) Maximum gain impact on portfolio 18.3% 18.4% 17.9% 18.4% From the different scenarios that the Company analyzes, the largest downside event risk exposure during 2004 was 5.7%, based on the investment portfolio as at December 31, 2004. The largest upside risk exposure during 2004 was 18.4% as at June 30, 2004 and December 31, 2004. Given the investment portfolio allocations as at December 31, 2004, the Company would expect to lose approximately 5.7% of the portfolio if the most damaging event stress tested was repeated, all other things held equal. Given the investment portfolio allocations as at December 31, 2004, the Company would expect to gain approximately 18.4% of the portfolio if the most favorable event stress tested was repeated, all other things held equal. Fixed Income Portfolio The Companys fixed income portfolio is exposed to credit and interest rate risk through its portfolio of debt securities, and includes fixed maturities and short term investments. The fixed income portfolio includes fixed maturities, short term investments, cash and cash equivalents and net payable for investments purchased. As at December 31, 2004, the value of the Companys fixed income portfolio including cash and cash equivalents and net payable for investments purchased was approximately $28.9 billion as compared to approximately $22.5 billion as at December 31, 2003. As at December 31, 2004, the fixed income portfolio consisted of approximately 89 89.1% of the total investment portfolio (including cash and cash equivalents, accrued investment income and net payable for investments purchased) as compared to approximately 88.5% as at December 31, 2003. The Company manages credit risk in the investment portfolio through the credit research performed by the external investment professionals and limitations on the investment portfolios exposure to individual credits, as set by the Company. Limits are set for each credit quality rating and are a function of the probability of default and the expected loss in the event of a default. Limits ensure that potential losses from individual defaults should not exceed predetermined levels. The Company reviews on a regular basis its corporate debt concentration, credit quality and compliance with established credit limits. Any obligor over its credit limits, experiencing financial difficulties, material credit quality deterioration or potentially subject to forthcoming credit quality deterioration is placed on a Watch List for closer monitoring. Where appropriate, exposures are reduced or prevented from increasing. The table below shows the Companys fixed income portfolio by credit rating in percentage terms of the Companys total fixed income exposure (including fixed maturities, short term investments, cash and cash equivalents and net payable for investments purchased) as at December 31, 2004. Total AAA 58.2% AA 10.2% A 16.6% BBB 10.4% BB & below 3.9% NR 0.7% Total 100.0% At December 31, 2004 and 2003, the average credit quality of the Companys total fixed income portfolio was AA. As at December 31, 2004, the top 10 corporate holdings represented approximately 9.9% of the total fixed income portfolio and approximately 45.7% of all corporate holdings. The top 10 corporate holdings listed below utilizes a conservative approach to aggregation as it includes unsecured as well as securitized, credit enhanced and collateralized securities issued by parent companies and their affiliates. Percentage of Total Top 10 Corporate Holdings (2) Fixed Income Portfolio (1) JPMorgan Chase & Co 1.9% Citigroup Inc 1.6% Bank of America Corporation 1.0% Bear, Sterns & Co. Inc. 1.0% Morgan Stanley 0.9% General Electric Company 0.7% MBNA Corp 0.7% General Motors Corporation 0.7% General Motors Corporation 0.7% Wachovia Corporation 0.7% DaimlerChrysler AG 0.7% (1) Including fixed maturities, short term investments, cash and cash equivalents and net payable for investments purchased. (2) Corporate holdings include parent and affiliated companies that issue fixed income securities. In many cases a portion of the market value includes Asset Backed or Mortgage Backed securities, which are investments that are securitized, bankruptcy remote entities which have sufficient credit enhancement to provide a longer term credit rating that is higher than the rating of the unsecured debt of the related company or its corporate securities. 90The Companys fixed income portfolio is exposed to interest rate risk. Interest rate risk is the price sensitivity of a fixed income security to changes in interest rates. The Company manages interest rate risk within the context of its overall asset liability management strategy by setting duration targets for its investment portfolio in line with the estimated duration of its liabilities, thus mitigating the overall economic effect of interest rate risk. The Company remains nevertheless exposed to accounting interest rate risk since the assets are marked to market, thus subject to market conditions, while liabilities are accrued at a static rate. The hypothetical case of an immediate 100 basis point adverse parallel shift in global bond curves as at December 31, 2004 would decrease the fair value of the Companys fixed income portfolio by approximately 4.4% or $1.3 billion. Based on historical observations, it is unlikely that all global yield curves would shift in the same direction and at the same time. In addition, the Company has short term debt and long term debt outstanding. Interest rates on short term debt are LIBOR based. Accordingly, any changes in interest rates will affect interest expense. Equity Portfolio As at December 31, 2004, the Companys equity portfolio, which for financial reporting purposes includes certain fixed income mutual fund investments that do not have the risk characteristics of equity investments, was $963 million as compared to $583 million as at December 31, 2003. As at December 31, 2004, the Companys allocation to equity securities was approximately 3.0% of the total investment portfolio (including cash and cash equivalents, accrued investment income and net payable for investments purchased) as compared to approximately 2.3% as at December 31, 2003. As at December 31, 2004, approximately 60% of the equity portfolio was invested in U.S. companies as compared to approximately 62% as at December 31, 2003. As at December 31, 2004, the top ten equity holdings represented approximately 8.0% of the Companys total equity portfolio as compared to approximately 11.6% as at December 31, 2003. The Companys equity portfolio is exposed to price risk. Equity price risk is the potential loss arising from decreases in the market value of equities. An immediate hypothetical 10% change in the value of each equity position would affect the fair value of the portfolio by approximately $96.3 million as at December 31, 2004. Alternative Investment Portfolio A portion of the Companys portfolio is invested in funds that pursue alternative investment strategies, with the investment objective of attaining high risk adjusted total return whilst maintaining a low level of correlation to the traditional asset classes and realizing a low volatility. Investments within this portfolio are generally fund investments in limited partnerships or similar vehicles, with each fund pursuing absolute return investment mandates, typically investing in one or more of the traditional asset classes including equities, fixed income, credit, currency and commodity markets. Various strategies can be pursued and the Company classifies each fund allocation into four general style categories. The four styles are: Event driven, which includes strategies that pursue merger arbitrage, distressed and special situations opportunities; Directional/tactical, which includes strategies that pursue long/short equity, managed futures and macro opportunities; Arbitrage, which includes strategies that pursue equity market neutral, fixed income arbitrage and convertible arbitrage opportunities; and Multi strategy, which includes strategies incorporating aspects of the above. The Company utilizes additional risk and portfolio management analytics and processes to enhance the overall management and assessment of the alternative investment portfolio. Central to the portfolio and risk management processes is the receipt of information on each of its allocations that is sufficient to assess risks and exposures of the fund allocations and to monitor how the portfolio and associated risk changes over time. The level and frequency of information required by the Company on each investment depends on the type of strategy that a fund pursues; the expected risk profile and types of risk that the fund and underlying securities are exposed to the liquidity of the fund and underlying securities, and the size of the allocation.91 The Companys alternative investment portfolio had approximately 100 separate investments in different funds at December 31, 2004 with a total exposure of $1.7 billion making up approximately 5.2% of total investments compared to December 31, 2003 where the Company had over 100 separate fund investments with a total exposure of $1.4 billion representing approximately 5.5% of total investments. At December 31, 2004, the alternative investment style allocation was 42% in Directional/tactical strategies, 25% in Event driven strategies, 25% in Arbitrage strategies, and 8% in Multi strategy strategies. At December 31, 2003, the Alternative investment style allocation was 35% in Arbitrage strategies, 39% in Directional/tactical strategies and 26% in Event driven strategies. Private Investment Portfolio A portion of the Companys portfolio is invested in limited partnerships and other entities which are not publicly traded. In addition to normal market risks, these positions may also be exposed to liquidity risk, risks related to distressed investments, and risks specific to startup or small companies. As at December 31, 2004, the Companys exposure to private investments was approximately $206 million compared to $200 million as at December 31, 2003. As at December 31, 2004, the Companys exposure to private investments consisted of approximately 0.6% of the total investment portfolio (including cash and cash equivalents, accrued investment income and net payable for investments purchased), as compared to 0.8% as at December 31, 2003. Bond and Stock Index Futures Exposure At December 31, 2004, bond and stock index futures outstanding had a net long position of $1.3 billion as compared to a net short position of $376.1 million at December 31, 2003. A 10% appreciation or depreciation of the underlying exposure to these derivative instruments would have resulted in realized gains or realized losses of $129.5 million as at December 31, 2004 and $37.6 million as at December 31, 2003, respectively. The Company may reduce its exposure to these futures through offsetting transactions, including options and forwards. Foreign Currency Exchange Risk The Company has exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations through its operations and in its investment portfolio. The Companys net foreign currency denominated payable on foreign exchange contracts as at December 31, 2004 was $3.8 million and the net foreign currency denominated receivable was $31.1 million with a net unrealized loss of $11.8 million as at December 31, 2004 and $6.7 million as at December 31, 2003. Foreign exchange contracts within the investment portfolio are utilized to manage individual portfolio foreign exchange exposures, subject to investment manager guidelines established by management. These contracts are not designated as specific hedges for financial reporting purposes and, therefore, realized and unrealized gains and losses on these contracts are recorded in income in the period in which they occur. These contracts generally have maturities of three months or less. The Company also attempts to manage the foreign exchange volatility arising on certain transactions denominated in foreign currencies. These include, but are not limited to, premium receivable, reinsurance contracts, claims payable and investments in subsidiaries. Credit Risk The Company is exposed to credit risk in the event of non performance by the other parties to its forward contracts, however the Company does not anticipate non performance. The difference between the notional principal amounts and the associated market value is the Companys maximum credit exposure.92 
 
