ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward looking statements which involve inherent risks and uncertainties. Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about the Companys beliefs and expectations, are forward looking statements. These statements are based upon current plans, estimates and expectations. Actual results may differ materially from those projected in such forward looking statements, and therefore undue reliance should not be placed on them. See Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements for a list of additional factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statement. This discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto presented under Item 8. Certain aspects of the Companys business have loss experience characterized as low frequency and high severity. This may result in volatility in both the Companys results of operations and financial condition. Executive Overview The Company operates on a global basis primarily in the property and casualty industry and, to a lesser extent, the financial services industry. The Company serves the insurance, reinsurance and financial services needs of institutional and corporate clients, typically the global equivalent of the Fortune 2000. The Company operates in markets where the Company believes its underwriting expertise and financial strength represent a relative advantage. The Company does not operate in any retail markets. The property and casualty insurance and reinsurance markets have historically been cyclical, meaning that based on market conditions, there have been periods where premium rates are high and policy terms and conditions are more favorable (a hard market) to the Company and there have been periods where premium rates decline and policy terms and conditions are less favorable (a soft market) to the Company. This has been driven primarily by competition in the marketplace, the supply of capital in the industry, investment yields and the frequency and severity of loss events. Managements goal is to build long term shareholder value by capitalizing on current opportunities and managing through any potential downward cycles by reducing its property and casualty book of business and exposures if and when rates deteriorate to unprofitable levels for the Company. As part of its long term strategy, the Company also looks to its financial products and services segment to provide a diversified stream of earnings that are not directly tied to the property and casualty cycle. In this regard, the Companys financial guaranty operations have substantially achieved relative trading parity with its peers. The Company has grown through acquisition activity and development of new business opportunities. Acquisitions included Global Capital Underwriting Ltd in 1996, Mid Ocean Limited in 1998, ECS, Inc. and NAC Re Corp. in 1999, Winterthur International in 2001 and Le Mans R&eacute; in 2002. All acquisitions have supported the Companys strategic plan to develop a global platform in insurance and reinsurance. Recent business developments include XL Capital Assurance Inc. and XL Financial Assurance Ltd., the Companys financial guaranty primary and reinsurance guarantors, XL Weather & Energy Inc. and XL Life Insurance & Annuity Company. As a result of these combined developments, the Company now competes as an integrated global business with more than 3,500 employees in 29 countries. The Company earns its revenue primarily from net premiums written and earned. Premium rates in the property and casualty industry began to increase in 2001 following five years of poor underwriting performance in the industry. These price increases were further compounded by the September 11 event. In the three years ended December 31, 2003, the Company experienced pricing increases and improved terms and conditions across most of the lines of business it writes. These generally across the board price increases were unprecedented, meaning that, in the past, pricing increases and more favorable terms and conditions were not experienced across all of the Companys product lines at one point in any one cycle. 50 During 2004, property and casualty market conditions overall remained attractive although price competition increased throughout the year, most notably in regards to property and professional lines. Accordingly, the Company continued to focus on disciplined risk selection. In relation to insurance and reinsurance, downward pressure on rates across most non catastrophe exposed lines continued throughout 2005 although the impact of the 2004 storm season, the backdrop of continued emergence of adverse development related to the market of the late 1990s and concerns about reinsurer financial strength, all served to reinforce a sense of discipline in the market. Subsequent to the unprecedented catastrophic losses in 2005 and into the 2006 first quarter renewals, the market in general has seen an improvement in terms and conditions as well as pricing, in particular in geographic territories and classes impacted by the catastrophe losses. Casualty and professional lines, which have seen significant price reductions in 2004 and 2005, have begun to stabilize. In the Reinsurance segment, however, these improvements have been offset somewhat by increased ceding company retentions which is common in a hardening market. While the Company is not focused on top line premium growth unless it is profitable and meets demanding standards and internal hurdle rates, the Companys expectation is for flat earned premium growth for the full year of 2006, with insurance contributing flat to low single digit growth and reinsurance contributing flat to mid single digit declines. The Company also generates revenue from investment activities through returns on its investment portfolio. The Companys current investment strategy seeks to support the liabilities arising from the operations of the Company, generate investment income and build book value over the longer term. During both 2005 and 2004, interest rates in the U.S. increased. During 2005, the U.S. yield curve flattened significantly, as short to medium term rates increased significantly while long term rates showed a small decline. The benchmark 90 day treasury rose from 2.22% to 4.08% and the 5 year treasury rose from 3.61% to 4.35%, while the 30 year treasury fell from 4.83% to 4.54% . Interest rates declined in the U.K., where the yield on the benchmark 5 year Gilt fell from 4.49% to 4.17%, however, in the Euro zone, the yield on the benchmark 5 year German Bund rose slightly from 3.03% to 3.07% . The Company expects net investment income to rise in 2006 supported by positive cash flow from operating activities and anticipated moderate increases in market interest rates. In 2005, the Company generated net realized gains from both its equity and fixed income portfolios, reflecting the current and accumulated performance of the capital markets. In 2004, the Company generated net realized gains from both its equity and fixed income portfolios reflecting the overall performance of capital markets and the deterioration of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies. In 2003, the Company generated net realized gains from both its equity and fixed income portfolios reflecting the overall improvement in capital markets and narrowing of credit spreads. The Companys profitability in any given period is based upon its premium and investment revenues as noted above, less net losses incurred and expenses. Net losses incurred are based upon claims paid and changes to unpaid loss reserves. Unpaid loss reserves are estimated by the Company and include both reported loss reserves and reserves for losses incurred but not reported. The Companys results for 2005 were significantly impacted by the unprecedented insured hurricane losses during the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season, the charge related to the conclusion of the independent actuarial process with Winterthur Swiss Insurance Company and adverse development of prior year loss reserves in both insurance professional lines and reinsurance casualty lines. The Companys results for 2004 were also significantly impacted by the catastrophe activity in the year, which resulted in 591.2 million in estimated net loss and loss expenses, combined with adverse prior year development in certain lines of the Companys insurance segment. For a further discussion of these events see Results of Operations below. 51 Financial measures The following are some of the financial measures management considers important in evaluating the Companys operating performance in the Companys general operations: (U.S. dollars in thousands, except ratios and per share amounts) 2005 2004 2003 Underwriting (loss) profit general operations (2,268,164 ) 343,990 (112,594 ) Combined ratio general operations 132.9 % 95.9 % 102.8 % Investment income general operations 798,805 614,128 542,074 Book value per ordinary share 44.31 51.98 46.74 Return on average ordinary shareholders equity NA 16.5 % 6.0 % Underwriting profit (loss) general operations One way that the Company evaluates the performance of its insurance and reinsurance general operations is the underwriting profit or loss. The Company does not measure performance based on the amount of gross premiums written. Underwriting profit or loss is calculated from premiums earned and fee income, less net losses incurred and expenses related to the underwriting activities. As noted above, the Companys underwriting profit and loss for the last three years have been negatively impacted by net losses incurred from catastrophic losses, the results of the independent actuarial process with Winterthur Swiss Insurance Company and adverse development of prior year loss reserves. Partially offsetting this has been the addition of certain new business lines, the increase in premium rates in 2003 and favorable underwriting terms and conditions. Any changes to loss reserves affect the calculation of underwriting profit or loss but most often do not directly affect the Companys cash flow in the same period. See further discussion below. Barring any unusual catastrophic loss events, the Company expects to produce an underwriting profit in 2006. Combined ratio general operations The combined ratio for general operations is used by the Company and many other insurance and reinsurance companies as another measure of underwriting profitability. The combined ratio is calculated from the net losses incurred and underwriting expenses as a ratio of the net premiums earned for the Companys general insurance and reinsurance operations. A combined ratio of less than 100% indicates an underwriting profit and over 100% indicates an underwriting loss. The Companys combined ratio for the last three years have been negatively impacted by the factors affecting the underwriting profit (loss), noted above. Net investment income general operations Net investment income from its general operations is an important measure that affects the Companys overall profitability. The largest liability of the Company relates to its unpaid loss reserves and the Companys investment portfolio provides liquidity for claims settlements of these reserves as they become due, and thus a significant part of the portfolio is in fixed income securities. Net investment income is primarily affected both by the size of the portfolio and the level of market interest rates. In 2005, the U.S. yield curve flattened significantly with U.S. short to medium term interest rates increasing markedly while long term rates showed a small decline. U.K. rates declined, while in the Euro zone short term rates rose while medium to long term rates declined. In 2004, U.S. interest rates increased moderately while interest rates in the U.K. and Euro zone declined. The size of the portfolio is also impacted by cash flow generated from operations and financing, which has been positive during the last three years and which the Company currently expects to be positive in 2006. Book value per ordinary share Management also views the change in the Companys book value per ordinary share as an additional measure of the Companys performance. Book value per share is calculated by dividing ordinary shareholders equity by the number of outstanding ordinary shares at any period end. Book value per ordinary share is affected primarily by 52 the Companys net income and also by any changes in the net unrealized gains and losses on its investment portfolio. The Companys book value per ordinary share decreased in 2005 as a result of the underwriting losses incurred, partially offset by the significant capital raising during December 2005, where ordinary shares were issued at a premium to the book value at that time. During 2005, book value per share also decreased as a result of a decrease in the unrealized gains on the Companys investment portfolio. The decrease was primarily as a result of increasing short to medium term U.S. interest rates, partially offset by declining longer term U.K. interest rates. The Companys book value per ordinary share increased in 2004, primarily as a result of an increase in net income combined with an increase in the net unrealized gains on the investment portfolio. The increase in unrealized gains on the Companys fixed income portfolio was primarily a result of the foreign exchange benefits for non U.S. dollar investments partially offset by a moderate increase in interest rates in the U.S. Return on average ordinary shareholders equity Return on average ordinary shareholders equity (ROE) is a widely used measure of any companys profitability. It is calculated by dividing the net income for any period by the average of the opening and closing ordinary shareholders equity. The Company establishes minimum target ROEs for its total operations, segments and lines of business. If the Companys minimum ROE targets over the longer term are not met with respect to any line of business, the Company seeks to modify and or exit these lines. In addition, the Companys compensation of its senior officers is significantly dependent on the achievement of the Companys performance goals to enhance shareholder value as measured by ROE. The Company reported a loss in 2005 and ROEs for the prior two years have been negatively affected mainly by its general operations underwriting results and investment income. Other Key Focuses of Management Ratings and Capital Management The Companys ability to underwrite business is largely dependent upon the quality of its claims paying and financial strength ratings as evaluated by independent rating agencies. As a result, in the event that the Companys financial strength rating is downgraded, its ability to write business will be adversely affected. Such a downgrade would also adversely affect the Companys financial guaranty lines of business. During the third and fourth quarters of 2005 a number of ratings actions were taken by independent rating agencies including some downgrades of the Companys principal insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries. The Company subsequently raised 3.2 billion through an issuance of a combination of ordinary shares and equity security units. The financial strength ratings of the Companys financial guaranty companies remain triple A with a stable outlook (by Standard & Poors, Moodys and Fitch Ratings). For a further discussion see Ratings above. To address rating agency requirements regarding the differential between the triple A ratings of the Companys financial guaranty companies and their affiliated companies, management is currently exploring a number of strategies that would provide greater independence and stability to XLCAs and XLFAs ratings. Examples of actions identified by the rating agencies are, among other things, the inclusion of additional independent directors to the boards of directors of the Companys financial guaranty companies; adding some level of outside high quality ownership with voting and or veto rights; and securing a resolution from each of the boards of directors of the Companys financial guaranty companies that clarifies our expectations regarding cash payments from the financial guaranty companies. S&P has stated that one or more of these actions will need to be taken by mid year 2006. In the normal course of business, the Company evaluates its capital needs to support the volume of business written in order to maintain its claims paying and financial strength ratings. In response to the unprecedented insured hurricane losses during the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season, the loss related to the conclusion of the independent actuarial process with WSIC, rising capital requirements for the property catastrophe business from rating agencies and the currently anticipated growth in business to be written in 2006, the Company raised 3.2 billion in capital through the issuance of a combination of ordinary shares and equity security units. In addition, the Company has implemented several key business initiatives with ratings and capital management implications. 1. Management has entered into a strategic initiative intended to augment the Companys overall underwriting capacity to take advantage of opportunities in certain catastrophe exposed lines of business. Management has entered into a collateralized quota share reinsurance treaty with Cyrus Reinsurance Limited. Under this agreement, as of January 1, 2006, the Company cedes specified portions of the Companys property catastrophe reinsurance and retrocession lines of business. 2. Management continues to reduce the Companys net catastrophe exposed risks. In the Insurance segment, management continues to reduce exposure to accounts that have the potential for significant volatility under wors 53 ening catastrophe event scenarios, reduce catastrophe sublimits and eliminate accounts that no longer meet the Companys increased pricing needs. In addition to the strategic initiative noted above, the Reinsurance segments management intends to reduce catastrophe exposure within the property risk portfolio and restructure the way in which marine excess of loss programs are written. Operational Efficiency and Effectiveness The Companys ability to compete is influenced by its operational efficiency and effectiveness, including the development and retention of its people. In recognition of this, the Company has in place and continues to develop, programs and initiatives aimed at enhancing its position in these areas. For example, the Company continues to make significant investments in information technology in both the Insurance and Reinsurance segments, develop and implement a new framework for Financial Reporting and Controls, and establish an operations center, based in, India. Each of these projects requires considerable investment and commitment of the Companys resources in an effort to achieve the ultimate goals of increased operational efficiency and effectiveness. Collateral Management Another important matter on which management is focused (and which also affects the Companys ability to underwrite business) is the availability of collateral. Collateral includes letters of credit, insurance trusts and other credit facilities required to provide security to cedants (which are companies who reinsure their liabilities to the Company), particularly as required by state insurance regulation in the U.S. and at Lloyds, and also to provide the Company with liquidity as required. These facilities are provided to the Company from commercial banks. Our principal credit facilities have tenors of two, three, and five years. The Company has also utilized off balance sheet transactions in order to obtain more collateral capacity (these transactions are described below under Variable Interest Entities and Other Off Balance Sheet Arrangements). As the Company writes more business, its collateral requirements will increase. A key challenge for management is to ensure that sufficient collateral capacity is available as to not hinder future writing of business. Liquidity and cash flow As a property and casualty insurer, the Company must ensure that it has sufficient funds to settle claims promptly, especially upon the occurrence of a major catastrophic event. Management is focused on making sure that liquidity requirements are supported by having lines of credit facilities available to the Company as well as by the Companys general investment portfolio of which the majority is in high grade fixed income securities. The Company has had significant positive cash flow from operations in the three years ended December 31, 2005 generated from its underwriting activities (premiums less claim and expense settlements) as well as the receipt of investment income on its portfolio. In addition during 2005, capital raising activity provided significant cash flows from financing activities. The Company expects cash flow from operations to be positive in 2006. 54 Results of Operations The following table presents an analysis of the Companys net income available to ordinary shareholders and other financial measures (described below) for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003: (U.S. dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts) 2005 2004 2003 Net (loss) income available to ordinary shareholders (1,292,298 ) 1,126,292 371,658 (Loss) earnings per ordinary share basic (9.14 ) 8.17 2.71 (Loss) earnings per ordinary share diluted (9.14 ) 8.13 2.69 Weighted average number of ordinary shares and ordinary share equivalents basic 141,406 137,903 136,906 Weighted average number of ordinary shares and ordinary share equivalents diluted 141,406 138,582 138,187 The Companys net (loss) income and other financial measures as shown above for the three years ended December 31 have been affected, among other things, by the following significant items: 1) Significant large catastrophe activity; 2) The impact of the unvaforable result of the independent actuarial process with Winterthur Swiss Insurance Company; 3) Net adverse prior year loss development in general insurance and reinsurance operations; 4) Growing asset base and positive performance from investments in affiliates. 1. Significant large catastrophe activity (Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and other natural catastrophes) During the third and fourth quarters of 2005, there was an unprecedented number of natural catastrophes. In August 2005, Hurricane Katrina, a Category 4 storm, hit the Gulf Coast of the United States and is estimated to have caused the largest ever insured loss from a natural disaster in the property and casualty insurance industry. In September 2005, Hurricane Rita, a Category 3 storm, hit the Gulf Coast on the United States and caused considerable damage, although Rita was less severe than Katrina. In October 2005, Hurricane Wilma hit South Florida after causing significant damage in Mexico and Cuba. In addition, there were several other natural loss events in the third and fourth quarter 2005, including hurricanes Dennis, Emily and Ophelia, the European and Mumbai Floods and Typhoon Mawar (collectively, the Other Cats). Collectively, Hurricanes Katrina, Rita, Wilma, and these Other Cats have had a substantial impact on the Companys results of operations and financial condition. As a result of the substantial impact the Hurricanes Katrina, Rita, Wilma and the Other Cats have had on the results of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company has estimated losses incurred, net of reinsurance recoveries, of 1.27 billion, 357.9 million and 247.1 million and 96.0 million, respectively, based on preliminary reports and estimates of such loss and damage. The Company has performed an analysis of contracts it believes are exposed to these catastrophes and, together with other preliminary information received from insureds and cedents and industry models, has determined its best estimates at this time for the expected ultimate loss. Actual losses may vary materially from this estimate based on a number of factors, including receipt of additional information from insureds or brokers, the attribution of losses to coverages and or layers that had not previously been considered as exposed and inflation in repair costs due to additional demand for labor and materials. In addition, the loss estimate includes a high level of uncertainty related to, among other things, complex coverage issues associated with Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma and potential legal developments that may result in ultimate losses not being known for a considerable period of time. Therefore, losses may ultimately be materially greater or lesser than the current estimate and accordingly impact future financial results. Losses in connection with these events were incurred almost equally from the Companys Insurance and Reinsurance segments. 55 The year ended December 31, 2004 was negatively impacted by four hurricanes, Frances, Charley, Ivan and Jeanne, for a total net loss of 516.6 million, net of reinsurance recoveries. In addition, the Company incurred net losses and loss expenses of 74.6 million in 2004 as a result of the earthquake and the subsequent tsunami that struck South Asia on December 26, 2004. The following are analyses of the financial impact on the Companys results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 from natural catastrophes: Year ended December 31, 2005 (U.S. dollars in millions, except ratios) Financial Products and Insurance Reinsurance Services Total Operating Data: Net premiums earned Katrina (74.6 ) 16.3 23.6 (34.7 ) Rita (13.3 ) 8.8 (4.5 ) Wilma (1.2 ) 6.2 5.0 Other natural catastrophes* 3.4 3.4 Total net premiums earned (89.1 ) 34.7 23.6 (30.8 ) Gross losses and loss expenses: Katrina 1,339.7 1,128.0 45.0 2,512.7 Rita 521.9 232.4 754.3 Wilma 172.7 214.4 387.1 Other natural catastrophes* 40.2 57.5 97.7 Total gross losses and loss expenses 2,074.5 1,632.3 45.0 3,751.8 Losses and loss expenses recoverable: Katrina 748.6 495.3 1,243.9 Rita 312.9 83.5 396.4 Wilma 64.3 75.7 140.0 Other natural catastrophes* 1.7 1.7 Total losses and loss expenses recoverable 1,127.5 654.5 1,782.0 Underwriting loss (1,036.1 ) (943.1 ) (21.4 ) (2,000.6 ) Income tax benefit 135.5 Net loss (1,865.1 ) Loss ratio impact for the year ended December 31, 2005 28.7 % * Other natural Catastrophes include European and Mumbai floods, Hurricanes Dennis, Emily and Ophelia and Typhoon Mawar. 56 Year ended December 31, 2004 (U.S. dollars in millions, except ratios) Insurance Reinsurance Total Operating Data: Net premiums earned: Charley 7.7 7.7 Frances 3.5 3.5 Ivan (12.2 ) (6.5 ) (18.7 ) Jeanne 2.7 2.7 South Asia Tsunami Total net premiums earned (12.2 ) 7.4 (4.8 ) Gross losses and loss expenses: Charley 72.8 85.5 158.3 Frances 93.4 83.2 176.6 Ivan 168.4 186.5 354.9 Jeanne 37.6 49.5 87.1 South Asia Tsunami 50.0 24.6 74.6 Total gross losses and loss expenses 422.2 429.3 851.5 Losses and loss expenses recoverable: Charley 16.9 10.8 27.7 Frances 21.9 10.2 32.1 Ivan 77.7 111.5 189.2 Jeanne 7.4 3.9 11.3 South Asia Tsunami Total losses and loss expenses recoverable 123.9 136.4 260.3 Underwriting loss 310.5 285.5 596.0 Income tax benefit 37.7 Net loss 558.3 Loss ratio impact for the year ended December 31, 2004 8.5 % 2. Losses related to the result of the independent actuarial process with Winterthur Swiss Insurance Company On December 6, 2005, the Company received the report from the Independent Actuary in connection with the Companys post closing protection for adverse development of net loss and unearned premium relating to the acquisition of certain Winterthur International insurance operations from Winterthur Swiss Insurance Company (WSIC) in 2001. The Independent Actuarys report concluded that WSICs submitted Seasoned Net Reserve Amount (SNRA) and Net Premium Receivable Amount (NPRA) were closest to the Independent Actuarys determinations of SNRA and NPRA. These determinations resulted in the Company receiving a net lump sum payment in the amount of approximately 575.0 million (including interest receivable) from WSIC. As the Company had recorded 1.4 billion in unpaid losses and loss expenses recoverable related to this protection, a loss of approximately 808.9 million, net of interest, was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2005. 57 3. Net adverse prior year loss development Net adverse prior year loss development occurs when there is an increase to loss reserves recorded at the beginning of the year, resulting from actual or reported loss development for prior years exceeding expected loss development. The net adverse prior year loss development in 2005 related to the Companys general insurance operations most notably in the casualty and professional lines of business. The results for the year ended December 31, 2005 have been negatively impacted by adverse development in both the Insurance and Reinsurance segments. The following table presents the net adverse (favorable) prior year loss development of the Companys loss and loss expense reserves for its general and financial operations by each operating segment for each of the years indicated: (U.S. dollars in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Insurance segment 1,020 292 153 Reinsurance segment 94 (24 ) 799 Financial Products and Services segment (15 ) Total 1,114 268 937 During 2005, the Insurance segments net adverse prior year development of 1.02 billion includes the results of the independent actuarial process noted above. Excluding this development the remaining 185.8 million was driven primarily by increases in reported case reserves for excess professional liability. Strengthening of 259.5 million in professional lines was caused primarily by the establishment of case reserves on both directors and officers claims in pre 2002 business, and errors and omissions claims. Strengthening of 34.7 million within other specialty lines was caused primarily by increases in reported losses for specialty lines of business currently in run off including certain Lloyds business, discontinued programs business, and surety. A net release of 108.4 million for global risks lines of business was driven by the reduction in case reserves for pre 2002 claims primarily relating to casualty business written out of Europe. During 2005, net prior year reserves across the Reinsurance segment developed adversely by 93.5 million. Reserve strengthening of 266.9 million in casualty and professional lines was partially offset by releases in other lines of business of 173.4 million. The casualty strengthening is primarily attributable to workers compensation, umbrella liability and certain professional lines of business written in the Companys North American operations. The reserve releases relate primarily to the property line where releases of 135.6 million occurred across all business units globally in the 2002 to 2004 underwriting years. Releases also occurred in the marine and aviation classes of business across the reinsurance segment. The majority of the workers compensation reserve increase during 2005 was related to an XL Reinsurance America Inc. (XLRA) working layer program written across multiple underwriting years with a single cedent. This program was not renewed at the end of 2001. Other than this program, XLRA has not written significant working layer workers compensation business. The remaining source of the workers compensation reserve strengthening relates to an update of the mortality tables used in our tabular reserving methodology. The remainder of the strengthening in the casualty and professional lines reserves was driven by a small number of increases in reported claims in the other liability and errors and omissions lines of business in the pre 1997 underwriting years as well as recently reported claims in umbrella liability, errors and omissions and directors and officers lines of business in the 1997 2001 underwriting years. The professional lines claims activity arose largely from a limited number of cedents. This reserve increase was partially offset by favorable development in the 1997 2001 underwriting years in the medical malpractice business line. Activity in the post 2001 underwriting years relates primarily to certain large individual claims affecting a number of lines, including surety, umbrella liability and errors and omissions. During 2004, the Companys net adverse prior year development of 268.0 million was a result of increases in reported insurance case reserves for excess professional liability, excess casualty liability and specialty lines within the Insurance segment offset by net prior year releases in the Reinsurance segment. These increases in reported insurance case reserves exceeded the Companys expected losses based on historical patterns of loss development. 58 Strengthening of 144.0 million in professional lines was caused by a few large directors and officers claims in pre 2002 business, and increases in errors and omissions reserves were caused by claims related to large accounting firms and to insurance/reinsurance brokers. For specialty lines, strengthening of 135.0 million was caused by reported loss increases in discontinued programs business with workers compensation exposure, environmental related coverages, and Lloyds as well as high severity claims on the surety book. During 2003, the net adverse prior period loss development related primarily to the Companys general reinsurance operations and principally to losses on business written in the 1997 through 2001 underwriting years in the Companys U.S. casualty reinsurance business. In the third quarter of 2003, the Company experienced a significant increase in claims reported that was in excess of the Companys expected loss development based on historical reporting patterns and recorded an increase to reserves of 184.0 million related to this book of business. As a result of this increase, the Company began a detailed claims audit review of the cedents contributing to this increase and the lines of business affected were primarily directors and officers, errors and omissions, medical malpractice, commercial umbrella and general liability. Upon completion of this claims audit review, the Company increased case and IBNR reserves relating to this book of business a total of 663.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2003. The Company monitors actual against expected reported claims on an ongoing basis. To the extent that actual experience on loss reserves differs significantly for this, or any other line of business, the Company would again expand its normal and ongoing cedent review program accordingly. See Item 8, Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and see further discussion under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and under Segments Reinsurance below. 4. Growing asset base and positive performance from investments in affiliates. Net investment income was 1.5 billion in 2005 as compared to 1.0 billion in 2004 due primarily to a larger investment base combined with higher investment yields, as well as receipt of a distribution associated with the unwinding of a collateralized debt obligation which resulted in a one time benefit to investment income, and the accrued interest on the proceeds from the conclusion of the independent actuarial process with WSIC. The investment portfolio increased due to growth in structured and spread balances and positive operating cash flows combined with capital raising activities late in the fourth quarter. Higher investment yields were driven primarily by the impact of increasing U.S. interest rates on cash flow and reinvested assets. In addition, net realized gains produced by the investment portfolio and the equity earnings from the Companys affiliates also contributed positively to the year. Net realized gains on investments were 241.9 million in 2005 compared to 246.5 million in 2004. Net income from investment affiliates was 154.8 million in 2005 compared to 124.0 million in 2004. This increase was attributable to good underlying alternative fund returns combined with strong results from certain private equity affiliates that benefited from a series of successful liquidation events. Net income from operating affiliates (including insurance, financial and investment manager affiliates) was 67.4 million in 2005 compared to 147.4 million in 2004. Earnings from investment manager affiliates were strong during 2005. Earnings from operating affiliates during 2004 included 102.1 million of income in connection with the sales of Admiral Group Ltd and Pareto Partners L.P. and its affiliated companies. See Item 8, Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The following are considered to be the Companys critical accounting policies and estimates due to the judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of these policies and or the likelihood that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. If actual events differ significantly from the underlying assumptions or estimates applied for any or all of the accounting policies (either individually or in the aggregate), there could be a material adverse effect on the Companys results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. These critical accounting policies have been discussed by management with the Audit Committee of the Companys Board of Directors. Other significant accounting policies are nevertheless important to an understanding of the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements. Policies such as those related to revenue recognition, financial instruments and 59 consolidation require difficult judgments on complex matters that are often subject to multiple sources of authoritative guidance. See Item 8, Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 1) Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses and Unpaid Loss and Loss Expenses Recoverable As the Company earns premiums for the underwriting risks it assumes, it also establishes an estimate of the expected ultimate losses related to the premium. Loss reserves or unpaid losses and loss expenses are established due to the significant periods of time that may lapse between the occurrence, reporting and settlement of a loss. The process of establishing reserves for unpaid property and casualty claims can be complex and is subject to considerable variability as it requires the use of informed estimates and judgments. These estimates and judgments are based on numerous factors, and may be revised as additional experience and other data become available and are reviewed, as new or improved methodologies are developed or as current laws change. Loss reserves include: a) Case reserves reserves for reported losses and loss expenses that have not yet been settled and, b) Losses incurred but not reported (IBNR). At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Companys total gross reserves for unpaid losses and loss expenses were 23.8 billion and 19.8 billion, respectively, of which 10.6 billion and 9.8 billion related to case reserves for reported claims and 13.2 billion and 10.0 billion for IBNR reserves, respectively. Case reserves for the Companys general operations are established by management based on amounts reported from insureds or ceding companies and consultation with legal counsel, and represent the estimated ultimate cost of events or conditions that have been reported to or specifically identified by the Company. The method of establishing case reserves for reported claims differs among the Companys operations. With respect to the Companys insurance operations, the Company is notified of insured losses and records a case reserve for the estimated amount of the settlement, if any. The estimate reflects the judgment of claims personnel based on general reserving practices, the experience and knowledge of such personnel regarding the nature of the specific claim and, where appropriate, advice of legal counsel. Reserves are also established to provide for the estimated expense of settling claims, including legal and other fees and the general expenses of administering the claims adjustment process. With respect to the Companys reinsurance general operations, case reserves for reported claims are generally established based on reports received from ceding companies. Additional case reserves may be established by the Company to reflect the estimated ultimate cost of a loss. With respect to the Companys financial products and services operations, financial guaranty claims incurred on policies written on an insurance basis are established consistent with the Companys insurance operations and financial guaranty claims incurred on policies written on a reinsurance basis are established consistent with the Companys reinsurance operations. IBNR reserves relate mainly to the Companys insurance and reinsurance casualty business. IBNR reserves are calculated by the Companys actuaries using several standard actuarial methodologies including paid and incurred loss development, the Bornhuetter Ferguson incurred loss method and frequency and severity approaches. IBNR reserves are calculated by the Companys actuaries using standard actuarial methodologies as discussed above. Prior to the year ended December 31, 2003, the outcomes of the Companys actuarial reviews, consistent with historical practice, provided either (i) a single point reserve estimate or (ii) a range of reserve estimates from which the Company selected a best estimate. Since the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company adopted a methodology that provided a single point reserve estimate separately for each line of business and also a range of possible outcomes across each single point reserve estimate. This is discussed further below. As a result, reserve ranges disclosed previously are not comparable to the reserve ranges disclosed herein. While the proportion of unpaid loss and loss expenses represented by IBNR is sensitive to a number of factors, the most significant ones have historically been accelerating business growth and changes in business mix. Other factors that have affected the ratio in the past include; additions to prior period reserves, catastrophic occurrences, settlement of large claims and changes in claims settlement patterns. 60 The ratio of IBNR to total reserves has increased in recent years due to the growth of casualty business written over that period. The ratio of IBNR to total reserves is higher for more recent years business because these immature years have relatively fewer claims reported and, as a result, a higher proportion of claims reserves are based on experience in respect of incurred but not reported losses. As each prior year of business matures and claims become known, the ratio of IBNR to total reserves will typically decline, all other factors remaining constant. Since the Company has experienced rapid premium volume growth in recent years, the ratio of IBNR to total reserves has increased because the Companys aggregate exposure has become relatively less mature. Conversely, in a situation of declining premium volume, this ratio will typically decline, all other factors remaining constant. The Company writes insurance and reinsurance business in many different lines. Typically, the ratio of IBNR to total reserves is greater for casualty lines (which are longer tail in nature) than for property lines due to the policy forms utilized and timing of loss reporting. In recent years, casualty lines have increased as a proportion of the Companys business when compared to property lines (which are shorter tail in nature). The single point reserve estimate is generally managements best estimate, which the Company considers to be one that has an equal likelihood of developing a redundancy or deficiency as the loss experience matures, and this amount is recorded. The Companys actuaries utilize one set of assumptions in determining its single point estimate, which includes loss development factors, loss ratios, reported claim frequency and severity. These reviews and documentation are completed in accordance with professional actuarial standards appropriate to the jurisdictions where the business is written. The selected assumptions reflect the actuarys judgment based on historical data and experience combined with information concerning current underwriting, economic, judicial, regulatory and other influences on ultimate claim settlements. Loss and loss expenses are charged to income as they are incurred. These charges include loss and loss expense payments and any changes in case and IBNR reserves. During the loss settlement period, additional facts regarding claims are reported. As these additional facts are reported, it may be necessary to increase or decrease the unpaid losses and loss expense reserves. The actual final liability may be significantly different than prior estimates. The Companys net unpaid loss and loss expense general and financial reserves broken down by operating segment at December 31, 2005 and 2004 were as follows: (U.S. dollars in millions) 2005 2004 Insurance 9,860 6,975 Reinsurance 7,212 5,695 Financial products and services 283 205 Net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves 17,355 12,875 The following table shows the recorded estimate and the high and low ends of the range of reserves for each of the lines of business noted above at December 31, 2005: (U.S. dollars in millions) Recorded High Low Casualty insurance 7,388 8,059 6,739 Casualty reinsurance 4,141 4,705 3,606 Property catastrophe 914 1,080 758 Other property 1,724 1,947 1,513 Marine and aviation reinsurance and insurance 1,628 1,852 1,416 Other (1) 1,043 1,141 950 Total 16,838 Financial Operations 283 Provision for potential non recoveries 234 Total 17,355 (1) Other consists of several products, including accident and health, political risk, surety and bonding. 61 With the exception of the adverse development associated with the unfavorable conclusion of the independent actuarial process, actual development of recorded reserves as of December 31, 2004 during 2005 was within the estimated reserve range. As shown in the table above and as previously noted, the Company developed a methodology for calculating reserve ranges around its single point reserve estimates for all its lines of business. Similar to VAR (Value At Risk) models commonly used to evaluate risk, the Company modeled a statistical distribution of potential reserve outcomes over a one year run off period. The Company used the modeled statistical distribution to calculate an 80% confidence interval for the potential reserve outcomes over this one year run off period. The high and low end points of the ranges set forth in the above table are such that there is a 10% modeled probability that the reserve will develop higher than the high point and a 10% modeled probability that the reserve will develop lower than the low point. The development of a reserve range models the uncertainty of the claim environment as well as the limited predictive power of past loss data. These uncertainties and limitations are not specific to the Company. The ranges represent an estimate of the range of possible outcomes over a one year development period. A range of possible outcomes should not be confused with a range of best estimates. The range of best estimates will generally be much narrower than the range of possible outcomes as it will reflect reasonable actuarial and management best estimates of the expected reserve. Reserve volatility was analyzed for each line of business within each of the Reinsurance and Insurance segments general operations using the Companys historical data supplemented by industry data. These ranges were then aggregated to the lines of business shown above taking into account correlation between lines of business based on a study of the Companys historical data supplemented by industry data. The practical result of the correlation approach to aggregation is that the ranges by line of business disclosed above, are narrower than the sum of the ranges of the individual lines of business. Similarly, the range for the Companys total reserves in the aggregate, is narrower than the sum of the ranges for the lines of business disclosed above. The Company is not aware of any generally accepted model to perform the reserve range analysis described above and other models may also be employed to develop ranges. The Company does not calculate a range for its total net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves as it would not be appropriate to add the ranges for each line of business to obtain a range around the Companys total reserves, because this would not reflect the diversification effects across the Companys various lines of business. The diversification effects result from the fact that losses across the Companys different lines of business are not completely correlated. The Company writes both short tail and long tail lines of business. Short tail and long tail describe the time between the receipt of the premium from a policy and the final settlement of any loss incurred under such policy. Short tail lines include property catastrophe, other property and certain marine and aviation lines where, on average, the settlement period may be up to 24 months. Long tail lines, on the other hand, include the Companys casualty business in which claims may take up to 30 years to be reported and settled. The increase in the time associated with ultimate settlement of a claim is directly related to an increase in the amount of judgment required to establish loss reserves, especially IBNR reserves. See further discussion under Segments below for prior year development of loss reserves. The Companys three types of reserve exposure with the longest tails are: (1) high layer excess casualty insurance; (2) casualty reinsurance; and (3) discontinued asbestos and long tail environmental business. Certain aspects of the Companys casualty operations complicate the actuarial process for establishing reserves. Certain casualty business written by the Companys insurance operations is high layer excess casualty business, 62 meaning that the Companys liability attaches after large deductibles including self insurance or insurance from sources other than the Company. The Company commenced writing this type of business in 1986 and issued policies in forms that were different from traditional policies used by the industry at that time. Initially, there was a lack of industry data available for this type of business. Consequently, the basis for establishing loss reserves by the Company for this type of business was largely judgmental and based upon the Companys own reported loss experience which was used as basis for determining ultimate losses, and therefore IBNR reserves. Over time, the amount of available historical loss experience data has increased. As a result, the Company has obtained a larger statistical base to assist in establishing reserves for these excess casualty insurance claims. High layer excess casualty insurance claims typically involve claims relating to (i) a shock loss such as an explosion or transportation accident causing severe damage to persons and or property over a short period of time, (ii) a non shock loss where a large number of claimants are exposed to injurious conditions over a longer period of time, such as exposure to chemicals or pharmaceuticals or (iii) a professional liability loss such as a medical malpractice claim. In each case, these claims are ultimately settled following extensive negotiations and legal proceedings. This process can typically take 5 to 15 years following the date of loss. Reinsurance operations by their nature add further complications to the reserving process, particularly for casualty business written, in that there is an inherent lag in the timing and reporting of a loss event from an insured or ceding company to the reinsurer. This reporting lag creates an even longer period of time between the policy inception and when a claim is finally settled. As a result, more judgment is required to establish reserves for ultimate claims in the Companys reinsurance operations. In the Companys reinsurance general operations, case reserves for reported claims are generally established based on reports received from ceding companies. Additional case reserves may be established by the Company to reflect the Companys estimated ultimate cost of a loss. Casualty reinsurance business involves reserving methods that generally include historical aggregated claim information as reported by ceding companies, combined with the results of claims and underwriting reviews of a sample of the ceding companys claims and underwriting files. Therefore, the Company does not always receive detailed claim information for this line of business. Discontinued asbestos and long tail environment business had been previously written by NAC Re Corp. (now known as XL Reinsurance America Inc.), prior to its acquisition by the Company. Except for certain workers compensation and long term disability liabilities, the Company does not discount its unpaid losses and loss expenses. The Company utilizes tabular reserving for workers compensation and long term disability unpaid losses that are considered fixed and determinable, and discounts such losses using an interest rate of 5% at December 31, 2005 and 2004. For further discussion see the Consolidated Financial Statements. Financial Guaranty Loss Reserving The Company is aware of the SECs recent review of the loss reserving practices in the financial guaranty industry. The Company recognizes that there is diversity in practice among financial guaranty insurers and reinsurers with respect to their accounting policies. Current accounting literature, specifically FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 60 Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises (FAS 60) and FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 97 Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Long Duration Contracts and for Realized Gains and Losses from the Sale of Investments (FAS 97), does not specifically address the unique characteristics of financial guaranty insurance contracts. Consequently, the accounting principles applied by the industry have evolved over time and incorporate the concepts of both short duration and long duration contracts accounting under the provisions of FAS 60 and FAS 97. It is the Companys understanding that the SEC has requested that the FASB review this matter and provide guidance for the accounting of financial guaranty insurance contracts. The Company will continue its loss reserving methodology as noted in Note 2 (k) to the Consolidated Financial 63 Statements until further guidance is provided by the SEC or the FASB. The Company had net reserves for financial guaranty insurance contracts of 173.7 million and 146.3 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Unpaid losses and loss expenses recoverable The recognition of unpaid losses and loss expenses recoverable requires two key judgments. The first judgment involves the Companys estimation of the amount of gross IBNR to be ceded to reinsurers. Ceded IBNR is generally developed as part of the Companys loss reserving process and consequently, its estimation is subject to similar risks and uncertainties as the estimation of gross IBNR (see Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Unpaid losses and loss expenses and unpaid loss and loss expense recoverable). The second judgment involves the Companys estimate of the amount of the reinsurance recoverable balance that the Company will ultimately be unable to recover from related reinsurers due to insolvency, contractual dispute, or for other reasons. Amounts estimated to be uncollectible are reflected in a bad debt provision that reduces the reinsurance recoverable balance and shareholders equity. Changes in the bad debt provision are reflected in net income. See Financial Condition and Liquidity and Item 8, Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. As a result of the Companys acquisition of Winterthur International in July 2001, WSIC provides protection to the Company with respect to third party reinsurance receivables and recoverables related to the Winterthur International acquisition, which are 1.6 billion in the aggregate, as of December 31, 2005. The Company has reinsurance protection under two retrocession agreements on the remaining portion of reinsurance recoverables with respect to incurred losses seasoned as of June 30, 2004 to the extent that the Company does not receive payment of such amounts from applicable reinsurers, with one agreement providing a limit of 1.3 billion for the insurance written in the period to June 30, 2001, and the other agreement providing a limit of 1.3 billion for the insurance written in the period to December 31, 2000. 2) Future Policy Benefit Reserves Future policy benefit reserves relate to the Companys life operations and are estimated using assumptions for investment yields, mortality, expenses and provisions for adverse loss deviation. Uncertainties related to interest rate volatility and mortality experience make it difficult to project and value the ultimate benefit payments. Most of the Companys future policy benefit reserves relate to annuity portfolio reinsurance contracts under which the Company makes annuity payments throughout the term of the contract for a specified portfolio of policies. For certain of these contracts, a single premium is paid at inception of the contract by way of a transfer of cash and investments to the Company. The reserving methodology for these annuity portfolio reinsurance contracts is described in FAS 60 as amended by FAS 97. These contracts subject the Company to risks arising from policyholder mortality over a period that extends beyond the periods in which premiums are collected. Liabilities for future policy benefit reserves are established in accordance with the provisions of FAS 60. Claims and expenses for individual policies within these annuity reinsurance contracts are projected over the lifetime of the contract to calculate a net present value of future cash flows. Assumptions for each element of the basis (mortality, expenses and interest) are determined at the issue of the contract and these assumptions are locked in throughout the term of the contract unless a premium deficiency exists. The assumptions are best estimate assumptions plus provisions for adverse deviations on the key risk elements (i.e., mortality and interest). Provisions for adverse deviation are designed to cover reasonable deviations from the best estimate outcome of the contract. As the experience on the contracts emerges, the assumptions are reviewed. This occurs at least annually and includes both an analysis of experience and review of likely future experience. If such review would produce reserves in excess of those currently held then lock in assumptions will be revised and a loss recognized. During the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, there were no adjustments to the locked in assumptions for any of these contracts. 64 The future policy benefit reserves for these annuity portfolio reinsurance contracts amounted to 5.2 billion and 3.9 billion at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Company holds the investment assets backing these liabilities. These investments are primarily fixed income securities with maturities that closely match the expected claims settlement profile. A 0.1% decrease in the investment yield assumption would result in a 49 million increase in the value of future claims related to annuity portfolio reinsurance. As stated above, the future policy benefit reserves include provisions for adverse deviation in excess of best estimate assumptions that amounted to approximately 310 million and 145 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The future policy benefit reserves would only be increased if these provisions for adverse deviation became insufficient in the light of emerging claims experience. The present value of future claims would increase by approximately 18 million if mortality rates were to decrease by 1% in all future years, relative to the reserving assumptions. The Company also provides reinsurance of disability income protection. The future policy benefit reserves for these contracts amounted to 85 million and 86 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Future policy benefit reserves are established in accordance with the provisions of FAS 60, including the lock in of assumptions at inception with periodic review against experience. The liabilities relate to in force blocks of business, comprising underlying insurance policies that provide an income if the policyholder becomes sick or disabled. The liabilities are therefore driven mainly by the rates at which policyholders become sick (where sickness is defined by the policy conditions) and by the rates at which these policyholders recover or die. A 1% increase in the incidence rate would increase the value of future claims by approximately 0.1 million, while a 1% decrease in the termination rate would increase the value of future claims by approximately 0.4 million. Following a review of morbidity experience, the locked in assumptions were revised during the year ended December 31, 2005. The overall effect of using the revised assumptions was a reduction in income of 0.4 million. The Company also provides reinsurance of term assurance and critical illness policies written in the U.K. and Ireland. The future policy benefit reserves for these contracts amounted to 62 million and 41 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Future policy benefit reserves are established in accordance with the provisions of FAS 60, including the lock in of assumptions at inception with periodic review against experience. The liabilities relate to in force blocks of business, comprising underlying insurance policies that provide mainly lump sum benefits if the policyholder dies or becomes sick. For term assurance, the liabilities are therefore driven by the rates of mortality and for critical illness cover, the liabilities are driven predominantly by the rates at which policyholders become sick (where sickness is defined by the treaty conditions), i.e., the morbidity rates. A 1% increase in the mortality rate relative to the reserving assumption would increase the value of future claims by approximately 0.6 million, and a 1% increase in the morbidity rate would increase the value of future claims by approximately 0.6 million. The term assurance and critical illness treaties have been written using a variety of structures, some of which incur acquisition costs during an initial period. For such treaties, a deferred acquisition cost (DAC) asset has been established and an increase in future lapse rates could impact the recoverability of such costs from future premiums. The recoverability will also be influenced by the impact of lapses on future claims. An increase in the annual lapse rates by 1% could lead to a 5% 10% reduction in future margins available for amortizing the DAC asset. The Company also provided reinsurance of U.S. based term assurance, which was novated to the Company from an insurance affiliate in December 2002. The future policy benefit reserves for these contracts amounted to 184 million and 123 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Future policy benefit reserves are established in accordance with the provisions of FAS 60, including the lock in of assumptions at inception with periodic review against experience. The liabilities relate to in force blocks of business, which are comprised of underlying insurance policies that provide mainly lump sum benefits if the policyholder dies. The liabilities are therefore driven by the rates of mortality, 65 and a 1% increase in the mortality rate relative to the reserving assumption would increase the value of future claims by approximately 8 million. Following a review of mortality experience, the locked in assumptions were revised during the year ended December 31, 2005. The overall affect of using the revised assumptions was a reduction in income of 63 million. See Item 8, Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 3) Deposit Liabilities The Companys deposit liabilities at December 31, 2005 reflect obligations assumed under funding agreements, municipal guaranteed reinvestment contracts, payment undertaking agreements and certain structured insurance and reinsurance agreements. For each of these contracts, the Company establishes a deposit liability equal to the net cash received at inception. Each deposit liability accrues at a rate equal to the internal rate of return of the payment receipts and obligations due during the life of the agreement. Where the timing and or amount of future payments are uncertain, cash flows reflecting the Companys actuarially determined best estimates are utilized. The ultimate size of underlying losses, the impact of the contractual limits upon settlement of such losses, and the impact of the underlying loss settlement process on the timing of payments are considered as appropriate. Where uncertainty is present, an increase in the ultimate claims cost or accelerated claims settlement would potentially lead to an increase in the deposit liability accretion rate or lead to incurred losses if significant. The interest expense reported due to the accretion of deposit liabilities associated with structured insurance and reinsurance contracts was 49.8 million, 59.4 million and 92.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. For some of the Companys deposit liabilities, the accretion rate is recorded at its contractual maximum level. For all other contracts, a 1% increase in the average accretion rate would result in an increase in deposit liabilities and interest expense by 16.3 million on an annualized basis. See Item 8, Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 4) Derivative Instruments The Company conducts activities in three main types of derivative instruments: credit derivatives, weather and energy derivatives and investment related derivative instruments. The estimate of fair value for credit derivatives and weather and energy derivatives requires managements judgment. These two activities are discussed below: a) Credit Derivatives The Company enters into credit derivatives in connection with its financial guaranty business and the Company intends to hold these contracts to maturity. In determining fair value, management differentiates between investment and non investment grade exposures and models them separately. Management estimates fair value for investment grade exposures by monitoring changes in credit quality and selecting appropriate market indices to determine credit spread movements over the life of the contracts. The determination of the credit spread movements is the basis for calculating the fair value. For credit derivatives that are non investment grade and therefore do not have a readily determinable market value, the Company uses an alternative fair value methodology. The fair value is determined using a cash flow model developed by the Company and is dependent upon a number of factors, including changes in interest rates, future default rates, credit spreads, changes in credit quality, future expected recovery rates and other market factors. Installment premiums are also considered in the determination of discounted net cash flows. Other elements of the change in fair value are based upon pricing established at the inception of the contract. Changes in fair value are unrealized as the credit derivatives are not traded to realize this value. See Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for sensitivity analysis and Item 8, Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. b) Weather and Energy Derivatives The fair value of weather and energy derivatives is determined through the use of quoted market prices where available. Where quoted market prices are unavailable, the fair value is estimated using available market data and internal pricing models using consistent statistical methodologies. Estimating fair value of instruments that do not 66 have quoted market prices requires managements judgment in determining amounts that could reasonably be expected to be received from, or paid to, a third party in settlement of the contracts. The amounts could be materially different from the amounts that might be realized in an actual sale transaction. Fair values are subject to change in the near term and reflect managements best estimate based on various factors including, but not limited to, actual and forecasted weather conditions, changes in commodity prices, changes in interest rates and other market factors. See Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for sensitivity analysis and Item 8, Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 5) Other Than Temporary Declines in Investments The Companys process for identifying declines in the fair value of investments that are other than temporary involves consideration of several factors. These factors include (i) the time period during which there has been a significant decline in value, (ii) an analysis of the liquidity, business prospects and financial condition of the issuer, (iii) the significance of the decline, (iv) an analysis of the collateral structure and other credit support, as applicable, of the securities in question and (v) the Companys intent and ability to hold the investment for a sufficient period of time for the value to recover. Where the Companys analysis of the above factors results in the Companys conclusion that declines in fair values are other than temporary, the cost of the security is written down to fair value and the previously unrealized loss is therefore realized in the period such determination is made. With respect to securities where the decline in value is determined to be temporary and the securitys value is not written down, a subsequent decision may be made to sell that security and realize a loss. Subsequent decisions on security sales are made within the context of overall risk monitoring, changing information, market conditions generally and assessing value relative to other comparable securities. Day to day management of the Companys investment portfolio is outsourced to third party investment managers. While these investment managers may, at a given point in time, believe that the preferred course of action is to hold securities with unrealized losses that are considered temporary until such losses are recovered, the dynamic nature of the portfolio management may result in a subsequent decision to sell the security and realize the loss, based upon a change in market and other factors described above. The Company believes that subsequent decisions to sell such securities are consistent with the classification of the Companys portfolio as available for sale. As mentioned above, the Company considers its intent and ability to hold a security until the value recovers as part of the process of evaluating whether a securitys unrealized loss represents an other than temporary decline. However, this factor on its own does not dictate whether or not the Company recognizes an impairment charge. The Company believes its ability to hold such securities is supported by positive and sufficient cash flow from its operations and from maturities within its investment portfolio in order to meet its claims payment obligations arising from its underwriting operations without selling such investments. In this regard, cash flow from operating activities was 4.2 billion and 4.4 billion in 2005 and 2004, respectively. There are risks and uncertainties associated with determining whether declines in the fair value of investments are other than temporary. These include subsequent significant changes in general economic conditions as well as specific business conditions affecting particular issuers, subjective assessment of issue specific factors (seniority of claims, collateral value, etc.), future financial market effects, stability of foreign governments and economies, future rating agency actions and significant disclosure of accounting, fraud or corporate governance issues that may adversely affect certain investments. In addition, significant assumptions and management judgment are involved in determining if the decline is other than temporary. If management determines that a decline in fair value is temporary, then a securitys value is not written down at that time. However, there are potential effects upon the Companys future earnings and financial position should management later conclude that some of the current declines in the fair value of the investments are other than temporary declines. See Investment Activities Unrealized losses on investments for further information. 67 6) Income Taxes The Company utilizes the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. The Company has capitalized net operating tax losses of 238.1 million and 230.6 million against which a valuation allowance of 154.5 million and 68.6 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, has been established. The Company has capitalized realized and unrealized capital losses of 19.7 million and 7.7 million, respectively, against which a valuation allowance of 23.7 million at December 31, 2005 has been established. The deferral of benefits from tax losses is evaluated based upon managements estimates of the future profitability of the Companys taxable entities based on current forecasts, the character of income and the period for which losses may be carried forward. A valuation allowance may have to be established for any portion of a deferred tax asset that management believes will not be realized. Should the future income of these entities fall below expectations, a further valuation allowance would have to be established, which could be significant. In addition, if any further losses are generated by these entities, these losses may not be tax affected. Effective as of January 1, 2004, XL Re America Inc (XLRA), a subsidiary of the Company, entered into an adverse development reinsurance treaty with another reinsurance subsidiary of the Company. The treaty related to the 1985 through (and including) 2000 underwriting years covering any adverse development on reserves calculated as of December 31, 2003 between January 1, 2004 and December 31, 2005. The treaty has a limit of 500 million and limited loss development at XLRA relating to these underwriting years through December 31, 2005. Any commutation of this treaty requires the prior approval of the New York Department of Insurance. There is no impact of this treaty on the consolidated financial statements of the Company; however, as part of managements continuing evaluation of its deferred tax asset, the treaty is critical in evaluating the future income position of the U.S. group of companies. Management believes that the treaty will protect the U.S. group from unexpected prior loss development. Absent unexpected loss development from the 2000 and prior underwriting years, management has concluded that there is sufficient positive evidence of future profitability in the U.S. and that a valuation allowance as a charge against the deferred tax asset is not required at this time. For further information see Other Revenues and Expenses and Item 8, Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 7) Intangible Assets Intangible assets are carried at or below estimated fair value. There are many assumptions and estimates underlying the fair value calculation. Principally, the Company identifies the business entity that the intangible asset is attributed to, and reviews historical and forecasted performance and other underlying factors affecting such analysis, including market conditions, premium rates and loss trends. Other assumptions used could produce a significantly different result which may result in a change in the value of the intangible asset and related amortization charge in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Based on the current expectations of profitability, an impairment charge would only be recognized in the event of a significant decline in the expected profitability of those operations where such intangible assets are applicable. At December 31, 2005, intangible assets were 1.8 billion of which approximately 1.4 billion and 0.4 billion related to the Companys reinsurance and insurance segments, respectively. See Other Revenue and Expenses for further information. 8) Variable Interest Entities The Company utilizes variable interest entities both directly and indirectly in the ordinary course of business. The Company must assess consolidation of variable interest entities based on whether the Company is the primary beneficiary of the entity. The company that absorbs a majority of the expected losses or residual rewards of the entity is deemed to be the primary beneficiary and is therefore required to consolidate the entity. The determination of expected losses and expected residual returns requires the Company to estimate the expected cash flows of the entities 68 and measure the expected variability of these cash flows. The use of different assumptions to determine the expected cash flows and variability could affect the Companys determination of the primary beneficiary. The assumptions used to determine the expected cash flows depend on the type of structure and the nature of the Companys variable interest. The Company has made assumptions primarily regarding default rates, the timing of defaults and recovery rates to estimate these expected cash flows of the variable interest entities that it utilizes. 9) Reinsurance Premium Estimates The Company writes business on both an excess of loss and proportional basis. In the case of excess of loss contracts, the subject written premium is generally outlined within the treaty and the Company receives a minimum and or deposit premium on a quarterly basis which is normally followed by an adjustment premium based on the ultimate subject premium for the contract. The Company estimates the premium written on the basis of the expected subject premium and regularly reviews this against actual quarterly statements to revise the estimate based on the information provided by the cedent. On proportional contracts, written premiums are estimated to expected ultimate premiums based on information provided by the ceding companies. An estimate of premium is recorded at the inception of the contract. When the actual premium is reported by the ceding company, normally on a quarterly basis, it may be materially higher or lower than the estimate. Adjustments arising from the reporting of actual premium by the ceding companies are recorded in the period in which they are determined. Written premiums on excess of loss contracts are earned in accordance with the loss occurring period defined within the treaty, normally 12 months following inception of the contract. Written premiums on proportional contracts are earned over the risk periods of the underlying policies issued and renewed, normally 24 months. For both excess of loss and proportional contracts, the earned premium is recognized ratably over the earning period, namely 12 24 months. The portion of the premium related to the unexpired portion of the policy at the end of any reporting period is reflected in unearned premiums. Reinsurance operations by their nature add further complications in that generally the ultimate premium due under a specific contract will not be known at the time the contract is entered into. As a result, more judgment and ongoing monitoring is required to establish premiums written and earned in the Companys reinsurance operations. Reinstatement premiums are recognized at the time a loss event occurs where coverage limits for the remaining life of the contract are reinstated under pre defined contract terms and are fully earned when recognized. Accrual of reinstatement premiums is based on the Companys estimate of loss and loss adjustment expense reserves, which involves management judgment as described below. Segments The Company operates through three business segments: Insurance, Reinsurance and Financial Products and Services. These business segments were determined in accordance with FAS No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information. The Companys segment results have been significantly impacted by the catastrophe loss events of 2005 and 2004, as noted above. These should be considered when making period to period comparisons of segment results. Following changes in certain executive management responsibilities in January 2005, the Company changed the reporting segments under which certain business units are reported in order to reflect these changes in responsibilities. The following areas have been changed for all periods presented: Results of business structured by XL Financial Solutions Ltd (XLFS) are now included entirely within the Financial Products and Services segment whereas previously this unit was reported in all three segments, depending on the nature of individual contracts. 69 Certain blocks of U.S. based term life mortality reinsurance business previously included in the Financial Products and Services segment are now included in the Reinsurance segment as management of these contracts was transferred to the life reinsurance business units in order to centralize the Companys management of traditional mortality based reinsurance business. Political risk insurance business units now report to executive management of the Financial Products and Services segment and, as such, future earnings from this business will no longer be reported in the Insurance segment but included with financial operations. All operations of business units within the Financial Products and Services segment, including guaranteed investment contracts and funding agreements, are now reported under financial operations in order to consolidate businesses with similar operating characteristics and risks. All net investment income and net income from affiliates generated by assets and interest expense incurred on liabilities of the business units within the Financial Products and Services segment is reported under financial operations. This income and expense is included in financial operations as it relates to interest on portfolios of separately identified and managed assets and deposit liabilities. Management believes this change will better reflect the nature of spread focused business. In addition, the Company has changed its presentation of certain credit derivatives and now records premiums received from sales of these derivatives in gross written premiums and establishes unearned premium reserves and loss reserves for its investment grade credit derivative business. Previously, all components of the Companys consolidated statements of income impact related to credit default swaps had been reported on one line, Net Realized and Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Derivative Instruments. Prior periods have been re presented for consistency in presentation. The Companys business is conducted on a global basis where several of its subsidiaries operate in foreign currencies which are the base currency of that entity. Under U.S. GAAP, revenues and expenses of those operations are translated into the U.S. dollar at average exchange rates during the year and assets and liabilities at exchange rates at the end of the year. Insurance The following table summarizes the underwriting profit for this segment: % Change % Change (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2005 05 vs 04 2004 04 vs 03 2003 General: Gross premiums written 5,785,750 (2.3 )% 5,924,951 14.1 % 5,193,287 Net premiums written 4,248,105 (3.4 )% 4,395,619 18.9 % 3,698,163 Net premiums earned 4,102,697 1.2 % 4,054,795 12.3 % 3,611,444 Fee income and other 4,223 (82.0 )% 23,461 79.1 % 13,103 Net losses and loss expenses 4,595,551 60.7 % 2,859,854 20.6 % 2,371,195 Acquisition costs 505,636 (5.9 )% 537,106 0.2 % 536,293 Operating expenses 517,800 (2.6 )% 531,502 29.8 % 409,406 Foreign exchange (gains) (25,472 ) 157.1 % (9,907 ) 23.2 % (8,042 ) Underwriting (loss) profit (1,486,595 ) NM 159,701 49.4 % 315,695 *NM Not meaningful Gross and net premiums written decreased by 2.3% and 3.4%, respectively, in the year ended December 31, 2005 compared with the year ended December 31, 2004. These decreases were primarily due to continued competitive pricing across most lines, most notably property. Decreases were partially offset by continued growth in the 70 newer select and design professional and U.S. primary casualty units, and the impact of foreign exchange movements on premiums. Net premiums written declined in line with gross premiums written combined with increased ceded reinstatement premiums payable as a result of the catastrophe activity in the year. Increases in gross and net premiums written in 2004 as compared to 2003 were primarily due to new business in the casualty and professional lines, multi year contracts written in the year and favorable foreign exchange movements. The most significant growth was due to new business product offerings in the areas of primary casualty, specialty professional and property catastrophe risks. Partially offsetting the growth in gross and net premiums written in 2004 were rate reductions in most property and professional lines as well as growing rate pressures on most casualty lines during 2004. Net premiums earned increased by 1.2% in 2005 compared with 2004. Growth in net premiums earned is primarily as a result of the earn out of net premiums written in 2004, including the newer business initiatives mentioned above and increased net retentions. This growth was partially offset by the decreased volume in 2005, noted above, and net 89.1 million ceded reinstatement premiums as a result of the natural catastrophes in 2005. Net premiums earned increased in each of the two years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 due to the increases in net premiums written in each year, as noted above. Growth in net premiums earned in 2004 and 2003 were partially offset by several non renewed portfolios as the earned premium impact of the non renewed business lags behind the written premium impact. Fee income and other decreased in 2005 compared to 2004 and increased in 2004 as compared to 2003 primarily due to the income recorded on the sale of property in London in 2004, combined with fees generated by the Companys professional lines start up businesses for administration of third party portfolios. Exchange gains are primarily generated by movement in foreign exchange rates applied to loss reserves held in currencies other than the functional currency of the reporting subsidiary. The gain in 2003 was partially reduced by a hedge put in place by the Company in February 2003 to cover part of its exposure to a U.K. sterling reinsurance recoverable balance. The decreases in the underwriting profit in 2005 as compared with 2004 and the decreases in 2004 as compared with 2003 were also reflective of the combined ratios, as shown below. The following table presents the ratios for the Insurance segment for each of the last three years ended December 31: 2005 2004 2003 Loss and loss expense ratio 112.0 % 70.5 % 65.7 % Underwriting expense ratio 25.0 % 26.4 % 26.2 % Combined ratio 137.0 % 96.9 % 91.9 % The loss and loss expense ratio includes net losses incurred for both the current year and any adverse or favorable prior year development of loss and loss reserves held at the beginning of the year. The loss and loss expense ratio for the Insurance segment for the year ended December 31, 2005 increased compared with the year ended December 31, 2004, primarily reflecting the net losses of 947.0 million incurred in the property catastrophe and property lines of business as a result of Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma and the Other Cats combined with the impact of overall continued softening market conditions in 2005, losses of 834.2 million representing the unfavorable outcome of the independent actuarial process with WSIC and 185.8 million in net adverse prior year development. The loss and loss expense ratio for the Insurance segment for the year ended December 31, 2004 increased compared with the year ended December 31, 2003 primarily due to net hurricane losses of 298.3 million in the property and marine lines, combined with prior year reserve strengthening as discussed below, and losses and loss 71 expenses related to the South Asia Tsunami. Losses due to Hurricanes Charley, Frances, Ivan and Jeanne combined with the South Asia Tsunami increased the loss ratio for the year by 7.5% . The following tables present the prior year adverse or favorable development of the Companys gross and net loss and loss expense reserves for its insurance operations: Gross (U.S. dollars in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves at the beginning of the year 12,396 10,225 8,141 Net adverse development of those reserves during the year 286 1,674 1,017 Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves re estimated one year later 12,682 11,899 9,158 Net (U.S. dollars in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves at the beginning of the year 6,975 5,846 4,804 Net adverse development of those reserves during the year 1,020 292 153 Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves re estimated one year later 7,995 6,138 4,957 The Company did not change its methodology or key assumptions used in 2005, 2004 or 2003 to determine ultimate loss reserves for any line of insurance business written. Included in net adverse prior year development is the loss associated with the independent actuarial process with WSIC. The Independent Actuarys report concluded that WSICs submitted SNRA and NPRA were closest to the Independent Actuarys determinations of SNRA and NPRA. These determinations resulted in the Company receiving a net lump sum payment in the amount of approximately 575.0 million (including interest receivable) from WSIC. As the Company had recorded 1.4 billion in unpaid losses and loss expenses recoverable related to this protection, incurred losses of approximately 834.2 million were recorded in the fourth quarter of 2005. During 2005, the Insurance segments net adverse prior year development, excluding the impact of the result of the independent actuarial process, of 185.8 million was driven primarily by increases in reported case reserves for excess professional liability. Strengthening of 259.5 million in professional lines was caused primarily by the establishment of case reserves on both directors and officers claims in pre 2002 business, and errors and omissions claims. Strengthening of 34.7 million within other specialty lines was caused primarily by increases in reported losses for specialty lines of business currently in run off including certain Lloyds business, discontinued programs business, and surety. A net release of 112.5 million for global risk lines of business was driven by the reduction in case reserves for pre 2002 claims primarily relating to casualty business written out of Europe. During 2004, the segments net adverse development of 292.0 million was driven primarily by increases in reported case reserves for excess professional liability, excess casualty liability and specialty lines. These increases in reported case reserves exceeded the Companys expected losses based on historical patterns of loss development. Strengthening of 144.0 million in professional lines was caused by a few large directors and officers claims in pre 2002 business, while increases in errors and omissions reserves were caused by loss related to large accounting firms and insurance and reinsurance brokers. For specialty lines, strengthening of 135.0 million was caused by reported loss increases in discontinued programs business with workers compensation exposure, environmental related coverages, certain Lloyds business and high severity claims on the surety book. 72 During 2004 and 2003, the Companys net adverse development of its gross reserves greatly exceeded its net reserve adverse development due principally to an increase in prior year reserves related to Winterthur International. The Company had protection with respect to any adverse loss or premium development related to the acquired Winterthur International insurance operations with effect from July 1, 2001, under the SPA with WSIC, and recorded a recoverable of the same amount. There is no assurance that conditions and trends that have affected the development of liabilities in the past will continue. Accordingly, it is not appropriate to extrapolate future redundancies or deficiencies based on the Companys historical results. The underwriting expense ratio for the year ended December 31, 2005 decreased compared with the same period in 2004 as a result of a decrease in the operating expense ratio of 0.5 points (12.6% as compared to 13.1%) combined with a decrease in the acquisition expense ratio of 0.8 points (12.4% as compared to 13.2%) . The reduction in the operating expense ratio was due to productivity expense management initiatives and certain compensation cost adjustments. The reduction in the acquisition expense ratio was due primarily to a change in the commission structure with certain brokers, partially offset by the impact of ceded reinstatement premiums. The underwriting expense ratio for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the same period in 2003 increased slightly. The decrease in the acquisition expense ratio of 1.6 points (13.3% as compared to 14.9%) was offset by an increase in the operating expense ratio of 1.8 points (13.1% as compared to 11.3%) . The reduction in the acquisition expense ratio was due primarily to a change in the mix of business earned compared to the same period in the prior year and changes in the commission structure with certain brokers. The increase in the operating expense ratio was due primarily to the increased costs associated with supporting new business growth in the segment operations globally, including start up operations, an allocation of certain corporate expenses to the Insurance segment and the impact of foreign exchange movements. Reinsurance Reinsurance General Operations The following table summarizes the underwriting results for the general operations of the Reinsurance segment: % Change % Change (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2005 05 vs 04 2004 04 vs 03 2003 Gross premiums written 3,411,087 (1.3 )% 3,456,511 0.4 % 3,443,405 Net premiums written 2,776,006 (3.4 )% 2,874,115 0.3 % 2,865,040 Net premiums earned 2,770,941 (5.5 )% 2,933,145 18.4 % 2,478,134 Fee income and other (278 ) NM 223 (89.5 )% 2,121 Net losses and loss expenses 2,763,378 42.7 % 1,937,001 (12.9 )% 2,224,797 Acquisition costs 600,615 (7.4 )% 648,430 14.4 % 566,873 Operating expenses 155,095 (18.7 )% 190,750 29.2 % 147,667 Foreign exchange losses (gains) 33,144 NM (27,102 ) (12.0 )% (30,793 ) Underwriting (loss) profit (781,569 ) NM 184,289 NM (428,289 ) *NM Not meaningful Gross and net premiums written decreased by 1.3% and 3.4%, respectively, in the year ended December 31, 2005 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. Selective underwriting, rate reductions across most lines, and increased retentions by ceding companies, were partially offset by new proportional Lloyds treaties as well as significant written and ceded reinstatement premiums related to the 2005 catastrophes. Price reductions were most notable in casualty and professional lines. The rate improvements noted in late 2004 increased further subsequent to the 2005 Hurricane season in catastrophe exposed lines. Favorable foreign exchange movements also partially offset the decrease in gross premiums written. Net premiums written reflect the above gross changes. 73 Gross premiums written increased slightly for the year ended December 31, 2004 as compared to 2003. Most lines of business remained relatively flat as a result of rate decreases being offset by selective new premium volume growth. Casualty rates have remained stronger than the shorter tail lines of business. The high frequency of catastrophic events prompted some stabilization of rates in the property catastrophe business most impacted by the losses, namely in Florida, in the latter half of the year. In addition, the increasingly competitive market has resulted in the non renewal of certain Latin American property programs. Favorable foreign exchange movements also contributed 107.3 million to the growth in gross premiums written. Net premiums written reflect the above gross changes, together with higher retentions, offset by the effects of retrocessional reinstatement premiums and growth in certain large proportional programs that are largely retroceded. Net premiums earned in the year ended December 31, 2005 decreased 5.5% compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, due primarily to the earn out of the impact of rate pressures seen in gross premiums. Net premiums earned in 2004 increased 18.4% as compared to 2003 due primarily to the earning of net written premium growth over the last several years, most notably in casualty and professional lines of business. Net premiums earned for casualty and professional reinsurance lines combined were 1.2 billion in 2004 as compared to 971.2 million in 2003. The following table presents the underwriting ratios for this segment: 2005 2004 2003 Loss and loss expense ratio 99.7 % 66.0 % 89.8 % Underwriting expense ratio 27.3 % 28.6 % 28.8 % Combined ratio 127.0 % 94.6 % 118.6 % The loss and loss expense ratio includes net losses incurred for both the current year and any adverse or favorable prior year development of loss reserves held at the beginning of the year. The increase in the loss and loss expense ratio in the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to the same period in 2004, primarily reflected the effects of Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma combined with the Other Cats from which the Reinsurance segment incurred a combined 977.9 million of net losses. These natural catastrophes added 34.4% to the segment loss ratio for the year ended December 31, 2005. In addition, there was higher than expected adverse prior year development of 93.5 million relating to primarily U.S. casualty business partially offset by reserve releases in short tail lines, as discussed further below. The decrease in the loss and loss expense ratio for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the same period in 2003 was primarily due to the fact that 2003 included significant adverse prior period development related to the Companys North American casualty business. See further discussion below. The Reinsurance segment experienced losses in 2004 resulting from Hurricanes Charley, Frances, Ivan and Jeanne, from which the segment incurred a combined 268.3 million of net losses and loss expenses. In addition, the segment incurred net losses and loss expenses of 24.6 million as a result of the earthquake and tsunami in South Asia. These large catastrophe losses contributed 10.0% to the segment loss ratio for the year ended December 31, 2004. Catastrophe losses were partially offset by lower than expected incurred loss development in the year relating to shorter tail lines prior underwriting years and price improvements on earned premiums from prior periods. 74 The following tables present the adverse prior year development of the Companys gross and net loss and loss expense reserves for its reinsurance general operations: Gross (U.S. dollars in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves at the beginning of the year 7,226 6,454 5,179 Net (favorable) adverse development of those reserves during the year 85 (38 ) 854 Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves re estimated one year later 7,311 6,416 6,033 Net (U.S. dollars in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves at the beginning of the year 5,695 4,813 3,473 Net (favorable) adverse development of those reserves during the year 94 (24 ) 799 Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves re estimated one year later 5,789 4,789 4,272 During 2005, the Insurance segments net adverse prior year development of 1.02 billion includes the results of the independent actuarial process noted above. Excluding this development the remaining 185.8 million was driven primarily by increases in reported case reserves for excess professional liability. Strengthening of 259.5 million in professional lines was caused primarily by the establishment of case reserves on both directors and officers claims in pre 2002 business, and errors and omissions claims. Strengthening of 34.7 million within other specialty lines was caused primarily by increases in reported losses for specialty lines of business currently in run off including certain Lloyds business, discontinued programs business, and surety. A net release of 108.4 million for global risks lines of business was driven by the reduction in case reserves for pre 2002 claims primarily relating to casualty business written out of Europe. During 2005, net prior year reserves across the Reinsurance segment developed adversely by 93.5 million. Reserve strengthening of 266.9 million in casualty and professional lines was partially offset by releases in other lines of business of 173.4 million. The casualty strengthening is primarily attributable to workers compensation, umbrella liability and certain professional lines of business written in the Companys North American operations. The reserve releases relate primarily to the property line where releases of 135.6 million occurred across all business units globally in the 2002 to 2004 underwriting years. Releases also occurred in the marine and aviation classes of business across the reinsurance segment. The remainder of the strengthening in the casualty and professional lines reserves was driven by a small number of increases in reported claims in the other liability and errors and omissions lines of business in the pre 1997 underwriting years as well as recently reported claims in umbrella liability, errors and omissions and directors and officers lines of business in the 1997 2001 underwriting years. The professional lines claims activity arises largely from a limited number of cedents. This reserve increase was partially offset by favorable development in the 1997 2001 underwriting years in the medical malpractice business line. Activity in the post 2001 underwriting years relates primarily to certain large individual claims affecting a number of lines, including surety, umbrella liability and errors and omissions. During 2004, net prior year reserves across the Reinsurance segment developed favorably by 24 million. Releases of 144 million in the property, aviation, marine and other lines of business were partially offset by strengthening of casualty and accident and health reserves amounting to approximately 122 million. Property catastrophe and property other reserve releases totaled approximately 95 million net related primarily to the 2002 and 2003 underwriting years where loss experience has been exceptionally good for the property line. The strengthening of casualty reserves totaled 77 million and related most significantly to professional liability reserves which were strengthened by 32 million for Enron and Worldcom claims. The accident & health reserve strengthening of 45 million relates to a portfolio of business underwritten by certain of the Companys Lloyds syndicates. 75 During 2003, the Company increased its estimated reserves related to its reinsurance segment (excluding the September 11 event) by 996 million, of which approximately 877 million related primarily to the Companys North American reinsurance operations for casualty business underwritten during the 1997 through 2001 underwriting years. The main lines of business affected by this adverse development included general liability, medical malpractice, professional and surety lines. This adverse development was due to competitive market pressures on pricing during these underwriting years combined with an increase in the number and size of claims reported in recent years as a result of increases in court filings, corporate scandals, rising tort costs and settlement awards. Prior year reserves also developed adversely on certain other casualty business written in the 1998 through 2001 underwriting years outside of North America. These exposures were affected by trends similar to those as described above for the North American casualty reinsurance operations. The casualty exposures underwritten in these entities were much less than those of the North American operations, so the impact on the prior year reserves was relatively smaller. In the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company reduced aviation loss reserves related to the September 11 event by 197 million. This reduction in reserves was due to higher than expected levels of participation (97%) in the September 11 Victim Compensation Fund, a no fault compensation scheme funded by the U.S. Government, which closed on December 22, 2003. This resulted in a reduction of the estimated ultimate losses by the Company for this event. The segments reserving process includes a continuing evaluation of the potential impact on unpaid liabilities from exposure to asbestos and environmental claims, including related loss adjustment expenses. Liabilities are established to cover both known and incurred but not reported claims. A reconciliation of the opening and closing unpaid losses and loss expenses related to asbestos and environmental exposure claims related to business written prior to 1986 for the years indicated is as follows: Year Ended December 31 (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2005 2004 2003 Net unpaid losses and loss expenses at beginning of year 57,400 60,525 66,130 Net incurred losses and loss expenses (1,000 ) Less net paid losses and loss expenses 6,140 3,125 4,605 Net decrease in unpaid losses and loss expenses (6,140 ) (3,125 ) (5,605 ) Net unpaid losses and loss expenses at end of year 51,260 57,400 60,525 Unpaid losses and loss expenses recoverable at end of year 72,741 82,922 86,576 Gross unpaid losses and loss expenses at end of year 124,001 140,322 147,101 Incurred but not reported losses, net of reinsurance, included in the above table was 16.7 million at December 31, 2005, 22.5 million at December 31, 2004 and 27.0 million at December 31, 2003. Unpaid losses recoverable are net of potential uncollectible amounts. The Company utilizes industry standard asbestos and environmental claims models to estimate its ultimate liability for these exposures. The Company reviews its actual reported loss experience for asbestos and environmental claims for its 1985 and prior exposures annually. The actual loss experience was consistent with assumptions established and, therefore, there was no adverse prior year development of the Companys asbestos and environmental reserves in 2004 or 2005. The reserves for these exposures represented less than 1% of the Companys total unpaid loss and loss expense reserves at December 31, 2005. The Company believes it has made reasonable provision for its asbestos and environmental exposures and is unaware of any specific issues that would significantly affect its estimate for loss and loss expenses. For further information see Item 8, Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The decrease in the underwriting expense ratio in the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared with the year ended December 31, 2004, was due to a decrease in both the acquisition expense ratio and operating expense 76 ratio to 21.7% and 5.6%, respectively, as compared to 22.1% and 6.5%, respectively, for the year ended 2004. The decrease in the acquisition expense ratio was mainly due to decreased profit commissions, which resulted from the 2005 hurricane activity. The operating expense ratio decrease primarily reflects severance costs incurred during 2004 for reduction of staff as well as productivity expense management initiatives in 2005 and adjustments to certain 2005 compensation costs. The decrease in the underwriting expense ratio for the year ended December 31, 2004 as compared with 2003 was primarily due to a decrease in acquisition cost ratio driven by reduced profit commissions as a result of the years catastrophic losses. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in the operating expense ratio resulting from additional allocations of corporate expenses as well as the adverse impact of foreign exchange. Exchange losses in the year ended December 31, 2005 were mainly attributable to an overall strengthening in the value of the U.S. dollar against U.K. Sterling and the Euro in those operations unpaid losses in non U.S. dollar currencies. Exchange gains in 2004 and 2003 were mainly attributable to a decline in the value of the U.S. dollar against U.K. sterling and the Euro in Bermuda based operations that write business globally. Reinsurance Life and Annuity Operations The following table summarizes the net income from life and annuity operations of this segment: % Change % Change (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2005 05 vs 04 2004 04 vs 03 2003 Gross premiums written 2,274,520 62.8 % 1,397,516 90.5 % 733,649 Net premiums written 2,236,903 64.1 % 1,363,131 94.1 % 702,107 Net premiums earned 2,237,721 63.9 % 1,365,176 92.6 % 708,994 Fee income and other 320 NM 293 NM 1,368 Claims and policy benefits 2,479,364 67.5 % 1,480,535 87.1 % 791,454 Acquisition costs 59,018 20.9 % 48,830 33.3 % 36,636 Operating expenses 18,664 32.6 % 14,071 83.4 % 7,674 Net investment income 290,517 41.1 % 205,863 48.9 % 138,267 Foreign exchange losses (gains) 1,421 NM (499 ) 28.9 % (387 ) Interest (income) expense NM (6 ) NM Net (loss) income (29,909 ) NM 28,401 114.3 % 13,252 *NM Not meaningful Life and annuity gross and net premiums written, net premiums earned and claims and policy benefits in each of the three years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 included the assumption of the following long duration annuity portfolios: 1. Second and fourth quarters of 2005 A large U.K. immediate annuity portfolio contract bound representing 1.8 billion in net premiums earned and two smaller Irish immediate annuity portfolios amounted to 96.2 million. 2. Second and fourth quarters of 2004 Two large U.K. portfolio contracts, representing 995 million in net premiums earned and related claims and policy benefits. 3. Fourth quarter of 2003 two portfolios, one U.K. and one Irish, for a total of approximately 395.5 million in net premiums earned and related claims and policy benefits. The Company acquired cash and investment assets related to the future policy benefit reserves assumed at inception of these large contracts. While the Company expects to write more of these contracts, the frequency of these transactions will likely continue to be irregular. 77 Excluding these large contracts, net premiums earned in life and annuity reinsurance increased in 2005 compared with 2004 and 2004 compared with 2003, as the Company expanded its life and annuity reinsurance operations in Europe, and continues to bind additional regular premium term assurance contracts which generate ongoing premiums. Claims and policy benefits also increased significantly in 2005 as compared to 2004, as a result of the annuity payout liabilities accepted under the contracts noted above where investment assets were acquired with the assumption of the policy benefit reserves at the inception of the contract. In addition, 37.4 million in losses were recorded during the second quarter of 2005 related to certain novated blocks of U.S. based term life mortality reinsurance business as a result of the actuarially modeled impact of actual paid losses being greater than expected. In accordance with U.S. GAAP treatment for life business, a loss recognition test process was carried out to determine if expected future premiums would be sufficient to pay for expected future losses. This process led to managements decision to unlock the current policy benefit reserve ratio and record a loss. Acquisition costs increased in the year ended December 31, 2005 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2004 reflecting the write off of certain deferred costs of 25.9 million, including value of business assumed related to the U.S. mortality business noted above, as current profit projections did not support the recovery of the deferred costs booked in the prior year. Operating expenses increased in 2005 compared to 2004 due to build out of existing operations and start up costs of new life operations in the U.S. Net investment income has increased reflecting the increase in life business invested assets primarily arising from new large annuity contracts written since 2004. Net investment income is included in the calculation of net income from life and annuity operations as it relates to income earned on portfolios of separately identified and managed life investment assets and other allocated assets. The accretion of the related future policy benefit reserves is included in claims and policy benefits. Financial Products and Services Financial Products and Services Financial Operations The following table summarizes the underwriting results for this segment: % Change % Change (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2005 05 vs 04 2004 04 vs 03 2003 Gross premiums written 378,140 9.5 % 345,235 (4.2 )% 360,509 Net premiums written 356,445 9.5 % 325,662 (7.2 )% 350,845 Net premiums earned 254,136 11.0 % 228,898 17.2 % 195,344 Fee income and other 15,032 32.6 % 11,340 (54.9 )% 25,153 Net losses and loss expenses 106,072 (7.5 )% 114,633 14.1 % 100,435 Acquisition costs 30,075 (1.4 )% 30,498 11.4 % 27,384 Operating expenses 70,912 1.4 % 69,934 48.1 % 47,209 Foreign exchange (gains) losses 1,861 NM (3,170 ) NM 603 Underwriting profit (loss) 60,248 112.6 % 28,343 (36.8 )% 44,866 Net investment income financial guarantee 71,781 76.0 % 40,780 75.2 % 23,273 Net investment income structured products 313,936 80.2 % 174,241 55.7 % 111,873 Interest expense structured products 216,392 90.6 % 113,523 15.8 % 98,022 Operating expenses structured products 42,679 (15.0 )% 50,230 23.2 % 40,785 Net income from financial affiliates 10,866 (47.4 )% 20,668 (56.5 )% 47,478 Minority interest 8,431 (3.2 )% 8,708 (23.8 )% 11,424 Net results from derivatives 45,433 (8.2 )% 49,481 NM 7,983 Net contribution from financial operations 234,762 66.4 % 141,052 65.5 % 85,242 *NM Not meaningful 78 Increases in gross and net premiums written of 9.5% in 2005, as compared to 2004, were primarily due to additional premiums due in 2005 on a structured property and casualty policy, which incurred a loss related to Hurricane Katrina, as well as premiums from several new structured property and casualty policies written during the year. Financial guaranty premiums remained relatively flat in 2005, as compared to 2004. Decreases in gross and net premiums written of 4.2% and 7.2%, respectively, in 2004, as compared to 2003, were primarily due to lower financial guaranty premiums written, resulting from managements underwriting and pricing discipline during generally weaker market conditions in 2004. In addition, during 2004 there were fewer large up front premium contracts written, as compared with the prior year. Financial guaranty market conditions in 2004, as compared to 2003 were characterized by tighter credit spread compression, higher interest rates, increased competition and reduced public financing volume. Financial guaranty up front premiums are earned over the life of the insured debt obligations based on par amount of risk outstanding. Financial guaranty installment premiums are earned over the installment period. Premiums from structured property and casualty and political risk business are generally earned over the period of coverage. The following table provides a line of business breakdown of the Financial Products and Services segments net premiums earned: Year Ended December 31 (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2005 2004 2003 Financial Guaranty 173,133 183,422 154,133 Political Risk 25,906 27,938 28,886 Other (1) 55,097 17,538 12,325 254,136 228,898 195,344 (1) Includes structured property and casualty and alternative risk transfer products and weather and energy risk management products. The increase in net premiums earned of 11.0% during 2005, as compared to 2004, primarily resulted from additional premiums due in 2005 on a structured property and casualty policy which incurred a loss related to Hurricane Katrina, as well as new structured property and casualty business production in 2005, offset in part by lower earned premium in our financial guaranty line of business in 2005, as compared to 2004. The year over year decrease in earnings in our financial guaranty line of business was primarily attributable to 23.3 million of premium earnings recorded in 2004 relating to an insured project financing on which a full limit loss was recognized during the year (for further discussion see Net losses and loss expenses below). The increase in net premiums earned in 2004, as compared to the prior year, was primarily due to growth in the financial guaranty in force book of business, in conjunction with the acceleration of 23.3 million in premium earnings on the insured project financing discussed above (for further discussion see Net losses and loss expenses below). This increase was partially offset by the impact on earned premiums in 2003 related to the refunding of certain insured financings and certain short term contract enhancements. Net losses and loss expenses include current year net losses incurred and adverse or favorable development of prior year reserves for net losses and loss expenses. Net losses and loss expenses during 2005 decreased by 7.5%, as compared to 2004. This decrease primarily resulted from lower incurred losses in the Companys financial guaranty business of approximately 65.8 million due primarily to the absence of significant individual losses as compared to the prior year, as well as favorable development associated with the Companys unallocated loss reserves, partially offset by an increase in loss reserves in our structured property and casualty business of approximately 50.4 million that primarily resulted from a limit loss incurred under a contract related to Hurricane Katrina. Net losses and loss expenses in 2004 increased by 14.1% compared to 2003. The increase was primarily the result of a provision for losses in 2004 of approximately 41.7 million relating to the subordinate layer of an insured 79 project financing structure, as well as a net increase in unallocated reserves resulting from the growth in financial guaranty in force business, offset by a decrease in reserves in 2004, as compared to 2003, relating to non investment grade credit default swaps of approximately 37.4 million. For 2005, acquisition costs decreased by approximately 0.4 million. This decrease consisted of higher acquisition expenses in our guaranteed investment contract and funding agreement businesses, offset by lower acquisition expenses in our financial guaranty business. Lower acquisition expenses in our financial guaranty business were primarily the result of ceding proportionally more installment business relative to upfront business in 2005, as compared to 2004. Risk on installment business generally expires faster than that on upfront business, which resulted in a higher year over year amortization of deferred commissions. For 2004 acquisition costs decreased compared with 2003 reflecting a change in the average life of the financial guaranty in force book of business over which such costs are expensed. For 2005, net operating expenses, including non structured and structured products, were 113.6 million, a decrease of 6.6 million from 120.2 million in 2004. The favorable movement was mostly attributable to a reduction in compensation expense and professional fees. For 2004, net operating expenses, including non structured and structured products, increased by 32.2 million to 120.2 million from 88.0 million for 2003 due primarily to the investment in segment infrastructure and continued build out of the financial products platform as well as an increase in the allocation of certain corporate expenses. Net investment income related to the financial guaranty business increased by 76.0% in 2005, as compared to 2004, due primarily to higher average invested assets resulting from net cash inflows from operations and a 125.0 million capital infusion during the fourth quarter of 2004. In addition, 16.3 million in investment income (including a special one time dividend paid in 2005 of 9.9 million) relates to the Companys investment in Financial Security Assurance International Ltd. (FSAI). The special dividend was paid in connection with the redemption of the Companys investment in FSAI during December of 2005. Prior to October 1, 2004, this investment in FSAI was accounted for under the equity method and reported the associated results thereof in Net income from financial and investment affiliates. Effective October 1, 2004, the Company changed the accounting for its investment in FSAI from the equity method to FSAB 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities to conform to the requirements of EITF 02 14 Whether an Investor Should Apply the Equity Method of Accounting to Investments Other Than Common Stock (EITF 02 14). Accordingly, beginning October 1, 2004 the only earnings recognized by the Company on its investment in FSAI were dividends that were reported in investment income. Net investment income related to the financial guaranty business increased by 75.2% in 2004, as compared to 2003, due primarily to higher average invested assets resulting from net cash inflows from operations and a 100.0 million capital infusion to this business in the fourth quarter of 2003. Net investment income related to structured products increased by 80.2% in 2005, as compared to 2004, primarily as a result of a significant increase in average funding agreement and guaranteed investment contract deposits from 2.8 billion in 2004 to 4.9 billion in 2005. Similarly, net investment income related to structured products increased 55.7% in 2004, as compared to 2003, due to an increase in average funding agreement and guaranteed investment contract deposits from 1.1 billion in 2003 to 2.8 billion in 2004. Interest expense on structured products relates to deposit liabilities associated with funding agreements, guaranteed investment contracts and certain structured property and casualty contracts. The increase in interest expense during 2005, as compared to 2004, related primarily to the increase in the average funding agreement and guaranteed investment contract deposits in 2005 discussed above, partially offset by reduced interest expense on certain structured property and casualty contracts resulting from a change in the timing of estimated future cash outflows from such contracts during 2005. Net income from financial affiliates includes earnings on the Companys investment in Primus Guaranty, Ltd (Primus) and certain of the Companys investment affiliates, which are accounted for under the equity method. The decrease in such earnings in 2005, as compared to 2004, was due primarily to a decrease in earnings from Primus, as 80 well as the change in accounting related to the Companys investment in FSAI to conform with the requirements of EITF 02 14 as discussed above. Primus specializes in providing credit risk protection through credit derivatives. Net income from financial affiliates also decreased in 2004, as compared to 2003, due primarily to the Companys investment in Primus. Primus had a mark to market adjustment in 2004, which was less favorable than that recorded in 2003. This decrease was partially offset by income from the sale of a portion of the Companys investment in Primus, in connection with the initial public offering of Primus in the fourth quarter of 2004. Minority interest in 2005 is consistent with 2004. The decrease in minority interest in 2004, as compared to 2003, reflects the fact that the minority interest holders return on investment is contractually capped. The minority interest relates to an equity position in XL Financial Assurance Ltd., which is held by a third party. Net results from structured derivatives represent changes in the market value of the segments insured credit derivative portfolio, as well as results from its weather and energy derivative business and certain structured financial risk management products. Net results from structured derivatives decreased 8.2% in 2005, as compared to 2004. Results in 2005 primarily consist of (i) 8.2 million of unrealized gains resulting from the reclassification to net losses and loss expenses of an incurred loss on a credit default swap, (ii) an 18.6 million gain on the settlement of a structured market risk management derivative product tied to a housing price index, and (iii) 17.8 million net realized and unrealized gains in the weather and energy business. Results in 2004 primarily consist of (i) net unrealized gains on the credit derivative portfolio of 44.2 million resulting primarily from tightening credit spreads during the year, (ii) 3.3 million of net realized and unrealized gains on the structured financial derivative business, and (iii) 2.0 million of net realized and unrealized gains in the weather and energy business. Investment Activities The following table illustrates the change in net investment income from general operations, net income from investment affiliates, net realized gains and losses on investments and net realized and unrealized gains and losses on investment derivatives for each of the three years ended December 31: % Change % Change (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2005 05 vs 04 2004 04 vs 03 2003 Net investment income general operations 798,805 30.1 % 614,128 13.3 % 542,074 Net income from investment affiliates (1) 149,032 28.3 % 116,161 7.1 % 108,476 Net realized gains (losses) on investments 241,882 (1.9 )% 246,547 105.1 % 120,195 Net realized and unrealized gains (losses) on investment derivative instruments (2) (16,575 ) NM 24,012 NM (1,910 ) *NM Not meaningful (1) Net income from investment affiliates in 2004 and 2005 reflect the twelve months to November 30, 2004 and 2005, as compared to the eleven months ended November 30, 2003. The Company records the investment affiliates on a one month lag in order for the Company to meet the accelerated filing deadlines as specified by the SEC. (2) For a summary of realized and unrealized gains and losses on all derivative instruments, see Item 8, Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Net investment income related to general operations increased in 2005 as compared to 2004 primarily due to growth in the investment base, as well as increases in the yield of the portfolio. The growth in the investment base reflected the Companys cash flow from operations. The Company also received a distribution associated with the unwinding of a collateral debt obligation, which resulted in a one time benefit to investment income. In addition, the Company received investment income of 25.3 million on related to the conclusion of the independent actuarial process with WSIC. The Companys total investments available for sale and cash and cash equivalents less net pending payable for investments purchased was 38.8 billion at December 31, 2005 as compared to 29.8 billion at December 31, 2004. This increase of 9.0 billion includes (i) cash flow from financing activities of 3.2 billion in the fourth quarter of 81 2005, (ii) cash flow of 2.0 billion from spread product transactions and (iii) cash flow from operations of 4.2 billion. The annualized effective yield of the total investment portfolio (excluding non recurring items) was 4.1% for 2005 as compared to 3.8% for 2004, a 0.3% increase. The increase in the effective yield of the total investment portfolio was primarily due to general interest rate increases in the U.S. It is expected that net investment income in 2006 will increase due to projected increases in investments resulting from the full year effect of investing proceeds from the December 2005 capital raise, and monies received from conclusion of the independent actuarial process with WSIC, as well as anticipated increases in market yields on reinvestment of existing assets and investment of new cash flows. However, actual market changes in interest rates could offset or supplement the effects of cash flow. For a further discussion see Liquidity and Capital Resources. Net income from investment affiliates includes earnings from the Companys investments in closed end investment funds and partnerships and similar vehicles that are equity accounted. Net income from investment affiliates increased in 2005 as compared to 2004 primarily due to a strong result in private equity portfolios due to a series of positive liquidity events, with continued good returns on the alternative portfolios. Investment Performance The Company manages its investment grade fixed income securities using an asset/liability management framework. Due to the unique nature of the underlying liabilities, customized benchmarks are used to measure investment performance and comparison to standard market indices is not meaningful. Investment performance is not monitored for certain assets primarily consisting of operating cash and special regulatory deposits. The following is a summary of the investment portfolio returns for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 of the general account asset/liability portfolio, structured and spread product portfolio and risk asset portfolios. 2005 (1) 2004 (1) General Account Asset/Liability Portfolio USD fixed income portfolio 2.2 % 3.5 % Non USD fixed income portfolio (0.5 )% 10.0 % Structured and Spread Product Portfolio USD fixed income portfolio 3.6 % 4.8 % Non USD fixed income portfolio 10.2 % 9.1 % Risk Asset Portfolio Alternative portfolio 7.5 % 8.2 % Equity portfolio 13.9 % 18.0 % High Yield fixed income portfolio 3.1 % 6.9 % (1) Portfolio returns are calculated by dividing the sum of the net investment income or net income from investment affiliates, realized gains (losses) and unrealized gains (losses) by the average market value of each portfolio. Non U.S. dollar fixed income performance is measured in either the underlying currency or in U.S. dollars. Net realized gains and losses on investments and other than temporary declines in the value of investments The Companys investment portfolio is classified as available for sale. Realized investment gains and losses occur through the normal turnover of the Companys investment portfolio. Realized investment losses include impairment charges relating to declines in value of securities that are considered to be other than temporary. See Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates for further information. In 2005, net realized gains on investments were 241.9 million which includes 250.8 million of gross realized losses on fixed income and 54.1 million of gross realized losses on equity securities. Gross realized losses in 2005 82 included 53.2 million of provisions for declines in fair value considered to be other than temporary. In the U.S., the general level of corporate defaults was stable. For example, Moodys Investors Service, Inc. (Moodys) reported that 31 issuers defaulted in 2005 compared with 34 issuers in 2004 and 77 issuers in 2003. The Companys exposure to these defaults was limited in both 2005 and 2004, compared to 2003, resulting in a reduction in the write down for other than temporary declines. As a percentage of the total fixed income portfolio, the write down for other than temporary declines was 0.1% in 2005 as compared to a negligible amount in 2004 and 0.6% in 2003. In 2004, net realized gains on investments were 246.5 million which includes 265.9 million of gross realized losses on fixed income and 48.8 million of gross realized losses on equity securities. Gross realized losses in 2004 included 6.4 million of provisions for declines in fair value considered to be other than temporary. In 2003, net realized gains on investments were 120.2 million, which included 344.8 million of gross realized losses on fixed income and 162.5 million of gross realized losses on equity securities. Gross realized losses in 2003 included 130.7 million of provisions for declines in fair value considered to be other than temporary. With respect to those securities that were sold at a loss during the year ended December 31, 2005, the following is an analysis of the period of time that those securities had been in a continual unrealized loss position, the amount of the realized loss recorded in the Companys results of operations as of the sale date and the amount of the impairment charge taken in the year: Length of time in a continual unrealized loss position Fixed Income Equity (U.S. dollars in thousands) Securities Securities Less than 6 months 149,305 40,903 At least 6 months but less than 12 months 22,049 5,073 At least 12 months but less than 2 years 29,582 1,923 At least 2 years 2,664 214 Total gross realized loss from sales 203,600 48,113 Impairment charges for declines in value considered to be other than temporary 47,239 5,968 Total gross realized loss 250,839 54,081 With respect to those investment securities that were sold at a loss during the year ended December 31, 2004, the following is an analysis of the period of time that those securities had been in a continual unrealized loss position, the amount of the realized loss recorded in the Companys results of operations as of the sale date and the amount of the impairment charge taken in the year: Length of time in a continual unrealized loss position Fixed Income Equity (U.S. dollars in thousands) Securities Securities Less than 6 months 220,127 37,893 At least 6 months but less than 12 months 22,686 5,688 At least 12 months but less than 2 years 11,877 3,342 At least 2 years 7,020 Total gross realized loss from sales 261,710 46,923 Impairment charges for declines in value considered to be other than temporary 4,144 1,870 Total gross realized loss 265,854 48,793 The Companys process for identifying declines in the fair value of investments that are other than temporary involves consideration of several factors, as discussed under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. 83 During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company realized losses of 250.8 million and 54.1 million upon the sale of fixed income securities and equity securities, respectively, that had been in an unrealized loss position for greater than twelve months. During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company realized losses of 18.9 million and 3.3 million upon the sale of fixed income securities and equity securities, respectively, that had been in an unrealized loss position for greater than twelve months. The decisions to sell these securities were made by the Companys investment managers based upon a change in market conditions and other factors (these decisions were independent of the Companys previously stated intent and ability to hold such securities). Net realized and unrealized gains on investment derivatives result from the Companys investment strategy to economically hedge against interest and foreign exchange risk within the investment portfolio. For a further discussion see Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and Liquidity and Capital Resources. Unrealized losses on investments At December 31, 2005, there were 312.7 million of gross unrealized losses on fixed income and short term investments, and 8.8 million of gross unrealized losses on equity securities. At December 31, 2004, there were 119.7 million of gross unrealized losses on fixed income and short term investments, and 7.2 million of gross unrealized losses on equity securities. These losses include securities below investment grade, as discussed below. The information shown below about the unrealized losses on the Companys investments at December 31, 2005 and 2004, concerns the potential effect upon future earnings and financial position should management later conclude that some of the current declines in the fair value of these investments are other than temporary declines. The following is an analysis of the length of time each of those investment securities at December 31, 2005 and 2004 had been in a continual unrealized loss position: Amount of Amount of Type of Securities Length of time in a continual unrealized loss at unrealized loss at (U.S. dollars in thousands) unrealized loss position December 31, 2005 December 31, 2004 Fixed Income and Short Term Less than six months 139,130 43,383 At least 6 months but less than 12 months 90,448 46,613 At least 12 months but less than 2 years 75,898 29,453 2 years or more 7,245 217 Total 312,721 119,666 Equities Less than six months 6,545 3,067 At least 6 months but less than 12 months 2,275 2,287 At least 12 months but less than 2 years 1,862 Total 8,820 7,216 At December 31, 2005, the total gross unrealized losses represented approximately 9,100 fixed income securities out of a total of approximately 17,300 and approximately 400 equity securities out of a total of approximately 1,800. At December 31, 2004, the total gross unrealized losses represented approximately 5,100 fixed income securities out of a total of approximately 15,300, and approximately 200 equity securities out of a total of approximately 1,600. As discussed under Item 1, Investments Investment Structure and Strategy, the Company operates a risk asset portfolio that includes high yield (below investment grade) fixed income securities. These securities are more sensitive to credit risk than investment grade securities. At December 31, 2005, approximately 2.4% of the Companys fixed income investment portfolio was invested in securities that were below investment grade or not rated. Approximately 4.3% of the unrealized losses in the Companys fixed income securities portfolio at December 31, 2005, related to securities that were below investment grade or not rated. At December 31, 2004, approximately 4.6% 84 of the Companys fixed income investment portfolio was invested in securities that were below investment grade or not rated. Approximately 5.8% of the unrealized losses in the Companys fixed income securities portfolio at December 31, 2004, related to securities that were below investment grade or not rated. The following is an analysis of the length of time each of those below investment grade and unrated securities had been in a continual unrealized loss position at the date indicated. Amount of Amount of Length of time in a continual unrealized loss position unrealized loss at unrealized loss at (U.S. dollars in thousands) December 31, 2005 December 31, 2004 Less than six months 9,471 4,768 At least 6 months but less than 12 months 2,753 1,764 At least 12 months but less than 2 years 1,086 358 At least 2 years but less than 3 years 75 106 Total 13,385 6,996 Of the gross unrealized investment losses on the fixed income and short term investments portfolio at December 31, 2005 of 312.7 million, approximately 118.8 million related to corporate fixed income securities. Within the corporate fixed income securities, approximately 55.3% of the losses were in the financial sector, 9.8% in the communications sector, 9.4% in the consumer non cyclical sector, and 5.6% in the consumer cyclical sector. No other sector was greater than 5%. The largest unrealized loss in the fixed income portfolio was 5.0 million. No equity securities held by the Company at December 31, 2005 were in a continual unrealized loss position for at least 12 months. The largest individual unrealized loss in the equity portfolio was 0.3 million. Of the 119.7 million gross unrealized investment losses on the fixed income and short term investments portfolio at December 31, 2004, approximately 45.2 million related to corporate fixed income securities. Within the corporate fixed income securities, approximately 43.8% of the losses were in the financial sector, 11.0% in the communications sector, 8.4% in the utilities sector, 8.2% in the consumer, non cyclical sector and 7.1% in the consumer cyclical sector. No other sector was greater than 5%. The largest individual unrealized loss in the fixed income portfolio was 4.9 million. Approximately 20 equity securities held by the Company with total unrealized losses of approximately 2.0 million at December 31, 2004, were in a continual unrealized loss position for at least 12 months. The largest individual unrealized loss in the equity portfolio was 1.0 million. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the following table sets forth the maturity profile of the fixed income securities (excluding short term) that were in a gross unrealized loss position: Maturity profile in years of fixed income Amount of Amount of securities in a continual unrealized loss position unrealized loss at unrealized loss at (U.S. dollars in thousands) December 31, 2005 December 31, 2004 At least 1 year but less than 5 years remaining 88,876 35,880 At least 5 years but less than 10 years remaining 69,844 19,220 More than 10 years but less than 20 years remaining 5,435 11,908 At least 20 years or more remaining 18,358 6,665 Mortgage and asset backed securities 120,046 41,176 Total 302,559 114,849 85 Other Revenues and Expenses The following table sets forth other revenues and expenses of the general operations of the Company for each of the three years ended December 31: % Change % Change (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2005 05 vs 04 2004 04 vs 03 2003 Net income from operating affiliates 62,371 (53.6 )% 134,535 NM 27,831 Amortization of intangible assets 10,752 (32.1 )% 15,827 NM 4,637 Corporate operating expenses 176,909 (10.0 )% 196,648 35.5 % 145,085 Interest expense general operations 187,457 4.9 % 178,717 31.5 % 135,907 Minority interest (221 ) (31.2 )% (321 ) NM Income tax expense 49,284 (46.0 )% 91,343 NM 31,455 *NM Not meaningful In 2005, net income from operating affiliates declined over 2004, which resulted from the fact that the 2004 results included proceeds from the sale of two affiliates, as described below. The results of the Companys investment management affiliates showed good underlying growth in 2005 due to good investment performance and growth in assets managed by these minority owned managers. In 2004, the increase in net income from operating affiliates included strong performance by the Companys investment management affiliates combined with income of 66.7 million on the sale of the Companys investment in the Admiral Group Ltd. and 35.4 million of income from the sale of the Companys stake in Pareto Partners L.P. and its affiliated companies, as well as strong growth in assets managed by these minority owned managers. Net income from operating affiliates in 2003 included an other than temporary decline of 40.9 million in the value of the Companys investment in Annuity and Life Reinsurance Company. The investment was written down to its fair value of 2.2 million at March 31, 2003. See Item 8, Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Amortization of intangible assets decreased in 2005 as a result of certain intangible assets that were fully amortized during the year. Amortization of intangible assets increased in 2004 as compared to 2003 due primarily to the acquisition of a book of business related to XL Re Europe at the end of 2003. Corporate operating expenses in 2005 decreased by 10.0% primarily as a result of Company wide cost reduction efforts combined with reduced compensation costs and partially offset by increased legal costs. Corporate operating expenses in 2004 increased 35.5% compared to 2003 due to the continued build out of the Companys global infrastructure and personnel in developing its network of shared service organizations to support operations in certain locations, costs related to compliance with the Sarbanes Oxley Act, and adverse foreign exchange impacts. Interest expense includes costs related to the Companys debt and collateral facilities as well as deposit liability accretion. The increase in interest expense primarily reflected the increase in average outstanding debt for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 2004. For more information on the Companys financial structure, see Liquidity and Capital Resources. In 2004, interest expense has increased primarily as a result of the additional interest related to the senior notes issued in March, August and November of 2004, partially offset by the reduced interest as a result of the redemption of the Liquid Yield Option Notes and Zero Coupon Convertible Debentures during that year. The change in the Companys income taxes in each of the three years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 principally reflects the effects of changes in the profitability of the U.S. and European operations for each year. Income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2005 decreased from 2004, due primarily to losses incurred in the Companys U.S. operations as a result of the 2005 catastrophe activity. A significant proportion of the loss reserve increases are captured in non U.S. subsidiaries where no tax relief is available. 86 The deferral of tax losses is evaluated based upon the future profitability of the Companys taxable entities and, under current projections, the Company anticipates using this asset. The Companys net deferred tax asset at December 31, 2005 was 318.4 million, which consists primarily of net operating losses generated by subsidiaries in the U.S. and U.K. Should the taxable income of these entities fall below expectations, a further valuation allowance may have to be established, which could be significant. In addition, if any further losses are generated by these entities, these losses may not be tax effected. See Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Item 8, Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Investments The primary objective of the investment strategy is to support the liabilities arising from the operations of the Company, generate stable investment income and to build book value for the Company over the longer term. The strategy strives to maximize investment returns while taking into account market and credit risk. The Companys overall investment portfolio is structured to take into account a number of variables including local regulatory requirements, business needs, collateral management and risk tolerance. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, total investments and cash and cash equivalents were 41.2 billion and 32.1 billion, respectively. The following table summarizes the composition of the Companys invested assets at December 31, 2005 and 2004: Market Value Percent of Market Value Percent of (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2005 Total 2004 Total Cash and cash equivalents 3,693,475 9.0 % 2,203,726 6.9 % Net payable for investments purchased (639,034 ) (1.6 )% (273,535 ) (0.9 )% Fixed maturities U.S. Government and Government agency 4,497,004 10.9 % 4,112,075 12.8 % Corporate 13,292,892 32.2 % 11,349,847 35.4 % Mortgage and asset backed securities 11,652,106 28.3 % 6,928,558 21.6 % U.S. States and political subdivisions of the States 71,193 0.2 % 63,056 0.2 % Non U.S. Sovereign Government 2,796,370 6.8 % 2,646,658 8.2 % Total fixed maturities 32,309,565 78.4 % 25,100,194 78.2 % Short term investments 2,546,073 6.2 % 1,760,714 5.5 % Total equity securities 868,801 2.1 % 962,920 3.0 % Investments in affiliates 2,046,721 5.0 % 1,936,852 6.0 % Other investments 399,417 0.9 % 405,737 1.3 % Total investments and cash and cash equivalents 41,225,018 100.0 % 32,096,608 100.0 % The Company reviews on a regular basis its corporate debt concentration, credit quality and compliance with established guidelines. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the average credit quality of the Companys total fixed income portfolio was AA. At December 31, 2005 approximately 57.2% of the fixed income portfolio was rated AAA by one or more of the principal ratings agencies. Approximately 2.4% was below investment grade or not rated. Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses Unpaid losses and loss expenses include reserves on the Companys general and financial operations and relates primarily to the casualty insurance and reinsurance business written by the Company. The balance was 23.8 billion at December 31, 2005, which is an increase of 4.0 billion from December 31, 2004. The increase was due primarily to 3.8 billion in gross losses from catastrophe activity in 2005. 87 The table below represents a reconciliation of the Companys general and financial operations unpaid losses and loss expenses for the year ended December 31, 2005: Gross unpaid Unpaid losses and Net unpaid losses losses and loss loss expenses and loss (U.S. dollars in thousands) expenses recoverable expenses Balance at December 31, 2004 19,837,669 (6,962,131 ) 12,875,538 Losses and loss expenses incurred 9,591,539 (2,126,538 ) 7,465,001 Losses and loss expenses paid/recovered (4,839,737 ) 2,229,971 (2,609,766 ) Other (including foreign exchange revaluation) (821,799 ) 446,050 (375,749 ) Balance at December 31, 2005 23,767,672 (6,412,648 ) 17,355,024 While the Company reviews the adequacy of established reserves for unpaid losses and loss expenses regularly, no assurance can be given that actual claims made and payments related thereto will not be in excess of the amounts reserved. In the future, if such reserves develop adversely, such deficiency would have a negative impact on future results of operations. See Item 1, Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses, Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Item 8, Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses Recoverable and Reinsurance Balances Receivable In the normal course of business, the Company seeks to reduce the potential amount of loss arising from claims events by reinsuring certain levels of risk assumed in various areas of exposure with other insurers or reinsurers. While reinsurance agreements are designed to limit the Companys losses from large exposures and permit recovery of a portion of direct unpaid losses, reinsurance does not relieve the Company of its ultimate liability to the Companys insureds. Accordingly, the losses and loss expense reserves on the balance sheet represent the Companys total unpaid gross losses. Unpaid losses and loss expense recoverable relates to estimated reinsurance recoveries on the unpaid loss and loss expense reserves. Unpaid losses and loss expense recoverables were 6.4 billion and 7.0 billion at December 31, 2005, and 2004, respectively. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, reinsurance balances receivable were 1.0 and 1.1 billion, respectively. The table below presents the Companys net reinsurance recoverable at December 31, 2005 and 2004. December 31, December 31, (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2005 2004 Reinsurance balances receivable 1,069,402 1,097,709 Reinsurance recoverable on future policy benefits 28,874 8,291 Reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses recoverable 6,646,972 7,241,774 Bad debt reserve on unpaid losses and loss expenses recoverable and reinsurance balances receivable (260,713 ) (280,679 ) Net paid and unpaid losses and loss expenses recoverable and reinsurance balances receivable 7,484,535 8,067,095 The Company has credit risk should any of its reinsurers be unable or unwilling to settle amounts due. Of the 7.5 billion total unpaid losses and loss expenses recoverable and reinsurance balances receivable at December 31, 2005, no individual reinsurer accounted for 10% or more of the total. The Company is the beneficiary of letters of credit, trust accounts and funds withheld in the aggregate amount of 2.1 billion at December 31, 2005, collateralizing reinsurance recoverables with respect to certain reinsurers. The provision for uncollectible reinsurance is required principally due to the failure of reinsurers to indemnify the Company primarily because of disputes under reinsurance contracts and insolvencies. As at December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company had a reserve for potential non recoveries from reinsurers of 260.7 million and 280.7 million, respectively. 88 Included in unpaid loss and loss expenses recoverable at December 31, 2004, was an unsecured reinsurance recoverable from WSIC of 1.45 billion, related to certain contractual arrangements in the SPA entered into in connection with the Companys acquisition of Winterthur International in July 2001. This balance was settled in 2005 for 575 million, resulting in a loss of 808.9 million, net of interest received. Under the terms of the SPA, WSIC provides the Company with protection with respect to third party reinsurance receivables and recoverables related to the acquisition of certain Winterthur International insurance operations (the Winterthur Business), which were approximately 1.6 billion, in the aggregate, as of December 31, 2005. There are two levels of protection for these balances: 1. At the time of the Winterthur International acquisition, WSIC provided to the Company a liquidity facility. At the time of the payment of the net reserve seasoned amount on December 12, 2005, the Company exercised its right to repay up to the balances outstanding on this facility by assignment to WSIC of an equal amount of receivables relating to reinsurance recoverables selected by the Company. During December 2005, the Company assigned 265.4 million of receivables to WSIC under this arrangement, although WSIC has disputed the assignment of certain of these receivables. 2. Under two retrocession agreements the Company has reinsurance protection on the reinsurance recoverables with respect to the Seasoned Net Reserves Amount determined as of June 30, 2004, to the extent that the Company does not receive payment of such amounts from applicable reinsurers with one agreement providing a limit of 1.3 billion for the insurance written in the period to June 30, 2001, and the other agreement providing a limit of 1.3 billion for the insurance written in the period to December 31, 2000. At December 31, 2005, certain reinsurers responsible for some portions of the reinsurance of the acquired Winterthur Business have raised issues as to whether amounts claimed are due and discussions are currently ongoing to achieve a resolution. Approximately 76% of the total unpaid loss and loss expense recoverable and reinsurance balances receivable (excluding collateral held) outstanding at December 31, 2005, were due from reinsurers rated A or better by S&P. The following is an analysis of the total recoverable and reinsurance balances receivable at December 31, 2005, by reinsurers owing more than 3% of such total: Standard and Name of reinsurer Poors rating % of total Lloyds Syndicates A/Stable 7.97 % Swiss Reinsurance Co. AA/ Watch Negative 7.11 % Employers Reinsurance Corp. A/Stable 6.76 % Munich Reinsurance Co. A+/Stable 6.53 % Transatlantic Reinsurance Company AA /Stable 3.61 % National Indemnity Co. AAA/Stable 3.58 % 89 The following table sets forth the ratings profile of the reinsurers that support the unpaid loss and loss expense recoverable and reinsurance balances receivable net of security noted above. Standard and Poors rating % of total AAA 6.4 % AA 27.4 % A 44.1 % BBB 1.1 % BB and below 1.0 % Captives 13.2 % Not Rated 2.4 % Other 4.4 % Total 100 % Liquidity and Capital Resources As a holding company, the Companys assets consist primarily of its investments in subsidiaries, and the Companys future cash flows depend upon the availability of dividends or other statutorily permissible payments from its subsidiaries. The ability to pay such dividends is limited by the applicable laws and regulations of the various countries in which the Company operates, including, among others, Bermuda, the United States, Ireland, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and those of the Society of Lloyds and certain contractual provisions. See Item 8, Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. No assurance can be given that the Company or its subsidiaries will be permitted to pay dividends in the future. Liquidity Certain business written by the Company has loss experience generally characterized as having low frequency and high severity. This may result in volatility in both the Companys results and operational cash flows. See Item 8 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. There are three main sources of cash flows for the Company those provided by operations, investing activities and financing activities. Cash Flow provided by Operations Cash flow from operations is derived from two main sources: 1) The receipt of investment income on the Companys total investment portfolio; and 2) The net receipt of premiums less claims and expenses related to its underwriting activities in general, life and annuity and financial operations. Cash flow from operations was 4.2 billion in 2005, as compared to 4.4 billion in 2004. The decrease in 2005 is due primarily to cash payments on catastrophe losses during 2005, partially offset by the receipt of a net lump sum payment of 575.0 million from WSIC, related to the conclusion of the independent actuarial process and an increase in the receipt of investment income in line with increasing interest rates and the growth of the investment portfolio. Net cash received from underwriting activities is comprised of receipt of premiums, minus payment of claims and operating and acquisition costs. Premiums and acquisition expenses are settled based on terms of trade as stipulated by an underwriting contract, and generally are received within the first year of inception of a policy when the premium is written, but can be up to three years on certain reinsurance business assumed. Operating expenses are generally paid within a year of being incurred. Claims especially for casualty business, may take a much longer time before they are reported and ultimately settled and this is why the Company establishes reserves for unpaid losses and 90 loss expenses. Therefore, the amount of claims paid in any one year is not necessarily related to the amount of net losses incurred, as reported in the consolidated statement of income. During 2005, 2004 and 2003, the total amounts of net losses paid for general and financial operations were 2.6 billion, 3.1 billion and 2.9 billion, respectively, whereas the amount of net losses incurred was 7.4 billion, 4.9 billion and 4.7 billion, respectively. The decrease in net paid losses in 2005, is due to the receipt of a net lump sum payment of approximately 575 million related to the conclusion of the independent actuarial process with WSIC, partially offset by payments on 2005 Atlantic hurricane losses. The payout of the Companys casualty reserves at December 31, 2005, could be as long as a thirty year period. Property claims are generally reported and settled within a much shorter period, usually up to three years. Cash Flow used in Investing Activities Generally, positive cash flow from operations and financing activities is invested in the Companys portfolio, including affiliates or acquisition of subsidiaries. Investing activities in 2005, were primarily related to the renewal purchase and sale of portfolio investments. In 2004, in addition to purchases and sales of the Companys total investment portfolio, the Company sold its interests in Admiral Group Ltd and Pareto Partners L.P. and its affiliated companies for 66.7 million and 45.1 million, respectively. In 2003, in addition to purchases and sales of the Companys total investment portfolio, the Company had the following significant investment cash flows: 1) In September 2003, the Company exercised its option and settled the related Euro liability to purchase the remaining 33% ownership of Le Mans R&eacute;, now known as XL Re Europe, for approximately 161 million. See Item 8, Note 5(a) to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 2) In December 2003, the Company received 75.4 million relating to the agreement reached with WSIC as to the final purchase price for Winterthur International. See Item 8, Note 5(b) to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 3) In July 2003, the Company acquired new offices in London for its London headquarters. The acquisition was by a purchase, sale and leaseback transaction resulting in net cash received of 45.3 million, which was recorded as a deferred liability at December 31, 2003. The Company also recorded a capitalized lease asset and liability of approximately 150.0 million related to this transaction and there were no significant capital expenditures for leasehold improvements during 2003. See Item 8, Note 18(d) to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Cash Flow provided by Financing Activities Cash flows related to financing activities include the payment of dividends, share related transactions, the issue or repayment of debt and deposit liability transactions. In 2005 and 2004, the Company received 2.0 billion and 1.5 billion of net cash relating to new deposit liability contracts. In 2005, dividends paid were 276.7 million for ordinary shares and 40.3 million for preferred shares. In addition, in the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 the Company executed a number of debt and equity transactions which affect the cash flow from financing activities described below in Capital Resources. Capital Resources In addition to ordinary share capital, the Company depends on external sources of financing to support its underwriting activities in the form of: a. ordinary share capital, b. debt, 91 c. preference shares, d. contingent capital, and e. letters of credit facilities and other sources of collateral. In particular, the Company requires, among other things: Sufficient capital to maintain its financial strength, claims paying and debt ratings, as issued by several ratings agencies, at levels considered necessary by management to enable the Companys key operating subsidiaries to compete. Sufficient capital to enable its underwriting subsidiaries to meet the capital adequacy tests performed by statutory agencies in the U.S., the U.K., and other key markets. Letters of credit and other forms of collateral that are required by the Companys non U.S. operating companies that are non admitted under U.S. state insurance regulations. The Company also uses letters of credit to support its operations at Lloyds. Revolving credit to meet short term liquidity needs. The Companys principal credit facilities are multi year transactions with maturities in 2007 and 2010, however, the Company has other credit facilities that will expire in 2006. The following risks are associated with the Companys requirement to renew these facilities during 2006: The credit available from banks may be reduced resulting in the Companys need to pledge its investment portfolio to customers. This could result in a lower investment yield. The volume of business that the Companys non admitted subsidiaries are able to transact could be reduced if the Company is unable to renew its letter of credit facilities at an appropriate amount. Continued consolidation within the banking industry may result in the aggregate amount of credit provided to the Company being reduced. The Company attempts to mitigate this risk by identifying and or selecting additional banks that can participate in the credit facilities upon renewal. a) Ordinary Share Capital In December 2005, the Company issued 38.9 million ordinary shares at a price of 65.0 per share to support capital requirements subsequent to the 2005 Atlantic hurricane losses and the loss related to the conclusion of the independent actuarial process with WSIC. The net proceeds from this issuance were 2.4 billion. See Item 8, Note 19, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. b) Debt At December 31, 2005, banks and investors provided the Company and its subsidiaries with 4.6 billion of debt capacity, of which 3.4 billion was utilized by the Company. These facilities consist of: Revolving credit facilities of 1.2 billion in aggregate. The Company had 45 million outstanding at December 31, 2005, under its syndicated revolving credit facilities and this borrowing was repaid in January 2006. These revolving credit facilities (and their predecessor facilities) were not utilized during 2004. Of the 1.2 billion, 1.0 billion is provided by the Companys 2.0 billion 3 year syndicated facility that matures in June 2007, and its 2.35 billion 5 year syndicated facility that matures in June 2010. Both facilities provide letters of credit in addition to the revolving credit sublimit. In addition, at December 31, 2005, the Company had two bilateral revolving credit facilities of 100 million each, of which one facility is a 364 day facility that matures in December 2006, and the other is a 5 year facility that matures in August 2010. 92 At December 31, 2004, the Company had a 600 million revolving credit sublimit provided by a 2.0 billion 3 year facility and a 1.0 billion 364 day facility. In addition, a further 60 million of revolving credit was provided on a bilateral basis under a 364 day facility. These facilities were provided on an unsecured basis by a syndicate of banks (the 2.0 billion and 1.0 billion facilities) and on a bilateral basis in the case of the 100 million facility. Senior Unsecured Notes of approximately 3.4 billion. These notes require the Company to pay a fixed rate of interest during their lives. At December 31, 2005, there were six outstanding issues of senior unsecured notes: 255 million senior notes due April 2011, with a fixed coupon of 6.58%. These notes were privately placed and are not traded on a public exchange. 600 million senior notes due January 2012, with a fixed coupon of 6.5%. The security is publicly traded. The notes were issued at 99.469 and gross proceeds were 596.8 million. Related expenses of the offering amounted to 7.9 million. 600 million senior notes due September 2014, with a fixed coupon of 5.25%. The security is publicly traded. The notes were issued in two tranches of 300 million aggregate principal amount each one tranche at 99.432% and the other at 98.419%. Aggregate gross proceeds were 593.6 million. Related expenses of the offering amounted to 4 million. 350 million senior notes due November 2024, with a fixed coupon of 6.375%. The security is publicly traded. The notes were issued at 100.000% and gross proceeds were 350 million. Related expenses of the offering amounted to 2 million. 825 million of senior notes due May 2009, with a fixed coupon of 2.53%. These securities are a component of 6.50% Equity Security Units (the 6.50% Units) that are publicly traded. In addition to the coupon paid on the senior notes, contract adjustment payments of 3.97% per annum are paid on forward purchase contracts for the Companys common shares for a total distribution of 6.50% per annum. The purchase contracts mature in 2007, and the senior notes mature in 2009. In May 2007, the senior notes will be remarketed whereby the interest rate will be reset in order to generate sufficient remarketing proceeds to satisfy the 6.50% Unit holders obligations under the purchase contract. 745 million of senior notes due February 2011 with a fixed coupon of 5.25%. These securities are a component of 7.00% Equity Security Units (the 7.00% Units) that are publicly traded. In addition to the coupon paid on the senior notes, contract adjustment payments of 1.75% per annum are paid on forward purchase contracts for the Companys common shares for a total distribution of 7.00% per annum. The purchase contracts mature in 2009, and the senior notes mature in 2011. In February 2009, the senior notes will be remarketed whereby the interest rate will be reset in order to generate sufficient remarketing proceeds to satisfy the 7.00% Unit holders obligations under the purchase contract. 93 The following tables present the Companys debt under outstanding securities and lenders commitments as at December 31, 2005: Payments Due by Period Notes Payable and Debt Year of Less than 1 to 3 3 to 5 After 5 (U.S. dollars in thousands) Commitment In Use Expiry 1 Year Years Years Years 364 day revolver 100,000 2006 5 and 3 year revolvers 1,000,000 45,000 2007/2010 45,000 5 year revolver 100,000 2010 2.53% Senior Notes 825,000 825,000 2009 825,000 5.25% Senior Notes 745,000 745,000 2011 745,000 6.58% Guaranteed Senior Notes 255,000 255,000 2011 255,000 6.50% Guaranteed Senior Notes 598,368 598,368 2012 600,000 5.25% Senior Notes 594,330 594,330 2014 600,000 6.375% Senior Notes 350,000 350,000 2024 350,000 Total 4,567,698 3,412,698 45,000 1,570,000 1,805,000 Commitment and In Use data represent December 31, 2005 accreted values. Payments Due by Period data represent ultimate redemption values. c) Preferred shares In 2002, the Company issued preferred shares as follows: Series A Preferred In August 2002, the Company issued 9.2 million of 8% Series A preference ordinary shares (Series A preference shares). Gross proceeds were 230.0 million and related expenses were 7.2 million. Upon dissolution of the Company, the holders of the Series A preference shares are entitled to receive a liquidation preference of 25 per share, plus accrued dividends. Dividends on the preference Shares are cumulative from the date of original issuance and are payable when declared. The Company may redeem the Series A preference shares on or after August 14, 2007, at a redemption price of 25 per share. The Company may, under certain circumstances, redeem the Series A preference shares before August 14, 2007 at specified redemption prices, plus accrued dividends. These circumstances include an amalgamation, consolidation or other similar transaction involving the Company in which the Series A preferred shares are entitled to a class vote (26 per share redemption price), or a change in tax laws that requires the Company to pay additional amounts with respect to the Series A preference shares (25 per share redemption price). The proceeds were used for general corporate purposes. Series B Preferred In November 2002, the Company issued 11.5 million of 7 5/8% Series B preference ordinary shares (Series B preference shares). Gross proceeds were 287.5 million and related expenses were 9.1 million. Upon dissolution of the Company, the holders of the Series B preference shares are entitled to receive a liquidation preference of 25 per share, plus accrued dividends. Dividends on the preference shares are cumulative from the date of original issuance and are payable when declared. The Company may redeem the Series B preference ordinary shares on or after November 18, 2007, at a redemption price of 25 per share. The Company may, under certain circumstances, redeem the B preference shares before November 18, 2007 at specified redemption prices, plus accrued dividends. These circumstances include an amalgamation, consolidation or other similar transaction involving the Company in which the Series B preferred shares are entitled to a class vote (26 per share redemption price), or a change in tax laws that requires the Company to pay additional amounts with respect to the Series B preference shares (25 per share redemption price). The proceeds were used for general corporate purposes. 94 d) Contingent Capital In addition to funded debt transactions, the Company and a majority owned subsidiary (XL Financial Assurance Ltd. (XLFA)) have entered into contingent capital transactions. No up front proceeds were received by the Company or XLFA under these transactions, however, in the event that the associated irrevocable put option agreements are exercised, proceeds previously raised from investors from the issuance of pass through trust securities would be received in return for the issuance of preferred shares. On December 10, 2004, XLFA entered into a put option agreement and an asset trust expense reimbursement agreement with Twin Reefs Asset Trust (the Asset Trust). The put option agreement provides XLFA with the irrevocable right to require the Asset Trust at any time and from time to time to purchase XLFAs non cumulative perpetual Series B Preferred Shares with an aggregate liquidation preference of up to 200 million. There is no limit to the number of times that XLFA may exercise the put option, redeem the Series B Preferred Shares from the Asset Trust and exercise the put option again. XLFA is obligated to reimburse the Asset Trust for certain fees and ordinary expenses. To the extent that any Series B Preferred Shares are put to the Asset Trust and remain outstanding, a corresponding portion of such fees and ordinary expenses will be payable by XLFA pursuant to the asset trust expense reimbursement agreement. The put option agreement is perpetual but would terminate on delivery of notice by XLFA on or after December 9, 2009, or under certain defined circumstances, such as the failure of XLFA to pay the put option premium when due or bankruptcy. The premium payable by XLFA is the sum of certain trustee and investment managers expenses, the distribution of income paid to holders of the pass through trust securities, less the investment yield on the eligible assets purchased using the proceeds originally raised from the issuance of the pass through securities. In July 2003, the Company entered into a contingent capital transaction with an aggregate value of 500.0 million. This transaction provides the Company with an insurance trust that provides the Company with statutory relief under state insurance regulations in the U.S. Under the terms of this facility, the Company has acquired an irrevocable put option to issue preference ordinary shares into a trust in return for proceeds raised from investors. This put option may be exercised by the Company at any time. In addition, the Company may be required to issue preference ordinary shares to the trust under certain circumstances, including, but not limited to, the non payment of the put option premium and a ratings downgrade of the Company. In connection with this transaction, the fair value of the put premiums and other related costs, in total of 111.9 million was transferred from Additional paid in capital to a deferred liability which was established (included with Other liabilities) in the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2003. The Company amortizes this liability that resulted in an interest expense of approximately 3.5 million in 2004 and 2.0 million in 2003. e) Letter of Credit Facilities and other sources of collateral At December 31, 2005, the Company had eight letter of credit facilities in place with total availability of 5.5 billion, of which 3.5 billion was utilized. Amount of Commitment Expiration per period Other Commercial Commitments Year of Less than 1 to 3 3 to 5 After 5 (U.S. dollars in thousands) Commitment In Use Expiry 1 Year Years Years Years Letter of credit facility 200,000 176,736 Continuous 200,000 2 Letter of credit facilities 6,132 6,132 2006 6,132 Letter of credit facility (1) 100,000 2006 100,000 Letter of credit facility 150,000 150,000 2006 150,000 Letter of credit facility 775,305 681,368 2006 775,305 Letter of credit facility (1) 2,000,000 366,105 2007 2,000,000 Letter of credit facility (1) 2,250,000 2,079,419 2010 2,250,000 8 Letter of credit facilities 5,481,437 3,459,760 1,231,437 2,000,000 2,250,000 (1) Of the total letter of credit facilities above, 1,000 million is also included in the revolvers under notes payable and debt. 95 It is anticipated that the commercial facilities will be renewed on expiry but such renewals are subject to the availability of credit from banks utilized by the Company, or other financial institutions. In the event that such credit support is insufficient, the Company could be required to provide alternative security to cedents. This could take the form of insurance trusts supported by the Companys investment portfolio or funds withheld (amounts retained by ceding companies to collateralize loss or premium reserves) using the Companys cash resources or combinations thereof. The face amount of letters of credit required is driven by, among other things, loss development of existing reserves, the payment pattern of such reserves, the expansion of business written by the Company and the loss experience of such business. In addition to letters of credit, the Company has established insurance trusts in the U.S. that provide cedents with statutory relief required under state insurance regulation in the U.S. The Company reviews current and projected collateral requirements on a regular basis, as well as new sources of collateral. Managements objective is to maintain an excess amount of collateral sources over expected uses. The Company also reviews its liquidity needs on a regular basis. The following letter of credit facilities were originated or renewed during 2005: In December 2005, the Company created a new 100 million unsecured bilateral credit facility that was unutilized during 2005 and at December 31, 2005. The full amount of 100 million is available as both revolving credit and letters of credit, with the combined total not to exceed 100 million. In September 2005, the Company renewed an unsecured bilateral credit facility of 150 million (previously 200 million) that was fully utilized at December 31, 2005. In August 2005, the Company created a new unsecured bilateral credit facility of 100 million that was unutilized at December 31, 2005. In June 2005, the Company replaced its 1.0 billion 364 day credit and letter of credit facility with a 2.35 billion facility with a tenor of 5 years. Of the aggregate amount of 2.35 billion, 1.0 billion is available as revolving credit and up to 2.25 billion is available in the form of letters of credit, with the combined total not to exceed 2.35 billion. As at December 31, 2005, approximately 2.1 billion of the 5 year facility was in use in the form of letters of credit. In addition to the letter of credit facilities described above, the Company has the following facility: 500 million commercial paper based facility. In February 2003, the Company entered into an aggregate of 300.0 million of commercial paper based credit facilities (the Credit Facilities). These facilities were increased to 500.0 million in June 2003. The proceeds of advances under the Credit Facilities were used to fund a trust account to collateralize the reinsurance obligations of the Company under an inter company quota share reinsurance agreement. The Company could face additional obligations under the Credit Facilities prior to the stated maturity of February 25, 2008, if certain events were to occur, including, but not limited to the Companys insolvency, withdrawal of assets from the Regulation 114 trust by the ceding company, the downgrade of the Companys credit ratings below certain specified levels, or the failure of the agent to have a first priority perfected security interest in the collateral posted by the Company. At maturity, the Company will be obligated to make payments in an amount equal to the principal and accrued interest outstanding under the Credit Facilities. The issued securities and the Companys repayment obligations are recorded as a net balance on the Companys balance sheet. Cross Default and Other Provisions in Debt Documents The following describes certain terms of the documents referred to below. All documents referred to below have been filed with the SEC and should be referred to for an assessment of the complete contractual obligations of the Company. In general, all of the Companys bank facilities, indentures and other documents relating to the Companys outstanding indebtedness, including the Credit Facilities discussed above (collectively, the Companys Debt 96 Documents), contain cross default provisions to each other and the Companys Debt Documents contain affirmative covenants. These covenants provide for, among other things, minimum required ratings of the Companys insurance and reinsurance operating subsidiaries (other than its AAA financial guaranty companies) and the level of secured indebtedness in the future. In addition, generally each of the Companys Debt Documents provide for an event of default in the event of a change of control of the Company or some events involving bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization of the Company. The Companys credit facilities and the 6.58% Guaranteed Senior Notes also contain minimum consolidated net worth covenants. Under the Companys 364 day facilities, 3 year credit facility, five year credit facilities placement notes described above, in the event that the Company XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd and XL Re Ltd fail to maintain a financial strength rating of at least A from A.M. Best, an event of default would occur. The Company currently has an A+ (stable) rating from A.M. Best. Under the Companys ten year private placement notes described above, in the event that the Company fails to maintain a financial strength rating of at least A from A.M. Best or XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd and XL Re Ltd fail to maintain a financial strength rating of at least A from S&P, an event of default would occur. The Company and its subsidiaries currently has an A+ (stable) rating from A.M. Best and A+ (stable) S&P. The 6.5% Guaranteed Senior Notes indentures contains a cross default provision. In general, in the event that the Company defaults in the payment of indebtedness in the amount of 50.0 million or more, an event of default would be triggered under the Guaranteed Senior Notes indentures. Given that all of the Companys Debt Documents contain cross default provisions, this may result in all holders declaring such debt due and payable and an acceleration of all debt due under those documents. If this were to occur, the Company may not have funds sufficient at that time to repay any or all of such indebtedness. In addition, the Companys unsecured Lloyds letter of credit facility provides that, in the event that the Companys insurance and reinsurance rated operating subsidiaries in Bermuda fall below a rating of A , the facility would then be required to be fully secured by the Company, at which time the Company would be required to either (i) provide an amount in cash to cover an amount equal to the aggregate letters of credit outstanding at that time or (ii) deposit assets in trust securing 105% of the aggregate letters of credit outstanding at that time. If this were to occur, the Company may not be able to provide the collateral required in order to maintain this facility. Long Term Contractual Obligations The following table presents the Companys long term contractual obligations and related payments as at December 31, 2005, due by period. This table excludes further commitments of 34.9 million to the Companys related investment funds, certain limited partnerships, insurance affiliates, collateralized debt/equity investments and letter of credit facilities of 3.5 billion. See Item 8, Note 14 and Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. See Item 8, Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Contractual Obligations Less than 1 to 3 to More than (U.S. dollars in thousands) Total 1 year 3 years 5 years 5 years Long term debt obligations 3,420,000 45,000 1,570,000 1,805,000 Interest on long term debt 1,329,353 167,313 339,153 298,066 524,821 Contingent capital facilities (4) 100,875 13,912 27,824 25,059 34,080 Equity Units 90,631 44,921 42,451 3,259 Capital lease obligations 319,540 10,754 22,322 23,451 263,013 Operating lease obligations 243,109 36,397 61,583 43,555 101,574 Deposit liabilities (1) 9,643,621 2,184,893 2,900,280 1,089,443 3,469,005 Future policy benefits (3) 9,283,116 484,186 755,935 768,633 7,274,362 Unpaid losses and loss expenses (2) 24,195,064 7,623,467 7,837,336 3,487,500 5,246,761 Total 48,625,309 10,610,843 11,986,884 7,308,966 18,718,616 (1) Deposit liabilities on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2005 amounted to 8,240,987. The difference from the amount included above relates to the discount on payments due in the future. The payment related to these liabilities varies primarily based on interest rates. The ultimate payments associated with these liabilities could differ from the Companys estimate. See Item 8, Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 97 (2) The unpaid loss and loss expenses amounted to 23,767,672 on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2005. The timing and amounts of actual claims payments related to these reserves vary based on many factors including large individual losses, changes in the legal environment, as well as general market conditions. The ultimate amount of the claims payments could differ materially from the Companys estimated amounts. For information regarding the estimates for unpaid loss and loss expenses as well as factors effecting potential payment patterns of reserves for actual and potential claims related the Companys different lines of business see Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above. Certain lines of business written by the Company, such as excess casualty, have loss experience characterized as low frequency and high severity. This may result in significant variability in loss payment patterns and, therefore, may impact the related asset/liability investment management process. In order to be in a position, if necessary, to make these payments, the Companys liquidity requirements are supported by having revolving lines of credit facilities available to the Company and significant reinsurance programs, in addition to the Companys general high grade fixed income investment portfolio. (3) Future policy benefit reserves on life and annuity business amounted to 5,606,461 on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2005. Amounts included above include an allowance for future premiums in respect of contracts under which premiums are payable throughout the life of the underlying policy. The value of the discount is also included for those lines of business that have reserves where future claim payments and future premium receipts can be estimated using actuarial principles. The timing and amounts of actual claims payments and premium receipts related to these reserves vary based on the underlying experience of the portfolio. Typical elements of the experience include mortality, morbidity and persistency. The ultimate amount of the claims payments and premium receipts could differ materially from the Companys estimated amounts. (4) Contingent capital facilities related payments include an estimate at the payments due under the past option agreement of 200 per month. Actual payments depend on the return on certain assets and LIBOR. Variable Interest Entities and Other Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company utilizes variable interest entities both indirectly and directly in the ordinary course of the Companys business. The Company provides various forms of credit enhancement including financial guaranty insurance and reinsurance of structured transactions backed by pools of assets of specified types, municipal obligations supported by the issuers ability to charge fees for specified services or projects, and structured single risk based obligations including essential infrastructure projects and obligations backed by receivables from future sales of commodities and other specified services. The obligations related to these transactions are often securitized through variable interest entities. In synthetic transactions, the Company guarantees payment obligations of counterparties including special purpose vehicles under credit derivatives referencing asset portfolios. The Company invests in collateralized debt obligations (CDOs), and other investment vehicles that are issued through variable interest entities as part of the Companys risk asset portfolio. In 2003, the Company entered into an aggregate of 500.0 million of commercial paper based credit facilities (the Credit Facilities). The proceeds of advances under the Credit Facilities were used to fund a trust account (Trust) to collateralize the reinsurance obligations of the Company under an intercompany quota share reinsurance agreement. The issued securities and the Companys repayment obligations will be recorded as a net balance on the Companys balance sheet because the Company has a contractual legal right of offset. In the event that in the future the Company were to not have the right to offset such assets (as, for example, would be the case if the assets in the Trust were withdrawn in order to satisfy the Companys reinsurance obligations or if lender issued securities could not be held in the Trust because they did not qualify as permitted assets under the trust agreement), then all or a portion of the assets in the Trust and the Companys repayment obligations under the Credit Facilities would be required to be included as assets and liabilities on a gross basis, respectively, on the Companys balance sheet. See also Liquidity and Capital Resources for more details regarding this off balance sheet collateral arrangement. In December 2004, XLFA entered into a put option agreement and an asset trust expense reimbursement agreement with the Asset Trust. The put option agreement provides XLFA with the irrevocable right to require the Asset Trust at any time and from time to time to purchase XLFAs non cumulative perpetual Series B Preferred Shares with an aggregate liquidation preference of up to 200 million. XLFA is obligated to reimburse the Asset Trust for certain fees and ordinary expenses. To the extent that any Series B Preferred Shares are put to the Asset Trust and remain outstanding, a corresponding portion of such fees and ordinary expenses will be payable by XLFA pursuant to the asset trust expense reimbursement agreement. The put option agreement is perpetual but would terminate on delivery of notice by XLFA on or after December 9, 2009, or under certain defined circumstances, such as the failure of XLFA to 98 pay the put option premium when due or bankruptcy. The put option is recorded at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in earnings. In July 2003, the Company entered into a contingent capital transaction with an aggregate value of 500.0 million. This transaction also provides the Company with an insurance trust that provides the Company with statutory relief under state insurance regulations in the U.S. Under the terms of this facility, the Company has acquired an irrevocable put option to issue preference ordinary shares into a trust in return for proceeds raised from investors. This put option may be exercised by the Company at any time. In addition, the Company may be required to issue preference ordinary shares to the trust under certain circumstances, including, but not limited to, the non payment of the put option premium and a ratings downgrade of the Company. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Item 8, Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion on recent accounting pronouncements. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA) provides a safe harbor for forward looking statements. Any prospectus, prospectus supplement, the Companys Annual Report to ordinary shareholders, any proxy statement, any other Form 10 K, Form 10 Q or Form 8 K of the Company or any other written or oral statements made by or on behalf of the Company may include forward looking statements that reflect the Companys current views with respect to future events and financial performance. Such statements include forward looking statements both with respect to the Company in general, and to the insurance, reinsurance and financial products and services sectors in particular (both as to underwriting and investment matters). Statements that include the words expect, intend, plan, believe, project, anticipate, will, may, and similar statements of a future or forward looking nature identify forward looking statements for purposes of the PSLRA or otherwise. All forward looking statements address matters that involve risks and uncertainties. Accordingly, there are or will be important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in such statements. The Company believes that these factors include, but are not limited to, the following: (i) the adequacy of rates and terms and conditions may not be as sustainable as the Company is currently projecting; (ii) changes to the size of the Companys claims relating to Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma and other natural catastrophes; (iii) the Companys ability to realize the expected benefits of the collateralized quota share reinsurance treaty that it entered into in the fourth quarter of 2005 with respect to specified portions of its property catastrophe and retrocessional lines of business; (iv) the timely and full recoverability of reinsurance placed by the Company with third parties, or other amounts due to the Company, including, without limitation, amounts due to the Company from WSIC in connection with the Companys acquisition of the Winterthur Business; (v) the projected amount of ceded reinsurance recoverables and the ratings and creditworthiness of reinsurers may change; (vi) the size of the Companys claims relating to the hurricane and tsunami losses described herein may change due to the preliminary nature of some of the reports and estimates of loss and damage to date; (vii) the timing of claims payments being faster or the receipt of reinsurance recoverables being slower than anticipated by the Company; (viii) ineffectiveness or obsolescence of the Companys business strategy due to changes in current or future market conditions; (ix) increased competition on the basis of pricing, capacity, coverage terms or other factors; (x) greater frequency or severity of claims and loss activity, including as a result of natural or man made catastrophic events, than the Companys underwriting, reserving or investment practices anticipate based on historical experience or industry data; (viii) developments in the worlds financial and capital markets that adversely affect the performance of the Companys investments and the Companys access to such markets; (ix) the potential impact on the Company from government mandated insurance coverage for acts of terrorism; (x) the potential impact of variable interest entities or other off balance sheet arrangements on the Company; (xi) developments in bankruptcy proceedings or other developments related to bankruptcies of companies insofar as they affect property and casualty insurance and reinsurance coverages or claims that the Company may 99 have as a counterparty; (xii) availability of borrowings and letters of credit under the Companys credit facilities; (xiii) changes in regulation or tax laws applicable to the Company or its subsidiaries, brokers or customers; (xiv) acceptance of the Companys products and services, including new products and services; (xv) changes in the availability, cost or quality of reinsurance; (xvi) changes in the distribution or placement of risks due to increased consolidation of insurance and reinsurance brokers; (xvii) loss of key personnel; (xviii) the effects of mergers, acquisitions and divestitures; (xix) changes in ratings, rating agency policies or practices; (xx) changes in accounting policies or practices or the application thereof; (xxi) legislative or regulatory developments; (xxii) changes in general economic conditions, including inflation, foreign currency exchange rates and other factors; (xxiii) the effects of business disruption or economic contraction due to war, terrorism or other hostilities; and (xxiv) the other factors set forth in the Companys other documents on file with the SEC. The foregoing review of important factors should not be construed as exhaustive and should be read in conjunction with the other cautionary statements that are included herein or elsewhere. The Company undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The following risk management discussion and the estimated amounts generated from the sensitivity and value at risk (VaR) analyses presented in this document are forward looking statements of market risk assuming certain adverse market conditions occur. Actual results in the future may differ materially from these estimated results due to, among other things, actual developments in the global financial markets. The results of analysis used by the Company to assess and mitigate risk should not be considered projections of future events of losses. See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements. The Company enters into derivatives and other financial instruments primarily for risk management purposes. The Companys derivative transactions can expose the Company to credit derivative risk, weather and energy risk, investment market risk, and foreign currency exchange rate risk. The Company attempts to manage these risks based on guidelines established by senior management. Derivative instruments are carried at fair value with the resulting changes in fair value recognized in income in the period in which they occur. Credit Derivative Risk The Company enters into swaps written under International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) forms as an extension of its financial guaranty business. The fair value is determined using models developed by the Company and is dependent upon a number of factors, including changes in interest rates, future default rates, changes in credit quality, future expected recovery rates and other market factors. Other elements of the change in fair value are based upon pricing established at the inception of the contract. A change in the interest, default and recovery rate assumptions indicated below would cause the fair value associated with credit derivatives to decrease as follows: Assumptions (U.S. dollars in thousands) % Change Decrease in Fair Value Interest rate 1% decrease 464 Default rate 10% increase 319 Recovery rate 10% decrease 449 Weather and Energy Market Risk The Company offers weather and contingent energy risk management products in insurance or derivative form to end users, while managing the risks in the over the counter and exchange traded derivatives markets or through the use of quota share or excess of loss arrangements. 100 Fair values for the Companys natural gas derivative contracts are determined through the use of quoted market prices. As quoted market prices are not widely available in the weather derivative market, management uses available market data and internal pricing models based upon consistent statistical methodologies to estimate fair values. Estimating fair value of instruments that do not have quoted market prices, requires managements judgment in determining amounts that could reasonably be expected to be received from, or paid to, a third party in respect of the contracts. The amounts could be materially different from the amounts that might be realized in an actual sale transaction. Fair values are subject to change in the near term and reflect managements best estimate based on various factors including, but not limited to, realized and forecasted weather conditions, changes in interest rates and other market factors. The following table summarizes the movement in the fair value of contracts outstanding during the year ended December 31, 2005: Unrealized gain (U.S. dollars in thousands) (loss) Fair value of contracts outstanding, beginning of the year 7,219 Option premiums received, net of premiums realized (1) 3,047 Reclassification of settled contracts to realized (2) 3,620 Other changes in fair value (3) (18,231 ) Fair value of contracts outstanding, end of year (4,345 ) (1) For the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company collected 26.4 million of paid premiums and realized 29.5 million of premiums on expired transactions for a net decrease in the balance sheet derivative liability of 3.1 million. (2) The Company received 3.6 million to settle derivative positions during the year ended December 31, 2005, resulting in a reclassification of this amount from unrealized to realized and an increase in the balance sheet derivative liability. (3) This represents the effects of changes in commodity prices, the time value of options, and other valuation adjustments of 18.2 million on the Companys derivative positions, primarily attributable to the hedges of the positions that realized 29.5 million of premiums. The change in fair value of contracts outstanding at December 31, 2005, as compared to the beginning of the year is primarily due to the settlement of positive fair value positions during the first half of the year. The following table summarizes the maturity of contracts outstanding at December 31, 2005: Greater Source of Fair Value Less than than 5 Total Fair (U.S. dollars in thousands) 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years Years Value Prices actively quoted Prices based on models and other valuation methods (5,293 ) (676 ) 1,624 (4,345 ) Total fair value of contracts outstanding (5,293 ) (676 ) 1,624 (4,345 ) Investment Market Risk The Companys investment portfolio is managed by external investment professionals under the direction of the Companys management and generally in accordance with detailed investment guidelines provided and monitored by the Company. Managers are selected directly by the Company on the basis of various criteria, including investment style, track record, performance, internal controls, operational risk, and diversification implications. The vast majority of the Companys investment portfolio is managed by well established, large institutional investment professionals. The Companys investment portfolio consists of exposures to fixed income securities, equities, alternative investments, derivatives, business and other investments and cash. These securities and investments are denominated in both U.S. dollar and foreign currencies. 101 Through the structure of the Companys investment portfolio, the Companys earnings and book value are directly affected by changes in the valuations of the securities and investments held in the investment portfolio. These valuation changes reflect changes in interest rates (e.g., changes in the level, slope and curvature of yield curves, volatility of interest rates, mortgage prepayment speeds and credit spreads), credit quality, equity prices (e.g., changes in prices and volatilities of individual securities, equity baskets and equity indices) and foreign currency exchange rates (e.g., changes in spot prices, forward prices and volatilities of currency rates). Market risk therefore arises due to the uncertainty surrounding the future valuations of these different assets, the factors that impact their values and the impact that this could have on the Companys earnings. The Company seeks to manage the risks of the investment portfolio through a combination of asset class, country, industry and security level diversification and investment manager allocations. These allocation decisions are made relative to the liability profile of the Company and the Companys surplus. Further, individual security and issuer exposures are controlled and monitored at the investment portfolio level, via specific investment constraints outlined in investment guidelines and agreed with the external investment professionals. Additional constraints are generally agreed with the external investment professionals, which may address exposures to eligible securities, prohibited investments/transactions, credit quality and general concentrations limits. The Companys direct use of investment derivatives includes futures, forwards, swaps and option contracts that derive their value from underlying assets, indices, reference rates or a combination of these factors. When investment guidelines allow for the use of derivatives, these can generally only be used for the purpose of managing interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk, credit risk and replicating permitted investments, provided the use of such instruments is incorporated in the overall portfolio duration, spread, convexity and other relevant portfolio metrics. The direct use of derivatives is generally not permitted to economically leverage the portfolio outside of the stated guidelines. Derivatives may also be used to add value to the investment portfolio where market inefficiencies are perceived to exist, to utilize cash holdings to purchase equity indexed derivatives and to adjust the duration of a portfolio of fixed income securities to match the duration of related deposit liabilities. Investment Value at Risk Central to the Companys market risk management framework is VaR. VaR is a statistical risk measure, calculating the level of potential losses that could be expected to be exceeded, over a specified holding period and at a given level of confidence, in normal market conditions, due to adverse movements in the investment portfolios underlying securities and investments valuations. The Company calculates the VaR of the investment portfolio using a one month time horizon and a 95% level of confidence. This means that, on average, the Company could expect losses greater than predicted by the VaR results 5% of the time, or once every 20 months. The calculation of VaR is performed monthly using a full valuation based on the Monte Carlo approach and it is expressed both in terms of U.S. dollars and as a percentage of the Companys investment portfolio. The modeling of the risk of any portfolio, as measured by VaR, involves a number of assumptions and approximations. While the Company believes that its assumptions and approximations are appropriate, there is no uniform industry methodology for calculating VaR. The Company notes that different VaR results can be produced for the same portfolio dependent, not only on the approach used but also on the assumptions employed when implementing the approach. The VaR approach uses historical data to determine the sensitivity of each of the underlying securities to the risk factors incorporated into the models that are employed in the Monte Carlo simulations. In calculating these sensitivities, greater importance is placed on the more recent data points and information. Since the VaR approach is based on historical positions and market data, VaR results should not be viewed as an absolute and predictive gauge of future financial performance or as a way for the Company to predict risk. There is no assurance that the Companys actual future losses will not exceed its VaR and the Company expects that 5% of the time the VaR will be exceeded. 102 Additionally, the Company acknowledges the fact that risks associated with abnormal market events can be significantly different from the VaR results and these are by definition not reflected or assessed in the VaR analysis. The VaR of the investment portfolio at December 31, 2005 was approximately 489.0 million. The VaR of all investment relative derivatives excluding investments in affiliates and other investments was 26.3 million at December 31, 2005. In instances where the data or time series are insufficient to determine the risk factor sensitivities, the VaR approach uses proxy time series data available for similar instruments. As at December 31, 2005, approximately 16.5 billion (41% of the Companys investment portfolio at market value) used proxy time series data. Approximately 12.4 billion related to various fixed income portfolios, 2.5 billion to various cash portfolios, 1.3 billion to alternative investments, 252.2 million to private investments, 105.2 million to equity portfolios, and 4.5 million to derivatives. The Company reviews the proxies to ensure that an appropriate data and time series is being used in the calculations and that the proxies used are conservative. The following two tables show the Companys average, minimum and maximum VaR in percentage and dollar terms for the total investment portfolio during the year ended December 31, 2005, based upon the VaR at quarter end dates. The two tables also include the Companys VaR in percentage and dollar terms, respectively, for the total investment portfolio as at December 31, 2005. The Companys investment portfolio VaR as at December 31, 2005 is not necessarily indicative of future VaR levels. At December 31, Average VaR Minimum VaR Maximum VaR 2005 % VaR (1) % VaR (1) % VaR (1) % VaR (1) Fixed Income 1.35 % 1.16 % 1.55 % 1.27 % Alternatives (2) 0.07 % 0.06 % 0.10 % 0.07 % Derivatives 0.06 % 0.04 % 0.08 % 0.07 % Equity 0.07 % 0.06 % 0.09 % 0.06 % Private Investments 0.04 % 0.03 % 0.06 % 0.03 % Cash Equivalents 0.02 % 0.01 % 0.04 % 0.01 % Total Undiversified VaR (3) 1.61 % 1.44 % 1.77 % 1.51 % Diversification VaR (4) (0.24 )% NA NA (0.30 )% Total Investment Portfolio VaR (5) 1.37 % 1.20 % 1.55 % 1.21 % NA not applicable VaR as at Average VaR Minimum VaR Maximum VaR December 31, during 2005 during 2005 during 2005 2005 (U.S. dollars in millions) % VaR (6) % VaR (6) % VaR (6) % VaR (6) Total Investment Portfolio VaR (5) 480.1 409.1 559.5 489.0 (1) Based on a 95% confidence level with a one month holding period and expressed as a percentage of the total investment portfolio. (2) The majority of the Companys alternative investment portfolio is accounted for as investments in affiliates. However, for purposes of monitoring and tracking the Companys total investment market risk, the total alternative investment portfolio is included in these calculations. (3) Average Total Undiversified VaR for the year ended December 31, 2005 and Total Undiversified VaR at December 31, 2005 is the summation of the individual VaRs for each of the separate asset classes and, by construction, ignores any and all correlations between the different asset classes. The Total Undiversified VaR therefore ignores diversification benefits that exist in between these different asset classes. Maximum and Minimum Total Undiversified VaR is not necessarily the summation of the individual VaRs for each of the separate asset classes since the Maximum and Minimum VaRs for each of the asset classes and the Maximum and Minimum Total Undiversified VaR do not necessarily refer to the same point in time. (4) Diversification VaR equals the difference between the Total Investment Portfolio VaR and the Total Undiversified VaR. As the former explicitly accounts for the correlations and diversification benefits that exist between the actual asset classes and the latter explicitly does not, the difference in the two VaR results is due to the diversification benefits. These diversification benefits arise due to the risk reduction that 103 occurs when different assets, that are not perfectly correlated, are combined in a portfolio. It will vary over time dependent on: allocations changes; changes in the correlations between the different asset classes; and changes in the general asset class risks. The NA reflects the fact that, since the Minimum and Maximum VaR for the six different asset class portfolios do not refer to the same point in time, therefore it is not meaningful to calculate the Diversification VaR. (5) Total Investment Portfolio VaR is the Companys investment portfolio VaR based on the prescribed methodology that explicitly accounts for the diversification benefits that occur when each of the allocations to the individual asset classes are included in the investment portfolio. (6) Based on a 95% confidence level with a one month holding period, expressed in millions of U.S. Dollars. The Companys total investment portfolio VaR is driven by: the size of the overall investment portfolio; the size of the allocations to the different asset classes and securities in the asset classes; the risks associated with each of the asset classes and securities; and the correlations and diversification benefits between each of the asset classes and securities. Changes in any of these variables will have a direct impact on the Companys VaR. The Companys total undiversified VaR, which ignores any correlation and diversification benefits, at December 31, 2005 was 1.51% compared to a maximum of 1.77% and a minimum of 1.44% during 2005. The Companys average diversification VaR during 2005 resulted in an average reduction of the Companys total undiversified VaR of 0.24% and as at December 31, 2005 was 0.30% . The Companys total investment portfolio VaR was on average 1.37% during 2005 and as at December 31, 2005, was 1.21% . The Companys maximum and minimum total investment portfolio VaR during 2005 were 1.55% and 1.20%, respectively. The Companys largest VaR exposure during the year ended December 31, 2005 was to fixed income. The average VaR for fixed income was 1.35%, compared to a maximum of 1.55% and a minimum of 1.16% . As at December 31, 2005, the fixed income VaR was 1.27% . At December 31, 2005, the ranking for the Companys asset class risk, based on the individual asset class VaRs, was: fixed income; alternative investments; derivatives; equity; private investments; and cash equivalents. Stress Testing VaR does not provide the means to estimate the magnitude of the loss in the 5% of occurrences that the Company expects the VaR level to be exceeded. To complement the VaR analysis based on normal market environments, the Company considers the impact on the investment portfolio in several different historical stress periods to analyze the effect of unusual market conditions. The Company establishes certain historical stress test scenarios which are applied to the actual investment portfolio. As these stress tests and estimated gains and losses are based on historical events, they will not necessarily reflect future stress events or gains and losses from such events. The results of the stress test scenarios are reviewed on a regular basis to ensure they are appropriate, based on current shareholders equity, market conditions and the Companys total risk tolerance. The table below shows the maximum impact on the Companys investment portfolio if all events stress tested were to repeat themselves, given the actual investment portfolios allocations at the quarters ended March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31, 2005. The Company assumes that no action is taken during the stress period to either liquidate or rebalance the portfolio. The Company believes that this fairly reflects the potential decreased liquidity that is often associated with stressed market environments. March 31, June 30, September 30, December 31, Stress Test 2005 2005 2005 2005 Maximum loss impact on portfolio (5.4 %) (5.8 %) (5.8 %) (5.2 %) Maximum gain impact on portfolio 19.3 % 19.7 % 19.3 % 17.3 % From the different scenarios that the Company analyzes, the largest downside event risk exposure during 2005 was 5.8%, based on the investment portfolio as at June 30, 2005 and September 30, 2005. The largest upside risk exposure during 2005 was 19.7% as at June 30, 2005. Given the investment portfolio allocations as at December 31, 2005, the Company would expect to lose approximately 5.2% of the portfolio if the most damaging event stress tested was repeated, all other things held equal. Given 104 the investment portfolio allocations as at December 31, 2005, the Company would expect to gain approximately 17.3% of the portfolio if the most favorable event stress tested was repeated, all other things held equal. Fixed Income Portfolio The Companys fixed income portfolio is exposed to credit and interest rate risk through its portfolio of debt securities, and includes fixed maturities and short term investments. The fixed income portfolio includes fixed maturities, short term investments, cash and cash equivalents and net payable for investments purchased. As at December 31, 2005, the value of the Companys fixed income portfolio including cash and cash equivalents and net payable for investments purchased was approximately 37.9 billion as compared to approximately 28.9 billion as at December 31, 2004. As at December 31, 2005, the fixed income portfolio consisted of approximately 91.1% of the total investment portfolio (including cash and cash equivalents, accrued investment income and net payable for investments purchased) as compared to approximately 89.1% as at December 31, 2004. The Company manages credit risk in the investment portfolio through the credit research performed by the external investment professionals and limitations on the investment portfolios exposure to individual credits, as set by the Company. Limits are set for each credit quality rating and are a function of the probability of default and the expected loss in the event of a default. Limits ensure that potential losses from individual defaults should not exceed predetermined levels. The Company reviews on a regular basis its corporate debt concentration, credit quality and compliance with established credit limits. Any obligor over its credit limits, experiencing financial difficulties, material credit quality deterioration or potentially subject to forthcoming credit quality deterioration is placed on a Watch List for closer monitoring. Where appropriate, exposures are reduced or prevented from increasing. The table below shows the Companys fixed income portfolio by credit rating in percentage terms of the Companys total fixed income exposure (including fixed maturities, short term investments, cash and cash equivalents and net payable for investments purchased) as at December 31, 2005. Total AAA 57.2 % AA 13.2 % A 16.6 % BBB 10.6 % BB & below 2.2 % NR 0.2 % Total 100.0 % At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the average credit quality of the Companys total fixed income portfolio was AA. As at December 31, 2005, the top 10 corporate holdings, which exclude government guaranteed and government sponsored enterprises, represented approximately 3.6% of the total fixed income portfolio and approximately 19.7% of all corporate holdings. The top 10 corporate holdings listed below represent the direct exposure to the corporations listed below, including their subsidiaries, and excludes any securitized, credit enhanced and collateralized asset or mortgage backed securities, cash and cash equivalents, and excludes any reduction to this exposure through credit default swaps, if applicable. 105 Percentage of Total Top 10 Corporate Holdings (2) Fixed Income Portfolio (1) General Electric Company 0.4 % HSBC Holding plc 0.4 % Citigroup Inc 0.4 % Lloyds TSB Group plc 0.4 % HBOS plc 0.4 % Bank of America Corporation 0.4 % Wells Fargo & Co 0.4 % Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc 0.4 % Wal Mart Stores Inc 0.3 % Wachovia Corp 0.3 % (1) Including fixed maturities, short term investments, cash and cash equivalents and net payable for investments purchased. The Companys fixed income portfolio is exposed to interest rate risk. Interest rate risk is the price sensitivity of a fixed income security to changes in interest rates. The Company manages interest rate risk within the context of its overall asset liability management strategy by setting duration targets for its investment portfolio in line with the estimated duration of its liabilities, thus mitigating the overall economic effect of interest rate risk. The Company remains nevertheless exposed to accounting interest rate risk since the assets are marked to market, thus subject to market conditions, while liabilities are accrued at a static rate. The hypothetical case of an immediate 100 basis point adverse parallel shift in global bond curves as at December 31, 2005, would decrease the fair value of the Companys fixed income portfolio by approximately 3.9% or 1.5 billion. Based on historical observations, it is unlikely that all global yield curves would shift uniformly in the same direction and at the same time. In addition, the Company has short term debt and long term debt outstanding. Interest rates on short term debt are LIBOR based. Accordingly, any changes in interest rates will affect interest expense. Equity Portfolio As at December 31, 2005, the Companys equity portfolio, which for financial reporting purposes includes certain fixed income mutual fund investments that do not have the risk characteristics of equity investments, was 869 million as compared to 963 million as at December 31, 2004. As at December 31, 2005, the Companys allocation to equity securities was approximately 2.1% of the total investment portfolio (including cash and cash equivalents, accrued investment income and net payable for investments purchased) as compared to approximately 3.0% as at December 31, 2004. As at December 31, 2005, approximately 53% of the equity portfolio was invested in U.S. companies as compared to approximately 60% as at December 31, 2004. As at December 31, 2005, the top ten equity holdings represented approximately 5.8% of the Companys total equity portfolio as compared to approximately 8.0% as at December 31, 2004. The Companys equity portfolio is exposed to price risk. Equity price risk is the potential loss arising from decreases in the market value of equities. An immediate hypothetical 10% change in the value of each equity position would affect the fair value of the portfolio by approximately 86.9 million as at December 31, 2005. Alternative Investment Portfolio A portion of the Companys portfolio is invested in funds that pursue alternative investment strategies, with the investment objective of attaining high risk adjusted total return while maintaining moderate to low level of sensitivity to movements in the traditional asset classes and realizing a low volatility. Investments within this portfolio are generally fund investments in limited partnerships or similar vehicles, with each fund pursuing absolute return investment 106 mandates, typically investing in one or more of the traditional asset classes including equities, fixed income, credit, currency and commodity markets. Various strategies can be pursued and the Company classifies each fund allocation into four general style categories. The four styles are: Event driven, which includes strategies that pursue merger arbitrage, distressed and special situations opportunities; Directional/tactical, which includes strategies that pursue long/short equity, managed futures and macro opportunities; Arbitrage, which includes strategies that pursue equity market neutral, fixed income arbi trage and convertible arbitrage opportunities; and Multi strategy, which includes strategies incorporating aspects of the above. The Company utilizes additional risk and portfolio management analytics and processes to enhance the overall management and assessment of the alternative investment portfolio. Central to the portfolio and risk management processes is the receipt of information on each of its allocations that is sufficient to assess risks and exposures of the fund allocations and to monitor how the portfolio and associated risk changes over time. The level and frequency of information required by the Company on each investment depends on the type of strategy that a fund pursues; the expected risk profile and types of risk that the fund and underlying securities are exposed to the liquidity of the fund and underlying securities; and the size of the allocation. The Companys alternative investment portfolio had approximately 80 separate investments in different funds at December 31, 2005 with a total exposure of 1.7 billion making up approximately 4.1% of total investments compared to December 31, 2004 where the Company had over 100 separate fund investments with a total exposure of 1.7 billion representing approximately 5.2% of total investments. At December 31, 2005, the alternative investment style allocation was 43% in Directional/tactical strategies, 31% in Event driven strategies, 18% in Arbitrage strategies, and 8% in Multi strategy strategies. At December 31, 2004, the Alternative investment style allocation was 42% in Directional/tactical strategies, 25% in Arbitrage strategies, 25% in Event driven strategies and 8% in Multi strategy strategies. Private Investment Portfolio A portion of the Companys portfolio is invested in limited partnerships and other entities which are not publicly traded. In addition to normal market risks, these positions may also be exposed to liquidity risk, risks related to distressed investments, and risks specific to startup or small companies. As at December 31, 2005, the Companys exposure to private investments was approximately 252.2 million compared to 187.1 million as at December 31, 2004. As at December 31, 2005, and 2004, the Companys exposure to private investments consisted of approximately 0.6% of the total investment portfolio (including cash and cash equivalents, accrued investment income and net payable for investments purchased). Bond and Stock Index Futures Exposure At December 31, 2005, bond and stock index futures outstanding had a net long position of 46.4 million as compared to a net long position of 1.3 billion at December 31, 2004. A 10% appreciation or depreciation of the underlying exposure to these derivative instruments would have resulted in realized gains or realized losses of 4.6 million as at December 31, 2005 and 129.5 million as at December 31, 2004, respectively. The Company may reduce its exposure to these futures through offsetting transactions, including options and forwards. Foreign Currency Exchange Risk The Company has exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations through its operations and in its investment portfolio. The Companys net foreign currency denominated payable on foreign exchange contracts was 603 million and 3.8 million as at December 31, 2005 and 2004 respectively, with a net unrealized gain of 15.9 million and a net unrealized loss of 11.8 million as at December 31, 2004 and 2005, respectively. 107 Foreign exchange contracts within the investment portfolio are utilized to manage individual portfolio foreign exchange exposures, subject to investment manager guidelines established by management. These contracts are not designated as specific hedges for financial reporting purposes and, therefore, realized and unrealized gains and losses on these contracts are recorded in income in the period in which they occur. These contracts generally have maturities of three months or less. The Company also attempts to manage the foreign exchange volatility arising on certain transactions denominated in foreign currencies. These include, but are not limited to, premium receivable, reinsurance contracts, claims payable and investments in subsidiaries. Credit Risk The Company is exposed to credit risk in the event of non performance by the other parties to its forward contracts, however the Company does not anticipate non performance. The difference between the notional principal amounts and the associated market value is the Companys maximum credit exposure. 108 
 
