ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward looking statements which involve inherent risks and uncertainties. Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about the Companys beliefs and expectations, are forward looking statements. These statements are based upon current plans, estimates and expectations. Actual results may differ materially from those projected in such forward looking statements, and therefore undue reliance should not be placed on them. See Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements for a list of additional factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statement. This discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto presented under Item 8. Certain aspects of the Companys business have loss experience characterized as low frequency and high severity. This may result in volatility in both the Companys results of operations and financial condition. Index Executive Overview 54 Trends and Outlook 56 Financial Measures 56 Other Key Focuses of Management 58 Results of Operations 63 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 68 Segments 85 Income Statement Analysis 86 Insurance 86 Reinsurance 89 Life Operations 91 Financial Lines 93 SCA 95 Investment Activities 97 Investment Performance 98 Net realized gains and losses on investments and other than temporary declines in the value of investments 98 Net unrealized gains and losses on investments 99 Other Revenues and Expenses 101 Balances Sheet Analysis 102 Investments 102 Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses 103 Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses Recoverable and Reinsurance Balances Receivable 104 Liquidity and Capital Resources 107 Cross Default and Other Provisions in Debt Instruments 115 Long Term Contractual Obligations 116 Variable Interest Entities and Other Off Balance Sheet Arrangements 117 Recent Accounting Pronouncements 118 Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements 118 53 Executive Overview Background The Company operates on a global basis primarily in the property and casualty industry and, to a lesser extent, the financial services industry. The Company serves the insurance, reinsurance and financial services needs of institutional and corporate clients, typically the global equivalent of the Fortune 2000. The Company operates in markets where it believes its underwriting expertise and financial strength represent a relative advantage. The Company has grown through acquisitions and development of new business opportunities. Acquisitions included Global Capital Re in 1997, Mid Ocean Limited in 1998, ECS, Inc. and NAC Re Corp. in 1999, Winterthur International in 2001 and Le Mans R in 2002. All acquisitions have supported the Companys strategic plan to develop a global platform in insurance and reinsurance. Other business developments include XL Weather & Energy Inc., XL Life Insurance & Annuity Company and SCA which offers financial guaranty insurance and reinsurance products through XL Capital Assurance Inc. and XL Financial Assurance Ltd., respectively. As a result of these combined developments, the Company now competes as an integrated global business with more than 3,700 employees in 28 countries. Underwriting Environment The property and casualty insurance and reinsurance markets have historically been cyclical, meaning that based on market conditions, there have been periods where premium rates are high and policy terms and conditions are more favorable to the Company (a hard market) and there have been periods where premium rates decline and policy terms and conditions are less favorable to the Company (a soft market). Market conditons are driven primarily by competition in the marketplace, the supply of capital in the industry, investment yields and the frequency and severity of loss events. Managements goal is to build long term shareholder value by capitalizing on current opportunities and managing through any cyclical downturns by reducing its property and casualty book of business and exposures if and when rates deteriorate to unprofitable levels. As part of its long term strategy, the Company also looks to its Life operations, Financial lines, and SCA segments to provide a diversified stream of earnings that are not directly tied to the property and casualty cycle. The Company earns its revenue primarily from net premiums written and earned. In 2004 and 2005, pricing for most property and casualty lines of business experienced moderate declines as market conditions weakened following hard market conditions that had developed from 2000 through 2003. More specifically, in 2004, property and casualty market conditions overall remained attractive although price competition increased throughout the year, most notably in regards to property and professional lines. Accordingly, the Company continued to focus on disciplined risk selection. In 2005, downward pressure on rates across most non catastrophe exposed lines continued throughout the year although the impact of the 2004 storm season, the backdrop of continued emergence of adverse development related to the market of the late 1990s and concerns about reinsurer financial strength, all served to reinforce a sense of discipline in the market. Following the significant natural catastrophes of 2005, additional competitors were formed in the marketplace which had the effect of increasing the available capacity within the insurance and reinsurance markets. Although rates within some lines of business have experienced increases such as catastrophe exposed property lines of business, the entrance of these new competitors and an overall increasingly competitive environment, has had a dampening effect on rates within certain property and casualty lines of business, which ultimately has contributed to reducing gross and net premiums written in 2006. During 2006, premium rates across most lines of business within the Insurance segment have generally been flat to down, however, the shortage of U.S. catastrophe capacity and resultant price movement has allowed growth in the Companys catastrophe exposed property premiums during 2006 while it aggressively worked to reduce catastrophe exposures. The Companys insurance property catastrophe reinsurance treaties renewed on July 1, with a material increase in reinsurance costs, driven not only by rate movements but an increase in limits purchased, although management expects less limits will be 54 needed next year as certain U.S. catastrophe exposures run off. Property results for 2006 also reflect exceptionally low recent loss activity. In casualty lines, the Company experienced pricing pressures throughout 2006, particularly in Europe and U.S. primary business. Management continues to monitor these lines closely for price and term movements. In other lines of the Companys Insurance segment, the Company has seen pricing in U.S. professional lines remain adequate across Directors and Officers (D&O), Design Professional and Select Professional lines of business. The Companys recent entry into the private D&O market has shown significant growth. The Company views this market as an important future growth opportunity. While D&O pricing has been more aggressive in Europe, there have been reducing claim trends. In the environmental line, underwriting actions implemented in recent years are generating growth in new business production. In marine and offshore energy lines of business, despite risk management initiatives which have reduced our catastrophe exposures significantly, the Company has benefited from overall market price increases. Generally, the Reinsurance segment has experienced pricing trends similar to those noted in the Insurance segment. With regards to U.S. property catastrophe business, significant rate increases were experienced in 2006 despite the increase in available capacity, while modest rate increases were also experienced in continental Europe. In casualty reinsurance lines, pricing pressure has been noted similar to that described in the Insurance segment. Investment Environment The Company also generates revenue from investment activities through returns on its investment portfolio. The Companys current investment strategy seeks to support the liabilities arising from the operations of the Company, generate investment income and build book value over the longer term. During 2006, interest rates have increased in the U.S., U.K., and Euro zone. The benchmark 90 day treasury rose from 4.08% to 5.02%, the 5 year treasury rose from 4.35% to 4.69%, and the 30 year treasury rose from 4.54% to 4.81%. Interest rates also increased in the U.K., where the yield on the benchmark 5 year Gilt rose from 4.17% to 5.06%, as well as in the Euro zone, where the yield on the benchmark 5 year German Bund rose from 3.07% to 3.92%. In 2006, the Companys net investment income increased primarily due to the increase in the size of the investment portfolio and also a rise in the level of the U.S., U.K., and Euro zone interest rates. In 2006, the Company generated net realized losses from its investment portfolio primarily due to other than temporary impairments. Net gains from the equity and non U.S. dollar fixed income portfolios were offset by net losses on U.S. dollar fixed income portfolios, reflecting higher U.S. interest rates. In 2005, the Company generated net realized gains from both its equity and fixed income portfolios, reflecting the current and accumulated performance of the capital markets. In 2004, the Company generated net realized gains from both its equity and fixed income portfolios reflecting the overall performance of capital markets and the deterioration of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies. Claims Environment The Companys profitability in any given period is based upon its premium and investment revenues as noted above, less net losses incurred and expenses. Net losses incurred are based upon claims paid and changes to unpaid loss reserves. Unpaid loss reserves are estimated by the Company and include both reported loss reserves and reserves for losses incurred but not reported, or IBNR. The Companys positive financial results for 2006 were partly a result of the lack of significant catastrophe events occurring throughout the year as well as net favorable development of prior year reserves, primarily in reinsurance property lines of business. The Companys results for 2005 were significantly impacted by the unprecedented insured hurricane losses during the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season, the charge related to the conclusion of the independent actuarial process with Winterthur Swiss Insurance Company (the Winterthur Decision) and adverse development of prior year loss reserves in both insurance professional lines and reinsurance casualty lines. The Companys results for 2004 were also significantly impacted by the catastrophe activity in that year, combined with adverse prior year development in certain lines of the Companys Insurance segment. For a further discussion of these events see Results of Operations below. 55 Trends and Outlook Management intends to maximize the Companys ability to achieve profitable growth by focusing on leveraging the Companys operational platforms and building out the Companys capabilities, teams and product offerings in its chosen markets. Such markets include Excess & Surplus, Private Company D&O, U.K. closed block life reinsurance, U.S. term life reinsurance and other lines and regions where management believes positive market indicators exist. The following sets forth potential trends relevant to the Companys general operations in 2007: Insurance In the Insurance Segment, initial indications show a gradually softening market with variations by line and geography. In addition, competitive pressures are making new business more difficult to win. December and January rate changes range from flat to down 5% on the property and casualty global risk business, with perhaps as much as a 10% decrease in some other lines. Renewals in the U.S. for 2007 have shown that traditional D&O and E&O professional rates are down approximately 10% with flat to modest increases in the design and select professional books. Specialty lines pricing remains generally flat. Aviation and marine lines are the exceptions to this as they face increasing competition. Reinsurance Initial indications in the Reinsurance segment show that while peak zone U.S. property capacity is still at a premium, competitive pressures are impacting most reinsurance lines. Notwithstanding this, generally the market continues to demonstrate underwriting discipline. During the January renewals, rate increases were noted for U.S. wind exposures of approximately 30% and increases of up to 20% for U.S. earthquake. Ocean marine pricing remains flat, unless it is wind exposed where price increases are expected. There has been some modest softening in US non catastrophe exposed property pricing and in non U.S. property pricing in general. Casualty pricing trends in this segment are generally following those of the Insurance segment, with single digit price reductions, except for certain European casualty lines where there is some price improvement. In contrast, aviation is an example where pricing is falling on the primary insurance business, mostly as a result of continued good experience, but where the excess loss pricing is relatively higher. Financial Measures The following are some of the financial measures management considers important in evaluating the Companys operating performance in the Companys general operations: (U.S. dollars in thousands, except ratios and per share amounts) 2006 2005 2004 Underwriting profit (loss) general operations $ 698,541 $ (2,268,164 ) $ 343,990 Combined ratio general operations 88.5 % 132.9 % 95.9 % Net investment income general operations $ 1,091,868 $ 798,805 $ 614,128 Book value per ordinary share $ 53.12 $ 44.31 $ 51.98 Return on average ordinary shareholders equity 19.6 % NA 16.5 % Underwriting profit (loss) general operations One way that the Company evaluates the performance of its insurance and reinsurance general operations is the underwriting profit or loss. The Company does not measure performance based on the amount of gross premiums written. Underwriting profit or loss is calculated from premiums earned and fee income, less net losses incurred and expenses related to underwriting activities, plus unrealized foreign exchange gains and losses on underwriting balances. As noted above, the Companys positive results for 2006 were partly a result of the lack of significant catastrophe events occuring throughout the year and net favorable prior year loss development. In addition, underwriting profit also 56 increased based on the addition of certain new business lines and the increase in premium rates within certain lines of business. The Companys underwriting profit and loss in 2005 and 2004 was negatively impacted by net losses incurred from catastrophic events, the results of the Winterthur Decision and adverse development of prior year loss reserves. Any changes to loss reserves affect the calculation of underwriting profit or loss but most often do not directly affect the Companys cash flow in the same period. See further discussion below. Combined ratio general operations The combined ratio for general operations is used by the Company and many other insurance and reinsurance companies as another measure of underwriting profitability. The combined ratio is calculated from the net losses incurred and underwriting expenses as a ratio of the net premiums earned for the Companys general insurance and reinsurance operations. A combined ratio of less than 100% indicates an underwriting profit and over 100% indicates an underwriting loss. The Companys improved combined ratio in 2006 was primarily due to the lack of significant catastrophe events occuring throughout the year, while in 2005 and 2004 the combined ratio was negatively impacted by the factors affecting the underwriting profit (loss), noted above. Excluding the catastrophe losses and the impact of the Winterthur Decision, the combined ratio in 2005 was 92.1%. The relative decrease in 2006 is as a result of a decrease in the loss ratio due to the net favorable development on prior year reserves partially offset by an increased operating expense ratio. Net investment income general operations Net investment income from general operations is an important measure that affects the Companys overall profitability. The largest liability of the Company relates to its unpaid loss reserves, and the Companys investment portfolio provides liquidity for claims settlements of these reserves as they become due, and thus a significant part of the portfolio is in fixed income securities. Net investment income is affected by the size of the portfolio and also the level of market interest rates. The average size of the investment portfolio outstanding during the year ended December 31, 2006 increased as compared to 2005 due to the Companys issuance of ordinary shares and equity units in the fourth quarter of 2005 and its positive operating cash flow. Total investments as at December 31, 2006 were $42.1 billion as compared to $38.2 billion as at December 31, 2005. In 2006, the U.S. yield curve shifted upwards with short term U.S. interest rates increasing markedly while medium to long term interest rates had a less dramatic rise. U.K. and the Euro zone interest rates also increased over the course of the year. In 2005, the U.S. yield curve flattened significantly with U.S. short to medium term interest rates increasing markedly while long term rates showed a small decline. U.K. rates declined, while in the Euro zone short term rates rose while medium to long term rates declined. Book value per ordinary share Management also views the change in the Companys book value per ordinary share as an additional measure of the Companys performance. Book value per share is calculated by dividing ordinary shareholders equity by the number of outstanding ordinary shares at any period end. Book value per ordinary share is affected primarily by the Companys net income and also by any changes in the net unrealized gains and losses on its investment portfolio. Book value per ordinary share has increased by $8.81 in 2006 as compared to a decrease of $7.67 in 2005. The factors noted above have created $1.7 billion in net income throughout 2006, which has been the main contributor to the increase in the book value. However, the net unrealized gains associated with the Companys investment portfolio have decreased by $103.8 million net of tax during 2006. These movements were generally due to interest rate increases, which were offset by the positive impact of equity and currency movements. The Companys book value per ordinary share decreased in 2005 as a result of the underwriting losses incurred, partially offset by the significant capital raising during December 2005, where ordinary shares were issued at a premium to the book value at that time. During 2005, book value per share also decreased as a result of a decrease in the unrealized gains on the Companys investment portfolio. The decrease was primarily as a result of increasing short to medium term U.S. interest rates, partially offset by declining longer term U.K. interest rates. 57 Return on average ordinary shareholders equity Return on average ordinary shareholders equity (ROE) is another financial measure that management considers important in evaluating the Companys operating performance. ROE is calculated by dividing the net income for any period by the average of the opening and closing ordinary shareholders equity. The Company establishes minimum target ROEs for its total operations, segments and lines of business. If the Companys minimum ROE targets over the longer term are not met with respect to any line of business, the Company seeks to modify and or exit these lines. In addition, the Companys compensation of its senior officers is significantly dependent on the achievement of the Companys performance goals to enhance shareholder value as measured by ROE. In 2006, ROE was 19.6% due to solid underwriting results throughout its general and financial operations combined with investment and affiliate income. In 2005, the Company recorded a loss due to significant large catastrophe activity and losses related to the result of the Winterthur Decision. Other Key Focuses of Management Initial Public Offering of Financial Guaranty Business On August 4, 2006, the Company completed the sale of approximately 37% of its financial guaranty reinsurance and insurance businesses (the Transferred Business) through the IPO of 23.4 million common shares of SCA at $20.50 per share. SCA was formed in Bermuda during March 2006 for the sole purpose of acting as the holding company for the Transferred Business. In connection with the primary IPO of SCA shares, SCA issued 18,009,119 common shares at $20.50 per share for proceeds to SCA, net of offering costs, of approximately $342.2 million. In addition, upon completion of the secondary public offering of 5,430,774 shares previously held by the XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd, the Company received proceeds, net of offering costs, of approximately $104.7 million. The transaction resulted in a pre tax reduction of the Companys shareholders equity of $33.7 million, representing the difference between the carrying value of 100% of SCA immediately prior to the IPO and the sum of the secondary proceeds and the remaining carrying value of the Companys ownership interest in SCA subsequent to the IPO, as well as, other costs and taxes incurred on the transaction. The portion of the reduction related to the primary offering of shares by SCA of $30.1 million was recorded as a direct reduction to shareholders equity, while the portion of the reduction related to the shares sold in the secondary offering of $3.6 million was included in realized gains (losses) in the accompanying statement of operations. In addition, the Company incurred income tax expenses of $6.0 million principally related to the transfer of XLCA to XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd, prior to the contribution of XLCA to SCA. As part of the overall structuring of the IPO, certain formation transactions occurred in order to move all units included in the IPO under SCA. In addition, in connection with the IPO, the Company has entered into reinsurance agreements with SCA to retain certain insurance risks along with the related liabilities. At their inception, these contracts had no effect on the Companys income. In addition, the Company has entered into arrangements to provide adverse development protection to SCA related to certain limited risks where the Company would pay up to the limits of the underlying coverages. The Company has also entered into a number of agreements with SCA that govern certain aspects of the relationship after the IPO, including service agreements under which the Company will provide certain services to SCA for a limited period of time. Ratings and Capital Management The Companys ability to underwrite business is largely dependent upon the quality of its claims paying and financial strength ratings as evaluated by independent rating agencies. As a result, in the event that the Companys financial strength rating is downgraded, its ability to write business will be adversely affected. During the third and fourth quarters of 2005 a number of ratings actions were taken by independent rating agencies including some downgrades of the Companys principal insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries. The Company subsequently raised $3.2 billion through an issuance of a combination of ordinary shares and equity security units. Strong underwriting results 58 and overall positive net income in 2006 has helped to maintain the Companys ratings as noted in Item 1 Business Ratings section above. To address rating agency requirements regarding the differential between the triple A ratings of the Companys financial guaranty companies and their affiliated companies, the Company completed the IPO of SCA as described above. The formation of SCA has helped to provide greater independence and stability to XLCAs and XLFAs ratings. Thus, the financial strength ratings of XLCA and XLFA remain triple A with a stable outlook (by Standard & Poors, Moodys and Fitch Ratings). For a further discussion see Item 1 Business Ratings above. In the normal course of business, the Company evaluates the efficiency of its capital structure and its capital needs to support the volume of business written in order to maintain its claims paying and financial strength ratings. The Company addressed these needs during 2006 with several key business initiatives as described below. In 2006, management entered into certain catastrophe risk reduction measures and strategic initiatives intended to reduce volatility while, at the same time, improving the quality of the Companys risk adjusted returns. These measures include the Companys cessions to Cyrus Reinsurance Limited (Cyrus Re) and reducing the Companys catastrophe exposures in the Companys global risk property Insurance book, the International Catastrophe Insurance Managers, LLC portfolio, the reinsurance property risk book and the Companys offshore marine & energy books in both the Insurance and Reinsurance segments. In addition, on December 5, 2006, the Company and certain operating subsidiaries entered into a securities issuance agreement and certain of its foreign insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries entered into an excess of loss reinsurance agreement with Stoneheath Re. The net effect of these agreements to the Company is the creation of a contingent put option to issue $350.0 million of preference ordinary shares in the aggregate. The agreements provide the Company with a reinsurance collateral account in support of certain covered perils named in the reinsurance agreement. The initial covered perils include United States wind, European wind, California earthquake and terrorism worldwide. In May 2007, purchase contracts associated with the Companys 6.5% equity security units mature and the related 2.53% senior notes will be remarketed and the interest rate reset. Management continues to review the impact and on going implications of this liquidity event and more broadly, the efficiency of our capital structure. Collateral Management Another important matter on which management is focused (and which also affects the Companys ability to underwrite business) is the availability of collateral. Collateral includes letters of credit, insurance trusts and other credit facilities required to provide security to cedants (which are companies who reinsure their liabilities to the Company), particularly as required by state insurance regulation in the U.S. and at Lloyds, and also to provide the Company with liquidity as required. These facilities are provided to the Company from commercial banks. Our principal credit facilities have tenors of two, three, and five years. The Company has also utilized off balance sheet transactions in order to obtain more collateral capacity (these transactions are described below under Variable Interest Entities and Other Off Balance Sheet Arrangements). As the Company writes more business, its collateral requirements will increase. A key challenge for management is to ensure that sufficient collateral capacity is available to support future writing of business. Management Changes During 2006, there have been a number of changes in the Companys segment and management structure. A new Office of the Chief Executive Officer (OCEO) was formed effective July 1, 2006. It is comprised of five senior executive functions including the Companys Chief Financial Officer, Chief Investment Officer, Chief Executive Global Business Services and two newly created roles, Chief Operating Officer and Chief of Staff. 59 This new structure is designed to provide a focused, enterprise wide framework to allow the Companys business leaders to leverage strategic opportunities and execute on business priorities. Henry C.V. Keeling, formerly Global Head of Business Services and Chief Executive of Reinsurance Life Operations, was appointed Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Keeling assumes broad strategic responsibility for the Companys underwriting risk assumption businesses, including insurance, reinsurance, life operations and financial lines. Clive Tobin, Chief Executive Officer Insurance, and Jamie Veghte, Chief Executive Officer Reinsurance Operations, continue in those roles, as members of the Companys Executive Management Board and as the key leaders of the Companys property and casualty segments, reporting to Mr. Keeling. Fiona E. Luck, formerly Global Head of Corporate Services, was appointed Chief of Staff. As such, Ms. Luck is responsible for management of the Companys legal and corporate actuarial functions in addition to her existing role managing a wide range of other holding company functions including Corporate Strategy, Human Resources, Corporate Communications, Marketing and Corporate Social Responsibility. Michael C. Lobdell, a former Managing Director of New York based JPMorganChase, joined the Company in September to serve as Chief Executive Global Business Services. Mr. Lobdell is responsible for overall execution and service delivery across the entire Company and will oversee infrastructure and project management, including IT systems and technology, procurement, real estate, facilities, outsourcing and offshoring. Additionally, during 2006 the Company announced the promotions of Sarah E. Street to the position of Chief Investment Officer, Kirstin Romann Gould to the newly formed position of General Counsel of Corporate Affairs and Celia R. Brown to the position of Head of Global Human Resources. At the segment executive management level, the Company also announced the appointment of Jamie Veghte to the position of Chief Executive of Reinsurance Operations, Robert Douglas to the position of Chief Executive of Life Operations and Daniel Sussman, to the position of Chief Executive of Financial Lines Operations. Messrs. Douglas, Veghte and Sussman report to the Companys Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Keeling. In conjunction with the SCA IPO, Mr. Paul S. Giordano, formerly Executive Vice President and Chief Executive of XLs Financial Products & Services segment, was appointed to the position of President and Chief Executive Officer of SCA and Chief Executive Officer of XLCA. Susan E. Cross, formerly Chief Actuarial Officer of the Companys reinsurance operations, was appointed Global Chief Actuary. In her new role, Ms. Cross will lead and oversee all major actuarial functions for the Company, including the establishment of unpaid losses and loss expenses, pricing benchmarks and related financial provisions. In late 2006, Jerry de St. Paer, Chief Financial Officer, announced his decision to retire from the Company during 2007. Mr. de St. Paer will retire on March 5, 2007. The Company is in the process of an external search for a successor for Mr. de St. Paer. Ms. Luck will assume the role of interim CFO while the search is underway. Winterthur International Under the terms of the Sale and Purchase Agreement (the SPA), as amended, between XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd (XLI) and Winterthur Swiss Insurance Company (WSIC), WSIC provided the Company with post closing protection with respect to, among other things, adverse development of reserves and premium on certain Winterthur International Insurance business as well as protection with respect to third party reinsurance receivables and recoverables related to the acquisition of certain Winterthur International insurance operations (the Winterthur Business). On December 6, 2005, the Company received the final report from the Independent Actuary in connection with the resolution process in place to settle the Companys post closing protection related to adverse reserve and premium developments. The Independent Actuarys determinations resulted in the Company receiving a net lump sum payment in the amount of approximately $575.0 million (including interest receivable) from WSIC. As the Company had 60 recorded $1.4 billion in unpaid losses and loss expenses recoverable related to this protection, a loss of approximately $834.2 million was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2005. During 2006, management focused on resolving all remaining outstanding matters with WSIC including the remaining protection related to third party reinsurance receivables and recoverables. On June 7, 2006, subsidiaries of the Company, entered into an agreement (the Agreement) with WSIC, which the purpose of is to release all actual or potential disputes, claims or issues arising out of or related in any way to: (i) the Liquidity Facility and the Sellers Retrocession Agreements, as well as (ii) subject to certain exceptions, the SPA. The Agreement further provides for a four year term, collateralized escrow arrangement (the Fund) of up to $185 million (plus interest) to protect subsidiaries of the Company from future nonperforming third party reinsurance related to the Winterthur Business. The Fund has been structured to align the parties interests by providing for any sums remaining in the Fund at the end of its term to be shared in agreed percentages. The Agreement replaces the protections provided to the Company from WSIC for reinsurance receivables and recoverables under the Liquidity Facility and Sellers Retrocession Agreements as described in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10 K/A for the year ended December 31, 2005. Foreign Exchange Exposure In the normal course of business, the Company is exposed to foreign exchange fluctuations on various items on its financial statements, in particular investments, future policy benefit reserves and unpaid losses and loss expenses. This exposure also exists on certain inter company balances, which are eliminated for consolidation purposes. The Company attempts to manage this economic exposure through matching foreign currency denominated liabilities with foreign currency denominated assets. While unrealized foreign exchange gains and losses on underwriting balances are reported in earnings, the offsetting unrealized gains and losses on invested assets are recorded as a separate component of shareholders equity, to the extent that the asset currency does not match that entitys functional currency. This results in an accounting mismatch, that will result in foreign exchange gains or loss depending on the movement in certain currencies. In order to improve administrative efficiencies as well as to address this accounting imbalance, the Company formed several branches with Euro and U.K. Sterling functional currencies during the second and fourth quarters of 2006. Management will continue to focus on attempting to limit this type of exposure in the future. Integrated European Reinsurance Platform On October 18, 2006, the Company received approval to form a new European company, XL Re Europe Ltd, based in Dublin, Ireland, which is licensed to write all classes of reinsurance business. XL Re Europe Ltd is the headquarters of the Companys European reinsurance platform and in 2006 it formed two new branches, one in the U.K. and one in France to facilitate the assumption of business previously underwritten by the U.K. branch of XL Re Ltd and XL Re Europe S.A. The non life business of the U.K. branch of XL Re Ltd will be transferred into XL Re Europe Ltd on January 1, 2007 under Part VII of the Financial Services & Markets Act 2000. The business of XL Re Europe S.A. has been transferred to XL Re Europe Ltd under the Transmission Universelle Du Patrimoine (TUP) process. Emerging Markets The Company continues to identify opportunities for growth and profit within various emerging markets. On September 1, 2006 the Company announced that they had entered a definitive agreement to form a joint venture insurance company in Brazil. The new insurance company, ITA XL Seguros Corporativos S.A. (ITA XL), will combine the current Brazilian property, casualty and specialty commercial insurance business of Banco Ita Holding Financeira S.A. (ITA) and the Company and will operate in Brazils commercial lines insurance market. Given the recent decision by the Brazilian government to privatize the domestic reinsurance market, the Company should be well positioned in the future to grow both its insurance and reinsurance lines of business in Brazil. 61 In early 2006, the Company opened a representative office in Beijing, China. The opening of the office, which is permitted to act as a liaison point, conduct research and perform other non income generating activities, demonstrates the Companys commitment to the China market and the Companys view of that markets long term potential in the areas of insurance and reinsurance. Operational Efficiency and Effectiveness The Companys ability to compete is influenced by its operational efficiency and effectiveness, including the development and retention of its people. In recognition of this, the Company has in place and continues to develop, programs and initiatives aimed at enhancing its position in these areas. For example, the Company continues to make significant investments in information technology in both the Insurance and Reinsurance segments, develop and implement a new framework for Financial Reporting and Controls, and continues to develop an operations center based in India. Each of these projects requires considerable investment and commitment of the Companys resources in an effort to achieve the ultimate goals of increased operational efficiency and effectiveness. Corporate Culture and Values A key strategic focus of the Company is the continued development and enrichment of its corporate culture and core values. The Company believes that a strong underlying corporate culture is a key factor in differentiating itself among its competitors. The Companys corporate culture is defined by its five core values of ethics, teamwork, excellence, development, and respect. The Company believes that an appropriate tone from the top is a primary factor in the success of developing its corporate culture. As such, the Company holds regular town hall meetings where senior management review key decisions, strategy, and operating results with the staff and management who are then encouraged to address questions in an open format. To support its corporate culture, the Company also promotes a strong control environment through the continued development of its Framework for Internal Controls, its legal Compliance program, and internal control sub certifications that support control certifications signed by senior management on a quarterly basis. Talent Management and Succession Planning The Company believes that effective talent management and succession planning processes are key to the long term success of the Company. As such, the Company has implemented various development programs and succession planning efforts across the Company. The Companys development programs include the global development program for its high potential junior employees, the performance development program for its managers and team leaders, and the leadership development program for its senior managers. Succession planning efforts include identifying and monitoring the various talent pools within the Company to match the future needs and long term strategy of the Company. Liquidity and Cash Flow As a property and casualty insurer, the Company must ensure that it has sufficient funds to settle claims promptly, especially upon the occurrence of a major catastrophic event. Management is focused on making sure that liquidity requirements are supported by having lines of credit facilities available to the Company as well as by the Companys general investment portfolio, the majority of which is invested in high grade fixed income securities. The Company has had significant positive cash flow from operations in the three years ended December 31, 2006 generated from its underwriting activities (premiums less claim and expense settlements) as well as the receipt of investment income on its portfolio. During 2005, capital raising activity provided significant cash flows from financing activities. The Company expects cash flow from operations to be positive in 2007. 62 Results of Operations The following table presents an analysis of the Companys net income (loss) available to ordinary shareholders and other financial measures (described below) for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004: (U.S. dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts) 2006 2005 2004 Net income (loss) available to ordinary shareholders $ 1,722,445 $ (1,292,298 ) $ 1,126,292 Earnings (loss) per ordinary share basic $ 9.63 $ (9.14 ) $ 8.17 Earnings (loss) per ordinary share diluted $ 9.60 $ (9.14 ) $ 8.13 Weighted average number of ordinary shares and ordinary share equivalents basic 178,793 141,406 137,903 Weighted average number of ordinary shares and ordinary share equivalents diluted 179,450 141,406 138,582 The Companys net income (loss) and other financial measures as shown above for the three years ended December 31 have been affected by among other things, the following significant items: 1) Limited number of natural catastrophes during 2006 as compared to 2005 and 2004; 2) The impact of the unfavorable result of the Winterthur Decision; 3) Prior year loss development; 4) Growing asset base and positive performance from investments in affiliates. 1. Limited number of natural catastrophes during 2006 as compared to 2005 and 2004 During 2006, there were a limited number of natural catastrophes as compared to 2005 and 2004. Specifically, there were only five hurricanes in the Atlantic region in 2006 as compared to fifteen in 2005. More importantly, for the hurricanes that did make landfall in 2006, the resulting insured damage was minimal. Total property catastrophe losses for events in 2006 were insignificant, however, there was net adverse development on the 2005 catastrophes of $119.4 million. This overall low level of catastrophe losses was a significant factor in the successful results achieved by the Company in 2006. During 2005, there was an unprecedented quantum of natural catastrophes. Collectively, Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma had a substantial impact on the Companys results of operations and financial condition. This impact should be considered when reviewing comparative results. In August 2005, Hurricane Katrina, a category 4 storm, hit the Gulf Coast of the United States and is estimated to have caused the largest ever insured loss from a natural disaster in the property and casualty insurance industry. In September 2005, Hurricane Rita, a Category 3 storm, hit the Gulf Coast on the United States and caused considerable damage, although Rita was less severe than Katrina. In October 2005, Hurricane Wilma hit South Florida after causing significant damage in Mexico and Cuba. In addition, there were several other natural loss events in the third and fourth quarter 2005, including hurricanes Dennis, Emily and Ophelia, the European and Mumbai Floods and Typhoon Mawar (collectively, the Other Cats). Collectively, Hurricanes Katrina, Rita, Wilma, and these Other Cats have had a substantial impact on the Companys results of operations and financial condition. As a result of the substantial impact that Hurricanes Katrina, Rita, Wilma and the Other Cats had on the results of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company incurred losses, net of reinsurance recoveries, of $1.27 billion, $357.9 million and $247.1 million and $96.0 million, respectively, as at year end December 31, 2005. The year ended December 31, 2004 was negatively impacted by four hurricanes, Frances, Charley, Ivan and Jeanne, for a total net loss of $516.6 million, net of reinsurance recoveries. In addition, the Company incurred net losses and loss expenses of $74.6 million in 2004 as a result of the earthquake and the subsequent tsunami that struck South Asia on December 26, 2004. 63 The following are analyses of the financial impact on the Companys results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 from natural catastrophes: Year ended December 31, 2005 (U.S. dollars in millions, except ratios) Insurance Reinsurance Financial Lines and SCA Total Operating Data: Net premiums earned Katrina $ (74.6 ) $ 16.3 $ 23.6 $ (34.7 ) Rita (13.3 ) 8.8 (4.5 ) Wilma (1.2 ) 6.2 5.0 Other natural catastrophes* 3.4 3.4 Total net premiums earned $ (89.1 ) $ 34.7 $ 23.6 $ (30.8 ) Gross losses and loss expenses: Katrina $ 1,339.7 $ 1,128.0 $ 45.0 $ 2,512.7 Rita 521.9 232.4 754.3 Wilma 172.7 214.4 387.1 Other natural catastrophes* 40.2 57.5 97.7 Total gross losses and loss expenses $ 2,074.5 $ 1,632.3 $ 45.0 $ 3,751.8 Losses and loss expenses recoverable: Katrina $ 748.6 $ 495.3 $ $ 1,243.9 Rita 312.9 83.5 396.4 Wilma 64.3 75.7 140.0 Other natural catastrophes* 1.7 1.7 Total losses and loss expenses recoverable $ 1,127.5 $ 654.5 $ $ 1,782.0 Underwriting loss $ (1,036.1 ) $ (943.1 ) $ (21.4 ) $ (2,000.6 ) Income tax benefit $ 135.5 Net loss $ (1,865.1 ) Loss ratio impact for the year ended December 31, 2005 28.7 % * Other natural Catastrophes include European and Mumbai floods, Hurricanes Dennis, Emily and Ophelia and Typhoon Mawar. ** The Life operations segment was unaffected by these catastrophes and hence has been excluded from the table above. During 2006, net reserves established for the events noted above adversely developed by $119.4 million primarily in the Reinsurance segment. These developments were partially offset by additional loss sensitive premium received. 64 Year ended December 31, 2004 (U.S. dollars in millions, except ratios) Insurance Reinsurance Total Operating Data: Net premiums earned: Charley $ $ 7.7 $ 7.7 Frances 3.5 3.5 Ivan (12.2 ) (6.5 ) (18.7 ) Jeanne 2.7 2.7 South Asia Tsunami Total net premiums earned $ (12.2 ) $ 7.4 $ (4.8 ) Gross losses and loss expenses: Charley $ 72.8 $ 85.5 $ 158.3 Frances 93.4 83.2 176.6 Ivan 168.4 186.5 354.9 Jeanne 37.6 49.5 87.1 South Asia Tsunami 50.0 24.6 74.6 Total gross losses and loss expenses $ 422.2 $ 429.3 $ 851.5 Losses and loss expenses recoverable: Charley $ 16.9 $ 10.8 $ 27.7 Frances 21.9 10.2 32.1 Ivan 77.7 111.5 189.2 Jeanne 7.4 3.9 11.3 South Asia Tsunami Total losses and loss expenses recoverable $ 123.9 $ 136.4 $ 260.3 Underwriting loss $ (310.5 ) $ (285.5 ) $ (596.0 ) Income tax benefit $ 37.7 Net loss $ (558.3 ) Loss ratio impact for the year ended December 31, 2004 8.5 % * The Life operations, Financial lines and SCA segments were unaffected by these catastrophes and hence have been excluded from the table above. During the two year period ended December 31, 2006, net reserves established for the events noted above have developed largely in line with expectations. 2. The impact of the unfavorable result of the Winterthur Decision On December 6, 2005, the Company received the report from the Independent Actuary in connection with the Companys post closing protection for adverse development of net loss and unearned premium relating to the acquisition of certain Winterthur International insurance operations from WSIC in 2001. The Independent Actuarys report concluded that WSICs submitted Seasoned Net Reserve Amount (SNRA) and Net Premium Receivable Amount (NPRA) were closest to the Independent Actuarys determinations of SNRA and NPRA. These determinations resulted in the Company receiving a net lump sum payment in the amount of 65 approximately $575.0 million (including interest receivable) from WSIC. As the Company had recorded $1.4 billion in unpaid losses and loss expenses recoverable related to this protection, a loss of approximately $808.9 million, net of interest, was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2005. 3. Prior year loss development Net prior year favorable loss development occurs when there is a decrease to loss reserves recorded at the beginning of the year, resulting from actual or reported loss development for prior years that is less than expected loss development. Net prior year adverse loss development occurs when there is an increase to loss reserves recorded at the beginning of the year, resulting from actual or reported loss development for prior years exceeding expected loss development. The following table presents the net (favorable) adverse prior year loss development of the Companys loss and loss expense reserves for its general and financial operations by operating segment for each of the years indicated: ((U.S. dollars in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Insurance segment $ (13 ) $ 1,020 $ 292 Reinsurance segment (126 ) 94 (24 ) Financial Lines and SCA 28 Total $ (111 ) $ 1,114 $ 268 Within the Insurance segment, net overall favorable prior year reserve development for the year ended December 31, 2006 was $13.2 million. This overall favorable development included reserve releases of $94.4 million in property lines and $91.1 million in casualty lines, partially offset by $96.5 million, $3.0 million and $72.8 million of prior year adverse development in certain professional, marine and aviation, and other lines of business, respectively. Property reserve releases resulted from favorable experience in the 2005 accident year for both attritional and catastrophe losses. Casualty reserve releases were noted largely in Europe including $69.2 million related to casualty business acquired from Winterthur combined with continued favorable development of the business re underwritten post acquisition. The professional adverse development relates primarily to the Bermuda portfolio. This development is split into the 2002 and prior periods for D&O and 2004 and subsequent periods for employment practices liability as new types of actions based on employment demographics have emerged. Adverse development from the 2005 hurricanes impacted marine, but was offset by favorable development in aviation reserves. Other adverse development resulted primarily from discontinued lines such as surety and political risk, combined with an unrecoverable reinsurance balance from an accident and health line reinsurer. The gross prior year favorable development for the Insurance segment was $371.4 million. This gross favorable development exceeds the corresponding net development as gross reported losses in casualty have developed more favorably than net losses. Lower gross reported loss amounts reflect reductions in several large recoverable losses on older years and an absence of new large losses, with consequent reductions to reinsurance recoveries. Within the Reinsurance segment, net overall favorable prior year reserve development for the year ended 2006 was $125.7 million. This overall favorable development was made up of releases of $190.2 million in property and other shorter tail lines of business and $10.9 million in casualty lines, partially offset by $75.4 million in adverse development specifically related to the 2005 catastrophes. Net releases in casualty lines reflect positive claims experience in the core U.S. reinsurance and primary books including those years subject to the CAR review in 2003 partially offset by some older asbestos and environmental development and $18.0 million related to a disputed claim impacting underwriting years 1996 2000 that settled during the year. The gross prior year development for the Reinsurance segment totals $46.0 million favorable. This gross favorable development is less than the corresponding net development as net strengthening on the 2005 catastrophes was less significant than the gross strengthening due to reinsurance recoveries. Within the Financial lines segment, net adverse development for the year ended December 31, 2006 totaled $28.3 million which primarily related to adverse Hurricane Rita development on a structured property and casualty contract. 66 During 2005, the Insurance segments net adverse prior year development of $1.02 billion includes the results of the independent actuarial process noted above. Excluding this development the remaining $185.8 million was driven primarily by increases in reported case reserves for excess professional liability. Strengthening of $259.5 million in professional lines was caused primarily by the establishment of case reserves on both directors and officers claims in pre 2002 business, and errors and omissions claims. Strengthening of $34.7 million within other specialty lines was caused primarily by increases in reported losses for specialty lines of business currently in run off including certain Lloyds business, discontinued programs business, and surety. A net release of $108.4 million for global risks lines of business was driven by the reduction in case reserves for pre 2002 claims primarily relating to casualty business written out of Europe including the Winterthur Business. During 2005, net prior year reserves across the Reinsurance segment developed adversely by $93.5 million. Reserve strengthening of $266.9 million in casualty and professional lines was partially offset by releases in other lines of business of $173.4 million. The casualty strengthening is primarily attributable to workers compensation, umbrella liability and certain professional lines of business written in the Companys North American operations. The reserve releases relate primarily to the property line where releases of $135.6 million occurred across all business units globally in the 2002 to 2004 underwriting years. Releases also occurred in the marine and aviation classes of business across the Reinsurance segment. The majority of the workers compensation reserve increase during 2005 was related to an XL Reinsurance America Inc. (XLRA) working layer program written across multiple underwriting years with a single cedant. This program was not renewed at the end of 2001. Other than this program, XLRA has not written significant working layer workers compensation business. The remaining source of the workers compensation reserve strengthening relates to an update of the mortality tables used in our tabular reserving methodology. The remainder of the strengthening in the casualty and professional lines reserves was driven by a small number of increases in reported claims in the other liability and errors and omissions lines of business in the pre 1997 underwriting years as well as recently reported claims in umbrella liability, errors and omissions and directors and officers lines of business in the 1997 2001 underwriting years. The professional lines claims activity arose largely from a limited number of cedants. This reserve increase was partially offset by favorable development in the 1997 2001 underwriting years in the medical malpractice business line. Activity in the post 2001 underwriting years relates primarily to certain large individual claims affecting a number of lines, including surety, umbrella liability and errors and omissions. During 2004, the Companys net adverse prior year development of $268.0 million was a result of increases in reported insurance case reserves for excess professional liability, excess casualty liability and specialty lines within the Insurance segment offset by net prior year releases in the Reinsurance segment. These increases in reported insurance case reserves exceeded the Companys expected losses based on historical patterns of loss development. Strengthening of $144.0 million in professional lines was caused by a few large directors and officers claims in pre 2002 business, and increases in errors and omissions reserves were caused by claims related to large accounting firms and to insurance/reinsurance brokers. For specialty lines, strengthening of $135.0 million was caused by reported loss increases in discontinued programs business with workers compensation exposure, environmental related coverages, and Lloyds as well as high severity claims on the surety book. See Item 8, Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and see further discussion under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. 4. Growing asset base and positive performance from investments in affiliates Net investment income was $2.0 billion in 2006 as compared to $1.5 billion in 2005. This increase was primarily due to a larger investment base combined with higher investment yields. The increase in the size of the investment portfolio resulted from the Companys issuance of ordinary shares and equity units in the fourth quarter of 2005, positive cash flows from operations, and growth in average structured and spread balances. Higher investment yields were primarily due to an increase in U.S. interest rates. Equity earnings from the Companys affiliates also contributed pos 67 itively to the year. Net income from both investment and operating affiliates was $380.7 million in 2006 compared to $222.3 million in 2005. This increase included a gain of $41.7 million on the sale of FrontPoint Partners LLC, an investment management affiliate, combined with good underlying alternative fund returns and strong results from certain private investment affiliates. See Item 8, Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Investments in Affiliates. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The following are considered to be the Companys critical accounting policies and estimates due to the judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of these policies and or the likelihood that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. If actual events differ significantly from the underlying assumptions or estimates applied for any or all of the accounting policies (either individually or in the aggregate), there could be a material adverse effect on the Companys results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. These critical accounting policies have been discussed by management with the Audit Committee of the Companys Board of Directors. Other significant accounting policies are nevertheless important to an understanding of the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements. Policies such as those related to revenue recognition, financial instruments and consolidation require difficult judgments on complex matters that are often subject to multiple sources of authoritative guidance. See Item 8, Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Significant Accounting Policies. 1) Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses and Unpaid Loss and Loss Expenses Recoverable As the Company earns premiums for the underwriting risks it assumes, it also establishes an estimate of the expected ultimate losses related to the premium. Loss reserves or unpaid losses and loss expenses are established due to the significant periods of time that may lapse between the occurrence, reporting and settlement of a loss. The process of establishing reserves for unpaid property and casualty claims can be complex and is subject to considerable variability, as it requires the use of informed estimates and judgments. These estimates and judgments are based on numerous factors, and may be revised as additional experience and other data become available and are reviewed, as new or improved methodologies are developed or as current laws change. Loss reserves include: a) Case reserves reserves for reported losses and loss expenses that have not yet been settled; and b) Losses incurred but not reported (IBNR). Case reserves for the Companys general operations are established by management based on amounts reported from insureds or ceding companies and consultation with legal counsel, and represent the estimated ultimate cost of events or conditions that have been reported to or specifically identified by the Company. The method of establishing case reserves for reported claims differs among the Companys operations. With respect to the Companys insurance operations, the Company is notified of insured losses and records a case reserve for the estimated amount of the settlement, if any. The estimate reflects the judgment of claims personnel based on general reserving practices, the experience and knowledge of such personnel regarding the nature of the specific claim and, where appropriate, advice of legal counsel. Reserves are also established to provide for the estimated expense of settling claims, including legal and other fees and the general expenses of administering the claims adjustment process. With respect to the Companys reinsurance operations, case reserves for reported claims are generally established based on reports received from ceding companies. Additional case reserves may be established by the Company to reflect the estimated ultimate cost of a loss. The uncertainty in the reserving process for reinsurers is due, in part, to the time lags inherent in reporting from the original claimant to the primary insurer to the reinsurer. As a predominantly broker market reinsurer for both excess of loss and proportional contracts, the Company is subject to a potential additional time lag in the receipt of information as the primary insurer reports to the broker who in turn reports to the Company. As of December 31, 2006, the Company did not have any significant back log related to our processing of assumed reinsurance information. 68 Since the Company relies on information regarding paid losses, case reserves and IBNR provided by ceding companies in order to assist it in estimating its liability for unpaid losses and LAE, the Company maintains certain procedures in order to help determine the completeness and accuracy of such information. Periodically, management assesses the reporting activities of these companies on the basis of qualitative and quantitative criteria. In addition to conferring with ceding companies or brokers on claims matters, the Companys claims personnel conduct periodic audits of specific claims and the overall claims procedures of our ceding companies at their offices. The Company relies on its ability to effectively monitor the claims handling and claims reserving practices of ceding companies in order to help establish the proper reinsurance premium for reinsurance agreements and to establish proper loss reserves. Disputes with ceding companies have been rare and generally have been resolved through negotiation. As noted above, case reserves for the Companys reinsurance general operations are generally established based on reports received from ceding companies. Additional case reserves may be established by the Company to reflect the Companys estimated ultimate cost of a loss. In addition to information received from ceding companies on reported claims, the Company also utilizes information on the pattern of ceding company loss reporting and loss settlements from previous catastrophic events in order to estimate the Companys ultimate liability related to these hurricane loss events. Commercial catastrophe model analyses and zonal aggregate exposures are utilized to assess potential client loss before and after an event. Initial cedant loss reports are generally obtained shortly after a catastrophic event, with subsequent updates received as new information becomes available. The Company actively requests loss updates from cedants periodically for the first year following an event. The Companys claim settlement processes also incorporate an update to the total loss reserve at the time a claim payment is made to a ceding company. While the reliance on loss reports from ceding companies may increase the level of uncertainty associated with the estimation of total loss reserves for property reinsurance relative to direct property insurance, there are several factors which serve to reduce the uncertainty in loss reserve estimates for property reinsurance. First, for large natural catastrophe events such as Hurricane Katrina, aggregate limits in property catastrophe reinsurance contracts are generally fully exhausted by the loss reserve estimates. Second, as a reinsurer, the Company has access to information from a broad cross section of the insurance industry. The Company utilizes such information in order to perform consistency checks on the data provided by ceding companies and is able to identify trends in loss reporting and settlement activity and incorporate such information in its estimate of IBNR reserves. Finally, the Company also supplements the loss information received from cedants with loss estimates developed by market share techniques and or from third party catastrophe models applied to exposure data supplied by cedants. With respect to the Companys financial lines operations, financial guaranty claims incurred on policies written on an insurance basis are established consistent with the Companys insurance operations and financial guaranty claims incurred on policies written on a reinsurance basis are established consistent with the Companys reinsurance operations. IBNR reserves represent managements best estimate, at a given point in time, of the amount in excess of case reserves that is needed for the future settlement and loss adjustment costs associated with claims incurred. It is possible that the ultimate liability may differ materially from these estimates. Because the ultimate amount of unpaid losses and LAE is uncertain, the Company believes that quantitative techniques to estimate these amounts are enhanced by professional and managerial judgment. Management reviews the IBNR estimates produced by the Companys actuaries and determines its best estimate of the liabilities to record in the Companys financial statements. The Company considers this single point estimate to be one that has an equal likelihood of developing a redundancy or deficiency as the loss experience matures. IBNR reserves are estimated by the Companys actuaries using several standard actuarial methodologies including the loss ratio method, the loss development or chain ladder method, the Bornhuetter Ferguson (BF) method and frequency and severity approaches. IBNR related to a specific event may be based on the Companys estimated exposure to an industry loss and may include the use of catastrophe modeling software. On a quarterly basis, IBNR reserves are reviewed by the Companys actuaries, and are adjusted as new information becomes available. Any such adjustments are accounted for as changes in estimates and are reflected in the results of operations in the period in which they are made. 69 The Companys actuaries utilize one set of assumptions in determining its single point estimate, which includes actual loss data, loss development factors, loss ratios, reported claim frequency and severity. The actuarial reviews and documentation are completed in accordance with professional actuarial standards appropriate to the jurisdictions where the business is written. The selected assumptions reflect the actuarys judgment based on historical data and experience combined with information concerning current underwriting, economic, judicial, regulatory and other influences on ultimate claim settlements. When estimating IBNR reserves, each of the Companys insurance and reinsurance business units segregate business into exposure classes (over 200 classes are reviewed in total). Within each class, the business is further segregated by either the year in which the contract incepted (underwriting year), the year in which the claim occurred (accident year), or the year in which the claim is reported (report year). The majority of the Insurance segment is reviewed on an accident year basis. The majority of the Reinsurance segment is reviewed on an underwriting year basis. Generally, initial actuarial estimates of IBNR reserves not related to a specific event are based on the loss ratio method applied to each class of business. Actual paid losses and case reserves (reported losses) are subtracted from expected ultimate losses to determine IBNR reserves. The initial expected ultimate losses involve management judgment and are based on historical information for that class of business; which includes loss ratios, market conditions, changes in pricing and conditions, underwriting changes, changes in claims emergence, and other factors that may influence expected ultimate losses. Over time, as a greater number of claims are reported, actuarial estimates of IBNR are based on the BF and loss development techniques. The BF method utilizes actual loss data and the expected patterns of loss emergence, combined with an initial expectation of ultimate losses to determine an estimate of ultimate losses. This method may be appropriate when there is limited actual loss data and a relatively less stable pattern of loss emergence. The chain ladder method utilizes actual loss and expected patterns of loss emergence to determine an estimate of ultimate losses that is independent of the initial expectation of ultimate losses. This method may be appropriate when there is a relatively stable pattern of loss emergence and a relatively larger number of reported claims. Multiple estimates of ultimate losses using a variety of actuarial methods are calculated for many, but not all, of the Companys (200+) classes of business for each year of loss experience. The Companys actuaries look at each class and determine the most appropriate point estimate based on the characteristics of the particular class and other relevant factors, such as historical ultimate loss ratios, the presence of individual large losses, and known occurrences that have not yet resulted in reported losses. Once the Companys actuaries make their determination of the most appropriate point estimate for each class, this information is aggregated and presented to management for review and approval. The pattern of loss emergence is determined using actuarial analysis, including judgment, and is based on the historical patterns of the recording of paid and reported losses by the Company, as well as industry information. Information that may cause historical patterns to differ from future patterns is considered and reflected in expected patterns as appropriate. For property, marine and aviation insurance, losses are general reported within 2 to 3 years from the beginning of the accident year. For casualty insurance, loss emergence patterns can vary from 3 years to over 20 years depending on the type of business. For other insurance, loss emergence patterns fall between the property and casualty insurance. For reinsurance business, loss reporting lags the corresponding insurance classes by at least one quarter due to the need for loss information to flow from the ceding companies to the Company generally via reinsurance intermediaries. Such lags in loss reporting are reflected in the actuarys selections of loss reporting patterns used in establishing the Companys reserves. Such estimates are not precise because, among other things, they are based on predictions of future developments and estimates of future trends in claim severity, claim frequency, and other issues. In the process of estimating IBNR reserves, provisions for economic inflation and changes in the social and legal environment are considered, but involve considerable judgment. When estimating IBNR reserves, more judgement is typically required for lines of business with longer loss emergence patterns. 70 Due to the low frequency and high severity nature of some of the business underwritten by the Company, the Companys reserve estimates are highly dependent on actuarial and management judgment and are therefore uncertain. In property classes, there can be additional uncertainty in loss estimation related to large catastrophe events. With wind events, such as hurricanes, the damage assessment process may take more than a year. The cost of claims is subject to volatility due to supply shortages for construction materials and labor. In the case of earthquakes, the damage assessment process may take several years as buildings are discovered to have structural weaknesses not initially detected. The uncertainty inherent in IBNR reserve estimates is particularly pronounced for casualty coverages, such as excess liability, professional liability coverages, and workers compensation, where information emerges relatively slowly over time. The Companys three types of reserve exposure with the longest tails are: (1) high layer excess casualty insurance; (2) casualty reinsurance; and (3) discontinued asbestos and long tail environmental business. Certain aspects of the Companys casualty operations complicate the actuarial process for establishing reserves. Certain casualty business written by the Companys insurance operations is high layer excess casualty business, meaning that the Companys liability attaches after large deductibles including self insurance or insurance from sources other than the Company. The Company commenced writing this type of business in 1986 and issued policies in forms that were different from traditional policies used by the industry at that time. Initially, there was a lack of industry data available for this type of business. Consequently, the basis for establishing loss reserves by the Company for this type of business was largely judgmental and based upon the Companys own reported loss experience which was used as basis for determining ultimate losses, and therefore IBNR reserves. Over time, the amount of available historical loss experience data has increased. As a result, the Company has obtained a larger statistical base to assist in establishing reserves for these excess casualty insurance claims. High layer excess casualty insurance claims typically involve claims relating to (i) a shock loss such as an explosion or transportation accident causing severe damage to persons and or property over a short period of time, (ii) a non shock loss where a large number of claimants are exposed to injurious conditions over a longer period of time, such as exposure to chemicals or pharmaceuticals or (iii) a professional liability loss such as a medical malpractice claim. In each case, these claims are ultimately settled following extensive negotiations and legal proceedings. This process can typically take 5 to 15 years following the date of loss. Reinsurance operations by their nature add further complications to the reserving process, particularly for casualty business written, in that there is an inherent lag in the timing and reporting of a loss event from an insured or ceding company to the reinsurer. This reporting lag creates an even longer period of time between the policy inception and when a claim is finally settled. As a result, more judgment is required to establish reserves for ultimate claims in the Companys reinsurance operations. In the Companys reinsurance general operations, case reserves for reported claims are generally established based on reports received from ceding companies. Additional case reserves may be established by the Company to reflect the Companys estimated ultimate cost of a loss. Casualty reinsurance business involves reserving methods that generally include historical aggregated claim information as reported by ceding companies, combined with the results of claims and underwriting reviews of a sample of the ceding companys claims and underwriting files. Therefore, the Company does not always receive detailed claim information for this line of business. Discontinued asbestos and long tail environment business had been previously written by NAC Re Corp. (now known as XL Reinsurance America Inc.), prior to its acquisition by the Company. As at December 31, 2006, total gross unpaid losses and loss expenses in respect of this business represented less than 1% of unpaid losses and loss expenses. 71 Except for certain workers compensation and long term disability liabilities, the Company does not discount its unpaid losses and loss expenses. The Company utilizes tabular reserving for workers compensation and long term disability unpaid losses that are considered fixed and determinable. For further discussion see the Consolidated Financial Statements. Loss and loss expenses are charged to income as they are incurred. These charges include loss and loss expense payments and any changes in case and IBNR reserves. During the loss settlement period, additional facts regarding claims are reported. As these additional facts are reported, it may be necessary to increase or decrease the unpaid losses and loss expense reserves. The actual final liability may be significantly different than prior estimates. As noted above, management reviews the IBNR estimates produced by the Companys actuaries and determines its best estimate of the liabilities to record in the Companys financial statements. The Company considers this single point estimate to be one that has an equal likelihood of developing a redundancy or deficiency as the loss experience matures. Management believes that the actuarial methods utilized adequately provide for loss development. Management does not build in a provision for uncertainty outside of the estimates prepared by the Companys actuaries. The Companys net unpaid losses and loss expenses for its general and financial operations broken down by operating segment and line of business at December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005 were as follows: (U.S. dollars in millions) December 31, 2006 December 31, 2005 Insurance $ 10,454 $ 9,860 Reinsurance 7,175 7,212 Financial lines and SCA 439 283 Net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves $ 18,068 $ 17,355 (U.S. dollars in millions) Net Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses as at December 31, 2006 Case Reserves IBNR Reserves Total Reserves Insurance Casualty $ 1,613 $ 2,198 $ 3,811 Professional liability 1,379 2,143 3,522 Property catastrophe (1) 57 33 90 Other property 548 238 786 Marine, energy, aviation, and satellite 609 473 1,082 Other specialty lines (2) 252 426 678 Other (3) 294 191 485 Total $ 4,752 $ 5,702 $ 10,454 Reinsurance Casualty $ 1,847 $ 2,606 $ 4,453 Property catastrophe (1) 288 165 453 Other property 456 432 888 Marine, energy, aviation, and satellite 513 67 580 Other (3) 352 449 801 Total $ 3,456 $ 3,719 $ 7,175 Financial Lines and SCA $ 89 $ 350 $ 439 Total $ 8,297 $ 9,771 $ 18,068 72 (U.S. dollars in millions) Net Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses as at December 31, 2005 Case Reserves IBNR Reserves Total Reserves Insurance Casualty $ 1,906 $ 1,681 $ 3,587 Professional liability 1,127 1,778 2,905 Property catastrophe (1) 165 134 299 Other property 557 275 832 Marine, energy, aviation, and satellite 373 603 976 Other specialty lines (2) 280 445 725 Other (3) 378 158 536 Total $ 4,786 $ 5,074 $ 9,860 Reinsurance Casualty $ 1,780 $ 2,452 $ 4,232 Property catastrophe (1) 577 120 697 Other property 313 510 823 Marine, energy, aviation and satellite 558 109 667 Other (3) 317 476 793 Total $ 3,545 $ 3,667 $ 7,212 Financial Lines and SCA $ 83 $ 200 $ 283 Total $ 8,414 $ 8,941 $ 17,355 (1) Property and catastrophe IBNR includes event specific reserves for losses that our insureds and cedants have informed us they expect to incur but have not yet had reported known claims. (2) Other specialty lines within the Insurance segment includes environmental, programs, equine, warranty and excess and surplus lines. (3) Within the Insurance segment Other includes political risk, accident & health, surety, and other discontinued lines. Within the Reinsurance segment, Other includes political risk, surety, warranty, accident and health, and other lines. While the proportion of unpaid losses and loss expenses represented by IBNR is sensitive to a number of factors, the most significant ones have historically been accelerated business growth and changes in business mix. Other factors that have affected the ratio in the past include additions to prior period reserves, catastrophic occurrences, settlement of large claims and changes in claims settlement patterns. The ratio of IBNR to total reserves has increased in recent years due to the growth of casualty business written over that period. The ratio of IBNR to total reserves is higher for more recent years business because these immature years have relatively fewer claims reported and, as a result, a higher proportion of claims reserves are based on experience in respect of incurred but not reported losses. As each prior year of business matures and claims become known, the ratio of IBNR to total reserves will typically decline, all other factors remaining constant. Since the Company has experienced premium volume growth in recent years, the ratio of IBNR to total reserves has increased because the Companys aggregate exposure has become relatively less mature. Conversely, in a situation of declining premium volume, this ratio will typically decline, all other factors remaining constant. The Company writes insurance and reinsurance business in many different lines. Typically, the ratio of IBNR to total reserves is greater for casualty lines (which are longer tail in nature) than for property lines due to the policy forms utilized and timing of loss reporting. In recent years, casualty lines have increased as a proportion of the Companys business when compared to property lines (which are shorter tail in nature). IBNR reserves are calculated by the Companys actuaries using standard actuarial methodologies as discussed above. Prior to the year ended December 31, 2003, the outcomes of the Companys actuarial reviews, consistent with historical practice, provided either (i) a single point reserve estimate or (ii) a range of reserve estimates from which the Company selected a best estimate. Since the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company adopted a methodol 73 ogy that provided a single point reserve estimate separately for each line of business and also a range of possible outcomes across each single point reserve estimate. This is discussed further below. As a result, reserve ranges disclosed previously are not comparable to the reserve ranges disclosed herein. The following table shows the recorded estimate and the high and low ends of the range of reserves for each of the lines of business noted above at December 31, 2006: (U.S. dollars in millions) Net Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses Recorded as at December 31, 2006 Range of Net Unpaid Losses & Loss Expenses Estimated as at December 31, 2006 Range of Net Unpaid Losses & Loss Expenses Estimated as at December 31, 2006 High Low Insurance Casualty $ 3,811 $ 4,248 $ 3,393 Professional liability 3,522 3,928 3,131 Property catastrophe (1) 90 112 71 Other property 786 923 659 Marine, energy, aviation, and satellite 1,082 1,195 975 Other specialty lines (2) 678 773 588 Other (3) 485 554 418 Total (4) $ 10,454 $ 11,304 $ 9,629 Reinsurance Casualty $ 4,453 $ 4,929 $ 3,996 Property catastrophe (1) 453 528 383 Other property 888 1,006 777 Marine, energy, aviation, and satellite 580 668 497 Other (3) 801 910 698 Total (4) $ 7,175 $ 7,861 $ 6,515 Financial Lines and SCA $ 439 Total $ 18,068 (1) Property and catastrophe IBNR includes event specific reserves for losses that our insureds and cedants have informed us they expect to incur but have not yet had reported known claims. (2) Other specialty lines within the insurance segment includes environmental, programs, equine, warranty and excess and surplus lines. (3) Within the insurance segment Other includes political risk, accident & health, surety, and other discontinued lines. Within the reinsurance segment, Other includes political risk, surety, warranty, accident and health, and other lines. (4) The range for the total Insurance and Reinsurance segment reserves is narrower than the sum of the ranges for the lines of business shown in the table due to diversification benefits across the lines of business. Actual development of recorded reserves as of December 31, 2005 during 2006 was within the estimated reserve range. There are factors that would cause reserves to increase or decrease within the context of the range provided. The magnitude of any change in ultimate losses would be determined by the magnitude of any changes to our assumptions or combined impact of changes in assumptions. Factors that would increase reserves include, but are not limited to, increases in claim severity, increases in expected level of reported claims, changes to the regulatory environment which expand the exposure insured by the Company, changes in the litigation environment that increase claim awards, filings or verdicts, unexpected increases in loss inflation, and or new types of claims being pursued against the Company. Factors that would decrease reserves include, but are not limited to, decreases in claim severity, reductions in the expected level of reported claims, changes to the regulatory environment which contract the exposure insured by the Company, changes in the litigation environment that decrease claim awards, filings or verdicts, and or unexpected decreases in loss inflation. 74 As shown in the table above and as previously noted, the Company developed a methodology for calculating reserve ranges around its single point reserve estimates for all its lines of business. Similar to Value At Risk (VAR) models commonly used to evaluate risk, the Company modeled a statistical distribution of potential reserve outcomes over a one year run off period. The Company used the modeled statistical distribution to calculate an 80% confidence interval for the potential reserve outcomes over this one year run off period. The high and low end points of the ranges set forth in the above table are such that there is a 10% modeled probability that the reserve will develop higher than the high point and a 10% modeled probability that the reserve will develop lower than the low point. The development of a reserve range models the uncertainty of the claim environment as well as the limited predictive power of past loss data. These uncertainties and limitations are not specific to the Company. The ranges represent an estimate of the range of possible outcomes over a one year development period. A range of possible outcomes should not be confused with a range of best estimates. The range of best estimates will generally be much narrower than the range of possible outcomes as it will reflect reasonable actuarial and management best estimates of the expected reserve. Reserve volatility was analyzed for each line of business within each of the Reinsurance and Insurance segments general operations using the Companys historical data supplemented by industry data. These ranges were then aggregated to the lines of business shown above taking into account correlation between lines of business. The practical result of the correlation approach to aggregation is that the ranges by line of business disclosed above, are narrower than the sum of the ranges of the individual lines of business. Similarly, the range for the Companys total reserves in the aggregate, is narrower than the sum of the ranges for the lines of business disclosed above. During 2006, the Company reviewed the correlation assumptions between our various lines of business. There has been growth in certain lines of business as well as changes in the groupings of the data used in the reserving process. These changes necessitated a review of the correlation matrix used to develop our reserve ranges. The Company took a simplified approach of assigning ratings of low, medium or high to our correlation assumptions for each line of business pairing based on the judgment of the reserving actuaries, as there was both limited historical experience within our portfolio and limited applicable industry data. However, our actual historical experience and industry data were used to judgmentally select a range of values for the low, medium and high correlations, respectively, of 15%, 30% and 50%. It should be noted that both our own experience and the industry data exhibit negative correlations in reserve developments between certain lines of business. However, as a measure of prudence in evaluating the reserve ranges, the Company has used a minimum of 15% correlation between any two lines of business. The analysis of correlations and the reflection of potential diversification benefits across lines of business represent another area of uncertainty in the development of estimated reserve ranges. The Company is not aware of any generally accepted model to perform the reserve range analysis described above, however, and other models may be employed to develop these ranges. See further discussion under Segments below for prior year development of loss reserves. Financial Guaranty Loss Reserving The financial guaranties that the Company issues insure scheduled payments of principal and interest due on various types of financial obligations against payment default by the issuers of such obligations. Management establishes reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses on such business based on managements best estimate of the ultimate expected incurred losses. The Companys estimated ultimate expected incurred losses are comprised of: (i) case basis reserves, (ii) unallocated reserves, and (iii) cumulative paid losses to date. Establishment of such reserves requires the use and exercise of significant judgment by management, including with respect to estimates regarding the occurrence and amount of a loss on an insured obligation. Estimates of losses may differ from actual results and such difference may be material, due to the fact that the ultimate dispositions of claims are subject to the outcome of events that have not yet occurred. Examples of these events include changes in the level of interest rates, credit deterioration of insured obligations, and changes in the value of specific assets supporting insured obligations. Both qualitative and quantitative factors are used in establishing such reserves. In determining the reserves, management considers all factors in the aggregate, and does not attribute the reserve provisions or any portion thereof to any specific factor. 75 Any estimate of future costs is subject to the inherent limitation on the Companys ability to predict the aggregate course of future events. It should therefore be expected that the actual emergence of losses and loss adjustment expenses will vary, perhaps materially, from any estimate. Case basis reserves on financial guaranty insurance business written are established by the Company with respect to a specific policy or contract upon receipt of a claim notice or when management determines that (i) a claim is probable in the future based on specific credit events that have occurred and (ii) the amount of the ultimate loss that the Company will incur can be reasonably estimated. As specific case basis reserves are established the Company considers whether any changes are required to the assumptions underlying the calculation of unallocated reserves (which are discussed below) as a result of such activity. As case basis reserve activity to date has been limited, management has not adjusted the unallocated reserves assumptions due to such activity. The amount of the case basis reserve is based on the net present value of the expected ultimate loss and loss adjustment expense payments that the Company expects to make, net of expected recoveries under salvage and subrogation rights. Case basis reserves are determined using cash flow or similar models to estimate the net present value of the anticipated shortfall between (i) scheduled payments on the insured obligation plus anticipated loss adjustment expenses and (ii) anticipated cash flow from the proceeds to be received on sales of any collateral supporting the obligation and other anticipated recoveries. A number of quantitative and qualitative factors are considered when determining or assessing, in managements judgment, the need for a case basis reserve. These factors may include the creditworthiness of the underlying issuer of the insured obligation, whether the obligation is secured or unsecured, the projected cash flow or market value of any assets that collateralize or secure the insured obligation, and the historical and projected loss rates on such assets. Other factors that may affect the actual ultimate loss include the state of the economy, changes in interest rates, rates of inflation and the salvage values of specific collateral. Case basis reserves are generally discounted at a rate reflecting the yield on the Companys investment portfolio during the period the case basis reserve is established. The Company believes this yield is an appropriate rate to discount the Companys reserves because it reflects the rate of return on the assets supporting such business. When a case basis reserve is established for a guaranteed obligation whose premium is paid on an upfront basis, the Company continues to record premium earnings on such policy over its remaining life, unless it has recorded a full limit loss with respect to such policy, in which case the remaining deferred premium revenue relating thereto is immediately reflected in earnings. When a case basis reserve is established for a guaranteed obligation whose premium is paid on an installment basis, those premiums, if expected to be received prospectively, are considered a form of recovery and are no longer earned as premium revenue. In assessing whether a loss is probable, management considers all available qualitative and quantitative evidence. Qualitative evidence may take various forms and the nature of such evidence will depend upon the type of insured obligation and the nature and sources of cash flows to fund the insured obligations debt service. For example, such evidence with respect to an insured special revenue obligation such as an obligation supported by cash flows from a toll road would consider traffic statistics such as highway volume and related demographic information, whereas an insured mortgage backed securitization would consider the quality of the mortgage loans supporting the insured obligation including delinquency and foreclosure rates, loan to value statistics, market valuation of the mortgaged properties and other pertinent information. In addition, management will make qualitative judgments with respect to the amount by which certain other structural protections built into the transaction are expected to limit the Companys loss exposure. Examples of such structural protections may include: (i) rate covenants, which generally stipulate that issuers (i.e. public finance issuers) set rates for services at certain pre determined levels (i.e. water and sewer rates which support debt obligations supported by such revenues), (ii) springing liens, which generally require the issuer to provide additional collateral upon the breach of a covenant or trigger incorporated into the terms of the transaction, (iii) consultant call in rights, which provide, under certain circumstances, for a consultant to be engaged to make certain binding recommendations, such as raising rates or reducing expenses, (iv) the ability to transfer servicing of collateral assets to another party, and (v) other legal rights and remedies pursuant to representations and warranties made by the issuer and written into the terms of such transactions. Quantitative information may take the form of cash flow projections of the assets supporting the insured debt obligation (which may include, in addition to collateral assets supporting the obligation, structural protections subordinate to the attachment point of the Companys risk, 76 such as cash reserve accounts and letters of credit), as well as (to the extent applicable) other metrics indicative of the performance of such assets and the trends therein. Managements ability to make a reasonable estimate of its expected loss depends upon its evaluation of the totality of both the available quantitative and qualitative evidence, and no one quantitative or qualitative factor is dispositive. In addition to case basis reserves, the Company maintains an unallocated loss reserve for expected losses inherent in the Companys in force business (consisting of both financial guaranty insurance and reinsurance business) that management expects to emerge in the future. The unallocated loss reserves represent managements estimated ultimate liability from claims expected to be incurred in the future under in force insured and reinsured policies less outstanding case basis reserves and cumulative paid claims to date on such policies. Unallocated reserves are estimated by management based upon an actuarial reserving analysis. The actuarial methodology applied by us is in accordance with Actuarial Standards of Practice No. 36, Determination of Reasonable Provision. The methodology applied is based on the selection of an initial expected loss ratio, as well as an expected loss emergence pattern (i.e., the expected pattern of the expiration of risk on insured and reinsured in force policies). Salvage and subrogation recoveries are implicit in the Companys selected expected ultimate loss ratio as such ratio is derived from industry loss experience, which is net of salvage and subrogation recoveries (i.e., from the liquidation of supporting or pledged collateral assets). The implicit inclusion of salvage and subrogation recoveries in the Companys selected expected ultimate loss ratio is consistent with managements explicit consideration of collateral support in the establishment of its case basis reserves. The Company updates estimates of losses and loss adjustment expense reserves quarterly and any resulting changes in reserves are recorded as a charge or credit to earnings in the period such estimates are changed. In connection therewith, the Companys unallocated reserves are adjusted each period to reflect (i) revisions to managements estimate of expected ultimate losses, if any, and (ii) the underlying par risk amortization of the related insured and reinsured in force business (i.e., loss emergence pattern). As stated above, the Companys estimated ultimate expected incurred losses are comprised of: (i) case basis reserves, (ii) unallocated reserves, and (iii) cumulative paid losses to date. As management establishes case basis reserves and pays claims it may, based on its judgment, reduce or increase the ultimate expected loss ratio used to determine unallocated reserves to reflect its best estimate of expected ultimate loss experience. In addition, under the Companys accounting policy management may, based on its judgment, reduce unallocated reserves in response to significant case basis reserve and or paid loss activity. Management would only expect such reductions to occur in limited instances, such as economic events generating significant loss activity. Management has not viewed the Companys case basis reserve and unallocated reserve activity to date to warrant a reduction of the Companys unallocated reserves. In each quarterly period, there is an interplay between case basis reserves, unallocated reserves and cumulative paid losses to date, such that the aggregate thereof represents managements best estimate of the ultimate losses it expects to incur on in force business. The process of establishing unallocated reserves and periodically revising such reserves to reflect the underlying par risk amortization and managements current best estimate of ultimate losses will ultimately cause the cumulative loss experience over the life of a particular underwriting years business to equal the cumulative inception to date actual paid losses on such business. The initial selection of an initial expected loss ratio (and subsequent periodic updates thereof) is based on managements judgment and considered: (i) the characteristics of the Companys in force financial guaranty insurance and reinsurance business (e.g., principally the mix of the Companys in force financial guaranty insurance and reinsurance business between public finance and structured finance business; however, management also considered the various bond sectors comprising the Companys insured and reinsured in force business, as well as the credit profile of the Companys insured and reinsured portfolio of business), (ii) actual loss experience, (iii) the characteristics, discussed above, of the Companys in force financial guaranty insurance and reinsurance business in relation to the insured in force business of companies comprising the financial guaranty industry and (iv) the actual loss experience of companies comprising the industry from the Companys analysis referred to above. Other factors impacting market default levels and the assumptions important to the Companys reserving methodology are implicit in the Companys initial expected loss ratio. Such factors may include interest rates, inflation, taxes, industry trends in the valuation of certain asset classes and the overall credit environment. Based on this comparison, the Company adjusts its expected loss 77 ratio, as management consider necessary, to ensure that such ratio continues to be appropriate for the risks inherent in the in force business. The Companys methodology applies the initial expected loss ratio to earned premium during the period from its entire in force book of business (after exclusion of the effect on earned premium of refunding and full limit losses because no more risk exists on these related policies). Significant changes to any variables on which the Companys initial expected loss ratio is based, over an extended period of time, will likely result in an increase or decrease in such ratio. For example, a shift in business written for sectors with high default rates would likely increase the Companys expected loss ratio, while a shift for sectors with low default rates would likely decrease the expected loss ratio. Additionally, increases in default rates relative to the Companys insured portfolio and in actual loss experience or decreases in statistical recovery rates and in actual recovery experience would increase the Companys expected loss ratio, while the inverse would likely decrease the expected loss ratio. Since the selection of the initial expected loss ratio of 25%, managements periodic update and analysis of the adequacy of such loss ratio resulted in no change to the ratio for each of the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2003. During the three months ended September 30, 2004 the Company adjusted the initial expected loss ratio to 20% in recognition of the cumulative experience of business to that point in time, as well as the increasing percentage of in force business from public finance insurance which resulted from the decision of management in 2003 to expand its insurance business in that sector. This change resulted in approximately a $15.0 million decrease in unallocated loss reserves, which decrease was substantially offset by a change in the estimated expected loss emergence pattern of the Companys in force business due to the availability of more detailed information as a result of the implementation in 2004 of a new automated information system. Management also considered its industry studies described above as supportive of managements change in the initial expected loss ratio in 2004, for the reasons described above. The Companys updated analysis in 2005 indicated that no change was necessary in the expected loss ratio of 20% from that in 2004. During the third quarter of 2006 the aforementioned analysis was updated again. Based on this analysis management did not change the Companys expected loss ratio and there was no material change to the loss emergence pattern. The Companys expected loss emergence pattern is determined by underwriting year based on the par amortization schedules of the underlying insured and reinsured debt obligations comprising the Companys in force business. Management adjust or realign the expected loss emergence pattern each quarter to reflect the underlying changes in the Companys in force business (for example, changes in the average life of in force business resulting from changes in the mix of business and risk or par expiration). Analysis of the risk demographic by underwriting year demonstrates that, while the proportionate mix of municipal versus structured finance business may fluctuate from year to year, the average outstanding life parameter within each product type remains fairly stable between underwriting years. Structured finance business will typically have an aggregate average life of 5 to 10 years and municipal finance business will typically have an aggregate average life of 15 to 20 years. The Companys unallocated loss reserve is established on an undiscounted basis and represents managements best estimate of losses that management will incur in the future as a result of credit deterioration in our in force business but which have not yet been specifically identified. Management does not attempt to apportion unallocated reserves by type of product. The Companys total reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses represent a small fraction of its insured and reinsured in force par outstanding, which reflects the nature of the business underwritten and the loss experience of the industry. Management believes that its reserves are adequate to cover the Companys expected ultimate losses. However, due to the inherent uncertainties of estimating reserves for loss and loss adjustment expenses, actual experience may differ from the estimates reflected in the Companys consolidated financial statements, and the differences may be material. Differences exist within the financial guaranty industry with regard to the methodology and measurement of such reserves. While management believes that the principles it applies are the most appropriate for its business and have applied them consistently within the periods presented, alternate methods may produce different estimates as compared to the current methodology currently used. Accounting practices in the financial guaranty insurance and reinsurance industry are currently being reviewed by applicable regulatory bodies and any changes 78 required by that review could have a material effect on the reported operating results and financial condition of the industry or particular market participants, including the Company, depending on the extent to which current policies differ from those promulgated by such regulatory bodies. The Companys surveillance department is responsible for monitoring the performance of the in force portfolio. They maintain a list of credits that they have determined need to be closely monitored and, for certain of those credits, they undertake remediation activities they determine to be appropriate in order to mitigate the likelihood and or amount of any loss that the Company could incur with respect to such credits. The Companys surveillance department also analyzes whether a claim on its policy is probable. In some cases, management will engage an outside consultant with appropriate expertise in the underlying collateral assets and respective industries to assist management in examining the underlying collateral and determining the projected loss frequency and loss severity. In such case, management will use that information to run a cash flow model, which includes enhancement levels and debt service to determine whether a claim is probable, possible or not likely. The activities of the Companys surveillance department are integral to the identification of specific credits that have experienced deterioration in credit quality and to the assessment of whether losses on such credits are probable, as well as any estimation of the amount of loss expected to be incurred with respect to such credits. Closely monitored credits are divided into four categories: (i) Special Monitoring List investment grade credits where a covenant or trigger may be breached or is close to being breached and warrants closer monitoring; (ii) Yellow Flag List credits that management determine to be non investment grade but a loss or claim is unlikely; (iii) Red Flag List credits where management do not expect an ultimate loss but a claim is possible but not probable; and (iv) Loss List credits where management have either paid a loss or expect to suffer a loss and have recorded a case reserve. Out of over 2,100 credits in the Companys in force portfolio only 23 credits are in one of the four above categories. Credits that are not closely monitored credits are considered fundamentally sound, normal risk. Management establishes reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses following consultation with the Loss Reserve Committee, which is comprised of senior members of management, including senior management of the surveillance department. Both qualitative and quantitative factors are used in establishing such reserves. In determining the reserves, management considers all factors in the aggregate, and does not attribute the reserve provisions or any portion thereof to any specific factor. Unpaid losses and loss expenses recoverable The recognition of unpaid losses and loss expenses recoverable requires two key judgments. The first judgment involves the Companys estimation of the amount of gross IBNR to be ceded to reinsurers. Ceded IBNR is generally developed as part of the Companys loss reserving process and consequently, its estimation is subject to similar risks and uncertainties as the estimation of gross IBNR (see Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Unpaid losses and loss expenses and unpaid loss and loss expense recoverable). The second judgment involves the Companys estimate of the amount of the reinsurance recoverable balance that the Company will ultimately be unable to recover from related reinsurers due to insolvency, contractual dispute, or for other reasons. Amounts estimated to be uncollectible are reflected in a bad debt provision that reduces the reinsurance recoverable balance and shareholders equity. Changes in the bad debt provision are reflected in net income. See Financial Condition and Liquidity and Item 8, Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Reinsurance, for further information. The Company uses a default analysis to estimate uncollectible reinsurance. The primary components of the default analysis are reinsurance recoverable balances by reinsurer, net of collateral, and default factors used to determine the portion of a reinsurers balance deemed uncollectible. The definition of collateral for this purpose requires some judgment and is generally limited to assets held in trust, letters of credit, and liabilities held by us with the same legal entity for which the Company believes there is a right of offset. Default factors require considerable judgment and are determined using the current rating, or rating equivalent, of each reinsurer as well as other key considerations and assumptions. 79 2) Future Policy Benefit Reserves Future policy benefit reserves relate to the Companys life operations and are estimated using assumptions for investment yields, mortality, expenses and provisions for adverse loss deviation. Uncertainties related to interest rate volatility and mortality experience make it difficult to project and value the ultimate benefit payments. Most of the Companys future policy benefit reserves relate to annuity portfolio reinsurance contracts under which the Company makes annuity payments throughout the term of the contract for a specified portfolio of policies. For certain of these contracts, a single premium is paid at inception of the contract by way of a transfer of cash and investments to the Company. The reserving methodology for these annuity portfolio reinsurance contracts is described in FAS 60 as amended by FAS 97. These contracts subject the Company to risks arising from policyholder mortality over a period that extends beyond the periods in which premiums are collected. Liabilities for future policy benefit reserves are established in accordance with the provisions of FAS 60. Claims and expenses for individual policies within these annuity reinsurance contracts are projected over the lifetime of the contract to calculate a net present value of future cash flows. Assumptions for each element of the basis (mortality, expenses and interest) are determined at the issue of the contract and these assumptions are locked in throughout the term of the contract unless a premium deficiency exists. The assumptions are best estimate assumptions plus provisions for adverse deviations on the key risk elements (i.e., mortality and interest). Provisions for adverse deviation are designed to cover reasonable deviations from the best estimate outcome of the contract. As the experience on the contracts emerges, the assumptions are reviewed. This occurs at least annually and includes both an analysis of experience and review of likely future experience. If such review would produce reserves in excess of those currently held then lock in assumptions will be revised and a loss recognized. During the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, there were no adjustments to the locked in assumptions for any of these contracts. The future policy benefit reserves for these annuity portfolio reinsurance contracts amounted to $5.7 billion and $5.2 billion at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The Company holds the investment assets backing these liabilities. These investments are primarily fixed income securities with maturities that closely match the expected claims settlement profile. A 0.1% decrease in the investment yield assumption would result in a $52 million increase in the value of future claims related to annuity portfolio reinsurance. As stated above, the future policy benefit reserves include provisions for adverse deviation in excess of best estimate assumptions that amounted to approximately $371 million and $310 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The future policy benefit reserves would only be increased if these provisions for adverse deviation became insufficient in the light of emerging claims experience. The present value of future claims would increase by approximately $20 million if mortality rates were to decrease by 1% in all future years, relative to the reserving assumptions. The Company also provides reinsurance of disability income protection, for an in force block of business. The future policy benefit reserves for these contracts amounted to $79 million and $85 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Future policy benefit reserves are established in accordance with the provisions of FAS 60, including the lock in of assumptions at inception with periodic review against experience. The liabilities relate to in force blocks of business, comprising underlying insurance policies that provide an income if the policyholder becomes sick or disabled. The liabilities are therefore driven mainly by the rates at which policyholders become sick (where sickness is defined by the policy conditions) and by the rates at which these policyholders recover or die. A 1% increase in the incidence rate would increase the value of future claims by approximately $0.7 million, while a 1% decrease in the termination rate would increase the value of future claims by approximately $0.7 million. No changes to the locked in assumptions have been made in 2006, although changes were made in 2005 which resulted in the removal of the provisions for adverse deviation. 80 The Company also provides reinsurance of term assurance and critical illness policies written in the U.K. and Ireland. The future policy benefit reserves for these contracts amounted to $135 million and $62 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Future policy benefit reserves are established in accordance with the provisions of FAS 60, including the lock in of assumptions at inception with periodic review against experience. The provisions for adverse deviation in these reserves amounted to $12 million and $5 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The liabilities relate to in force blocks of business and to treaties accepting new business, comprising underlying insurance policies that provide mainly lump sum benefits if the policyholder dies or becomes sick. For term assurance, the liabilities are therefore driven by the rates of mortality and for critical illness cover, the liabilities are driven predominantly by the rates at which policyholders become sick (where sickness is defined by the treaty conditions), i.e., the morbidity rates. A 1% increase in the mortality rate relative to the reserving assumption would increase the value of future claims by approximately $1.3 million, and a 1% increase in the morbidity rate would increase the value of future claims by approximately $1.2 million. The term assurance and critical illness treaties have been written using a variety of structures, some of which incur acquisition costs during an initial period. For such treaties, a deferred acquisition cost (DAC) asset has been established and an increase in future lapse rates could impact the recoverability of such costs from future premiums. The recoverability will also be influenced by the impact of lapses on future claims. An increase in the annual lapse rates by 1% could lead to a 5% 10% reduction in future margins available for amortizing the DAC asset. The Company also provided reinsurance of a block of U.S. based term assurance, which was novated to the Company from an insurance affiliate in December 2002. The future policy benefit reserves for these contracts amounted to $204 million and $184 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Future policy benefit reserves are established in accordance with the provisions of FAS 60, including the lock in of assumptions at inception with periodic review against experience. The liabilities relate to in force blocks of business, which are comprised of underlying insurance policies that provide mainly lump sum benefits if the policyholder dies. The liabilities are therefore driven by the rates of mortality, and a 1% increase in the mortality rate relative to the reserving assumption would increase the value of future claims by approximately $9 million. No changes to the locked in assumptions have been made in 2006, although changes were made in 2005 which resulted in the removal of the provisions for adverse deviation. During 2006, the Company also began to provide reinsurance of U.S. based term assurance derived from new business written by client companies. Future policy benefit reserves are established in accordance with the provisions of FAS 60, including the lock in of assumptions at inception with periodic review against experience. As at December 31, 2006, the benefit reserves for these contracts were immaterial. For further information see Item 8, Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Future Policy Benefit Reserves. 3) Deposit Liabilities The Companys deposit liabilities at December 31, 2006 reflect obligations assumed under funding agreements, municipal guaranteed reinvestment contracts, payment undertaking agreements and certain structured insurance and reinsurance agreements. For each of these contracts, the Company establishes a deposit liability equal to the net cash received at inception. Each deposit liability accrues at a rate equal to the internal rate of return of the payment receipts and obligations due during the life of the agreement. Where the timing and or amount of future payments are uncertain, cash flows reflecting the Companys actuarially determined best estimates are utilized. The ultimate size of underlying losses, the impact of the contractual limits upon settlement of such losses, and the impact of the underlying loss settlement process on the timing of payments are considered as appropriate. Where uncertainty is present, an increase in the ultimate claims cost or accelerated claims settlement would potentially lead to an increase in the deposit liability accretion rate or lead to incurred losses if significant. The interest expense reported due to the accretion of deposit liabilities associated with structured insurance and reinsurance contracts was $37.8 million, $49.8 million and $59.4 million for 81 the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. For some of the Companys deposit liabilities, the accretion rate is recorded at its contractual maximum level. For all other contracts, a 1% increase in the average accretion rate would result in an increase in deposit liabilities and interest expense by $19.2 million on an annualized basis. See Item 8, Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Deposit Liabilities. 4) Derivative Instruments The Company conducts activities in three main types of derivative instruments: credit derivatives, weather and energy derivatives and investment related derivative instruments. The estimate of fair value for credit derivatives and weather and energy derivatives requires managements judgment. These two activities are discussed below: a) Credit Derivatives The Company enters into credit derivatives in connection with its financial guaranty business and the Company intends to hold these contracts to maturity. In determining fair value, management differentiates between investment and non investment grade exposures and models them separately. Management estimates fair value for investment grade exposures by monitoring changes in credit quality and selecting appropriate market indices to determine credit spread movements over the life of the contracts. The determination of the credit spread movements is the basis for calculating the fair value. For credit derivatives that are non investment grade and therefore do not have a readily determinable market value, the Company uses an alternative fair value methodology. The fair value is determined using a cash flow model developed by the Company and is dependent upon a number of factors, including changes in interest rates, future default rates, credit spreads, changes in credit quality, future expected recovery rates and other market factors. Installment premiums are also considered in the determination of discounted net cash flows. Other elements of the change in fair value are based upon pricing established at the inception of the contract. Changes in fair value are unrealized as the credit derivatives are not traded to realize this value. See Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for sensitivity analysis and Item 8, Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Derivative Instruments. b) Weather and Energy Derivatives The fair value of weather and energy derivatives is determined through the use of quoted market prices where available. Where quoted market prices are unavailable, the fair value is estimated using available market data and internal pricing models using consistent statistical methodologies. Estimating fair value of instruments that do not have quoted market prices requires managements judgment in determining amounts that could reasonably be expected to be received from, or paid to, a third party in settlement of the contracts. The amounts could be materially different from the amounts that might be realized in an actual sale transaction. Fair values are subject to change in the near term and reflect managements best estimate based on various factors including, but not limited to, actual and forecasted weather conditions, changes in commodity prices, changes in interest rates and other market factors. See Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for sensitivity analysis and Item 8, Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Derivative Instruments. 5) Other Than Temporary Declines in Investments The Companys process for identifying declines in the fair value of investments that are other than temporary involves consideration of several factors. These primary factors include (i) the time period during which there has been a significant decline in value, (ii) an analysis of the liquidity, business prospects and financial condition of the issuer, (iii) the significance of the decline, (iv) an analysis of the collateral structure and other credit support, as applicable, of the securities in question, (v) expected future interest rate movements, and (vi) the Companys intent and ability to hold the investment for a sufficient period of time for the value to recover. Where the Companys analysis of the above factors results in the Companys conclusion that declines in fair values are other than temporary, the cost of the security is written down to fair value and the previously unrealized loss is therefore realized in the period such determination is made. 82 With respect to securities where the decline in value is determined to be temporary and the securitys value is not written down, a subsequent decision may be made to sell that security and realize a loss. Subsequent decisions on security sales are made within the context of overall risk monitoring, changing information, market conditions generally and assessing value relative to other comparable securities. Day to day management of the Companys investment portfolio is outsourced to third party investment managers. While these investment managers may, at a given point in time, believe that the preferred course of action is to hold securities with unrealized losses that are considered temporary until such losses are recovered, the dynamic nature of the portfolio management may result in a subsequent decision to sell the security and realize the loss, based upon a change in market and other factors described above. The Company believes that subsequent decisions to sell such securities are consistent with the classification of the Companys portfolio as available for sale. As mentioned above, the Company considers its intent and ability to hold a security until the value recovers as part of the process of evaluating whether a securitys unrealized loss represents an other than temporary decline. However, this factor on its own does not dictate whether or not the Company recognizes an impairment charge. The Company believes its ability to hold such securities is supported by positive and sufficient cash flow from its operations and from maturities within its investment portfolio in order to meet its claims payment obligations arising from its underwriting operations without selling such investments. In this regard, cash flow from operating activities was $2.4 billion and $5.0 billion in 2006 and 2005, respectively. There are risks and uncertainties associated with determining whether declines in the fair value of investments are other than temporary. These include subsequent significant changes in general economic conditions as well as specific business conditions affecting particular issuers, the Companys liability profile, subjective assessment of issue specific factors (seniority of claims, collateral value, etc.), future financial market effects, stability of foreign governments and economies, future rating agency actions and significant disclosure of accounting, fraud or corporate governance issues that may adversely affect certain investments. In addition, significant assumptions and management judgment are involved in determining if the decline is other than temporary. If management determines that a decline in fair value is temporary, then a securitys value is not written down at that time. However, there are potential effects upon the Companys future earnings and financial position should management later conclude that some of the current declines in the fair value of the investments are other than temporary declines. See Investment Activities for further information on other than temporary declines in the value of investments and unrealized loss on investments. 6) Income Taxes The Company utilizes the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. The Company has capitalized net operating tax losses of $334.0 million and $238.1 million against which a valuation allowance of $198.9 million and $130.8 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, was established. The Company has capitalized realized and unrealized capital losses of $11.3 million and $8.4 million, respectively, against which a valuation allowance of $19.7 million at December 31, 2006 was established. The deferral of benefits from tax losses is evaluated based upon managements estimates of the future profitability of the Companys taxable entities based on current forecasts, the character of income and the period for which losses may be carried forward. A valuation allowance may have to be established for any portion of a deferred tax asset that management believes will not be realized. Should the future income of these entities fall below expectations, a further valuation allowance would have to be established, which could be significant. In addition, if any further losses are generated by these entities, these losses may not be tax affected. For further information see Other Revenues and Expenses and Item 8, Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Taxation. 83 7) Intangible Assets Intangible assets are carried at or below estimated fair value. There are many assumptions and estimates underlying the fair value calculation. Principally, the Company identifies the business entity that the intangible asset is attributed to, and reviews historical and forecasted performance and other underlying factors affecting such analysis, including market conditions, premium rates and loss trends. Other assumptions used could produce a significantly different result which may result in a change in the value of the intangible asset and related amortization charge in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Based on the current expectations of profitability, an impairment charge would only be recognized in the event of a significant decline in the expected profitability of those operations where such intangible assets are applicable. At December 31, 2006, intangible assets were $1.8 billion of which approximately $1.4 billion and $0.4 billion related to the Companys Reinsurance and Insurance segments, respectively. See Other Revenue and Expenses for further information. 8) Variable Interest Entities The Company utilizes variable interest entities both directly and indirectly in the ordinary course of business. The Company must assess consolidation of variable interest entities based on whether the Company is the primary beneficiary of the entity. The company that absorbs a majority of the expected losses or residual rewards of the entity is deemed to be the primary beneficiary and is therefore required to consolidate the entity. The determination of expected losses and expected residual returns requires the Company to estimate the expected cash flows of the entities and measure the expected variability of these cash flows. The use of different assumptions to determine the expected cash flows and variability could affect the Companys determination of the primary beneficiary. The assumptions used to determine the expected cash flows depend on the type of structure and the nature of the Companys variable interest. The Company has made assumptions primarily regarding default rates, the timing of defaults and recovery rates to estimate these expected cash flows of the variable interest entities that it utilizes. 9) Reinsurance Premium Estimates The Company writes business on both an excess of loss and proportional basis. In the case of excess of loss contracts, the subject written premium is generally outlined within the treaty and the Company receives a minimum and or deposit premium on a quarterly basis which is normally followed by an adjustment premium based on the ultimate subject premium for the contract. The Company estimates the premium written on the basis of the expected subject premium and regularly reviews this against actual quarterly statements to revise the estimate based on the information provided by the cedant. On proportional contracts, written premiums are estimated to expected ultimate premiums based on information provided by the ceding companies. An estimate of premium is recorded at the inception of the contract. The ceding companys premium estimate may be adjusted based on their history of providing accurate premium estimates. When the actual premium is reported by the ceding company, normally on a quarterly basis, it may be materially higher or lower than the estimate. Adjustments arising from the reporting of actual premium by the ceding companies are recorded in the period in which they are determined. Written premiums on excess of loss contracts are earned in accordance with the loss occurring period defined within the treaty, normally 12 months following inception of the contract. Written premiums on proportional contracts are earned over the risk periods of the underlying policies issued and renewed, normally 24 months. For both excess of loss and proportional contracts, the earned premium is recognized ratably over the earning period, namely 12 24 months. The portion of the premium related to the unexpired portion of the policy at the end of any reporting period is reflected in unearned premiums. Reinstatement premiums are recognized at the time a loss event occurs where coverage limits for the remaining life of the contract are reinstated under pre defined contract terms and are fully earned when recognized. Accrual of reinstatement premiums is based on the Companys estimate of loss and loss adjustment expense reserves, which involves management judgment as described below. 84 Reinsurance operations by their nature add further complications in that generally the ultimate premium due under a specific contract will not be known at the time the contract is entered into. As a result, more judgment and ongoing monitoring is required to establish premiums written and earned in the Companys reinsurance operations. The amount of premiums receivable related to reinsurance operations amounted to $2.2 billion as at December 31, 2006. A significant portion of amounts included as premiums receivable, which represent estimated premiums written, net of commissions, are not currently due based on the terms of the underlying contracts. Management reviews the premiums receivable balance at least quarterly and provides a provision for amounts deemed to be uncollectible. The Company recorded a provision for uncollectible premiums receivable at December 31, 2006 of $35.2 million. The amount of proportional and excess of loss reinsurance gross premiums written and gross acquisition expenses recognized by the Companys reinsurance general operations for each line of business for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was as follows: December 31, 2006 December 31, 2005 December 31, 2004 (U.S. dollars in thousands) Gross Premiums Written Gross Acquisition Expenses Gross Premiums Written Gross Acquisition Expenses Gross Premiums Written Gross Acquisition Expenses Proportional Contracts: Property catastrophe $ $ $ $ $ 2,040 $ 386 Other property 774,984 205,362 766,823 183,114 829,437 194,871 Marine, energy, aviation, and satellite 56,866 11,092 88,485 16,087 95,730 19,015 Casualty and professional liability 429,313 106,070 654,477 171,943 642,242 174,016 Other (1) 403,566 99,394 399,667 85,210 347,412 90,440 Total Proportional contracts $ 1,664,729 $ 421,918 $ 1,909,452 $ 456,354 $ 1,916,861 $ 478,728 December 31, 2006 December 31, 2005 December 31, 2004 (U.S. dollars in thousands) Gross Premiums Written Gross Acquisition Expenses Gross Premiums Written Gross Acquisition Expenses Gross Premiums Written Gross Acquisition Expenses Excess of loss Contracts: Property catastrophe $ 449,312 $ 39,368 $ 481,764 $ 24,989 $ 375,089 $ 35,066 Other property 274,875 21,361 241,511 22,825 229,915 18,164 Marine, energy, aviation, and satellite 120,061 13,002 152,560 12,021 153,049 15,210 Casualty and professional liability 529,103 90,879 553,394 87,555 703,032 126,356 Other (1) 46,653 4,920 72,406 8,446 78,565 7,426 Total Excess of loss contracts $ 1,420,004 $ 169,530 $ 1,501,635 $ 155,836 $ 1,539,650 $ 202,222 (1) Other includes political risk, surety, warranty, accident and health, and other lines of business. Segments Following the IPO of SCA and changes in certain executive management responsibilities in 2006, the Company changed the reporting segments under which certain business units are reported in order to reflect these changes. All periods presented reflect these changes. The Company is now organized into five operating segments: Insurance, Reinsurance, Life Operations, Financial Lines, and SCA in addition to a corporate segment that includes the general investment and financing operations of the Company. 85 The Company evaluates the performance of each segment based on underwriting results for general operations, and contribution from both life and financial operations. Other items of revenue and expenditure of the Company are not evaluated at the segment level for reporting purposes. In addition, the Company does not allocate assets by segment for its general operations. Investment assets related to the Companys life and financial operations are held in separately identified portfolios. Net investment income from these assets is included in net income from life operations and contribution from financial operations, respectively. The Companys business is conducted on a global basis where several of its subsidiaries operate in foreign currencies which are the base currency of that entity. Under U.S. GAAP, revenues and expenses of those operations are translated into the U.S. dollar at average exchange rates during the year and assets and liabilities at exchange rates at the end of the year. Income Statement Analysis Insurance The following table summarizes the underwriting profit (loss) for the Insurance segment: (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2006 % Change 06 vs 05 2005 % Change 05 vs 04 2004 General: Gross premiums written $ 5,570,145 (3.7 )% $ 5,785,750 (2.3 )% $ 5,924,951 Net premiums written 4,145,235 (2.4 )% 4,248,105 (3.4 )% 4,395,619 Net premiums earned 4,100,605 (0.1 )% 4,102,697 1.2 % 4,054,795 Fee income and other 21,310 NM 4,223 (82.0 )% 23,461 Net losses and loss expenses 2,634,173 (42.7 )% 4,595,551 60.7 % 2,859,854 Acquisition costs 486,908 (3.7 )% 505,636 (5.9 )% 537,106 Operating expenses 638,804 23.4 % 517,800 (2.6 )% 531,502 Foreign exchange losses (gains) 140,105 NM (25,472 ) 157.1 % (9,907 ) Underwriting profit (loss) $ 221,925 NM $ (1,486,595 ) NM $ 159,701 * NM Not meaningful Gross and net premiums written decreased by 3.7% and 2.4%, respectively, in the year ended December 31, 2006 compared with the year ended December 31, 2005. The decrease in gross premiums written was primarily due to continued competitive pressures across most non catastrophe exposed lines, corporate risk management initiatives to reduce catastrophe exposures, fewer multi year contracts, and the impact of foreign exchange movements on premium. Decreases in casualty premiums and the discontinuation of the segments surety business were partially offset by volume increases in certain specialty lines of business such as environmental and aerospace. The decrease in net premiums written was primarily a result of the factors impacting gross premiums written, partially offset by return premium associated with the commutation of ceded reinsurance policies in professional lines of business, the cancellation of certain property catastrophe reinsurance programs and the absence of catastrophe related ceded reinstatement premiums. Gross and net premiums written decreased by 2.3% and 3.4%, respectively, in the year ended December 31, 2005 compared with the year ended December 31, 2004. These decreases were also primarily due to competitive pricing across most lines, most notably property. Decreases were partially offset by continued growth in the newer select and design professional and U.S. primary casualty units, and the impact of foreign exchange movements on premiums. Net premiums written declined in line with gross premiums written combined with increased ceded reinstatement premiums payable as a result of the catastrophe activity in the year. Net premiums earned decreased marginally by 0.1% in the year ended December 31, 2006 compared with the year ended December 31, 2005. The decrease over the prior year was primarily attributable to the reasons noted above 86 affecting net premiums written and partially offset by 2005 hurricane ceded reinstatement premiums recognized and earned in 2005. Net premiums earned increased by 1.2% in 2005 compared with 2004. Growth in net premiums earned was primarily as a result of the earn out of higher net premiums written in 2004, including the newer business initiatives mentioned above and increased net retentions. This growth was partially offset by the decreased volume in 2005, noted above, and net $89.1 million ceded reinstatement premiums as a result of the natural catastrophes in 2005. Fee income and other increased in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to a favorable legal settlement in relation to a U.K. contract. Fee income and other decreased in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily due to the income recorded on the sale of property in London in 2004, combined with fees generated by the Companys professional lines start up businesses for administration of third party portfolios. Exchange losses (gains) are primarily generated by movement in foreign exchange rates applied to loss reserves held in currencies other than the functional currency of the reporting subsidiary. The increase in the underwriting profit in 2006 as compared with 2005 was reflective of the combined ratios, as shown below, and foreign exchange impacts. The following table presents the ratios for the Insurance segment for each of the last three years ended December 31: 2006 2005 2004 Loss and loss expense ratio 64.2 % 112.0 % 70.5 % Underwriting expense ratio 27.5 % 25.0 % 26.4 % Combined ratio 91.7 % 137.0 % 96.9 % The loss and loss expense ratio includes net losses incurred for both the current year and any adverse or favorable prior year development of loss and loss reserves held at the beginning of the year. The Company did not change its methodology or key assumptions used in 2006, 2005 or 2004 to determine ultimate loss reserves for any line of insurance business written. The following tables present the prior year favorable or adverse development of the Companys gross and net loss and loss expense reserves for its insurance general operations: Gross (U.S. dollars in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves at the beginning of the year $ 14,660 $ 12,396 $ 10,225 Net (favorable) adverse development of those reserves during the year (371 ) 286 1,674 Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves re estimated one year later $ 14,289 $ 12,682 $ 11,899 Net (U.S. dollars in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves at the beginning of the year $ 9,860 $ 6,975 $ 5,846 Net (favorable) adverse development of those reserves during the year (13 ) 1,020 292 Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves re estimated one year later $ 9,847 $ 7,995 $ 6,138 Within the Insurance segment, the loss and loss expense ratio for the year ended December 31, 2006 decreased compared with the year ended December 31, 2005, primarily as a result of the absence of large natural catastrophe events and the unfavorable result of Winterthur Decision during 2005. Excluding the impact of these events, the loss ratio in 2005 was 67.1%. The relative decrease in 2006 relates to net favorable prior year reserve releases. Net overall favorable prior year reserve development for the year ended 2006 was $13.2 million. This overall favorable develop 87 ment included reserve releases of $94.4 million in property lines and $91.1 million in casualty lines, partially offset by $96.5 million, $3.0 million and $72.8 million of prior year adverse development in certain professional, marine and aviation, and other lines of business, respectively. Property reserve releases resulted from favorable experience in the 2005 accident year for both attritional and catastrophe losses. Casualty releases were largely in Europe including $69.2 million related to casualty business acquired from Winterthur combined with continued favorable development of the business re underwritten post acquisition. The professional adverse development relates primarily to the Bermuda portfolio. This development is split into the 2002 and prior periods for D&O and 2004 and subsequent periods for employment practices liability as new types of actions based on employment demographics have emerged. Adverse development from the 2005 hurricanes impacted marine, but was offset by favorable development in aviation reserves. Other adverse development resulted primarily from discontinued lines such as surety and political risk, combined with an unrecoverable reinsurance balance from an accident and health line reinsurer. The gross prior year favorable development for the Insurance segment was $371.4 million. This gross favorable development exceeds the corresponding net development as gross reported losses in casualty have developed more favorably than net losses. Lower gross reported loss amounts reflect reductions in several large recoverable losses on older years and an absence of new large losses, with consequent reductions to reinsurance recoveries. The loss and loss expense ratio for the Insurance segment for the year ended December 31, 2005 increased compared with the year ended December 31, 2004, primarily reflecting the net losses of $947.0 million incurred in the property catastrophe and property lines of business as a result of Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma and the Other Cats combined with the impact of overall continued softening market conditions in 2005, losses of $834.2 million representing the unfavorable outcome of the Winterthur Decision and net adverse prior year development. As noted above, net adverse prior year development in 2005 includes the loss associated with the Winterthur Decision. The Independent Actuarys report concluded that WSICs submitted SNRA and NPRA were closest to the Independent Actuarys determinations of SNRA and NPRA. These determinations resulted in the Company receiving a net lump sum payment in the amount of approximately $575.0 million (including interest receivable) from WSIC. As the Company had recorded $1.4 billion in unpaid losses and loss expenses recoverable related to this protection, incurred losses of approximately $834.2 million were recorded in the fourth quarter of 2005. During 2005, the Insurance segments net adverse prior year development, excluding the impact of the result of the Winterthur Decision, of $185.8 million was driven primarily by increases in reported case reserves for excess professional liability. Strengthening of $259.5 million in professional lines was caused primarily by the establishment of case reserves on both directors and officers claims in pre 2002 business, and errors and omissions claims. Strengthening of $34.7 million within other specialty lines was caused primarily by increases in reported losses for specialty lines of business currently in run off including certain Lloyds business, discontinued programs business, and surety. A net release of $112.5 million for global risk lines of business was driven by the reduction in case reserves for pre 2002 claims primarily relating to casualty business written out of Europe including business acquired from Winterthur. There is no assurance that conditions and trends that have affected the development of liabilities in the past will continue. Accordingly, it is not appropriate to extrapolate future redundancies or deficiencies based on the Companys historical results. The underwriting expense ratio in the year ended December 31, 2006 increased compared to the same period in 2005, as a result of an increase in the operating expense ratio of 3.0 points (15.6 % as compared to 12.6%) partially offset by a lower acquisition expense ratio. The increase in the operating expense ratio was due primarily to increased performance based compensation costs. The lower acquisition expense ratio related primarily to a reduction in certain ceded brokerage costs in 2006 combined with the impact on the expense ratio of reinstatement premiums earned in 2005. The underwriting expense ratio for the year ended December 31, 2005 decreased compared with the same period in 2004 as a result of a decrease in the operating expense ratio of 0.5 points (12.6% as compared to 13.1%) 88 combined with a decrease in the acquisition expense ratio of 0.8 points (12.4% as compared to 13.2%). The reduction in the operating expense ratio was due to productivity expense management initiatives and certain compensation cost adjustments. The reduction in the acquisition expense ratio was due primarily to a change in the commission structure with certain brokers, partially offset by the impact of ceded reinstatement premiums. Reinsurance The following table summarizes the underwriting profit (loss) for the Reinsurance segment: (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2006 % Change 06 vs 05 2005 % Change 05 vs 04 2004 Gross premiums written $ 3,084,733 (9.6 )% $ 3,411,087 (1.3 )% $ 3,456,511 Net premiums written 2,401,114 (13.5 )% 2,776,006 (3.4 )% 2,874,115 Net premiums earned 2,591,303 (6.5 )% 2,770,941 (5.5 )% 2,933,145 Fee income and other 3,053 NM (278 ) NM 223 Net losses and loss expenses 1,426,804 (48.4 )% 2,763,378 42.7 % 1,937,001 Acquisition costs 537,408 (10.5 )% 600,615 (7.4 )% 648,430 Operating expenses 196,545 26.7 % 155,095 (18.7 )% 190,750 Foreign exchange (gains) losses (43,017 ) NM 33,144 NM (27,102 ) Underwriting profit (loss) $ 476,616 NM $ (781,569 ) NM $ 184,289 * NM Not meaningful Gross and net premiums written decreased 9.6% and 13.5%, respectively, in year ended December 31, 2006 as compared to year ended December 31, 2005. The decrease in gross and net premiums written is primarily attributable to rate and volume reductions within the casualty line of business, and catastrophe gross and net reinstatement premiums of $138.7 million and $34.7 million, respectively, recorded in 2005. These decreases were partially offset by a change in accrual methodology and both written and ceded premiums adjustments for certain U.S. property programs in 2006. On a net premiums written basis, the decrease is also attributable to the new catastrophe quota share reinsurance treaty with Cyrus Re. In addition, as part of the Companys aggregate risk reduction initiatives, there has been a net reduction in catastrophe exposure and a restructuring of the Companys marine and energy exposures. Gross and net premiums written decreased by 1.3% and 3.4%, respectively, in the year ended December 31, 2005 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. Selective underwriting, rate reductions across most lines, and increased retentions by ceding companies, were partially offset by new proportional Lloyds treaties as well as significant written and ceded reinstatement premiums related to the 2005 catastrophes. Price reductions were most notable in casualty and professional lines. The rate improvements noted in late 2004 increased further subsequent to the 2005 Hurricane season in catastrophe exposed lines. Favorable foreign exchange movements also partially offset the decrease in gross premiums written. Net premiums written reflect the above gross changes. Net premiums earned in the year ended December 31, 2006 decreased 6.5% as compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, and 5.5% in 2005 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, due primarily to the earn out of the impact of rate pressures on gross premiums written over the last 24 months. The following table presents the ratios for the Reinsurance segment for the last three years ended December 31: 2006 2005 2004 Loss and loss expense ratio 55.1 % 99.7 % 66.0 % Underwriting expense ratio 28.3 % 27.3 % 28.6 % Combined ratio 83.4 % 127.0 % 94.6 % The loss and loss expense ratio includes net losses incurred for both the current year and any adverse or favorable prior year development of loss reserves held at the beginning of the year. 89 The following tables present the prior year favorable or adverse development of the Companys gross and net loss and loss expense reserves for its reinsurance operations: Gross (U.S. dollars in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves at the beginning of the year $ 8,820 $ 7,226 $ 6,454 Net (favorable) adverse development of those reserves during the year (46 ) 85 (38 ) Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves re estimated one year later $ 8,774 $ 7,311 $ 6,416 Net (U.S. dollars in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves at the beginning of the year $ 7,212 $ 5,695 $ 4,813 Net (favorable) adverse development of those reserves during the year (126 ) 94 (24 ) Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves re estimated one year later $ 7,086 $ 5,789 $ 4,789 Within the Reinsurance segment, the decrease in the loss and loss expense ratio in the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to the same period in 2005, primarily reflected the lack of large natural catastrophe events such as those that occurred during 2005. Excluding these events, the loss ratio for 2005 was 65.3%. The relative decrease in 2006 is largely due to favorable prior year reserve development. During the year ended December 31, 2006, net overall favorable prior year reserve development for the year ended 2006 was $125.7 million. This overall favorable development was made up of releases of $190.2 million in property and other shorter tail lines of business and $10.9 million in casualty lines, partially offset by $75.4 million in adverse development specifically related to the 2005 catastrophes. Net releases in casualty lines reflect positive claims experience in the core U.S. reinsurance and primary books including those years subject to the CAR review in 2003 partially offset by some older asbestos and environmental development and $18.0 million related to a disputed claim impacting underwriting years 1996 2000 that settled during the year. The gross prior year favorable development for the Reinsurance segment was $46.0 million. This gross favorable development was less than the corresponding net development as net strengthening on the 2005 catastrophes was less significant than the gross strengthening due to reinsurance recoveries. The increase in the loss and loss expense ratio in the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to the same period in 2004, primarily reflected the effects of Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma combined with the Other Cats from which the Reinsurance segment incurred a combined $977.9 million of net losses. As noted above these natural catastrophes added 34.4% to the segment loss ratio for the year ended December 31, 2005. In addition, during 2005, net prior year reserves across the Reinsurance segment developed adversely by $93.5 million. Reserve strengthening of $266.9 million in casualty and professional lines was partially offset by releases in other lines of business of $173.4 million. The casualty strengthening is primarily attributable to workers compensation, umbrella liability and certain professional lines of business written in the Companys North American operations. The reserve releases relate primarily to the property line where releases of $135.6 million occurred across all business units globally in the 2002 to 2004 underwriting years. Releases also occurred in the marine and aviation classes of business across the Reinsurance segment. The remainder of the strengthening in the casualty and professional lines reserves was driven by a small number of increases in reported claims in the other liability and errors and omissions lines of business in the pre 1997 underwriting years as well as recently reported claims in umbrella liability, errors and omissions and directors and officers lines of business in the 1997 2001 underwriting years. The professional lines claims activity arises largely from a limited number of cedants. This reserve increase was partially offset by favorable development in the 1997 2001 underwriting years in the medical malpractice business line. Activity in the post 2001 underwriting years relates primarily to certain large individual claims affecting a number of lines, including surety, umbrella liability and errors and omissions. 90 The increase in the underwriting expense ratio in year ended December 31, 2006, compared to the same period in 2005, was due to an increase in the operating expense ratio to 7.6%, as compared to 5.6% in the year ended December 31, 2005. The operating expense ratio increase was primarily due to an increase in performance based compensation expenses and costs related to various strategic initiatives within the Reinsurance segment including the establishment of an integrated reinsurance platform in Europe. The increase in operating expenses was offset by a decrease in the acquisition expense ratio from 21.7% during the year ended December 31, 2005 to 20.7% in the same period in 2006. The decrease in the net acquisition expense ratio was due primarily to commissions received from Cyrus Re related to the property catastrophe retrocession. The decrease in the underwriting expense ratio in the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared with the year ended December 31, 2004, was due to a decrease in both the acquisition expense ratio and operating expense ratio to 21.7% and 5.6%, respectively, as compared to 22.1% and 6.5%, respectively, for the year ended 2004. The decrease in the acquisition expense ratio was mainly due to decreased profit commissions, which resulted from the 2005 hurricane activity. The operating expense ratio decrease primarily reflects severance costs incurred during 2004 for reduction of staff as well as productivity expense management initiatives in 2005 and adjustments to certain 2005 compensation costs. Exchange gains in the year ended December 31, 2006 were mainly attributable to an overall weakening in the value of the U.S. dollar against the U.K. Sterling in those operations with U.S. dollars as their functional currency and net U.K. Sterling assets. Exchange losses in the year ended December 31, 2005 were mainly attributable to an overall strengthening in the value of the U.S. dollar against U.K. Sterling and the Euro. Life Operations The following table summarizes the net income for the Life operations segment: (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2006 % Change 06 vs 05 2005 % Change 05 vs 04 2004 Gross premiums written $ 597,025 (73.8 )% $ 2,274,520 62.8 % $ 1,397,516 Net premiums written 558,548 (75.0 )% 2,236,903 64.1 % 1,363,131 Net premiums earned 559,395 (75.0 )% 2,237,721 63.9 % 1,365,176 Fee income and other 327 2.2 % 320 7.0 % 299 Claims and policy benefits 769,811 (69.0 )% 2,479,364 67.5 % 1,480,535 Acquisition costs 45,990 (22.1 )% 59,018 20.9 % 48,830 Operating expenses 29,720 59.2 % 18,664 32.6 % 14,071 Net investment income 343,903 18.4 % 290,517 41.1 % 205,863 Foreign exchange (gains) losses (8,158 ) NM 1,421 NM (499 ) Net income (loss) $ 66,262 NM $ (29,909 ) NM $ 28,401 * NM Not meaningful With respect to the Life operations, gross and net premiums written, net premiums earned and claims and policy benefits in each of the three years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 included the assumption of the following long duration annuity portfolios: 1. Second and fourth quarters of 2006 two Irish immediate annuity portfolios bound, for which net premium earned totaled $152.5 million. 2. Second and fourth quarters of 2005 A large U.K. immediate annuity portfolio contract bound representing $1.8 billion in net premiums earned and two Irish immediate annuity portfolios which totalled $96.2 million. 3. Second and fourth quarters of 2004 Two large U.K. and Irish portfolio contracts, representing $995 million in net premiums earned and related claims and policy benefits. 91 The Company acquired cash and investment assets related to the future policy benefit reserves assumed at inception of these large contracts. While the Company expects to write more of these contracts, the frequency of these transactions will likely continue to be irregular and their sizes will differ from transaction to transaction. Excluding these large contracts, net premiums earned in life operations increased in 2006 compared with 2005 and 2005 compared with 2004, as the Company expanded its life and annuity reinsurance operations in Europe, and has continued to bind additional regular premium term assurance contracts which generate ongoing premiums. Claims and policy benefits decreased significantly in 2006 as compared to 2005, and increased in 2005 as compared to 2004, as a result of the annuity payout liabilities accepted under the contracts noted above. Changes in claims and policy benefits included the movement in policy benefit reserves related to contracts where investment assets were acquired with the assumption of the policy benefit reserves at the inception of the contract. Claims and policy benefits in all years also include incurred losses from the growing installment premium term assurance portfolio. Furthermore, in 2005, $37.4 million in losses were recorded related to certain novated blocks of U.S. based term life mortality reinsurance business as a result of the actuarially modeled impact of actual paid losses being greater than expected. In accordance with U.S. GAAP treatment for life business, a loss recognition test process was carried out in 2005 to determine if expected future premiums would be sufficient to pay for expected future losses. This process led to managements decision to unlock the then current policy benefit reserve basis and record a loss. Acquisition costs decreased in 2006 as compared to 2005 due to the write off of certain deferred costs of $25.9 million related to the U.S. mortality business noted above during the prior year, and partially offset by increased acquisition expenses on higher volume of installment premium term assurance business. Operating expenses increased in 2006 as compared to 2005 due to build out of existing operations and start up costs of new life operations including the U.S. life reinsurance platform and the U.K. life fund integration team, as well as an increase in professional fees related to these initiatives. Acquisition costs increased in 2005 as compared to 2004, reflecting the write off of the deferred costs of $25.9 million, related to the U.S. mortality business noted above. Operating expenses increased in 2005 compared to 2004 due to build out of existing operations and start up costs of new life operations in the U.S. Net investment income has increased reflecting the increase in life business invested assets primarily arising from new large annuity contracts written since 2004, combined with increased yields. Net investment income is included in the calculation of net income from life operations as it relates to income earned on portfolios of separately identified and managed life investment assets and other allocated assets. The accretion of the related future policy benefit reserves is included in claims and policy benefits. 92 Financial Lines The following table summarizes the net contribution for the Financial lines segment: (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2006 % Change 06 vs 05 2005 % Change 05 vs 04 2004 Gross premiums written $ 128,434 29.4 % $ 99,272 33.0 % $ 74,656 Net premiums written 111,423 19.0 % 93,658 29.5 % 72,325 Net premiums earned 125,429 32.3 % 94,786 42.8 % 66,384 Fee income and other 4,659 (67.3 )% 14,239 27.3 % 11,187 Net losses and loss expenses 162,623 105.9 % 78,965 84.9 % 42,716 Acquisition costs 12,869 (2.7 )% 13,228 4.7 % 12,639 Operating expenses 1,666 (37.2 )% 2,652 NM 206 Foreign exchange losses (gains) 266 155.8 % 104 NM (2,688 ) Underwriting profit $ (47,336 ) NM $ 14,076 (43.0 )% $ 24,698 Net investment income 464,065 39.1 % 333,504 86.5 % 178,776 Interest expense 345,209 59.5 % 216,392 90.6 % 113,523 Operating expenses structured products 48,562 13.8 % 42,679 (15.0 )% 50,230 Net income from financial and investment affiliates 31,550 190.4 % 10,866 (47.4 )% 20,668 Net realized and unrealized gains on derivative instruments 37,614 (27.9 )% 52,148 35.7 % 38,438 Net contribution from financial lines $ 92,122 (39.2 )% $ 151,523 53.3 % $ 98,827 * NM Not meaningful Gross and net premiums written relating to the Financial lines include premiums from structured financial and alternative risk transfer products, political risk insurance products, weather and energy risk management products, and legacy financial guaranty business. Gross premiums written increased by 29.4 % for the year ended December 31, 2006, as compared to the comparable period in 2005. This increase was due to a loss portfolio transfer contract written in 2006, additional premiums associated with a structured property and casualty reinsurance contract, and growth in certain weather and energy books of business including power outage products. Increases in net premiums written of 19.0% for 2006 as compared to the same period of 2005 were primarily due to the factors affecting gross premiums written noted above, partially offset by the inter segment portfolio transfer to SCA of in force financial guaranty contracts in connection with the SCA IPO. Increases in gross and net premiums written of 33.0% and 29.5%, respectively, in 2005, as compared to 2004, were primarily due to additional premiums due in 2005 on a structured property and casualty policy, which incurred a loss related to Hurricane Katrina, as well as premiums from several new structured property and casualty policies written during the year. Financial guaranty premiums remained relatively flat in 2005, as compared to 2004. The following table provides a line of business breakdown of the financial lines segments net premiums earned: Year Ended December 31 (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2006 2005 2004 Structured Indemnity $ 81,471 $ 37,606 $ 9,496 Political Risk 22,708 25,905 27,938 Other(1) 21,250 31,275 28,950 $ 125,429 $ 94,786 $ 66,384 (1) Other includes weather and energy risk management products, alternative risk transfer products, and financial guaranty. 93 Net premiums earned increased during the year ended December 31, 2006, as compared to the same period in 2005. The increase primarily resulted from the factors affecting gross premiums written noted above as well as the earn out of increased net premiums written over the past 24 months. These increases were offset by the impact of the inter segment portfolio transfer. The increase in net premiums earned of 42.8% during 2005, as compared to 2004, primarily resulted from additional premiums due in 2005 on a structured property and casualty policy which incurred a loss related to Hurricane Katrina, as well as new structured property and casualty business production in 2005, offset in part by lower earned premium in the financial guaranty line of business in 2005, as compared to 2004. Net losses and loss expenses include current year net losses incurred and adverse or favorable development of prior year net loss and loss expense reserves. Net losses and loss expenses for the year ended December 31, 2006 increased by 105.9%, as compared to the comparable period in 2005. This increase was a result of case reserve provisions relating to several structured finance transactions, including a $51.9 million loss on a contract which guaranteed a certain amount of revenue from a pool of equipment leases, losses assumed in relation to the loss portfolio transfer contract written in 2006, and adverse Hurricane Rita development on a structured property and casualty contract. Net losses and loss expenses during 2005 increased by 84.9%, as compared to 2004. This increase primarily resulted from losses incurred on structured property and casualty contracts related to Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. For the year ended December 31, 2006, acquisition costs decreased by 2.7% as a result of slightly lower average broker costs associated with earned premium. For 2005, acquisition costs increased by 4.7% as compared to 2004. This increase consisted of slightly higher acquisition expenses in the guaranteed investment contract and funding agreement businesses. Total operating expenses increased in 2006 as compared to 2005 due to higher performance based compensation costs as well as reallocations of certain costs resulting from the restructuring of the Companys segments. For 2005, operating expenses decreased as compared to 2004 due to a reduction in both compensation expense and professional fees. Net investment income increased by 39.1% for the year ended December 31, 2006, as compared to the same period in 2005, primarily as a result of significant increases in the combined average funding agreement and guaranteed investment contract balances from $5.1 billion to $6.2 billion for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2006, respectively, together with increased yields. Net investment income increased by 86.5% for the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared to the same period in 2004, primarily as a result of significant increases in the combined average funding agreement and guaranteed investment contract balances from $2.9 billion to $5.1 billion for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2005, respectively, together with increased yields. Interest expense on structured products relates to deposit liabilities associated with funding agreements, guaranteed investment contracts and certain structured property and casualty contracts. The increase in interest expense during 2006 as compared to 2005, and 2005 as compared to 2004, related primarily to the increase in the average funding agreement and guaranteed investment contract deposits discussed above. Net income from financial and investment affiliates include earnings on the Companys investment in Primus and certain of the Companys investment affiliates. Primus specializes in providing credit risk protection through credit derivatives. The increase in the year ended December 31, 2006 as compared to the same period in 2005 was due primarily to the profitability of Primus which contributed $22.6 million in 2006 as compared with $4.6 million in 2005, combined with continued strong performance of certain investment affiliates. The decrease in such earnings in 2005, as compared to 2004, was due primarily to the lower earnings from Primus in 2005. Net realized and unrealized gains on derivative instruments represent changes in the market value of the Companys insured credit derivative portfolio, weather and energy derivative instruments and certain structured deriv 94 atives. The net gains from derivatives for the year ended December 31, 2006 included realized gains from certain weather derivative contracts for the 2005/2006 winter, positive mark to market adjustments on certain credit default swap risks, and partially offset by negative movements in certain investment grade credit derivative exposures and the amortization of prior mark to market gains. Net realized and unrealized gains on derivative instruments increased 35.7% in 2005, as compared to 2004. Results in 2005 were driven largely by an $18.6 million gain on the settlement of a structured market risk management derivative product tied to a housing price index, and $17.8 million net realized and unrealized gains in the weather and energy business. Results in 2004 primarily consisted of unrealized gains on certain credit derivatives. SCA The following table summarizes the net contribution and net income for SCA segment: (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2006 % Change 06 vs 05 2005 % Change 05 vs 04 2004 Gross premiums written $ 405,910 45.6 % $ 278,868 3.1 % $ 270,579 Net premiums written 401,127 52.6 % 262,787 3.7 % 253,337 Net premiums earned 192,786 21.0 % 159,350 (1.9 )% 162,514 Fee income and other 2,383 200.5 % 793 NM 153 Net losses and loss expenses 15,038 (44.5 )% 27,107 (62.3 )% 71,917 Acquisition costs 18,871 12.0 % 16,847 (5.7 )% 17,859 Operating expenses 82,389 20.7 % 68,260 (2.1 )% 69,728 Foreign exchange losses (gains) 177 NM 1,757 NM (482 ) Underwriting profit $ 78,694 70.4 % $ 46,172 NM $ 3,645 Net investment income 78,348 50.1 % 52,213 44.1 % 36,245 Minority interest in preferred shares of XLFA 4,474 (46.9 )% 8,431 (3.2 )% 8,708 Net realized and unrealized (losses) gains on derivative instruments (8,022 ) (19.5 )% (6,715 ) NM 11,043 Net contribution from SCA $ 144,546 73.7 % $ 83,239 97.1 % $ 42,225 Net realized and unrealized (losses) on investments (16,180 ) NM (3,221 ) NM (178 ) Minority interest in common shares of SCA 20,656 NM NM Income tax charge (benefit) 3,133 NM (1,278 ) NM 1,920 Net income from SCA $ 104,577 28.6 % $ 81,296 102.6 % $ 40,127 * NM Not meaningful Financial guaranty up front premiums are earned over the life of the insured debt obligations based on par amount of risk outstanding. Financial guaranty installment premiums are earned over the installment period. Gross and net premiums written relating to the financial guaranty line of business reflect premiums received and accrued for in the periods presented and do not include the present value of future cash receipts expected from financial guaranty installment premium policies and contracts written in the period. Gross and net premiums written increased by 45.6% and 52.6%, respectively, in the year ended December 31, 2006 as compared to the same period in 2005. These increases were primarily as a result of an increase in the volume and mix of financial guaranty upfront contracts written throughout this time period. Net premiums written also increased as a result of the inter segment portfolio transfer of in force financial guaranty contracts with the Financial lines segment and the early retirement of certain guaranteed obligations. Gross premiums written increased by 3.1% in 2005 as compared to 2004. A decline in up front premiums written was offset by an increase in installment premiums written. Upfront premiums declined due to tighter credit 95 spreads and increased market competition across our business lines. The increase in installment premiums reflected the growth of the in force book of installment business. The increase in net premiums earned in 2006, as compared to 2005, was primarily due to the growth of the in force business (in particular, installment premium business written in prior periods) and earned premiums from the early retirement or refunding of insured securities of $27.4 million, as compared to $14.8 million in 2005. The decrease in net earned premiums in 2005, as compared to 2004, was primarily attributable to the inclusion in 2004 of $23.4 million in earned premiums related to a project financing loss noted below, partially offset by the growth of in force business and earned premiums from the early retirement or refunding of insured securities of $14.8 million in 2005, as compared to $6.0 million in 2004. Net losses and loss expenses for the year ended December 31, 2006, decreased by 44.5% compared to the same period in 2005. Lower net losses and loss adjustment expenses during the year ended December 31, 2006 reflected nominal case basis provisions for net losses and loss adjustment expenses during the year ended December 31, 2006 relating to certain insured transactions, whereas the year ended December 31, 2005 included a provision for case basis reserves of $12.2 million, of which $12.1 million related to two insured transactions. There was an additional gross case basis reserve related to one of these transactions in the current year of $15.2 million, however this loss was reinsured by and was included in the Financial lines segment. The decrease in net losses and loss adjustment expenses in 2005, as compared to 2004, was primarily attributable to the inclusion of $41.7 million of incurred losses in 2004 relating to the subordinate layer of an insured project financing structure, combined with net favorable development in 2005 of unallocated loss reserves. Acquisition costs increased by 12.0% for the year ended December 31, 2006, as compared to the same period in 2005. The increase primarily reflects the impact of refundings noted above combined with higher direct and indirect acquisition costs resulting from the growth of in force business. Acquisition costs decreased by 5.7% for the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared to the same period in 2004. This decrease was primarily due to a change in business mix to more installment based policies, resulting in lower deferred costs associated with premium and excise taxes. Operating expenses increased by 20.7% in the year ended December 31, 2006, as compared to the same period in 2005, due to compensation expenses related to the transfer of additional employees and other costs associated with the SCA IPO. Operating expenses decreased by 2.1% in the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared to the same period in 2004, due to lower compensation costs. Net investment income increased by 50.1% in the year ended December 31, 2006, as compared to the same period in 2005, primarily as a result of increases in the investment asset balances in 2006, proceeds received from the IPO in August 2006, together with increased yields. Net realized and unrealized losses on derivative instruments represent changes in the market value of the Companys insured credit derivative portfolio. The net losses from derivatives for the year ended December 31, 2006 primarily related to an increase in the volume of insured interest rate swaps. During the year ended December 31, 2005, spreads widened slightly compared to prior years, decreasing the value of credit default swaps. Refer to Investment Activities below for an analysis of net realized and unrealized losses on investments and investment derivatives. Minority interest expense relating to the preferred shares of XLFA has decreased due to changes in the structure of the related dividends. Minority interest expense relating to the common shares of SCA has increased following the SCA IPO in August 2006 and primarily represents the 37% ownership interest in SCA common shares held by the public. Income tax charge (benefit) represents the taxes associated with the net income of SCA. 96 Investment Activities The following table illustrates the change in net investment income from general operations, net income from investment affiliates from general operations, net realized (losses) gains on investments, and net realized and unrealized gains (losses) on investment derivative instruments from general operations for each of the three years ended December 31: (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2006 % Change 06 vs 05 2005 % Change 05 vs 04 2004 Net investment income general operations $ 1,091,868 36.7 % $ 798,805 30.1 % $ 614,128 Net income from investment affiliates general operations (1) 260,947 75.1 % 149,032 28.3 % 116,161 Net realized (losses) gains on investments (116,458 ) NM 241,882 (1.9% ) 246,547 Net realized and unrealized gains (losses) on investment and other derivative instruments general operations (2) 71,591 NM (16,575 ) NM 24,012 * NM Not meaningful (1) The Company records the income related to investment fund affiliates on a one month lag and the private investment fund affiliates on a three month lag in order for the Company to meet the accelerated filing deadlines as specified by the SEC. (2) For a summary of realized and unrealized gains and losses on all derivative instruments, see Item 8, Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Derivative Instruments. Net investment income related to general operations increased in 2006 as compared to 2005 due primarily to increases in the yield of the portfolio and a higher investment base. The market yield to maturity on the fixed income portfolio was 5.2% at December 31, 2006, as compared to 4.7% at December 31, 2005, due primarily to higher interest rates in the U.S., U.K., and Euro zone. The growth in the investment base reflected the Companys issuance of ordinary shares and equity units in the fourth quarter of 2005 and the Companys positive cash flow from operations. Net investment income related to general operations increased in 2005 as compared to 2004 primarily due to growth in the investment base, as well as increases in the yield of the portfolio. The growth in the investment base reflected the Companys positive cash flow from operations. In 2005, the Company also received a distribution associated with the unwinding of a collateral debt obligation, which resulted in a one time benefit to investment income of $31.0 million as well as $25.3 million related to the Winterthur Decision. The Companys total investments available for sale and cash and cash equivalents less net pending payable for investments purchased was $41.5 billion at December 31, 2006 as compared to $38.8 billion at December 31, 2005. This increase of $2.7 billion includes cash flow from operations of $2.4 billion. The annualized effective yield of the total investment portfolio (excluding non recurring items) was 5.1% for 2006 as compared to 4.4% for 2005, a 0.7% increase. The increase in the effective yield of the total investment portfolio was primarily due to general interest rate increases in the U.S, U.K., and Euro zone. It is expected that net investment income in 2007 will increase due to projected increases in investments resulting from an increase in the average investment base, as well as anticipated increases in portfolio yields on reinvestment of existing assets and investment of new cash flows. However, actual market changes in interest rates could offset or supplement the effects of cash flow. For a further discussion see Liquidity and Capital Resources. Net income from investment affiliates includes earnings from the Companys investments in closed end investment funds and partnerships and similar vehicles that are equity accounted. Net income from investment affiliates increased in 2006 as compared to 2005 primarily due to a strong result in private investment portfolios due to a series of positive liquidity events and fair value adjustments, with continued good returns on the alternative portfolios. 97 Investment Performance The Company manages its investment grade fixed income securities using an asset/liability management framework. Due to the unique nature of the underlying liabilities, customized benchmarks are used to measure investment performance and comparison to standard market indices is not meaningful. Investment performance is not monitored for certain assets primarily consisting of operating cash and special regulatory deposits. The following is a summary of the investment portfolio returns for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 of the asset/liability portfolio and risk asset portfolios: 2006(1) 2005(1) Asset/Liability Portfolio USD fixed income portfolio 4.6 % 2.6 % Non USD fixed income portfolio 2.9 % 5.3 % Risk Asset Portfolio Alternative portfolio 11.5 % 7.5 % Equity portfolio 20.0 % 13.9 % High Yield fixed income portfolio 8.0 % 3.1 % (1) Portfolio returns are calculated by dividing the sum of the net investment income or net income from investment affiliates, realized gains (losses) and unrealized gains (losses) by the average market value of each portfolio. Non U.S. dollar fixed income performance is measured in either the underlying currency or in U.S. dollars. Net Realized Gains and Losses on Investments and Other than Temporary Declines in the Value of Investments The Companys investment portfolio is classified as available for sale. Realized investment gains and losses occur through the normal turnover of the Companys investment portfolio. Realized investment losses include impairment charges relating to declines in value of securities that are considered to be other than temporary. See Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates for further information. In 2006, net realized losses on investments were $116.5 million which includes $390.4 million of gross realized losses on fixed income and $88.5 million of gross realized losses on equity securities. Gross realized losses in 2006 included $151.4 million of provisions for declines in fair value considered to be other than temporary. In the U.S., the general level of corporate defaults was lower than in recent years. For example, Moodys Investors Service, Inc. (Moodys) reported that 21 issuers defaulted in 2006 compared with 31 issuers in 2005 and 36 issuers in 2004. The Companys exposure to these defaults was limited in both 2006 and 2005, resulting in a low level in the write down for other than temporary declines related to credit events. As a percentage of the total fixed income portfolio, the write down for other than temporary declines was 0.3% in 2006 as compared to 0.1% in 2005 and a negligible amount in 2004. In 2005, net realized gains on investments were $241.9 million which includes $250.8 million of gross realized losses on fixed income and $54.1 million of gross realized losses on equity securities. Gross realized losses in 2005 included $53.2 million of provisions for declines in fair value considered to be other than temporary. In 2004, net realized gains on investments were $246.5 million which includes $265.9 million of gross realized losses on fixed income and $48.8 million of gross realized losses on equity securities. Gross realized losses in 2004 included $6.4 million of provisions for declines in fair value considered to be other than temporary. With respect to those securities that were sold at a loss during the year ended December 31, 2006, the following is an analysis of the period of time that those securities had been in a continual unrealized loss position, the amount of the realized loss recorded in the Companys results of operations as of the sale date and the amount of the impairment charge taken in the year: 98 Length of time in a continual unrealized loss position(U.S. dollars in thousands) Fixed Income Securities Equity Securities Less than 6 months $ 168,462 $ 66,876 At least 6 months but less than 12 months 81,202 17,573 At least 12 months but less than 2 years 7,505 1,239 At least 2 years 73 Total gross realized loss from sales 257,242 85,688 Impairment charges for declines in value considered to be other than temporary 133,185 2,831 Total gross realized loss $ 390,427 $ 88,519 With respect to those investment securities that were sold at a loss during the year ended December 31, 2005, the following is an analysis of the period of time that those securities had been in a continual unrealized loss position, the amount of the realized loss recorded in the Companys results of operations as of the sale date and the amount of the impairment charge taken in the year: Length of time in a continual unrealized loss position (U.S. dollars in thousands) Fixed Income Securities Equity Securities Less than 6 months $ 149,305 $ 40,903 At least 6 months but less than 12 months 22,049 5,073 At least 12 months but less than 2 years 29,582 1,923 At least 2 years 2,664 214 Total gross realized loss from sales 203,600 48,113 Impairment charges for declines in value considered to be other than temporary 47,239 5,968 Total gross realized loss $ 250,839 $ 54,081 The Companys process for identifying declines in the fair value of investments that are other than temporary involves consideration of several factors, as discussed under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company realized losses of $7.6 million and $1.2 million upon the sale of fixed income securities and equity securities, respectively, that had been in an unrealized loss position for greater than twelve months. During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company realized losses of $32.2 million and $2.1 million upon the sale of fixed income securities and equity securities, respectively, that had been in an unrealized loss position for greater than twelve months. The decisions to sell these securities were made by the Companys investment managers based upon a change in market conditions and other factors (these decisions were independent of the Companys previously stated intent and ability to hold such securities). Net realized and unrealized gains on investment derivatives result from the Companys investment strategy to economically hedge against interest and foreign exchange risk within the investment portfolio. For a further discussion see Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and Liquidity and Capital Resources. Net Unrealized Gains and Losses on Investments At December 31, 2006, the Company had net (pre tax) unrealized gains on fixed income and short term securities of $139.8 million and net unrealized gains on equity securities of $185.6 million. Of these amounts, gross unrealized losses on fixed income and short term securities and equities were $244.1 million and $5.4 million, respectively. At December 31, 2005, the Company had net unrealized gains on fixed income and short term securities of $319.0 million and net unrealized gains on equity securities of $171.9 million. Of these amounts, gross unrealized losses on 99 fixed income and short term securities and equities were $312.7 million and $8.8 million, respectively. These losses include securities below investment grade, as discussed below. The information shown below about the unrealized losses on the Companys investments at December 31, 2006 and 2005, concerns the potential effect upon future earnings and financial position should management later conclude that some of the current declines in the fair value of these investments are other than temporary declines. The following is an analysis of how long each of those investment securities with an unrealized loss at December 31, 2006 and 2005 had been in a continual unrealized loss position: Type of Securities (U.S. dollars in thousands) Length of time in a continual unrealized loss position Amount ofunrealized loss atDecember 31, 2006 Amount of unrealized loss at December 31, 2005 Fixed Income and Short Term Less than six months $ 88,199 $ 139,130 At least 6 months but less than 12 months 44,555 90,448 At least 12 months but less than 2 years 85,617 75,898 2 years or more 25,720 7,245 Total $ 244,091 $ 312,721 Equities Less than six months $ 2,983 $ 6,545 At least 6 months but less than 12 months 2,448 2,275 Total $ 5,431 $ 8,820 At December 31, 2006, the total gross unrealized losses represented approximately 9,700 fixed income securities out of a total of approximately 17,300 and approximately 200 equity securities out of a total of approximately 1,300. At December 31, 2005, the total gross unrealized losses represented approximately 9,100 fixed income securities out of a total of approximately 17,300, and approximately 400 equity securities out of a total of approximately 1,800. As discussed under Item 1, Investments Investment Structure and Strategy, the Company operates a risk asset portfolio that includes high yield (below investment grade) fixed income securities. These securities are more sensitive to credit risk than investment grade securities. At December 31, 2006, approximately 2.3% of the Companys fixed income investment portfolio was invested in securities that were below investment grade or not rated. Approximately 5.4% of the unrealized losses in the Companys fixed income securities portfolio at December 31, 2006, related to securities that were below investment grade or not rated. At December 31, 2005, approximately 2.4% of the Companys fixed income investment portfolio was invested in securities that were below investment grade or not rated. Approximately 4.3% of the unrealized losses in the Companys fixed income securities portfolio at December 31, 2005, related to securities that were below investment grade or not rated. The following is an analysis of the length of time each of those below investment grade and unrated securities had been in a continual unrealized loss position at the date indicated. Length of time in a continual unrealized loss position (U.S. dollars in thousands) Amount of unrealized loss at December 31, 2006 Amount of unrealized loss at December 31, 2005 Less than six months $ 12,398 $ 9,471 At least 6 months but less than 12 months 270 2,753 At least 12 months but less than 2 years 469 1,086 At least 2 years but less than 3 years 10 75 Total $ 13,147 $ 13,385 Of the gross unrealized investment losses on the fixed income and short term investments portfolio at December 31, 2006 of $244.1 million, approximately $122.5 million related to corporate fixed income securities. Within the cor 100 porate fixed income securities, approximately 52.9% of the losses were in the financial sector, 11.9% in the communications sector, 8.8% in the consumer non cyclical sector, 5.4% in the utilities sector and 5.1% in the industrial sector. No other sector was greater than 5%. The largest unrealized loss in the fixed income portfolio was $1.8 million. No equity securities held by the Company at December 31, 2006 were in a continual unrealized loss position for at least 12 months. The largest individual unrealized loss in the equity portfolio was $0.5 million. Of the $312.7 million gross unrealized investment losses on the fixed income and short term investments portfolio at December 31, 2005, approximately $118.8 million related to corporate fixed income securities. Within the corporate fixed income securities, approximately 55.3% of the losses were in the financial sector, 9.8% in the communications sector, 9.4% in the consumer, non cyclical sector and 5.6% in the consumer cyclical sector. No other sector was greater than 5%. The largest individual unrealized loss in the fixed income portfolio was $5.0 million. No equity securities held by the Company at December 31, 2005, were in a continual unrealized loss position for at least 12 months. The largest individual unrealized loss in the equity portfolio was $0.3 million. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, the following table sets forth the maturity profile of the fixed income securities that were in a gross unrealized loss position: Maturity profile in years of fixed income securities in a gross unrealized loss position (U.S. dollars in thousands) Amount of unrealized loss at December 31, 2006 Amount of unrealized loss at December 31, 2005 Less than 1 year remaining $ 8,462 $ 10,162 At least 1 year but less than 5 years remaining 45,118 88,876 At least 5 years but less than 10 years remaining 61,283 69,844 More than 10 years but less than 20 years remaining 17,376 5,435 At least 20 years or more remaining 36,204 18,358 Mortgage and asset backed securities 75,648 120,046 Total $ 244,091 $ 312,721 Other Revenues and Expenses The following table sets forth other revenues and expenses of the general operations of the Company for each of the three years ended December 31: (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2006 % Change 2006 vs 2005 2005 % Change 2005 vs 2004 2004 Net income from operating affiliates (1) $ 88,209 41.4 % $ 62,371 (53.6 )% $ 134,535 Amortization of intangible assets 2,355 (78.1 )% 10,752 (32.1 )% 15,827 Corporate operating expenses 185,253 4.7 % 176,909 (10.0 )% 196,648 Interest expense general operations 207,066 10.5 % 187,457 4.9% 178,717 Minority interest in the common shares of XL International (Bermuda) Ltd. (114 ) 48.4 % (221 ) 31.2% (321 ) Income tax expense (2) 216,512 NM 50,562 (43.5 )% 89,423 (1) The Company records the income related to the operating affiliates on a three month lag in order for the Company to meet the accelerated filing deadlines as specified by the SEC. (2) Income tax expense does not include SCAs income tax charge (benefit). * NM Not meaningful In 2006, the increase in net income from operating affiliates was primarily due to the gain on sale of the FrontPoint Partners LLC, an investment mangement affiliate, of $41.7 million. The results also include continued strong performance by the Companys investment management affiliates driven by strong growth in assets managed by these minority owned managers. 101 In 2005, net income from operating affiliates declined over 2004, which resulted from the fact that the 2004 results included proceeds from the sale of two affiliates, as described below. The results of the Companys investment management affiliates showed good underlying growth in 2005 due to good investment performance and growth in assets managed by these minority owned managers. In 2004, net income from operating affiliates included strong performance by the Companys investment management affiliates combined with income of $66.7 million on the sale of the Companys investment in the Admiral Group Ltd. and $35.4 million of income from the sale of the Companys stake in Pareto Partners L.P. and its affiliated companies, as well as strong growth in assets managed by these minority owned managers. Amortization of intangible assets decreased in 2006 as a result of certain intangible assets that were fully amortized during the year. Corporate operating expenses in 2006 increased by 4.7% primarily as a result of increased performance based compensation costs and increased legal costs. Interest expense from general operations includes costs related to the Companys debt and collateral facilities as well as certain deposit liability accretion. The increase in interest expense primarily reflected the increase in average outstanding debt for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to 2005. For more information on the Companys financial structure, see Liquidity and Capital Resources. The change in the Companys income taxes in each of the three years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 principally reflects the effects of changes in the profitability of the U.S. and European operations for each year. Income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2006 increased from 2005 principally from an improvement in the profitability of the Companys U.S. and European operations. The Companys effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2006 decreased slightly from that in 2005 due to $30.0 million of tax benefits associated with corrections in the year to reserves ceded to its Bermuda reinsurance entities. In addition, the Company recorded a tax charge in 2006 of $6.0 million in connection with the IPO of SCA. Income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2005 decreased from 2004, due primarily to losses incurred in the Companys U.S. operations as a result of the 2005 catastrophe activity. A significant proportion of the loss reserve increases were captured in non U.S. subsidiaries where no tax relief is available. The deferral of tax losses is evaluated based upon the future profitability of the Companys taxable entities and, under current projections, the Company anticipates using this asset. The Companys net deferred tax asset at December 31, 2006 was $346.1 million, which consists primarily of net operating losses generated by subsidiaries in the U.S. and U.K. Should the taxable income of these entities fall below expectations, a further valuation allowance may have to be established, which could be significant. In addition, if any further losses are generated by these entities, these losses may not be tax effected. See Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Item 8, Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Taxation. Balance Sheet Analysis Investments The primary objectives of the investment strategy are to support the liabilities arising from the operations of the Company, generate stable investment income and to build book value for the Company over the longer term. The strategy strives to maximize investment returns while taking into account market and credit risk. The Companys overall investment portfolio is structured to take into account a number of variables including local regulatory requirements, business needs, collateral management and risk tolerance. 102 At December 31, 2006 and 2005, total investments, cash and cash equivalents, and net payable for investments purchased were $44.3 billion and $41.2 billion, respectively. The following table summarizes the composition of the Companys invested assets at December 31, 2006 and 2005: (U.S. dollars in thousands) Fair Value 2006 Percent of Total Fair Value 2005 Percent of Total Cash and cash equivalents $ 2,223,748 5.0 % $ 3,693,475 9.0 % Net payable for investments purchased (104,739 ) (0.2 )% (639,034 ) (1.6 )% Short term investments 2,338,487 5.3 % 2,546,073 6.2 % Fixed maturities: U.S. Government and Government agency $ 2,557,533 5.8 % $ 4,497,004 10.9 % Corporate 14,185,964 32.1 % 13,292,892 32.2 % Mortgage and asset backed securities 16,236,893 36.7 % 11,652,106 28.3 % U.S. States and political subdivisions of the States 65,545 0.1 % 71,193 0.2 % Non U.S. Sovereign Government 3,075,423 6.9 % 2,796,370 6.8 % Total fixed maturities $ 36,121,358 81.6 % $ 32,309,565 78.4 % Equity securities 891,138 2.0 % 868,801 2.1 % Investments in affiliates 2,308,781 5.2 % 2,046,721 5.0 % Other investments 476,889 1.1 % 399,417 0.9 % Total investments and cash and cash equivalents $ 44,255,662 100.0 % $ 41,225,018 100.0 % The Company reviews on a regular basis its corporate debt concentration, credit quality and compliance with established guidelines. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, the average credit quality of the Companys total fixed income portfolio was AA. At December 31, 2006 approximately 55.5% of the fixed income portfolio was rated AAA by one or more of the principal ratings agencies. Approximately 2.3% was below investment grade or not rated. Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses Unpaid losses and loss expenses include reserves on the Companys general and financial operations and relates primarily to the casualty insurance and reinsurance business written by the Company. The balance was $23.1 billion at December 31, 2006, which is a decrease of $0.7 billion from December 31, 2005. The decrease was due primarily to the lack of significant catastrophe events in 2006, a reduction in reserves related to payments made in 2006 relating to 2005 catastrophe events, and favorable net prior year development of $110.6 million in 2006. The table below represents a reconciliation of the Companys general and financial operations, unpaid losses and loss expenses for the year ended December 31, 2006: (U.S. dollars in thousands) Gross unpaid losses and loss expenses Unpaid losses and loss expenses recoverable Net unpaid losses and loss expenses Balance at December 31, 2005 $ 23,767,672 $ (6,412,648 ) $ 17,355,024 Losses and loss expenses incurred 4,978,510 (739,872 ) 4,238,638 Losses and loss expenses paid/recovered 6,120,360 (2,182,600 ) 3,937,760 Other (including losses acquired and foreign exchange revaluation) 454,320 (42,556 ) 411,764 Balance at December 31, 2006 $ 23,080,142 $ (5,012,476 ) $ 18,067,666 While the Company reviews the adequacy of established reserves for unpaid losses and loss expenses regularly, no assurance can be given that actual claims made and payments related thereto will not be in excess of the amounts 103 reserved. In the future, if such reserves develop adversely, such deficiency would have a negative impact on future results of operations. See Item 1, Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses, Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Item 8, Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Losses and Loss Expenses, for further discussion. Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses Recoverable and Reinsurance Balances Receivable In the normal course of business, the Company seeks to reduce the potential amount of loss arising from claims events by reinsuring certain levels of risk assumed in various areas of exposure with other insurers or reinsurers. While reinsurance agreements are designed to limit the Companys losses from large exposures and permit recovery of a portion of direct unpaid losses, reinsurance does not relieve the Company of its ultimate liability to the Companys insureds. Accordingly, the losses and loss expense reserves on the balance sheet represent the Companys total unpaid gross losses. Unpaid losses and loss expense recoverable relates to estimated reinsurance recoveries on the unpaid loss and loss expense reserves. Unpaid losses and loss expense recoverables were $5.0 billion and $6.4 billion at December 31, 2006, and 2005, respectively. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, reinsurance balances receivable were $1.1 and $1.0 billion, respectively. The table below presents the Companys net reinsurance recoverable at December 31, 2006 and 2005. (U.S. dollars in thousands) December 31, 2006 December 31, 2005 Reinsurance balances receivable $ 1,128,721 $ 1,069,402 Reinsurance recoverable on future policy benefits 15,296 28,874 Reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses recoverable 5,208,749 6,646,972 Bad debt reserve on unpaid losses and loss expenses recoverable and reinsurance balances receivable (218,343 ) (260,713 ) Net paid and unpaid losses and loss expenses recoverable and reinsurance balances receivable $ 6,134,423 $ 7,484,535 The Company has credit risk should any of its reinsurers be unable or unwilling to settle amounts due. Of the $6.1 billion total unpaid losses and loss expenses recoverable and reinsurance balances receivable at December 31, 2006, no individual reinsurer accounted for 10% or more of the total. The Company is the beneficiary of letters of credit, trust accounts and funds withheld in the aggregate amount of $2.2 billion at December 31, 2006, collateralizing reinsurance recoverables with respect to certain reinsurers. The provision for uncollectible reinsurance is required principally due to the failure of reinsurers to indemnify the Company primarily because of disputes under reinsurance contracts and insolvencies. As at December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company had a reserve for potential non recoveries from reinsurers of $218.3 million and $260.7 million, respectively. Under the terms of the Sale and Purchase Agreement (the SPA), as amended, between XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd (XLI) and Winterthur Swiss Insurance Company (WSIC), WSIC provided the Company with post closing protection determined as of September 30, 2004 with respect to, among other things, adverse development of reserves and premium on certain Winterthur International Insurance business. This protection was based upon net loss experience and development over a three year, post closing seasoning period based on actual loss development experience, collectible reinsurance and certain other factors set forth in the SPA. The SPA included a process for determining the amount due from WSIC by an independent actuarial process whereby the Independent Actuary developed a value of the seasoned net reserves. The actual final seasoned net reserves amount was the submission that was closest to the number developed by the Independent Actuary. As the Company and WSIC were unable to come to an agreement, the Company submitted to WSIC notice to trigger the independent actuarial process as contemplated by the SPA. On February 3, 2005, both the Company and WSIC made submissions for the independent actuarial process. There were two separate numbers submitted, that for 104 the Seasoned Net Reserves Amount (SNRA) and that for the Net Premium Receivable Amount (NPRA). Subsequent to this date neither party had the opportunity to submit revised figures to the Independent Actuary. On November 23, 2005, the Company received the draft report from the Independent Actuary in connection with the Companys post closing protection. The final report was received on December 6, 2005. The Independent Actuarys report concluded that WSICs submitted SNRA and NPRA were closest to the Independent Actuarys determinations of SNRA and NPRA. These determinations resulted in the Company receiving a net lump sum payment in the amount of approximately $575.0 million (including interest receivable) from WSIC. As the Company had recorded $1.4 billion in unpaid losses and loss expenses recoverable related to this protection, a loss of approximately $834.2 million was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2005. As noted above the independent actuarial process followed a baseball type arbitration whereby there were only two possible outcomes, not a range of outcomes. The nature of the process was that the final SNRA was either the SNRA submitted by the Company or the SNRA submitted by WSIC. Accordingly, until the receipt of the Independent Actuarys report in the fourth quarter of 2005, the Companys best estimate was the SNRA it had submitted, as it could only ever have been either that number or the number that WSIC submitted. For financial statement purposes, at each reporting period end subsequent to the SNRA and NPRA submissions being made in February of 2005, the Company assessed the two possible outcomes regarding the SNRA and after considering any new or changed information arising from the process, determined whether it continued to be probable that the Companys SNRA would become the final SNRA as a result of the Independent Actuarial process. If at any time during the process management had concluded, based on the then current information, that the Independent Actuary would calculate an SNRA closer to WSICs SNRA submission, then a loss amounting to the entire difference between the two values would have been recorded. Management did not conclude that this was appropriate at any time prior to the receipt of the Independent Actuarys draft report on November 23, 2005. Specifically, during the third quarter of 2005, further detailed internal analysis was conducted by management to re evaluate the probability that the Company would be successful in the Independent Actuarial process. All areas where there was a potential that WSICs SNRA submission may have been accepted over the Companys were examined, effectively estimating a reasonable worst case scenario outcome from the Companys point of view. This was compared to the midpoint of the difference between the two submissions. Management continued to believe the Company would be successful in the process. There were many individual differences between the Independent Actuarys calculation of the SNRA and that of the Company attributable to different judgment calls, different actuarial methodologies and sources of data. These related primarily to the following five areas: (i) The Independent Actuary made downwards and upwards adjustments to the Companys established case reserves and then used the revised reserves as source data for his actuarial analysis and the related calculation of the resultant IBNR. The Companys established case reserves previously had been reviewed both internally and by independent claims analysts (which were outside legal counsel in most instances). (ii) The Independent Actuary selected projection methodologies different than the Companys. Most significantly the Independent Actuarys weighting of paid loss projection versus incurred loss projection was different from the Companys which gave rise to differing conclusions regarding future loss development. The Company continues to believe that its methodology, which was adopted by in house actuaries and reviewed by both outside actuaries and included in the financial statements audited by the Companys outside auditors, is appropriate and has not changed its loss projections based on the Independent Actuarys report. The methodology used by the Companys actuaries for these reserves is consistent with that used by the Companys actuaries for similar risks written in other business units of the Company. (iii) The Independent Actuary adopted a methodology different from that of the Company to estimate the application of reinsurance treaties against loss reserves across underwriting years and types of business. 105 (iv) The conversion into U.S. dollars of the underlying reserve development in local currency between July 2001 and September 2004 also generated a difference. The impact of the decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar on the Independent Actuarys lower levels of local currency adverse development was to increase the difference between XL and the Independent Actuary in U.S. dollars. This was an issue peculiar to the interpretation of the SPA and does not affect the conversions of the loss reserves under U.S. GAAP. (v) The Independent Actuary made different assumptions than the Company regarding the classification of data used in the actuarial analysis. For example, the Independent Actuary characterized losses as large losses for purposes of separate treatment in his actuarial analysis at a level that was different from the Company. The Companys loss reserves and actuarial methodologies were reviewed both internally and externally by outside actuaries and included in the financial statements audited by the Companys outside auditors. The differences between the Independent Actuarys and the Companys evaluations of the factors described above were the result of the application of judgments in, the application of actuarial methodology, assessment of loss on individual claims events and or interpretation of the provisions of the SPA. Because these factors are interdependent, quantification of a single factors individual contribution to the overall difference is not always possible. The quantification of certain reasonably discrete items has been given below. The Companys loss reserves and actuarial methodologies were reviewed both internally and externally by outside actuaries and claims analysts throughout the seasoning period up to the date of our submission to the Independent Actuary and thereafter. Any adjustments to the underlying carried reserves (both upward and downward) since that date have been the result of new information and have been recorded in the period during which the information became available. In particular during our ongoing assessments of unpaid losses in 2005 it was noted that in certain instances reported experience indicated that the distribution of gross losses to existing reinsurance treaties had developed such that net losses were reduced by approximately $90 million. In addition certain claim settlements and new claim emergence resulted in positive development of approximately $110 million as required by the application of actuarial methodologies on a basis consistent with historical practices. As a result, changes in estimates were recorded as the new information and other developments became available contributing to the net positive development for global risk lines of business during 2005 noted in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. These developments did not change the Companys assessment of the outcome of the Independent Actuarial process. The difference between the independent actuarys conclusion on the NPRA and that of the Company related almost exclusively to an interpretation of the SPA with respect to the application of certain accruals for premiums payable at the closing of the purchase in 2001. The Company accordingly has not made any adjustment to its current premiums receivable balances. The losses resulting from the determinations of the Independent Actuary were recorded in the fourth quarter of 2005 as it was at this time that the draft and final reports of the Independent Actuary were released and sufficient new information was available to support recording a loss for uncollectible reinsurance based on the baseball type arbitration which allowed for only one of two outcomes. At no time before the release of that report did the Company believe that recognition of a loss under FAS 5 was appropriate. Under FAS 5, paragraph 8, a loss contingency shall be accrued to income if information available prior to issuance of the financial statements indicates that it is probable that an asset had been impaired or a liability had been incurred at the date of the financial statements. It is implicit in this condition that it must be probable that one or more future events will occur confirming the fact that of the loss. At no time prior to the Companys receipt of the draft actuarial report did this condition exist. Under the terms of the SPA, WSIC also provided the Company with protection with respect to third party reinsurance receivables and recoverables related to the acquisition of the Winterthur Business. On June 7, 2006, subsidiaries of the Company, entered into an agreement (the Agreement) with WSIC. The purpose of this Agreement is to release all actual or potential disputes, claims or issues arising out of or related in any 106 way to: (i) the Liquidity Facility and the Sellers Retrocession Agreements, as well as (ii) subject to certain exceptions, the SPA. The Agreement further provides for a four year term, collateralized escrow arrangement (the Fund) of up to $185 million (plus interest) to protect certain subsidiaries from future nonperforming third party reinsurance related to the Winterthur Business. The Fund has been structured to align the parties interests by providing for any sums remaining in the Fund at the end of its term to be shared in agreed percentages. The Agreement replaces the protections provided to the Company from WSIC for reinsurance receivables and recoverables under the Liquidity Facility and Sellers Retrocession Agreements noted above and described in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10 K/A for the year ended December 31, 2005. Approximately 78% of the total unpaid loss and loss expense recoverable and reinsurance balances receivable (excluding collateral held) outstanding at December 31, 2006, were due from reinsurers rated A or better by S&P. The following is an analysis of the total recoverable and reinsurance balances receivable at December 31, 2006, by reinsurers owing more than 3% of such total: Name of reinsurer Standard and Poors rating % of total Munich Reinsurance Company AA /Stable 8.81 % Swiss Reinsurance Company AA /Stable 7.03 % Lloyds Syndicates A/Stable 6.47 % Employers Reinsurance Corporation AA /Stable 5.98 % Transatlantic Reinsurance Company AA /Negative 3.97 % The following table sets forth the ratings profile of the reinsurers that support the unpaid loss and loss expense recoverable and reinsurance balances receivable net of security noted above. Standard and Poors rating % of total AAA 6.5 % AA 43.9 % A 27.0 % BBB 1.2 % BB and below 0.5 % Captives 15.1 % Not Rated 1.0 % Other 4.8 % Total 100 % Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity Liquidity is a measure of a companys ability to generate cash flows sufficient to meet short term and long term cash requirements of its business operations. As a holding company, the Companys assets consist primarily of its investments in subsidiaries and affiliates, and the Companys future cash flows depend upon the availability of dividends or other statutorily permissible payments from its subsidiaries and affiliates. The ability to pay such dividends is limited by the applicable laws and regulations of the various countries in which the Company operates, including, among others, Bermuda, the United States, Ireland, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and those of the Society of Lloyds and certain contractual provisions. See 107 Item 8, Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Statutory Financial Data, for further discussion. No assurance can be given that the Company or its subsidiaries will be permitted to pay dividends in the future. As an insurance company, one of our principal responsibilities to our clients is to ensure that the Company has ready access to funds to settle large unforeseen claims. The Company expects that positive cash flow from operations (underwriting activities and investment income) will be sufficient to cover cash outflows under most future loss scenarios. However, there is a possibility that unforeseen demands could be placed on the Company due to unforeseen claims activity. Potential events causing such a liquidity strain could be several significant catastrophes occurring in a relatively short period of time or large scale uncollectible reinsurance recoverables on paid losses (as a result of coverage disputes, reinsurers credit problems or decreases in the value of collateral supporting reinsurance recoverables). Additional strain on liquidity could occur if the investments sold to fund loss payments were sold at depressed prices. Because each subsidiary focuses on a more limited number of specific product lines than is collectively available from the consolidated group of companies, the mix of business tends to be less diverse at the subsidiary level. As a result, the probability of a liquidity strain, as described above, may be greater for individual subsidiaries than when liquidity is assessed on a consolidated basis. If such a liquidity strain were to occur in a subsidiary, the Company may be required to contribute capital to the particular subsidiary and or curtail dividends from the subsidiary to support holding company operations. Sources of Liquidity See Item 8 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. There are three main sources of cash flows for the Company those provided by operations, investing activities and financing activities. Operating Cash Flows Cash flow from operations is derived from two main sources: 1) The receipt of investment income on the Companys total investment portfolio; and 2) The net receipt of premiums less claims and expenses related to its underwriting activities in general, life, and financial operations. Cash flow from operations was $2.4 billion in 2006, as compared to $5.0 billion in 2005. The decrease in 2006 is due primarily to the large U.K. immediate annuity portfolio contract written in 2005 of $1.8 billion, cash payments on the 2005 catastrophe losses during 2006 combined with the receipt of a net lump sum payment of $575.0 million from WSIC, related to the Winterthur Decision in 2005. Net cash received from underwriting activities is comprised of receipt of premiums, minus payment of claims and operating and acquisition costs. Premiums and acquisition expenses are settled based on terms of trade as stipulated by an underwriting contract, and generally are received within the first year of inception of a policy when the premium is written, but can be up to three years on certain reinsurance business assumed. Operating expenses are generally paid within a year of being incurred. Claims especially for casualty business, may take a much longer time before they are reported and ultimately settled and this is why the Company establishes reserves for unpaid losses and loss expenses. Therefore, the amount of claims paid in any one year is not necessarily related to the amount of net losses incurred, as reported in the consolidated statement of income. During 2006, 2005 and 2004, the total amounts of net losses paid for general and financial operations were $3.9 billion, $2.6 billion and $3.1 billion, respectively, whereas the amount of net losses incurred was $4.2 billion, $7.4 billion and $4.9 billion, respectively. The increase in losses paid in 2006 related primarily to payments on losses resulting from hurricanes Katrina, Rita, and Wilma. The decrease in net paid losses in 2005, is due to the receipt of a net lump sum payment of approximately $575 million related to the Winterthur Decision, partially offset by payments related to the 2005 and 2004 Atlantic hurricane losses. The payout of the Companys casualty reserves at December 108 31, 2006, could be as long as a thirty year period. Property claims are generally reported and settled within a much shorter period, usually up to three years. Investing Cash Flows Generally, positive cash flow from operations and financing activities is invested in the Companys portfolio, including affiliates or acquisition of subsidiaries. Investing activities in 2006 and 2005, were primarily related to the renewal purchase and sale of portfolio investments. In addition to purchases and sales of the Companys total investment portfolio, the Company sold a portion of its interest in SCA through a secondary offering for $104.7 million and its interests in Frontpoint Investment Managers in 2006 for $66.8 million. In 2004, the Company sold its interests in Admiral Group Ltd and Pareto Partners L.P. and its affiliated companies for $66.7 million and $45.1 million, respectively. If paid losses accelerated beyond our ability to fund such paid losses from current operating cash flows, the Company might need to either liquidate a portion of our investment portfolio or arrange for financing. To further ensure the sufficiency of funds to settle such claims, the Company holds a certain amount of invested assets in cash and short term investments and maintains available credit facilities. In addition, for certain insurance, reinsurance, or deposit contracts that tend to have relatively large and reasonably predictable cash outflows, the Company attempts to establish dedicated portfolios of assets that are duration matched with the related liabilities. Financing Cash Flows Cash flows related to financing activities include the payment of dividends, share related transactions, the issue or repayment of debt and deposit liability transactions. In 2006, the Company had net payments of $734.2 million related to deposit liability contracts. In 2005, the Company received $2.0 billion of net cash relating to new deposit liability contracts. In 2006, dividends paid were $277.7 million for ordinary shares and $40.3 million for preferred shares. In 2006, the Company also received $342.2 million related to the sale of a portion of its interest in SCA through a primary offering. In addition, in the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 the Company executed a number of debt and equity transactions which affected the cash flow from financing activities described below in Capital Resources, below. In May 2007, purchase contracts associated with the Companys 6.5% equity security units mature and the related 2.53% senior notes will be remarketed and the interest rate reset. Management continues to review the impact and on going implications of this liquidity event and more broadly the efficiency of the Companys capital structure. The Company is considered a Well Known Seasoned Issuer (WKSI) under the rules of the SEC. The Company maintains shelf registration statement and is eligible for automatically effective future registration statements for the potential offering and sale of an unlimited amount of debt and equity securities. The Registration Statement allows for the following types of securities to be offered: (i) debt securities, preferred stock, common stock, depositary shares, warrants, stock purchase contracts, stock purchase units and junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures of the Company, (ii) preferred securities of any of one or more capital trusts organized by the Company and guarantees of such securities by the Company and (iii) debt securities of XL Capital Finance (Europe) plc and guarantees of such securities by the Company. In addition the Company maintains letter of credit facilities which provide liquidity. Details of these facilities are described below in Capital Resources. Capital Resources In addition to ordinary share capital, the Company depends on external sources of financing to support its underwriting activities in the form of: a. ordinary share capital, b. debt, 109 c. preference shares, d. contingent capital, and e. letter of Credit Facilities and other sources of collateral. In particular, the Company requires, among other things: Sufficient capital to maintain its financial strength, claims paying and debt ratings, as issued by several ratings agencies, at levels considered necessary by management to enable the Companys key operating subsidiaries to compete. Sufficient capital to enable its underwriting subsidiaries to meet the capital adequacy tests performed by statutory agencies in the U.S., the U.K., and other key markets. Letters of credit and other forms of collateral that are required by the Companys non U.S. operating companies that are non admitted under U.S. state insurance regulations. The Company also uses letters of credit to support its operations at Lloyds. Revolving credit to meet short term liquidity needs. The Companys principal credit facilities are multi year transactions with maturities in 2008 and 2011, however, the Company has other credit facilities that will expire in 2007. The following risks are associated with the Companys requirement to renew these facilities during 2007: The credit available from banks may be reduced resulting in the Companys need to pledge its investment portfolio to customers. This could result in a lower investment yield. The volume of business that the Companys non admitted subsidiaries are able to transact could be reduced if the Company is unable to renew its letter of credit facilities at an appropriate amount. Continued consolidation within the banking industry may result in the aggregate amount of credit provided to the Company being reduced. The Company attempts to mitigate this risk by identifying and or selecting additional banks that can participate in the credit facilities upon renewal. a) Ordinary Share Capital In December 2005, the Company issued 38.9 million ordinary shares at a price of $65.0 per share to support capital requirements subsequent to the 2005 Atlantic hurricane losses and the loss related to the conclusion of the Winterthur Decision. The net proceeds from this issuance were $2.4 billion. See Item 8, Note 21, to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Share Capital. b) Debt At December 31, 2006, banks and investors provided the Company and its subsidiaries with $4.8 billion of debt capacity, of which $3.4 billion was utilized by the Company. These facilities consist of: Revolving credit facilities of $1.45 billion in aggregate. These facilities were unutilized at December 31, 2006. In January 2006, the Company repaid $45 million that had been outstanding at December 31, 2005. The revolving credit facilities were not otherwise utilized during 2006. Of the $1.45 billion, $1.0 billion is provided by the Companys $2.0 billion 3 year syndicated facility that matures in June 2007, and its $2.35 billion 5 year syndicated facility that matures in June 2010. Both facilities provide letters of credit in addition to the revolving credit sublimit. In addition, at December 31, 2006, the Company had two bilateral revolving credit facilities of $100 million each, of which one facility is a 364 day facility that matures in December 2007, and the other is a 5 year facility that matures in August 2007. SCA has a $250 million revolving credit facility that was unutilized during 2006 and at December 31, 2006. 110 At December 31, 2005, the Company had revolving credit facilities of $1.2 billion in aggregate of which $45 million was outstanding at that date. This borrowing was repaid in January 2006. Of the $1.2 billion, $1.0 billion was provided by the Companys $2.0 billion 3 year syndicated facility that matures in June 2007, and its $2.35 billion 5 year syndicated facility that matures in June 2010. Both facilities provide letters of credit in addition to the revolving credit sublimit. In addition, at December 31, 2005, the Company had two bilateral revolving credit facilities of $100 million each, of which one facility was a 364 day facility that matured in December 2006, and the other is a 5 year facility that matures in August 2010. Senior Unsecured Notes of approximately $3.4 billion. These notes require the Company to pay a fixed rate of interest during their lives. At December 31, 2006, there were six outstanding issues of senior unsecured notes: $255 million senior notes due April 2011, with a fixed coupon of 6.58%. These notes were privately placed and are not traded on a public exchange. $600 million senior notes due January 2012, with a fixed coupon of 6.5%. The security is publicly traded. The notes were issued at $99.469 and gross proceeds were $596.8 million. Related expenses of the offering amounted to $7.9 million. $600 million senior notes due September 2014, with a fixed coupon of 5.25%. The security is publicly traded. The notes were issued in two tranches of $300 million aggregate principal amount each one tranche at 99.432% and the other at 98.419%. Aggregate gross proceeds were $593.6 million. Related expenses of the offering amounted to $4 million. $350 million senior notes due November 2024, with a fixed coupon of 6.375%. The security is publicly traded. The notes were issued at 100.0% and gross proceeds were $350 million. Related expenses of the offering amounted to $2 million. $825 million of senior notes due May 2009, with a fixed coupon of 2.53%. These securities are a component of 6.50% Equity Security Units (the 6.50% Units) that are publicly traded. In addition to the coupon paid on the senior notes, contract adjustment payments of 3.97% per annum are paid on forward purchase contracts for the Companys common shares for a total distribution of 6.50% per annum. The purchase contracts mature in 2007, and the senior notes mature in 2009. In May 2007, the senior notes will be remarketed whereby the interest rate will be reset in order to generate sufficient remarketing proceeds to satisfy the 6.50% Unit holders obligations under the purchase contract. $745 million of senior notes due February 2011 with a fixed coupon of 5.25%. These securities are a component of 7.00% Equity Security Units (the 7.00% Units) that are publicly traded. In addition to the coupon paid on the senior notes, contract adjustment payments of 1.75% per annum are paid on forward purchase contracts for the Companys common shares for a total distribution of 7.00% per annum. The purchase contracts mature in 2009, and the senior notes mature in 2011. In February 2009, the senior notes will be remarketed whereby the interest rate will be reset in order to generate sufficient remarketing proceeds to satisfy the 7.00% Unit holders obligations under the purchase contract. 111 The following tables present the Companys debt under outstanding securities and lenders commitments as at December 31, 2006: Payments Due by Period Notes Payable and Debt (U.S. dollars in thousands) Commitment In Use Year of Expiry Less than 1 Year 1 to 3 Years 3 to 5 Years After 5 Years 364 day revolver $ 100,000 $ 2007 $ $ $ $ 5 and 3 year revolvers 1,000,000 2007/10 5 year revolver 100,000 2010 5 year revolver (1) 250,000 2011 2.53% Senior Notes 825,000 825,000 2009 825,000 5.25% Senior Notes 745,000 745,000 2011 745,000 6.58% Guaranteed Senior Notes 255,000 255,000 2011 255,000 6.50% Guaranteed Senior Notes 598,396 598,396 2012 600,000 5.25% Senior Notes 594,980 594,980 2014 600,000 6.375% Senior Notes 350,000 350,000 2024 350,000 Total $ 4,818,376 $ 3,368,376 $ $ 825,000 $ 1,000,000 $ 1,550,000 Commitment and In Use data represent December 31, 2006 accreted values. Payments Due by Period data represent ultimate redemption values. (1) Available for the SCA group only. c) Preferred shares In 2002, the Company issued preferred shares as follows: Series A Preferred In August 2002, the Company issued 9.2 million of 8% Series A preference ordinary shares (Series A preference shares). Gross proceeds were $230.0 million and related expenses were $7.2 million. Upon dissolution of the Company, the holders of the Series A preference shares are entitled to receive a liquidation preference of $25 per share, plus accrued dividends. Dividends on the preference Shares are cumulative from the date of original issuance and are payable when declared. The Company may redeem the Series A preference shares on or after August 14, 2007, at a redemption price of $25 per share. The Company may, under certain circumstances, redeem the Series A preference shares before August 14, 2007 at specified redemption prices, plus accrued dividends. These circumstances include an amalgamation, consolidation or other similar transaction involving the Company in which the Series A preferred shares are entitled to a class vote ($26 per share redemption price), or a change in tax laws that requires the Company to pay additional amounts with respect to the Series A preference shares ($25 per share redemption price). The proceeds were used for general corporate purposes. Series B Preferred In November 2002, the Company issued 11.5 million of 7 5/8% Series B preference ordinary shares (Series B preference shares). Gross proceeds were $287.5 million and related expenses were $9.1 million. Upon dissolution of the Company, the holders of the Series B preference shares are entitled to receive a liquidation preference of $25 per share, plus accrued dividends. Dividends on the preference shares are cumulative from the date of original issuance and are payable when declared. The Company may redeem the Series B preference ordinary shares on or after November 18, 2007, at a redemption price of $25 per share. The Company may, under certain circumstances, redeem the B preference shares before November 18, 2007 at specified redemption prices, plus accrued dividends. These circumstances include an amalgamation, consolidation or other similar transaction involving the Company in which the Series B preferred shares are entitled to a class vote ($26 per share redemption price), or a change in tax laws that requires the Company to pay additional amounts with respect to the Series B preference shares ($25 per share redemption price). The proceeds were used for general corporate purposes. 112 d) Contingent Capital In addition to funded debt transactions, the Company and a majority owned subsidiary of SCA (XL Financial Assurance Ltd. (XLFA)) have entered into contingent capital transactions. No up front proceeds were received by the Company or XLFA under these transactions, however, in the event that the associated irrevocable put option agreements are exercised, proceeds previously raised from investors from the issuance of pass through trust securities would be received in return for the issuance of preferred shares. On December 5, 2006, the Company and certain operating subsidiaries (Ceding Insurers) entered into a securities issuance agreement (the Securities Issuance Agreement), and certain of its foreign insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries (Ceding Insurers) entered into an excess of loss reinsurance agreement (the Reinsurance Agreement), Stoneheath Re (Stoneheath). The net effect of these agreements to the Company is the creation of a contingent put option to issue $350.0 million of preference ordinary shares in the aggregate. The agreements provide the Company with a Reinsurance Collateral Account in support of certain Covered Perils named in the Reinsurance Agreement. The initial Covered Perils will include United States wind, European wind, California earthquake and terrorism worldwide. After an initial three month period, the covered perils as well as the attachment points and aggregate retention amounts may be changed by the Ceding Insurers in their sole discretion. This may result in a material increase or decrease in the likelihood of payment under the Reinsurance Agreement. On each date on which a Ceding Insurer withdraws funds from the Reinsurance Collateral Account, the Company shall issue and deliver to Stoneheath an amount of XL Capital Ltd Series D Preference Shares (the XL Preferred Securities) having an aggregate liquidation preference that is equal to the amount of funds so withdrawn from the Collateral Account. The Company is obligated to reimburse Stoneheath for certain fees and ordinary expenses. The initial term of the Reinsurance Agreement will be for the period from the Closing Date through June 30, 2007, with four annual mandatory extensions through June 30, 2011 (unless coverage is exhausted there under prior to such date). The Ceding Insurers may thereafter extend the Reinsurance Agreement at their option for additional calendar quarters without limit (unless coverage is exhausted there under). The contingent put option is recorded at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in earnings. The XL Preferred Securities, if issued, will pay dividends on a non cumulative basis at a fixed rate of 6.868% per annum through October 15, 2011 and thereafter at a floating rate based on 3 month LIBOR. On December 10, 2004, XLFA entered into a put option agreement and an asset trust expense reimbursement agreement with Twin Reefs Asset Trust (the Asset Trust). The put option agreement provides XLFA with the irrevocable right to require the Asset Trust at any time and from time to time to purchase XLFAs non cumulative perpetual Series B Preferred Shares with an aggregate liquidation preference of up to $200 million. There is no limit to the number of times that XLFA may exercise the put option, redeem the Series B Preferred Shares from the Asset Trust and exercise the put option again. XLFA is obligated to reimburse the Asset Trust for certain fees and ordinary expenses. To the extent that any Series B Preferred Shares are put to the Asset Trust and remain outstanding, a corresponding portion of such fees and ordinary expenses will be payable by XLFA pursuant to the asset trust expense reimbursement agreement. The put option agreement is perpetual but would terminate on delivery of notice by XLFA on or after December 9, 2009, or under certain defined circumstances, such as the failure of XLFA to pay the put option premium when due or bankruptcy. The premium payable by XLFA is the sum of certain trustee and investment managers expenses, the distribution of income paid to holders of the pass through trust securities, less the investment yield on the eligible assets purchased using the proceeds originally raised from the issuance of the pass through securities. In July 2003, the Company entered into a contingent capital transaction with an aggregate value of $500.0 million. This transaction provides the Company with an insurance trust that provides the Company with statutory relief under state insurance regulations in the U.S. Under the terms of this facility, the Company has acquired an irrevocable put option to issue preference ordinary shares into a trust in return for proceeds raised from investors. This put option may be exercised by the Company at any time. In addition, the Company may be required to issue preference ordinary shares to the trust under certain circumstances, including, but not limited to, the non payment of the put option premium and a ratings downgrade of the Company. In connection with this transaction, the fair value of the put premiums and other related costs, in total of $111.9 million was transferred from Additional paid in capital to a deferred liability which was established (included with Other liabilities) in the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2003. 113 The Company amortizes this liability that resulted in an interest expense of approximately $3.5 million in 2004 and $2.0 million in 2003. e) Letter of Credit Facilities and other sources of collateral At December 31, 2006, the Company had ten letter of credit facilities in place with total availability of $6.4 billion, of which $3.8 billion was utilized. Amount of Commitment Expiration per period Other Commercial Commitments (U.S. dollars in thousands) Commitment In Use Year of Expiry Less than 1 Year 1 to 3 Years 3 to 5 Years After 5 Years Letter of credit facility $ 200,000 $ 167,469 Continuous $ 200,000 $ $ $ 2 Letter of credit facilities 4,473 4,473 2007 4,473 Letter of credit facility (1) 100,000 2007 100,000 Letter of credit facility 150,000 150,000 2007 150,000 Letter of credit facility (2) 250,000 171,947 2011 250,000 Letter of credit facility 979,000 799,255 2007 979,000 Letter of credit facility 500,000 467,488 2007 500,000 Letter of credit facility (1) 2,000,000 526,588 2007 2,000,000 Letter of credit facility (1) 2,250,000 1,560,784 2010 2,250,000 10 Letter of credit facilities $ 6,433,473 $ 3,848,004 $ 3,933,473 $ $ 2,500,000 $ (1) Of the total letter of credit facilities above, $1,000 million is also included in the revolvers under notes payable and debt. (2) Available for the SCA group of companies only. It is anticipated that the commercial facilities will be renewed on expiry but such renewals are subject to the availability of credit from banks utilized by the Company, or other financial institutions. In the event that such credit support is insufficient, the Company could be required to provide alternative security to cedants. This could take the form of insurance trusts supported by the Companys investment portfolio or funds withheld (amounts retained by ceding companies to collateralize loss or premium reserves) using the Companys cash resources or combinations thereof. The face amount of letters of credit required is driven by, among other things, loss development of existing reserves, the payment pattern of such reserves, the expansion of business written by the Company and the loss experience of such business. In addition to letters of credit, the Company has established insurance trusts in the U.S. that provide cedants with statutory relief required under state insurance regulation in the U.S. The Company reviews current and projected collateral requirements on a regular basis, as well as new sources of collateral. Managements objective is to maintain an excess amount of collateral sources over expected uses. The Company also reviews its liquidity needs on a regular basis. The following letter of credit facilities were originated or renewed during 2006: The Company replaced its letter of credit facility utilized to support the capital requirements of its syndicates at Lloyds of London (Lloyds), with a new 500 million credit facility that closed on March 14, 2006. Commitments from the participating banks expire on November 30, 2007, which will enable the Company to use this facility to meet its letter of credit needs for the 2008 year of account at Lloyds. The Company closed a new $500 million syndicated credit facility on May 9, 2006. The new facility has a tenor of 364 days and is available for letters of credit only. SCA closed a new $500 million syndicated letter of credit facility on August 1, 2006. The new facility has a tenor of 5 years and is only available for SCA and its subsidiaries. This facility has $250 million available in the form of revolving credit and the remaining $250 million is available for letters of credit. 114 The Company replaced a $150 million letter of credit facility that matured in December 2006 with a new facility of the same amount. The new facility has a tenor of 364 days and closed on December 19, 2006. The Company replaced a $100 million credit facility that matured in December 2006 with a new facility of the same amount. The new facility has a tenor of 364 days and closed on December 16, 2006. In addition to the letter of credit facilities described above, the Company has the following facility: $500 million commercial paper based facility. In February 2003, the Company entered into an aggregate of $300.0 million of commercial paper based credit facilities (the Credit Facilities). These facilities were increased to $500.0 million in June 2003. The proceeds of advances under the Credit Facilities were used to fund a trust account to collateralize the reinsurance obligations of the Company under an inter company quota share reinsurance agreement. The Company could face additional obligations under the Credit Facilities prior to the stated maturity of February 25, 2008, if certain events were to occur, including, but not limited to the Companys insolvency, withdrawal of assets from the Regulation 114 trust by the ceding company, the downgrade of the Companys credit ratings below certain specified levels, or the failure of the agent to have a first priority perfected security interest in the collateral posted by the Company. At maturity, the Company will be obligated to make payments in an amount equal to the principal and accrued interest outstanding under the Credit Facilities. The issued securities and the Companys repayment obligations are recorded as a net balance on the Companys balance sheet. Cross Default and Other Provisions in Debt Instruments The following describes certain terms of the documents referred to below. All documents referred to below have been filed with the SEC and should be referred to for an assessment of the complete contractual obligations of the Company. In general, all of the Companys bank facilities, indentures and other documents relating to the Companys outstanding indebtedness, including the Credit Facilities discussed above (collectively, the Companys Debt Documents), contain cross default provisions to each other and the Companys Debt Documents contain affirmative covenants. These covenants provide for, among other things, minimum required ratings of the Companys insurance and reinsurance operating subsidiaries (other than its AAA financial guaranty companies) and the level of secured indebtedness in the future. In addition, generally each of the Companys Debt Documents provide for an event of default in the event of a change of control of the Company or some events involving bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization of the Company. The Companys credit facilities and the 6.58% Guaranteed Senior Notes also contain minimum consolidated net worth covenants. Under the Companys 364 day facilities, 3 year credit facility, five year credit facilities placement notes described above, in the event that the XL Capital Group, XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd and XL Re Ltd fail to maintain a financial strength rating of at least A from A.M. Best, an event of default would occur. The Company currently has an A+ (stable) rating from A.M. Best. Under the Companys ten year private placement notes described above, in the event that the Company fails to maintain a financial strength rating of at least A from A.M. Best or XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd and XL Re Ltd fail to maintain a financial strength rating of at least A from S&P, an event of default would occur. The Company and its subsidiaries currently has an A+ (stable) rating from A.M. Best and A+ (stable) S&P. The 6.5% Guaranteed Senior Notes indentures contains a cross default provision. In general, in the event that the Company defaults in the payment of indebtedness in the amount of $50.0 million or more, an event of default would be triggered under the Guaranteed Senior Notes indentures. Given that all of the Companys Debt Documents contain cross default provisions, this may result in all holders declaring such debt due and payable and an acceleration of all debt due under those documents. If this were to occur, the Company may not have funds sufficient at that time to repay any or all of such indebtedness. 115 In addition, the Companys unsecured Lloyds letter of credit facility provides that, in the event that the Companys insurance and reinsurance rated operating subsidiaries in Bermuda fall below a rating of A , the facility would then be required to be fully secured by the Company, at which time the Company would be required to either (i) provide an amount in cash to cover an amount equal to the aggregate letters of credit outstanding at that time or (ii) deposit assets in trust securing 105% of the aggregate letters of credit outstanding at that time. If this were to occur, the Company may not be able to provide the collateral required in order to maintain this facility. Long Term Contractual Obligations The following table presents the Companys long term contractual obligations and related payments as at December 31, 2006, due by period. This table excludes further commitments of $177.8 million to the Companys related investment funds, certain limited partnerships, insurance affiliates, collateralized debt/equity investments and letter of credit facilities of $3.8 billion. See Item 8, Note 15, Derivative Instruments, and Note 19, Commitments and Contingencies, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. See Item 8, Note 14, Notes Payable and Debt and Financing Arrangements, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Contractual Obligations (U.S. dollars in thousands) Total Less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years More than 5 years Long term debt obligations $ 3,375,000 $ $ 825,000 $ 1,000,000 $ 1,550,000 Interest on long term debt 1,231,308 185,953 374,586 289,019 381,750 Contingent capital facilities (4) 126,849 20,370 44,799 38,960 22,720 Equity Units 45,711 29,414 16,297 Alternative Collateral 126,273 29,711 59,423 37,139 Operating lease obligations 206,841 32,528 53,090 35,868 85,355 Capital lease obligations 64,869 12,341 25,616 26,912 Deposit liabilities (1) 10,375,327 2,546,877 2,313,747 1,187,169 4,327,534 Future policy benefits (3) 10,604,557 412,955 857,130 875,497 8,458,975 Unpaid losses and loss expenses (2) 23,594,170 5,703,640 6,639,276 3,590,113 7,661,141 Total $ 49,750,905 $ 8,973,789 $ 11,208,964 $ 7,080,677 $ 22,487,475 6 (1) Deposit liabilities on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2006 were $7,857,827. The difference from the amount included above relates to the discount on payments due in the future. The payment related to these liabilities varies primarily based on interest rates. The ultimate payments associated with these liabilities could differ from the Companys estimate. See Item 8, Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Deposit Liabilities, for further information. (2) The unpaid loss and loss expenses were $23,080,142 on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2006. The timing and amounts of actual claims payments related to these reserves vary based on many factors including large individual losses, changes in the legal environment, as well as general market conditions. The ultimate amount of the claims payments could differ materially from the Companys estimated amounts. For information regarding the estimates for unpaid loss and loss expenses as well as factors effecting potential payment patterns of reserves for actual and potential claims related the Companys different lines of business see Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above. Certain lines of business written by the Company, such as excess casualty, have loss experience characterized as low frequency and high severity. This may result in significant variability in loss payment patterns and, therefore, may impact the related asset/liability investment management process. In order to be in a position, if necessary, to make these payments, the Companys liquidity requirements are supported by having revolving lines of credit facilities available to the Company and significant reinsurance programs, in addition to the Companys general high grade fixed income investment portfolio. (3) Future policy benefit reserves related to Life operations were $6,290,936 on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2006. Amounts included above include an allowance for future premiums in respect of contracts under which premiums are payable throughout the life of the underlying policy. The value of the discount is also included for those lines of business that have reserves where future claim payments and future premium receipts can be estimated using actuarial principles. The timing and amounts of actual claims payments and premium receipts related to these reserves vary based on the underlying experience of the portfolio. Typical elements of the experience include mortality, morbidity and persistency. The ultimate amount of the claims payments and premium receipts could differ materially from the Companys estimated amounts. (4) Contingent capital facilities related payments include an estimate at the payments due under the past option agreement of $200 per month. Actual payments depend on the return on certain assets and LIBOR. 116 Variable Interest Entities and Other Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company utilizes variable interest entities both indirectly and directly in the ordinary course of the Companys business. On December 5, 2006, the Company and certain operating subsidiaries (Ceding Insurers) entered into a securities issuance agreement (the Securities Issuance Agreement), and certain of its foreign insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries (Ceding Insurers) entered into an excess of loss reinsurance agreement (the Reinsurance Agreement), with Stoneheath Re (Stoneheath). The net effect of these agreements to the Company is the creation of a contingent put option in the amount of $350.0 million in the aggregate. The agreements provide the Company with a Reinsurance Collateral Account in support of certain Covered Perils named in the Reinsurance Agreement. The initial Covered Perils will include United States wind, European wind, California earthquake and terrorism worldwide. After an initial three month period, the covered perils as well as the attachment points and aggregate retention amounts may be changed by the Ceding Insurers in their sole discretion. This may result in a material increase or decrease in the likelihood of payment under the Reinsurance Agreement. On each date on which a Ceding Insurer withdraws funds from the Reinsurance Collateral Account, the Company shall issue and deliver to the Issuer an amount of XL Capital Ltd Series D Preference Shares having an aggregate liquidation preference that is equal to the amount of funds so withdrawn from the Collateral Account. The Company is obligated to reimburse Stoneheath for certain fees and ordinary expenses. The initial term of the Reinsurance Agreement will be for the period from the Closing Date through June 30, 2007, with four annual mandatory extensions through June 30, 2011 (unless coverage is exhausted there under prior to such date). The Ceding Insurers may thereafter extend the Reinsurance Agreement at their option for additional calendar quarters without limit (unless coverage is exhausted there under). The contingent put option is recorded at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in earnings. The Stoneheath preferred securities and, if issued, the XL Series D Preference Shares will pay dividends on a non cumulative basis at a fixed rate of 6.868% per annum through October 15, 2011 and thereafter at a floating rate based on 3 month LIBOR. The Company provides various forms of credit enhancement including financial guaranty insurance and reinsurance of structured transactions backed by pools of assets of specified types, municipal obligations supported by the issuers ability to charge fees for specified services or projects, and structured single risk based obligations including essential infrastructure projects and obligations backed by receivables from future sales of commodities and other specified services. The obligations related to these transactions are often securitized through variable interest entities. In synthetic transactions, the Company guarantees payment obligations of counterparties including special purpose vehicles under credit derivatives referencing asset portfolios. The Company invests in collateralized debt obligations, and other investment vehicles that are issued through variable interest entities as part of the Companys risk asset portfolio. In 2003, the Company entered into an aggregate of $500.0 million of commercial paper based credit facilities (the Credit Facilities). The proceeds of advances under the Credit Facilities were used to fund a trust account (Trust) to collateralize the reinsurance obligations of the Company under an intercompany quota share reinsurance agreement. The issued securities and the Companys repayment obligations will be recorded as a net balance on the Companys balance sheet because the Company has a contractual legal right of offset. In the event that in the future the Company were to not have the right to offset such assets (as, for example, would be the case if the assets in the Trust were withdrawn in order to satisfy the Companys reinsurance obligations or if lender issued securities could not be held in the Trust because they did not qualify as permitted assets under the trust agreement), then all or a portion of the assets in the Trust and the Companys repayment obligations under the Credit Facilities would be required to be included as assets and liabilities on a gross basis, respectively, on the Companys balance sheet. See also Liquidity and Capital Resources for more details regarding this off balance sheet collateral arrangement. In December 2004, XLFA entered into a put option agreement and an asset trust expense reimbursement agreement with the Asset Trust. The put option agreement provides XLFA with the irrevocable right to require the Asset Trust at any time and from time to time to purchase XLFAs non cumulative perpetual Series B Preferred Shares with an aggregate liquidation preference of up to $200 million. XLFA is obligated to reimburse the Asset Trust for certain 117 fees and ordinary expenses. To the extent that any Series B Preferred Shares are put to the Asset Trust and remain outstanding, a corresponding portion of such fees and ordinary expenses will be payable by XLFA pursuant to the asset trust expense reimbursement agreement. The put option agreement is perpetual but would terminate on delivery of notice by XLFA on or after December 9, 2009, or under certain defined circumstances, such as the failure of XLFA to pay the put option premium when due or bankruptcy. The put option is recorded at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in earnings. In July 2003, the Company entered into a contingent capital transaction with an aggregate value of $500.0 million. This transaction also provides the Company with an insurance trust that provides the Company with statutory relief under state insurance regulations in the U.S. Under the terms of this facility, the Company has acquired an irrevocable put option to issue preference ordinary shares into a trust in return for proceeds raised from investors. This put option may be exercised by the Company at any time. In addition, the Company may be required to issue preference ordinary shares to the trust under certain circumstances, including, but not limited to, the non payment of the put option premium and a ratings downgrade of the Company. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Item 8, Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Significant Accounting Policies, for a discussion on recent accounting pronouncements. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA) provides a safe harbor for forward looking statements. Any prospectus, prospectus supplement, the Companys Annual Report to ordinary shareholders, any proxy statement, any other Form 10 K, Form 10 Q or Form 8 K of the Company or any other written or oral statements made by or on behalf of the Company may include forward looking statements that reflect the Companys current views with respect to future events and financial performance. Such statements include forward looking statements both with respect to the Company in general, and to the insurance, reinsurance and financial products and services sectors in particular (both as to underwriting and investment matters). Statements that include the words expect, intend, plan, believe, project, anticipate, will, may, and similar statements of a future or forward looking nature identify forward looking statements for purposes of the PSLRA or otherwise. All forward looking statements address matters that involve risks and uncertainties. Accordingly, there are or will be important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in such statements. The Company believes that these factors include, but are not limited to, the following: (i) the adequacy of rates and terms and conditions may not be as sustainable as the Company is currently projecting; (ii) changes to the size of the Companys claims relating to Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma and other natural catastrophes; (iii) the Companys ability to realize the expected benefits of the collateralized quota share reinsurance treaty that it entered into in the fourth quarter of 2005 with respect to specified portions of its property catastrophe and retrocessional lines of business; (iv) the timely and full recoverability of reinsurance placed by the Company with third parties, or other amounts due to the Company; (v) the projected amount of ceded reinsurance recoverables and the ratings and creditworthiness of reinsurers may change; (vi) the size of the Companys claims relating to the hurricane and tsunami losses described herein may change; (vii) the timing of claims payments being faster or the receipt of reinsurance recoverables being slower than anticipated by the Company; (viii) ineffectiveness or obsolescence of the Companys business strategy due to changes in current or future market conditions; (ix) increased competition on the basis of pricing, capacity, coverage terms or other factors; (x) greater frequency or severity of claims and loss activity, including as a result of natural or man made catastrophic events, than the Companys underwriting, reserving or investment practices anticipate based on historical experience or industry data; (viii) developments in the worlds financial and capital markets that adversely affect the performance of the Companys investments and the Companys access to 118 such markets; (ix) the potential impact on the Company from government mandated insurance coverage for acts of terrorism; (x) the potential impact of variable interest entities or other off balance sheet arrangements on the Company; (xi) developments in bankruptcy proceedings or other developments related to bankruptcies of companies insofar as they affect property and casualty insurance and reinsurance coverages or claims that the Company may have as a counterparty; (xii) availability of borrowings and letters of credit under the Companys credit facilities; (xiii) changes in regulation or tax laws applicable to the Company or its subsidiaries, brokers or customers; (xiv) acceptance of the Companys products and services, including new products and services; (xv) changes in the availability, cost or quality of reinsurance; (xvi) changes in the distribution or placement of risks due to increased consolidation of insurance and reinsurance brokers; (xvii) loss of key personnel; (xviii) the effects of mergers, acquisitions and divestitures; (xix) changes in ratings, rating agency policies or practices; (xx) changes in accounting policies or practices or the application thereof; (xxi) legislative or regulatory developments; (xxii) changes in general economic conditions, including inflation, foreign currency exchange rates and other factors; (xxiii) the effects of business disruption or economic contraction due to war, terrorism or other hostilities; and (xxiv) the other factors set forth in the Companys other documents on file with the SEC as well as managements response to any of the aforementioned factors. The foregoing review of important factors should not be construed as exhaustive and should be read in conjunction with the other cautionary statements that are included herein or elsewhere. The Company undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The following risk management discussion and the estimated amounts generated from the sensitivity and value at risk (VaR) analyses presented in this document are forward looking statements of market risk assuming certain adverse market conditions occur. Actual results in the future may differ materially from these estimated results due to, among other things, actual developments in the global financial markets. The results of analysis used by the Company to assess and mitigate risk should not be considered projections of future events of losses. See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements. Market Sensitive Instruments and Risk Management Market risk represents the potential for loss due to adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments. The Company is exposed to potential loss to various market risks, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. The Companys investment market risk arises from our investment portfolio which consists of fixed income securities, alternative investments, public equities, private investments, derivatives, other investments, and cash, denominated in both U.S. and foreign currencies, which are sensitive to changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates and credit spreads. The Companys fixed income and equity securities are classified as available for sale, and as such changes in interest rates, equity prices or foreign currency exchange rates will have an immediate effect on comprehensive income and shareholders equity but will not ordinarily have an immediate effect on net income. Nevertheless, changes in interest rates and equity prices effect consolidated net income when, and if, a security is sold or impaired. The Company enters into derivatives and other financial instruments primarily for risk management purposes. The Company conducts activities in three main types of derivative instruments: credit derivatives, weather and energy derivatives and investment related derivative instruments. From time to time, the Company also uses investment derivative instruments such as futures, options, interest rate swaps, and foreign currency forward contracts to manage the duration of our investment portfolio and foreign currency exposures and also to obtain exposure to a particular financial market. The Companys derivative transactions can expose the Company to credit derivative risk, weather and energy risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, etc.. The Company attempts to manage these risks based on guidelines established 119 by senior management. Derivative instruments are carried at fair value with the resulting changes in fair value recognized in income in the period in which they occur. The following is a discussion of our primary market risk exposures at December 31, 2006. Our policies to address these risks in 2006 were not materially different from 2005. The Company does not currently anticipate significant changes in our primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. Investment Market Risks The Companys investment portfolio consists of exposures to fixed income securities, alternative investments, public equities, private investments, derivatives, other investments and cash. These securities and investments are denominated in both U.S. dollar and foreign currencies. Through the structure of the Companys investment portfolio, the Companys earnings and book value are directly affected by changes in the valuations of the securities and investments held in the investment portfolio. These valuation changes reflect changes in interest rates (e.g., changes in the level, slope and curvature of yield curves, volatility of interest rates, mortgage prepayment speeds and credit spreads), credit quality, equity prices (e.g., changes in prices and volatilities of individual securities, equity baskets and equity indices) and foreign currency exchange rates (e.g., changes in spot prices, forward prices and volatilities of currency rates). Market risk therefore arises due to the uncertainty surrounding the future valuations of these different assets, the factors that impact their values and the impact that this could have on the Companys earnings. The Company seeks to manage the risks of the investment portfolio through a combination of asset class, country, industry and security level diversification and investment manager allocations. These allocation decisions are made relative to the liability profile of the Company and the Companys surplus. Further, individual security and issuer exposures are controlled and monitored at the investment portfolio level, via specific investment constraints outlined in investment guidelines and agreed with the external investment professionals. Additional constraints are generally agreed with the external investment professionals, which may address exposures to eligible securities, prohibited investments/transactions, credit quality and general concentrations limits. The Companys direct use of investment derivatives includes futures, forwards, swaps and option contracts that derive their value from underlying assets, indices, reference rates or a combination of these factors. When investment guidelines allow for the use of derivatives, these can generally only be used for the purpose of managing interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk, credit risk and replicating permitted investments, provided the use of such instruments is incorporated in the overall portfolio duration, spread, convexity and other relevant portfolio metrics. The direct use of derivatives is generally not permitted to economically leverage the portfolio outside of the stated guidelines. Derivatives may also be used to add value to the investment portfolio where market inefficiencies are perceived to exist, to utilize cash holdings to purchase equity indexed derivatives and to adjust the duration of a portfolio of fixed income securities to match the duration of related deposit liabilities. The Companys investment portfolio is managed by external investment professionals under the direction of the Companys management and generally in accordance with detailed investment guidelines provided and monitored by the Company. Managers are selected directly by the Company on the basis of various criteria, including investment style, track record, performance, internal controls, operational risk, and diversification implications. The vast majority of the Companys investment portfolio is managed by well established, large institutional investment professionals. As described below, the Company measures investment market risk using VaR for the investment portfolio and stress testing for the 5% of the occurrences that the Company expects the VaR level to be exceeded. Further disclosure is also provided surrounding certain aspects of investment market risk for its fixed income portfolio, equity portfolio, alternative investment portfolio, private investment portfolio, and bond and stock futures exposure. 120 Investment Value at Risk (VaR) Central to the Companys market risk management framework is VaR. VaR is a statistical risk measure, calculating the level of potential losses that could be expected to be exceeded, over a specified holding period and at a given level of confidence, in normal market conditions, due to adverse movements in the investment portfolios underlying securities and investments valuations. The Company calculates the VaR of the investment portfolio using a one month time horizon and a 95% level of confidence. This means that, on average, the Company could expect marked to market results greater than predicted by the VaR results 5% of the time, or once every 20 months. The calculation of VaR is performed monthly using a full valuation based on a Monte Carlo approach and it is expressed both in terms of U.S. dollars and as a percentage of the Companys investment portfolio. The modeling of the risk of any portfolio, as measured by VaR, involves a number of assumptions and approximations. While the Company believes that its assumptions and approximations are appropriate, there is no uniform industry methodology for calculating VaR. The Company notes that different VaR results can be produced for the same portfolio dependent not only on the approach used but also on the assumptions employed when implementing the approach. The VaR approach uses historical data to determine the sensitivity of each of the underlying securities to the risk factors incorporated into the models that are employed in the Monte Carlo simulations. In calculating these sensitivities, greater importance is placed on the more recent data points and information. Since the VaR approach is based on historical positions and market data, VaR results should not be viewed as an absolute and predictive gauge of future financial performance or as a way for the Company to predict risk. There is no assurance that the Companys actual future losses will not exceed its VaR and the Company expects that 5% of the time the VaR will be exceeded. Additionally, the Company acknowledges the fact that risks associated with abnormal market events can be significantly different from the VaR results and these are by definition not reflected or assessed in the VaR analysis, rather this is evaluated using the Companys stress testing framework. The VaR of the investment portfolio at December 31, 2006 was approximately $602 million. The VaR of all investment relative derivatives excluding investments in affiliates and other investments was approximately $13 million at December 31, 2006. In instances where the data or time series are insufficient to determine the risk factor sensitivities, the VaR approach uses proxy time series data available for similar instruments. As at December 31, 2006, approximately $20.4 billion used proxy time series data. Approximately $16.0 billion related to various fixed income portfolios, $2.4 billion to various cash portfolios, $1.5 billion to alternative investments, $341.8 million to private investments, $125.1 million to equity portfolios, and $1.5 million to derivatives. The Company reviews the proxies to ensure that an appropriate data and time series is being used in the calculations and that the proxies used are conservative. The following two tables show the Companys average, minimum and maximum VaR in percentage and dollar terms for the total investment portfolio during the year ended December 31, 2006, based upon the VaR at quarter end dates. The two tables also include the Companys VaR in percentage and dollar terms, respectively, for the total investment portfolio as at December 31, 2006. The Companys investment portfolio VaR as at December 31, 2006 is not necessarily indicative of future VaR levels. 121 Average VaR % VaR(1) Minimum VaR % VaR(1) Maximum VaR % VaR(1) At December 31, 2006 % VaR(1) Fixed Income 1.33 % 1.12 % 1.54 % 1.33 % Alternatives (2) 0.08 % 0.07 % 0.09 % 0.08 % Equity 0.07 % 0.05 % 0.11 % 0.05 % Private Investments 0.05 % 0.04 % 0.08 % 0.04 % Derivatives 0.04 % 0.03 % 0.07 % 0.03 % Cash Equivalents 0.02 % 0.01 % 0.02 % 0.02 % Total Undiversified VaR (3) 1.59 % 1.38 % 1.87 % 1.55 % Diversification VaR (4) (0.22 )% NA NA (0.17 )% Total Investment Portfolio VaR (5) 1.37 % 1.13 % 1.66 % 1.38 % NA not applicable (U.S. dollars in millions) Average VaR during 2006 $VaR(6) Minimum VaR during 2006 $VaR(6) Maximum VaR during 2006 $VaR(6) VaR as at December 31, 2006 $VaR(6) Total Investment Portfolio VaR (5) 573.3 458.5 666.3 602.1 (1) Based on a 95% confidence level with a one month holding period and expressed as a percentage of the total investment portfolio. (2) The majority of the Companys alternative investment portfolio is accounted for as investments in affiliates. However, for purposes of monitoring and tracking the Companys total investment market risk, the total alternative investment portfolio is included in these calculations. (3) Average Total Undiversified VaR for the year ended December 31, 2006 and Total Undiversified VaR at December 31, 2006 is the summation of the individual VaRs for each of the separate asset classes and, by construction, ignores any and all correlations between the different asset classes. The Total Undiversified VaR therefore ignores diversification benefits that exist in between these different asset classes. Maximum and Minimum Total Undiversified VaR is not necessarily the summation of the individual VaRs for each of the separate asset classes since the Maximum and Minimum VaRs for each of the asset classes and the Maximum and Minimum Total Undiversified VaR do not necessarily refer to the same point in time. (4) Diversification VaR equals the difference between the Total Investment Portfolio VaR and the Total Undiversified VaR. As the former explicitly accounts for the correlations and diversification benefits that exist between the actual asset classes and the latter explicitly does not, the difference in the two VaR results is due to the diversification benefits. These diversification benefits arise due to the risk reduction that occurs when different assets, that are not perfectly correlated, are combined in a portfolio. It will vary over time dependent on: allocations changes; changes in the correlations between the different asset classes; and changes in the general asset class risks. The NA reflects the fact that, since the Minimum and Maximum VaR for the six different asset class portfolios do not refer to the same point in time, therefore it is not meaningful to calculate the Diversification VaR. (5) Total Investment Portfolio VaR is the Companys investment portfolio VaR based on the prescribed methodology that explicitly accounts for the diversification benefits that occur when each of the allocations to the individual asset classes are included in the investment portfolio. (6) Based on a 95% confidence level with a one month holding period, expressed in millions of U.S. Dollars. The Companys total investment portfolio VaR is driven by: the size of the overall investment portfolio; the size of the allocations to the different asset classes and securities in the asset classes; the risks associated with each of the asset classes and securities; and the correlations and diversification benefits between each of the asset classes and securities. Changes in any of these variables will have a direct impact on the Companys VaR. The Companys total undiversified VaR, which ignores any correlation and diversification benefits, at December 31, 2006 was 1.55% compared to a maximum of 1.87% and a minimum of 1.38% during 2006. The Companys average diversification VaR during 2006 resulted in an average reduction of the Companys total undiversified VaR of 0.22% and as at December 31, 2006 was 0.17%. The Companys total investment portfolio VaR was on average 1.37% during 2006 and as at December 31, 2006, was 1.38%. The Companys maximum and minimum total investment portfolio VaR during 2006 were 1.66% and 1.13%, respectively. The Companys largest VaR exposure during the year ended December 31, 2006 was to fixed 122 income securities. The average VaR for fixed income securities was 1.33%, compared to a maximum of 1.54% and a minimum of 1.12%. As at December 31, 2006, the fixed income VaR was 1.33%. At December 31, 2006, the ranking for the Companys asset class risk, based on the individual asset class VaRs, was: fixed income, alternative investments, public equities, private investments, derivatives, and cash equivalents. Stress Testing VaR does not provide the means to estimate the magnitude of the loss in the 5% of occurrences that the Company expects the VaR level to be exceeded. To complement the VaR analysis based on normal market environments, the Company considers the impact on the investment portfolio in several different historical stress periods to analyze the effect of unusual market conditions. The Company establishes certain historical stress test scenarios which are applied to the actual investment portfolio. As these stress tests and estimated gains and losses are based on historical events, they will not necessarily reflect future stress events or gains and losses from such events. The results of the stress test scenarios are reviewed on a regular basis to ensure they are appropriate, based on current shareholders equity, market conditions and the Companys total risk tolerance. The table below shows the maximum impact on the Companys investment portfolio if all events stress tested were to repeat themselves, given the actual investment portfolios allocations at the quarters ended March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31, 2006. The Company assumes that no action is taken during the stress period to either liquidate or rebalance the portfolio. The Company believes that this fairly reflects the potential decreased liquidity that is often associated with stressed market environments. Stress Test March 31, 2006 June 30, 2006 September 30, 2006 December 31, 2006 Maximum loss impact on portfolio (5.0 )% (5.0 )% (5.1 )% (5.3 )% Maximum gain impact on portfolio 17.6 % 17.3 % 16.2 % 16.5 % From the different scenarios that the Company analyzes, the largest downside event risk exposure during 2006 was 5.3%, based on the investment portfolio as at December 31, 2006. The largest upside risk exposure during 2006 was 17.6% as at March 31, 2006. Given the investment portfolio allocations as at December 31, 2005, the Company would expect to lose approximately 5.3% of the portfolio if the most damaging event stress tested was repeated, all other things held equal. Given the investment portfolio allocations as at December 31, 2006, the Company would expect to gain approximately 16.5% of the portfolio if the most favorable event stress tested was repeated, all other things held equal. Fixed Income Portfolio The Companys fixed income portfolio is exposed to credit and interest rate risk through its portfolio of debt securities, and includes fixed maturities and short term investments. The fixed income portfolio includes fixed maturities, short term investments, cash and cash equivalents and net payable for investments purchased. As at December 31, 2006, the value of the Companys fixed income portfolio including cash and cash equivalents and net payable for investments purchased was $40.6 billion as compared to $37.9 billion as at December 31, 2005. As at December 31, 2006, the fixed income portfolio consisted of approximately 90.8% of the total investment portfolio (including cash and cash equivalents, accrued investment income and net payable for investments purchased) as compared to approximately 91.1% as at December 31, 2005. The Company manages credit risk in the investment portfolio through the credit research performed by the external investment professionals and limitations on the investment portfolios exposure to individual credits, as set by the Company. Limits are set for each credit quality rating and are a function of the probability of default and the expected loss in the event of a default. Limits ensure that potential losses from individual defaults should not exceed predetermined levels. 123 The Company reviews on a regular basis its corporate debt concentration, credit quality and compliance with established credit limits. Any obligor over its credit limits, experiencing financial difficulties, material credit quality deterioration or potentially subject to forthcoming credit quality deterioration is placed on a Watch List for closer monitoring. Where appropriate, exposures are reduced or prevented from increasing. The table below shows the Companys fixed income portfolio by credit rating in percentage terms of the Companys total fixed income exposure (including fixed maturities, short term investments, cash and cash equivalents and net payable for investments purchased) as at December 31, 2006. Total AAA 55.5 % AA 13.8 % A 17.0 % BBB 11.4 % BB & below 2.2 % NR 0.1 % Total 100.0 % At December 31, 2006 and 2005, the average credit quality of the Companys total fixed income portfolio was AA. As at December 31, 2006, the top 10 corporate holdings, which exclude government guaranteed and government sponsored enterprises, represented approximately 4.3% of the total fixed income portfolio and approximately 12.2% of all corporate holdings. The top 10 corporate holdings listed below represent the direct exposure to the corporations listed below, including their subsidiaries, and excludes any securitized, credit enhanced and collateralized asset or mortgage backed securities, cash and cash equivalents, and excludes any reduction to this exposure through credit default swaps, if applicable. Top 10 Corporate Holdings (2) Percentage of Total Fixed Income Portfolio (1) General Electric Company 0.6% Wachovia Corporation 0.5% Morgan Stanley 0.5% Bank of America Corporation 0.4% Citigroup Inc 0.4% The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc 0.4% HSBC Holding plc 0.4% Lloyds TSB Group plc 0.4% Wells Fargo & Company 0.4% Merrill Lynch & Co, Inc. 0.3% (1) Including fixed maturities, short term investments, cash and cash equivalents and net payable for investments purchased. The Companys fixed income portfolio is exposed to interest rate risk. Interest rate risk is the price sensitivity of a fixed income security to changes in interest rates. The Company manages interest rate risk within the context of its overall asset liability management strategy by setting duration targets for its investment portfolio in line with the estimated duration of its liabilities, thus mitigating the overall economic effect of interest rate risk. The Company remains nevertheless exposed to accounting interest rate risk since the assets are marked to market, thus subject to market conditions, while liabilities are accrued at a static rate. The hypothetical case of an immediate 100 basis point adverse parallel shift in global bond curves as at December 31, 2006, would decrease the fair value of the Companys fixed 124 income portfolio by approximately 3.9% or $1.6 billion. Based on historical observations, it is unlikely that all global yield curves would shift uniformly in the same direction and at the same time. Equity Portfolio As at December 31, 2006, the Companys equity portfolio was $699 million as compared to $704 million as at December 31, 2005. This excludes fixed income fund investments and publicly traded alternative funds that generally do not have the risk characteristics of equity investments. As at December 31, 2006, the Companys allocation to equity securities was approximately 1.6% of the total investment portfolio (including cash and cash equivalents, accrued investment income and net payable for investments purchased) as compared to approximately 1.7% as at December 31, 2005. As at December 31, 2006, approximately 45% of the equity holdings was invested in U.S. companies as compared to approximately 53% as at December 31, 2005. As at December 31, 2006, the top ten equity holdings represented approximately 7.9% of the Companys total equity portfolio as compared to approximately 7.2% as at December 31, 2005. The Companys equity portfolio is exposed to equity price risk. Equity price risk is the potential loss arising from decreases in the market value of equities. An immediate hypothetical 10% change in the value of each equity position would affect the fair value of the portfolio by approximately $69.9 million as at December 31, 2006. Alternative Investment Portfolio A portion of the Companys portfolio is invested in funds that pursue alternative investment strategies, with the investment objective of attaining high risk adjusted total return while maintaining moderate to low level of sensitivity to movements in the traditional asset classes and realizing a low volatility. Investments within this portfolio are generally fund investments in limited partnerships or similar vehicles, with each fund pursuing absolute return investment mandates, typically investing in one or more of the traditional asset classes including equities, fixed income, credit, currency and commodity markets. Various strategies can be pursued and the Company classifies each fund allocation into four general style categories. The four styles are: Event driven, which includes strategies that pursue merger arbitrage, distressed and special situations opportunities; Directional/tactical, which includes strategies that pursue long/short equity, managed futures and macro opportunities; Arbitrage, which includes strategies that pursue equity market neutral, fixed income arbitrage and convertible arbitrage opportunities; and Multi strategy, which includes strategies incorporating several aspects of the above. The Company utilizes additional risk and portfolio management analytics and processes to enhance the overall management and assessment of the alternative investment portfolio. Central to the portfolio and risk management processes is the receipt of information on each of its allocations that is sufficient to assess risks and exposures of the fund allocations and to monitor how the portfolio and associated risk changes over time. The level and frequency of information required by the Company on each investment depends on the type of strategy that a fund pursues; the expected risk profile and types of risk that the fund and underlying securities are exposed to the liquidity of the fund and underlying securities; and the size of the allocation. The Companys alternative investment portfolio had approximately 80 separate investments in different funds at December 31, 2006 with a total exposure of $1.9 billion making up approximately 4.3% of total investments compared to December 31, 2005, where the Company had approximately 80 separate fund investments with a total exposure of $1.7 billion representing approximately 4.1% of total investments. At December 31, 2006, the alternative investment style allocation was 44% in Directional/tactical strategies, 24% in Event driven strategies, 24% in Arbitrage strategies, and 8% in Multi strategy strategies. At December 31, 125 2005, the alternative investment style allocation was 43% in Directional/tactical strategies, 31% in Event driven strategies, 18% in Arbitrage strategies, and 8% in Multi strategy strategies. Private Investment Portfolio A portion of the Companys portfolio is invested in limited partnerships and other entities which are not publicly traded. In addition to normal market risks, these positions may also be exposed to liquidity risk, risks related to distressed investments, and risks specific to startup or small companies. As at December 31, 2006, the Companys exposure to private investments was $330.2 million compared to $252.2 million as at December 31, 2005. As at December 31, 2006, and 2005, the Companys exposure to private investments consisted of approximately 0.7% of the total investment portfolio (including cash and cash equivalents, accrued investment income and net payable for investments purchased), compared to approximately 0.6% as at December 31, 2005. Bond and Stock Index Futures Exposure At December 31, 2006, bond and stock index futures outstanding had a net long position of $23.8 million as compared to a net long position of $46.4 million at December 31, 2005. A 10% appreciation or depreciation of the underlying exposure to these derivative instruments would have resulted in realized gains or realized losses of $2.4 million as at December 31, 2006 and $4.6 million as at December 31, 2005, respectively. The Company may reduce its exposure to these futures through offsetting transactions, including options and forwards. Other Market Risks CDS and Financial Guaranty Credit Risk Through its SCA segment, the Company provides and reinsures financial guaranties issued to support public and private borrowing arrangements. For further information relating to credit risk of our financial guaranty business, see Item 8, Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Exposures Under Guaranties. In addition, the Company enters into swaps written under International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) forms as an extension of its financial guaranty business. The fair value is determined using models developed by the Company and is dependent upon a number of factors, including changes in interest rates, future default rates, changes in credit quality, future expected recovery rates and other market factors. Other elements of the change in fair value are based upon pricing established at the inception of the contract. A change in the interest, default and recovery rate assumptions indicated below would cause the fair value associated with credit derivatives to decrease as follows: Assumptions(U.S. dollars in thousands) % Change Decrease in Fair Value Interest rate 1% decrease $ 6,451 Default rate 10% increase $ 665 Recovery rate 10% decrease $ 2,066 Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses Recoverable and Reinsurance Balances Receivable Credit Risk With regards to unpaid losses and loss expenses recoverable and reinsurance balances receivable, the Company has credit risk should any of its reinsurers be unable or unwilling to settlement amounts due to the Company. For further information relating to reinsurer credit risk, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses Recoverable and Reinsurance Balances Receivable and Item 8, Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Commitments and Contingencies. 126 Counterparty Risk The Company is exposed to credit risk in the event of non performance by the other parties to its derivative instruments in general, however the Company does not anticipate non performance. The difference between the notional principal amounts and the associated market value is the Companys maximum credit exposure. Foreign Currency Exchange Risk Many of our non U.S. subsidiaries maintain both assets and liabilities in local currencies. Foreign exchange rate risk arises where net assets or liabilities are denominated in foreign currencies that differ from the functional currency of those subsidiaries. Foreign exchange rate risk is reviewed as part of our risk management process. Foreign exchange contracts within the investment portfolio are utilized to manage individual portfolio foreign exchange exposures, subject to investment manager guidelines established by management. These contracts are not designated as specific hedges for financial reporting purposes and, therefore, realized and unrealized gains and losses on these contracts are recorded in income in the period in which they occur. These contracts generally have maturities of three months or less. The Company also attempts to manage the foreign exchange volatility arising on certain transactions denominated in foreign currencies. These include, but are not limited to, premium receivable, reinsurance contracts, claims payable and investments in subsidiaries. The principal currencies creating foreign exchange risk for us are the British pound sterling, the Euro, the Swiss Franc, and the Canadian dollar. The Companys net foreign currency denominated receivable on foreign exchange contracts was $211.5 million and payable of $603.0 million as at December 31, 2006 and 2005 respectively, with a net unrealized gain of $15.5 million and $15.9 million as at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Weather and Energy Risk The Company offers weather and contingent energy risk management products in insurance or derivative form to end users, while managing the risks in the over the counter and exchange traded derivatives markets or through the use of quota share or excess of loss arrangements. Fair values for the Companys natural gas derivative contracts are determined through the use of quoted market prices. As quoted market prices are not widely available in the weather derivative market, management uses available market data and internal pricing models based upon consistent statistical methodologies to estimate fair values. Estimating fair value of instruments that do not have quoted market prices, requires managements judgment in determining amounts that could reasonably be expected to be received from, or paid to, a third party in respect of the contracts. The amounts could be materially different from the amounts that might be realized in an actual sale transaction. Fair values are subject to change in the near term and reflect managements best estimate based on various factors including, but not limited to, realized and forecasted weather conditions, changes in interest rates and other market factors. The following table summarizes the movement in the fair value of contracts outstanding during the year ended December 31, 2006: (U.S. dollars in thousands) Unrealized gain (loss) Fair value of contracts outstanding, beginning of the year $ (4,345 ) Option premiums received, net of premiums realized (1) (15,032 ) Reclassification of settled contracts to realized (2) (11,729 ) Other changes in fair value (3) 6,830 Fair value of contracts outstanding, end of year $ (24,276 ) (1) For the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company collected $36.7 million of paid premiums and realized $21.7 million of premiums on expired transactions for a net increase in the balance sheet derivative liability of $15.0 million. (2) The Company received $11.7 million to settle derivative positions during the year ended December 31, 2006, resulting in a reclassification of this amount from unrealized to realized and an increase in the balance sheet derivative liability. (3) This represents the effects of changes in commodity prices, the time value of options, and other valuation adjustments of $6.8 million on the Companys derivative positions, primarily attributable to the hedges of the positions that realized $21.7 million of premiums. 127 The change in fair value of contracts outstanding at December 31, 2006, as compared to the beginning of the year is primarily due to the settlement of positive fair value positions during the first half of the year. The following table summarizes the maturity of contracts outstanding at December 31, 2006: Source of Fair Value (U.S. dollars in thousands) Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years Greater than 5 Years Total Fair Value Prices actively quoted $ $ $ $ $ Prices based on models and other valuation methods (4,487 ) (19,383 ) (406 ) (24,276 ) Total fair value of contracts outstanding $ (4,487 ) $ (19,383 ) $ (406 ) $ $ (24,276 ) Market risk for the Companys weather and energy portfolio relates to changes in underlying weather conditions (i.e., changes in climatic variables such as temperature and precipitation) changes in electricity prices, and changes in natural gas prices. The Company has underwritten risks in Asia, Australia, Europe, and North America, with its primary market risk reflected in temperature changes within the United States and Europe. The Company manages its weather and energy risk portfolio through the employment of a variety of strategies. These include geographical and directional diversification of risk exposures and direct hedging within the capital and reinsurance markets. Risk management is undertaken on a portfolio wide basis, to maintain a portfolio that the Company believes is well diversified and which remains within the aggregate risk tolerance established by the Companys senior management. VaR Related to Weather and Energy Activities VaR is one of the tools used by management to measure, monitor and review the market risk exposures of the Companys weather risk, natural gas and electricity price risk management portfolios. The Companys VaR when applied to the weather and energy activities is calculated at the 99% confidence level. The Companys aggregate average, low and high seasonal VaR amounts for its weather risk management portfolio, calculated at a 99% confidence level, during the year ended December 31, 2006, were $37.4 million, $27.7 million and $51.8 million, respectively. The corresponding levels for the weather risk management portfolio during the year ended December 31, 2005, were $82.5 million, $51.8 million and $115.1 million, respectively. The Company calculates its aggregate VaR by summing the VaR amounts for each of its seasonal portfolios. The Companys aggregation methodology yields a conservative aggregate portfolio VaR, given that current weather events and patterns have an immaterial effect on expectations for future seasons and the Company could therefore reduce or eliminate its VaR on future seasons by selling its positions prior to the beginning of a season. For electricity price risk management products, including electricity generation outage products, VaR is calculated using an annual holding period. Management has established an annual VaR limit of $17 million for this book of business. The Companys average, low and high annual VaR amounts, calculated at a 99% confidence level during the year ended December 31, 2006, were $21.3 million, $15.5 million and $30.5 million, respectively. The corresponding levels during the year ended December 31, 2005 were $26.6 million, $15.3 million, and $38.4 million, respectively. Since VaR statistics are estimates based on simulations of historical market data, VaR should not be viewed as an absolute, prognostic measurement gauge of future financial performance or as a way for the Company to predict risk. There can be no assurance that the Companys actual future losses will not exceed its VaR amounts. 128 
 
