Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. Under most of the credit default swap contracts insured by XLCA, and reinsured by the Company, it would be an event of default if XLCA should become insolvent. If there were an event of default, by XLCA, the holders of these swaps would have the right to terminate the swaps and to obtain a termination payment from XLCA, and possibly, the Company, under the Companys reinsurance agreements or guarantees, based on the market value of the swaps at the time of termination. Any estimate of future costs is subject to the inherent limitation on the Companys ability to predict the aggregate course of future events. It should therefore be expected that the actual emergence of losses and loss adjustment expenses will vary, perhaps materially, from any estimate. The Company has an actuarial staff in each of its operating segments that regularly evaluates the levels of loss reserves, taking into consideration factors that may impact the ultimate losses incurred. Any such evaluation could result in future changes in estimates of losses or reinsurance recoverable and would be reflected in its results of operations in the period in which the estimates are changed. Losses and loss expenses, to the extent that they exceed the applicable reserves, are charged to income as incurred. The reserve for unpaid losses and loss expenses represents the estimated ultimate losses and loss expenses less paid losses and loss expenses, and comprises case reserves and incurred but not reported loss reserves (IBNR). During the loss settlement period, which can span many years in duration for casualty business, additional facts regarding individual claims and trends often will become known and case reserves may be adjusted by allocation from IBNR without any change in the overall reserve. In addition, application of statistical and actuarial methods may require the adjustment of the overall reserves upward or downward from time to time. Accordingly, the ultimate settlement of losses may be significantly greater than or less than reported loss and loss expense reserves. If the Companys guarantee agreements with SCA are triggered, there may be a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition, results of operations and or liquidity. The Company has entered into certain agreements with subsidiaries of SCA which unconditionally and irrevocably guarantee: (i) XL Capital Assurance (XLCA) for the full and complete performance when due of all of XL Financial Assurances (XLFA) obligations under its facultative quota share reinsurance agreement with XLCA, (ii) the full and complete payments when due of XLCAs obligations under certain financial guarantees issued by XLCA and arranged by XL Capital Assurance (U.K.) Limited and (iii) Financial Security Assurance (FSA) for the full and complete performance of XLFAs obligations under a FSA Master Facultative Agreement. These guarantee agreements terminated with respect to any new business produced through the underlying agreements after the effective date of the IPO, but the agreements remain in effect with respect to cessions or guarantees written under these agreements prior to the IPO. The aggregate net par value outstanding of business guaranteed by the Company under these agreements was approximately $75.2 billion as of December 31, 2007. Upon the occurrence of both of the following events, the Company must pay obligations on the above noted guarantee agreements and such obligations could be material: a) the underlying guaranteed obligation must default on payments of interest or principal, and b) the relevant SCA subsidiary must fail to meet its obligations under the applicable reinsurance or guarantee. Based on all of the above factors, as well as the Companys current estimates of defaults on the relevant underlying obligations and the Companys judgment as to the current financial resources of the relevant SCA subsidiaries, the Company has concluded that no losses are expected under these guarantees and accordingly no loss reserves have been recorded. Future developments including, but not limited to, (i) higher than expected defaults or accelerated adverse cash flows on relevant underlying obligations of SCAs subsidiaries and the adequacy of the claims paying ability of those SCA subsidiaries or (ii) the accelerated adverse payments on certain credit default swaps occuring as a result of the insolvency of SCA could expose the Company to potential loss payments under one or more of the guarantees which could be material to the Company. In particular, under most of the credit default swaps insured by XLCA, it would be an event of default if XLCA were to become insolvent. While this event of default continued, the holders of these credit default swaps would have the right to terminate these agreements and to obtain a termination payment from XLCA based on the present market value of the swaps at the time of termination. Under current market conditions, this would result in a substantial liability to XLCA which may be in excess of its ability to pay. If such an event were to occur, the likelihood of potential loss payments under one or more of the Companys various guarantees to subsidiaries of SCA would increase. Operational risks, including human or systems failures, are inherent in the Companys business. Operational risk and losses can result from, among other things, fraud, errors, failure to document transactions properly or to obtain proper internal authorization, failure to comply with regulatory requirements, information technology failures, or external events. The Company believes that its modeling, underwriting and information technology and application systems are critical to its business. Moreover, the Companys information technology and application systems have been an important part of its underwriting 24 process and its ability to compete successfully. The Company has also licensed certain systems and data from third parties. The Company cannot be certain that it will have access to these, or comparable, service providers, or that its information technology or application systems will continue to operate as intended. A major defect or failure in its internal controls or information technology and application systems could result in management distraction, harm to the Companys reputation or increased expense. In particular, the Company has outsourced the day to day management, custody and record keeping of its investment portfolio to third party managers and custodians that it believes to be reputable. A major defect in those investment managers investment management strategy, information and technology systems, internal controls or decision making could result in management distraction and or significant financial loss. A major defect in custodian internal controls or information and technology systems could result in management distraction or significant financial loss. The Company believes appropriate controls and mitigation procedures are in place to prevent significant risk of defect in its internal controls, information technology, application systems, investment management and custody and record keeping, but internal controls provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance as to the absence of errors or irregularities and any ineffectiveness of such controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on its business. The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on the Companys business are uncertain. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect its business by either extending coverage beyond its underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until some time after the Company has issued the insurance or reinsurance contracts that are affected by the changes. For example, the Companys actual losses may vary materially from its current estimate of the loss based on a number of factors, including receipt of additional information from insureds or brokers, the attribution of losses to coverages that had not previously been considered as exposed and inflation in repair costs due to additional demand for labor and materials. As a result, the full extent of liability under an insurance or reinsurance contract may not be known for many years after such contract is issued and a loss occurs. The Company may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available to it on satisfactory terms, on a timely basis or at all. The Companys future capital requirements depend on many factors, including its ability to write new business successfully and to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover its losses. To the extent that the funds generated by its ongoing operations are insufficient to fund future operating requirements and cover claim payments, the Company may need to raise additional funds through financings or curtail its growth and reduce its assets. Any future equity or debt financing may not be available on terms that are favorable to the Company, if at all. Any future equity financings could be dilutive to the Companys existing shareholders or could result in the issuance of securities that have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of its other securities. The Companys inability to obtain adequate capital could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Under Rule 3 09 of Regulation S X, the Company is required to file separate audited financial statements of SCA (the SCA Financials). The SCA Financials were not available at the time of filing this Annual Report on Form 10 K (the 10 K). The Company intends to file the SCA Financials as an exhibit to an amendment to the 10 K (the 10 K/A) as soon as they are available. Until such time, the Company may not satisfy the registrant requirements for use of Form S 3 and therefore may be ineligible to use such Form. Should the Company be unable to file the 10 K/A on or before March 17, 2008, the Company may be ineligible to use Form S 3 for a period of twelve months. This restriction could adversely affect the Companys ability to raise capital. The Company may be unable to purchase reinsurance and, even if it is able to successfully purchase reinsurance, the Company is subject to the possibility of uncollectability. The Company purchases reinsurance for its own account in order to mitigate the volatility that losses impose on its financial condition. The Companys clients purchase reinsurance from the Company to cover part of the risk originally written by them. Retrocessional reinsurance involves a reinsurer ceding to another reinsurer, the retrocessionaire, all or part of the reinsurance that the first reinsurer has assumed. Reinsurance, including retrocessional reinsurance, does not legally discharge the ceding company from its liability with respect to its obligations to its insureds or reinsureds. A reinsurers or retrocessionaires insolvency, inability or refusal to make timely payments under the terms of its agreements with the Company, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on the Company because it remains liable to its insureds and reinsureds. At December 31, 2007, the Company had approximately $5.5 billion of reinsurance recoverables and reinsurance balances receivable, net of reserves for uncollectible recoverables. For further information regarding the Companys reinsurance exposure, see Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. From time to time, market conditions may limit or prevent the Company from obtaining the types and amounts of reinsurance that it considers adequate for its business needs such that it may not be able to obtain reinsurance or retrocessional reinsurance from entities with satisfactory creditworthiness in amounts that it deems desirable or on terms that it deems appropriate or acceptable. Since the Company depends on a few brokers for a large portion of its revenues, loss of business provided by any one of them could adversely affect the Company. The Company markets its insurance and reinsurance products worldwide primarily through insurance and reinsurance brokers. Marsh & McLennan Companies and AON Corporation and their respective subsidiaries provided approximately 18% and 17%, respectively, of its gross written premiums for property and casualty operations for the year ended December 31, 2007. Loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided by one or more of these brokers could have a material adverse effect on the Companys business. 25 The Companys reliance on brokers subjects it to credit risk. In certain jurisdictions, when an insured or ceding insurer pays premiums for policies of insurance or contracts of reinsurance to brokers for further payment to the Company, such premiums might be considered to have been paid and the insured or ceding insurer will no longer be liable to us for such amounts, whether or not the Company has actually received the premiums from the broker. In addition, in accordance with industry practice, the Company generally pays amounts owed on claims under its reinsurance contracts to brokers, and these brokers, in turn, pay these amounts over to the clients that have purchased reinsurance from it. Although the law is unsettled and depends upon the facts and circumstances of the particular case, in some jurisdictions, if a broker fails to make such a claims payment to the insured or ceding insurer, the Company might remain liable to the insured or ceding insurer for that non payment. Consequently, the Company assumes a degree of credit risk associated with the brokers with whom it transacts business. Due to the unsettled and fact specific nature of the law governing these types of scenarios, the Company is unable to quantify its exposure to this risk. To date, the Company has not experienced any material losses related to such credit risks. The Companys investment performance may adversely affect its financial results and ability to conduct business. The Companys assets are invested by a number of professional investment advisory management firms under the direction of its management team in accordance, in general, with detailed investment guidelines set by the Company. Although the Companys investment policies stress diversification of risks, conservation of principal and liquidity, its investments are subject to market wide risks and fluctuations, as well as to risks inherent in particular securities. Investment losses could significantly decrease the Companys asset base, thereby adversely affecting its ability to conduct business and pay claims. The Company is exposed to significant capital markets risk related to changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices and foreign exchange rates which may adversely affect its results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. The Company is exposed to significant capital markets risk related to changes in interest rates, credit spreads and defaults, market liquidity, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. If significant, changes in interest rates, changes in credit spreads and defaults, market liquidity, declines in equity prices, and the strengthening or weakening of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar, individually or in tandem, could have a material adverse effect on its consolidated results of operations, financial condition or cash flows through realized losses, impairments, and changes in unrealized positions. Levels of write down or impairment are impacted by the Companys assessment of the intent and ability to hold securities which have declined in value until recovery. The Companys exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in interest rates. The Companys investment portfolio contains interest rate sensitive instruments, such as fixed income securities, which may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates from governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond its control. A rise in interest rates would increase the net unrealized loss position of the Companys investment portfolio, offset by its ability to earn higher rates of return on funds reinvested. Conversely, a decline in interest rates would decrease the net unrealized loss position of the Companys investment portfolio, offset by lower rates of return on funds reinvested. The Companys mitigation efforts with respect to interest rate risk are primarily focused towards maintaining an investment portfolio with diversified maturities that has a weighted average duration that is approximately equal to the duration of its estimated liability cash flow profile. However, the Companys estimate of the liability cash flow profile may be inaccurate and the Company may be forced to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a loss in order to cover liabilities. Although the Company takes measures to manage the economic risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, the Company may not be able to mitigate the interest rate risk of its assets relative to its liabilities. The Companys fixed income portfolio is primarily invested in high quality, investment grade securities. However, as part of its risk asset portfolio, the Company invests in below investment grade high yield fixed income securities. These securities, which pay a higher rate of interest, also have a higher degree of credit or default risk. Certain sectors within the investment and below investment grade fixed income market, such as structured and corporate credit may be less liquid in times of economic weakness or market disruptions. While the Company has put in place procedures to monitor the credit risk and liquidity of its invested assets, in general and those impacted by recent credit market issues specifically, it is possible that, in periods of economic weakness or periods of turmoil in capital markets, the Company may experience default losses in its portfolio, in particular the structured credit portfolio. This may result in a material reduction of net income, capital and cash flows. Beginning in the latter half of 2007, increasing delinquencies in U.S. residential collateral in various securitized products has lead to increased volatility and decreased liquidity across financial markets as a whole. Decreases in market liquidity have increased the difficulty and volatility in pricing across credit exposed markets. Such illiquidity volatility and related uncertainty may persist or even worsen in the future. The Company invests a portion of its portfolio in common stock or equity related securities such as hedge funds and private investments. The value of these assets fluctuates, among with other factors, with equity and credit markets. In times of economic weakness, the market value and liquidity of these assets may decline, and may impact net income, capital, and cash flows. In addition, certain of the products offered by the Companys Life Operations segment offer guaranteed benefits which increase its potential benefit exposure should equity markets decline. The functional currencies of the Companys principal insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries include the U.S. dollar, U.K. sterling, the Euro, the Swiss Franc, and the Canadian dollar. Exchange rate fluctuations relative to the functional currencies may materially impact the Companys financial position and results of operations. Many of the Companys non U.S. subsidiaries maintain both assets and liabilities in currencies different to their functional currency, which exposes it to changes in currency exchange rates. 26 In addition, locally required capital levels are invested in local currencies in order to satisfy regulatory requirements and to support local insurance operations regardless of currency fluctuations. Foreign exchange rate risk is reviewed as part of the Companys risk management process. While the Company utilizes derivative instruments such as futures, options and foreign currency forward contracts to, among other things, manage its foreign currency exposure, it is possible that these instruments will not effectively mitigate all or a substantial portion of its foreign exchange rate risk. Current legal and regulatory activities relating to insurance brokers and agents, contingent commissions, the municipal guaranteed investment contract market and the financial guarantee market could adversely affect the Companys business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, lawsuits, including putative class action lawsuits, have been filed against the Company by policyholders and security holders the ultimate outcome of which could have a material adverse effect on the Companys consolidated financial condition, future operating results and or liquidity. Contingent commission arrangements have been a focus of investigations by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), the U.S. Attorneys Offices, certain state Attorneys General and insurance departments. Due to various governmental investigations into contingent commission practices, various market participants have modified or eliminated acquisition expenses formerly arising from Placement Service Agreements (PSAs). As a result, it is possible that policy commissions or brokerage that the Company pays may increase in the future and or that different forms of contingent commissions will develop in the future. Any such additional expense could have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial conditions or results. A subsidiary of the Company received a grand jury subpoena from the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Southern District of New York seeking documents in connection with an investigation into the municipal guaranteed investment contract (GIC) market and related products. The Company is fully cooperating with this investigation. Recently, certain State Attorneys General have commenced investigations of providers of financial guarantee (re)insurance related to the (re)insurance of municipal bonds. At this time, the Company is unable to predict the potential effects, if any, that these investigations may have upon us, the insurance and reinsurance markets in general or industry and reinsurance business practices or what, if any, changes may be made to laws and regulations regarding the industry. Any of the foregoing could also result in litigation or otherwise adversely affect its business, financial condition, or results of operations. The Company is subject to lawsuits and arbitrations in the regular course of its business. In addition, lawsuits have been filed against the Company as detailed in Legal Proceedings. The Company believes that the ultimate outcome of all outstanding litigation and arbitration will not have a material adverse effect on the Companys consolidated financial condition, operating results and or liquidity, although an adverse resolution of one or more of these items could have a material adverse effect on the Companys results of operations in a particular fiscal quarter or year. The loss of one or more key executives or the inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could adversely affect the Companys ability to conduct business. The Companys success depends on its ability to retain the services of its existing key executives and to attract and retain additional qualified personnel in the future. The loss of the services of any of the Companys key executives or the inability to hire and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future could adversely affect its ability to conduct its business. In addition, the Company does not maintain key man life insurance policies with respect to its employees. In October 2007, a Succession Plan Committee of the Companys Board of Directors was created following the announcement that Mr. Brian OHara, President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the Company, had informed the Companys Board of Directors of his decision to retire as President and CEO in mid 2008. The Succession Plan Committee continues to identify and evaluate potential candidates to succeed the current CEO. Many of the Companys senior executives working in Bermuda are not Bermudian and the Companys success may depend in part on the continued services of key employees in Bermuda. Under Bermuda law, non Bermudians (other than spouses of Bermudians and holders of permanent resident certificates) may not engage in any gainful occupation in Bermuda without an appropriate governmental work permit. A work permit may be granted or renewed by the Bermuda government for a specific period of time, upon showing that, after proper public advertisement, no Bermudian (or spouse of a Bermudian or holder of a permanent 27 resident certificate) is available who meets the minimum standards reasonably required by an employer with respect to a certain position. The government of Bermuda places a six year term limit on individuals with work permits, subject to certain exemptions for key employees. No assurances can be given that any work permit will be issued or, if issued, renewed upon the expiration of the relevant term. Because the Company is a holding company, if its subsidiaries do not make dividend and other payments to it, it may not be able to pay dividends or make payments on its debt securities and other obligations. As a holding company with no direct operations or significant assets other than the capital stock of its subsidiaries, the Company relies on investment income, cash dividends and other permitted payments from its subsidiaries to make principal and interest payments on its debt, to pay operating expenses and common and preferred shareholder dividends and to pay certain of its other obligations that may arise from time to time. The Company expects future investment income, dividends and other permitted payments from these subsidiaries to be its principal source of funds to pay such expenses, preferred and common stock dividends and obligations. The payment of dividends to the Company by its insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries is limited under Bermuda laws and certain insurance statutes of various states in the United States in which its insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are licensed to transact business. The Companys U.S. insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are subject to state regulatory restrictions that generally require cash dividends to be paid only out of earned statutory surplus. Further, the amount payable without the prior approval of the applicable state insurance department is generally limited to the greater of 10% of policyholders surplus or statutory capital, or 100% of the subsidiarys prior year statutory net income. In addition, Bermuda insurance laws and regulations (i) require the Companys insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries to maintain certain minimum solvency margins and minimum liquidity ratios, (ii) prohibit dividends that would result in a breach of these requirements, and (iii) limit the amount by which the Company can reduce surplus without prior approval from the Bermuda Monetary Authority. In addition, the ability of the Companys insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries to pay dividends could be constrained by its dependence on financial strength ratings from independent rating agencies. The Companys ratings from these agencies depend to a large extent on the capitalization levels of its insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries. Any such restriction on the Companys insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries ability to pay dividends to it could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. The Companys insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries may not always be able to, or may not, pay preferred and common stock dividends to it sufficient to make its debt payments and pay its operating expenses, shareholder dividends or other obligations. Risks Related to the Insurance and Reinsurance Industries The insurance and reinsurance industries are historically cyclical and the Company may experience periods with excess underwriting capacity and unfavorable premium rates. The insurance and reinsurance industries have historically been cyclical, characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excess underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity permitted favorable premium levels. An increase in premium levels is often offset by an increasing supply of insurance and reinsurance capacity, either by capital provided by new entrants or by the commitment of additional capital by existing insurers or reinsurers, which may cause prices to decrease. Either of these factors could lead to a significant reduction in premium rates, less favorable policy terms and conditions and fewer submissions for the Companys underwriting services. In addition to these considerations, changes in the frequency and severity of losses suffered by insureds and insurers may affect the cycles of the insurance and reinsurance industries significantly. Competition in the insurance and reinsurance industries could reduce the Companys operating margins. The insurance and reinsurance industries are highly competitive. The Company competes on an international and regional basis with major U.S., Bermudian, European and other international insurers and reinsurers and with underwriting syndicates, some of which have greater financial and management resources than it does. The Company also competes with new companies that continue to be formed to enter the insurance and reinsurance markets. In addition, capital market participants have recently created alternative products that are intended to compete with reinsurance products. Increased competition could result in fewer submissions, lower premium rates and less favorable policy terms and conditions, which could reduce the Companys margins. Unanticipated losses from terrorism and uncertainty surrounding the future of the TRIPRA could have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition and results of operations. In response to the tightening of supply in certain insurance and reinsurance markets resulting from, among other things, the September 11 event, TRIP was created upon the enactment of TRIA in 2002 to ensure the availability of commercial insurance coverage for certain terrorist acts in the U.S.. This law established a federal assistance program through the end of 2005 to help the commercial property and casualty insurance industry cover claims related to future terrorism related losses and required that coverage for terrorist acts be offered by insurers. TRIA was originally scheduled to expire at the end of 2005, but was extended in December 2005 for an additional two years under TRIAE. On December 26, 2007, President George Bush approved TRIPRA, extending TRIP through December 31, 2014 and also eliminated the distinction between foreign and domestic acts of terrorism. 28 TRIA voided in force terrorism exclusions as of November 26, 2002 for certified terrorism on all TRIA specified property and casualty business. TRIA required covered insurers to make coverage available for certified acts of terrorism on all new and renewal policies issued after TRIA was enacted. TRIA along with further extensions to TRIP, as noted above, allows the Company to assess a premium charge for terrorism coverage and, if the policyholder declines the coverage or fails to pay the buy back premium, certified acts of terrorism may then be excluded from the policy, subject, however, to state specific requirements. Terrorism coverage cannot be excluded from workers compensation policies. Subject to a premium based deductible and provided that the Company has otherwise complied with all the requirements as specified under TRIPRA, the Company is eligible for reimbursement by the Federal Government for up to 85% of its covered terrorism related losses arising from a certified terrorist attack. Such payment by the government will, in effect, provide reinsurance protection on a quota share basis. Entitlement to such reimbursement ends once the aggregated insured losses for the entire insurance industry exceed $100 billion in a single program year. The Company believes that TRIP and the related legislation has been an effective mechanism to assist policyholders and industry participants with the extreme contingent losses that might be caused by acts of terrorism. The Company cannot assure you that TRIPRA will be extended beyond 2014, and its expiration could have an adverse effect on the Company, its clients or the insurance industry. Potential government intervention in the Companys industry as a result of recent events and instability in the marketplace for insurance products could hinder its flexibility and negatively affect the business opportunities that may be available to it in the market. Government intervention and the possibility of future government intervention have created uncertainty in the insurance and reinsurance markets. Government regulators are generally concerned with the protection of policyholders to the exclusion of other constituencies, including shareholders of insurers and reinsurers. While the Company cannot predict the exact nature, timing or scope of possible governmental initiatives, such proposals could adversely affect its business by, among other things: Providing insurance and reinsurance capacity in markets and to consumers that the Company targets, e.g., the creation or expansion of a state or federal catastrophe funds such as those in Florida; Requiring the Companys participation in industry pools and guarantee associations; Expanding the scope of coverage under existing policies; Regulating the terms of insurance and reinsurance policies; or Disproportionately benefiting the companies of one country over those of another. The insurance industry is also affected by political, judicial and legal developments that may create new and expanded theories of liability, which may result in unexpected claims frequency & severity and delays or cancellations of products and services by insureds, insurers and reinsurers which could adversely affect the Companys business. Consolidation in the insurance industry could adversely impact the Company. Insurance industry participants may seek to expand through mergers and acquisitions. Continued consolidation within the insurance industry will further enhance the already competitive underwriting environment as the Company would likely experience more robust competition from larger, better capitalized competitors. These consolidated entities may use their enhanced market power and broader capital base to negotiate price reductions for the Companys products and services, and reduce their use of reinsurance, and as such, it may experience rate declines and possibly write less business. Risks Related to Regulation The regulatory regimes under which the Company operates, and potential changes thereto, could have a material adverse effect on its business. The Companys insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries operate in 28 countries around the world as well as in all 50 U.S. states. The Companys operations in each of these jurisdictions are subject to varying degrees of regulation and supervision. The laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which the Companys insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are domiciled require, among other things, that these subsidiaries maintain minimum levels of statutory capital, surplus and liquidity, meet solvency standards, submit to periodic examinations of their financial condition and restrict payments of dividends and reductions of capital. Statutes, regulations and policies that the Companys insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are subject to may also restrict the ability of these subsidiaries to write insurance and reinsurance policies, make certain investments and distribute funds. In recent years, the U.S. insurance regulatory framework has come under increased federal scrutiny. In addition, some state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state regulation of insurance and reinsurance companies and 29 holding companies. Moreover, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, which is the organization of insurance regulators from the 50 U.S. states, the District of Columbia and the four U.S. territories, as well as state insurance regulators regularly reexamine existing laws and regulations. The Company may not be able to comply fully with, or obtain desired exemptions from, revised statutes, regulations and policies that govern the conduct of its business. Failure to comply with, or to obtain desired authorizations and or exemptions under, any applicable laws could result in restrictions on the Companys ability to do business or undertake activities that are regulated in one or more of the jurisdictions in which it operates and could subject it to fines and other sanctions. In addition, changes in the laws or regulations to which the Companys insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are subject, or in the interpretations thereof by enforcement or regulatory agencies, could have a material adverse effect on its business. If the Companys Bermuda operating subsidiaries become subject to insurance statutes and regulations in jurisdictions other than Bermuda or if there is a change in Bermuda law or regulations or the application of Bermuda law or regulations, there could be a significant and negative impact on the Companys business. XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd and XL Re Ltd, two of the Companys wholly owned operating subsidiaries, are registered Bermuda Class 4 insurers. As such, they are subject to regulation and supervision in Bermuda. Bermuda insurance statutes and the regulations and policies of the Bermuda Monetary Authority require XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd and XL Re Ltd to, among other things: maintain a minimum level of capital and surplus; maintain solvency margins and liquidity ratios; restrict dividends and distributions; obtain prior approval regarding the ownership and transfer of shares; maintain a principal office and appoint and maintain a principal representative in Bermuda; file an annual statutory financial return; and allow for the performance of certain periodic examinations of XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd and XL Re Ltd and their respective financial conditions. These statutes and regulations may restrict the Companys ability to write insurance and reinsurance policies, distribute funds and pursue its investment strategy. The Company does not presently intend for XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd and XL Re Ltd to be admitted to do business in the United States, the United Kingdom or any jurisdiction other than Bermuda. However, the Company cannot provide assurance that insurance regulators in the United States, the United Kingdom or elsewhere will not review the activities of XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd or XL Re Ltd, their respective subsidiaries or their agents and claim that XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd or XL Re Ltd is subject to such jurisdictions licensing requirements. If any such claim is successful and XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd or XL Re Ltd must obtain licenses in a jurisdiction other than Bermuda, the Company may be subject to taxation in such jurisdiction. In addition, XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd and XL Re Ltd are subject to indirect regulatory requirements imposed by jurisdictions that may limit their ability to provide insurance or reinsurance to that jurisdictions domestic insurers or reinsurers. For example, the ability of XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd and XL Re Ltd to write insurance or reinsurance may be subject, in certain cases, to a countrys limits on how much reinsurance can be purchased from non domestic reinsurers or requirements that such non domestic reinsurers collateralize their payment obligations to domestic ceding companies. If the Company is unable to collateralize or provide other credit support for these reinsurance clients on commercially reasonable terms, it could be limited in its ability to write business for some of its clients. Proposed legislation and regulations may have the effect of imposing additional requirements upon, or restricting the market for, non domestic insurers or reinsurers with whom domestic companies place business. Generally, Bermuda insurance statutes and regulations applicable to XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd and XL Re Ltd are less restrictive than those that would be applicable if they were governed by the laws of any state in the United States. If in the future the Company becomes subject to any insurance laws of the United States or any state thereof or of any other jurisdiction, it cannot provide assurance that it would be in compliance with such laws or that complying with such laws would not have a significant and negative effect on its business. The process of obtaining licenses is very time consuming and costly and XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd and XL Re Ltd may not be able to become licensed in jurisdictions other than Bermuda should the Company choose to do so. The modification of the conduct of the Companys business that would result if it were required or chose to become licensed in certain jurisdictions could significantly and negatively affect its financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the Companys inability to comply with 30 insurance statutes and regulations could significantly and adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations by limiting its ability to conduct business as well as subjecting it to penalties and fines. Because XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd and XL Re Ltd are Bermuda companies, they are subject to changes in Bermuda law and regulation that may have an adverse impact on the Companys operations, including through the imposition of tax liability or increased regulatory supervision. In addition, XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd and XL Re Ltd will be exposed to any changes in the political environment in Bermuda, including, without limitation, changes as a result of the independence issues currently being discussed in Bermuda. The Bermuda insurance and reinsurance regulatory framework recently has become subject to increased scrutiny in many jurisdictions, including the United Kingdom. While the Company cannot predict the future impact on its operations of changes in the laws and regulation to which it is or may become subject, any such changes could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in current accounting practices and future pronouncements may materially impact the Companys reported financial results. Unanticipated developments in accounting practices may require the Company to incur considerable additional expenses to comply with such developments, particularly if it is required to prepare information relating to prior periods for comparative purposes or to apply the new requirements retroactively. The impact of changes in current accounting practices and future pronouncements cannot be predicted but may affect the calculation of net income, net equity, and other relevant financial statement line items. In particular, recent guidance and ongoing projects put in place by standard setters globally have indicated a possible move away from the current insurance accounting models toward more fair value based models which could introduce significant volatility in the earnings of insurance industry participants. Furthermore, rules relating to certain accounting practices in the financial guarantee insurance and reinsurance industry are currently being reviewed by applicable regulatory bodies and any changes required by that review could have a material effect on the reported operating results and financial condition of the industry or particular market participants, including SCA. For further details regarding risks related to financial guarantee insurance and reinsurance, refer to SCAs reports filed with the SEC. Risks Related to Taxation The Company and its Bermuda insurance subsidiaries may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after March 28, 2016, which may have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. The Company and its Bermuda insurance subsidiaries have received from the Ministry of Finance in Bermuda exemptions from any Bermuda taxes that might be imposed on profits, income or any capital asset, gain or appreciation until March 28, 2016. The exemptions are subject to the proviso that they are not construed so as to prevent the application of any tax or duty to such persons as are ordinarily resident in Bermuda (the Company and its Bermuda insurance subsidiaries are not so currently designated) and to prevent the application of any tax payable in accordance with the provisions of The Land Tax Act 1967 or otherwise payable in relation to the land leased to the Company and its Bermuda insurance subsidiaries. The Company, as a permit company under The Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda, have received similar exemptions, which are effective until March 28, 2016. The Company and its Bermuda insurance subsidiaries are required to pay certain annual Bermuda government fees and certain business fees as an insurer under The Insurance Act 1978 of Bermuda. Currently there is no Bermuda withholding tax on dividends paid by the Companys Bermuda insurance subsidiaries to the Company. Given the limited duration of the Ministry of Finances assurance, the Company cannot be certain that the Company or its Bermuda insurance subsidiaries will not be subject to any Bermuda tax after March 28, 2016. Such taxation could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. The Company may become subject to taxes in the Cayman Islands after June 2, 2018, which may have a material adverse effect on its results of operations. Under current Cayman Islands law, the Company is not obligated to pay any taxes in the Cayman Islands on its income or gains. The Company has received an undertaking from the Governor in Council of the Cayman Islands pursuant to the provisions of the Tax Concessions Law, as amended, that until June 2, 2018, (i) no subsequently enacted law imposing any tax on profits, income, gains or appreciation shall apply to it and (ii) no such tax and no tax in the nature of an estate duty or an inheritance tax shall be payable on any of its ordinary shares, debentures or other obligations. Under current law, no tax will be payable on the transfer or other disposition of the Companys ordinary shares. The Cayman Islands currently impose stamp duties on certain categories of documents; however, the Companys current operations do not involve the payment of stamp duties in any material amount. The Cayman Islands also currently impose an annual corporate fee upon all exempted companies incorporated in the Cayman Islands. Given the limited duration of the undertaking from the Governor in Council of the Cayman Islands, the Company cannot be certain that it will not be subject to any Cayman Islands tax after June 2, 2018. Such taxation could have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition and results of operations. 31 The Company and its Bermuda insurance subsidiaries may become subject to U.S. tax, which may have a material adverse effect on its results of operations. The Company takes the position that neither it nor any of its Bermuda insurance subsidiaries are engaged in a U.S. trade or business through a U.S. permanent establishment. Accordingly, the Company takes the position that none of its Bermuda insurance subsidiaries should be subject to U.S. tax (other than U.S. excise tax on insurance and reinsurance premium income attributable to insuring or reinsuring U.S. risks and U.S. withholding tax on some types of U.S. source investment income). However, because there is considerable uncertainty as to the activities that constitute being engaged in a trade or business within the United States, the Company cannot be certain that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the IRS) will not contend successfully that it or any of its Bermuda insurance subsidiaries are engaged in a trade or business in the United States. If the Company or any of its Bermuda insurance subsidiaries were considered to be engaged in a trade or business in the United States, any such entity could be subject to U.S. corporate income and additional branch profits taxes on the portion of its earnings effectively connected to such U.S. business, in which case the Companys financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The Organisation for Economic Co operation and Development is considering measures that might change the manner in which the Company is taxed. On June 27, 2005 the Organisation for Economic Co operation and Development (OECD) issued a discussion draft, Attribution of Profits to a Permanent Establishment Release of Discussion Draft of Part IV (Insurance) (the Draft), which constitutes the fourth and final part of the report on OECDs project to establish a broad consensus regarding the interpretation and practical application of Article 7 (Article 7) of the OECD Model Tax Convention on Income and on Capital. Article 7 sets forth international tax principles for attributing profits to a permanent establishment and forms the basis of an extensive network of bilateral income tax treaties between OECD member countries and between many OECD member and non member countries. On December 21 2006, the OECD published new versions of Parts I, II and III. They also announced that work on Part IV is ongoing and a revised draft was issued in August 2007, followed by a consultation in November 2007. Further consultation is anticipated in the first half of 2008. Once finalized, the conclusions of Parts I IV of the report will be implemented through revision of the Commentary on Article 7 and or Article 7 itself. If an investor acquires ten percent or more of XL Capital Ltds shares, they may be subject to taxation under the controlled foreign corporation (the CFC) rules. Under certain circumstances, a U.S. person who owns ten percent or more of the voting power of a foreign corporation that is a CFC (a foreign corporation in which ten percent U.S. shareholders own more than 50 percent of the voting power of the foreign corporation or more than 25 percent of a foreign insurance company) for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during a taxable year must include in gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes such 10 percent U.S. Shareholders pro rata share of the CFCs subpart F income, even if the subpart F income is not distributed to such 10 percent U.S. Shareholder if such 10 percent U.S. Shareholder owns (directly or indirectly through foreign entities) any of the Companys shares on the last day of the Companys taxable year. Subpart F income of a foreign insurance corporation typically includes foreign personal holding company income (such as interest, dividends and other types of passive income), as well as insurance and reinsurance income (including underwriting and investment income) attributable to the insurance of risks situated outside the CFCs country of incorporation. The Company believes that because of the dispersion of its share ownership, provisions in its organizational documents that limit voting power and other factors, no U.S. Person or U.S. Partnership who acquires its shares directly or indirectly through one or more foreign entities should be required to include its subpart F income in income under the CFC rules of the Code. It is possible, however, that the IRS could challenge the effectiveness of these provisions and that a court could sustain such a challenge, in which case an investors investment could be materially adversely affected, if they own ten percent or more of the Companys stock. U.S. Persons who hold shares will be subject to adverse tax consequences if the Company is considered to be a Passive Foreign Investment Company (PFIC) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If the Company is considered a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, a U.S. Person who owns any shares of the Company will be subject to adverse tax consequences, including subjecting the investor to a greater tax liability than might otherwise apply and subjecting the investor to tax on amounts in advance of when tax would otherwise be imposed, in which case an investors investment could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if the Company were considered a PFIC, upon the death of any U.S. individual owning shares, such individuals heirs or estate would not be entitled to a step up in the basis of the shares which might otherwise be available under U.S. federal income tax laws. The Company believes that it is not, has not been, and currently does not expect to become, a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The Company cannot provide absolute assurance, however, that it will not be deemed a PFIC by the IRS. If the Company were considered a PFIC, it could have material adverse tax consequences for an investor that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the PFIC provisions to an insurance company. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying these rules may be forthcoming. The Company cannot predict what impact, if any, such guidance would have on an investor that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation. 32 There is U.S. income tax risk associated with reinsurance between U.S. insurance companies and their Bermuda affiliates. Congress has periodically considered legislation intended to eliminate certain perceived tax advantages of Bermuda insurance companies and U.S. insurance companies having Bermuda affiliates, including perceived tax benefits resulting principally from reinsurance between or among U.S. insurance companies and their Bermuda affiliates. In this regard, Section 845 of the Code was amended in 2004 to permit the IRS to reallocate, recharacterize or adjust items of income, deduction or certain other items related to a reinsurance agreement between related parties to reflect the proper source, character and amount for each item (in contrast to prior law, which only covered source and character). If the IRS were to successfully challenge the Companys reinsurance arrangements under Section 845, its financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. There are U.S. income tax risks associated with the related person insurance income of the Companys non U.S. insurance subsidiaries. If (i) the related person insurance income, which the Company refers to as RPII, of any one of its non U.S. insurance subsidiaries were to equal or exceed 20% of that subsidiarys gross insurance income in any taxable year and (ii) U.S. persons were treated as owning 25% or more of the subsidiarys stock (by vote or value), a U.S. person who owns any ordinary shares, directly or indirectly, on the last day of such taxable year on which the 25% threshold is met would be required to include in its income for U.S. federal income tax purposes that persons ratable share of that subsidiarys RPII for the taxable year, determined as if that RPII were distributed proportionately only to U.S. holders at that date, regardless of whether that income is distributed. The amount of RPII earned by a subsidiary (generally, premium and related investment income from the direct or indirect insurance or reinsurance of any direct or indirect U.S. holder of shares of that subsidiary or any person related to that holder) would depend on a number of factors, including the identity of persons directly or indirectly insured or reinsured by that subsidiary. Although the Company does not believe that the 20% threshold will be met in respect of any of its non U.S. insurance subsidiaries, some of the factors that may affect the result in any period may be beyond its control. Consequently, the Company cannot provide absolute assurance that it will not exceed the RPII threshold in any taxable year. The RPII rules provide that if a holder who is a U.S. person disposes of shares in a non U.S. insurance corporation that had RPII (even if the 20% threshold was not met) and met the 25% threshold at any time during the five year period ending on the date of disposition, and the holder owned any stock at such time, any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as a dividend to the extent of the holders share (taking into account certain rules for determining a U.S. holders share of RPII) of the corporations undistributed earnings and profits that were accumulated during the period that the holder owned the shares (possibly whether or not those earnings and profits are attributable to RPII). In addition, such a shareholder will be required to comply with specified reporting requirements, regardless of the amount of shares owned. The Company believes that these rules should not apply to dispositions of its ordinary shares because the Company is not itself directly engaged in the insurance business. The Company cannot provide absolute assurance, however, that the IRS will not successfully assert that these rules apply to dispositions of its ordinary shares. Changes in U.S. tax law might adversely affect an investment in the Companys shares. The tax treatment of non U.S. companies and their U.S. and non U.S. insurance subsidiaries has been the subject of Congressional discussion and legislative proposals. For example, one legislative proposal would impose additional limits on the deductibility of interest by foreign owned U.S. corporations. Another legislative proposal would treat a non U.S. corporation as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes if it were considered to be primarily managed and controlled in the U.S. We cannot assure you that future legislative action will not increase the amount of U.S. tax payable by us. If this happens, the Companys financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations, including those regarding whether a company is engaged in a trade or business (or has a permanent establishment) within the United States or is a PFIC, or whether U.S. holders would be required to include in their gross income subpart F income or the RPII of a CFC, are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the PFIC rules to insurance companies and the regulations regarding RPII are still in proposed form. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying such rules may be forthcoming. The Company cannot be certain if, when or in what form such regulations or pronouncements may be provided and whether such guidance will have a retroactive effect. Risks Related to the Companys Ordinary Shares The price and trading volume of the Companys ordinary shares may be subject to significant fluctuations. The price and trading volume of the Companys ordinary shares may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, including: catastrophes or other events that may impact or be perceived by investors as impacting the insurance and reinsurance industries; 33 exposure to capital markets risks related to changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices and foreign exchange rates; quarterly variations in the Companys operating results and the results of its affiliates; changes in the markets expectations about the Companys future operating results; changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts concerning the Company or the insurance and reinsurance industries generally; changes in the credit ratings assigned to the Companys claims paying ability by S&P, A.M. Best or other independent rating agencies; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us; news reports relating to the Companys business and trends in the markets in which the Company operates; changes in the laws and regulations affecting the Companys business; acquisitions and financings by the Company or others in the Companys industry; and, sales or acquisitions of a substantial number of the Companys ordinary shares by its directors and executive officers or significant shareholders, or the perception that such sales could occur. In addition, in recent years stock markets around the world have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may materially adversely affect the price of the Companys ordinary shares, regardless of its operating results. Provisions in the Companys Articles of Association may reduce the voting rights of its ordinary shares. The Companies Articles of Association generally provide that shareholders have one vote for each ordinary share held by them and are entitled to vote, on a non cumulative basis, at all meetings of shareholders. However, the voting rights exercisable by a shareholder may be limited so that certain persons or groups are not deemed to hold 10% or more of the voting power conferred by its ordinary shares. Under these limitations, some shareholders may have less than one vote for each ordinary share held by them. Moreover, these limitations could have the effect of reducing the voting power of some shareholders who would not otherwise be subject to such limitations by virtue of their direct share ownership. Provisions in the Companys Articles of Association may restrict the ownership and transfer of its ordinary shares. The Companys Articles of Association provide that its Board of Directors shall decline to register a transfer of shares if it appears to its Board of Directors, whether before or after such transfer, that the effect of such transfer would be to increase the number of shares owned or controlled by any person to 10% or more of any class of voting shares, the total issued shares of XL Capital Ltd or the voting power of XL Capital Ltd. In addition, the Companys Articles of Association also provide that if, and for so long as, the votes conferred on any person by the ownership or control of the Companys shares (including any preference ordinary shares) constitute 10% or more of the votes conferred by its issued shares, each such share held by such person shall confer only a fraction of the vote that would otherwise be conferred, as determined by the formula described in its Articles of Association, and such voting rights will continue to be readjusted until no shareholders voting rights exceed this limitation as a result of such reduction. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Companys Board of Directors may make such final adjustments to the aggregate number of votes conferred on any person by the ownership or control of shares that they consider fair and reasonable, in the light of all applicable circumstances, to ensure that such votes represent less than 10% of the aggregate voting power of the votes conferred by all its issued shares. For these purposes, references to ownership or control of the Companys shares means ownership within the meaning of Section 958 of the Code and Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Certain provisions in the Companys charter documents and Rights Agreement could, among other things, impede an attempt to replace its directors or to effect a change of control, which could diminish the value of its ordinary shares. The Companys articles of association contain provisions that may make it more difficult for shareholders to replace directors and could delay or prevent a change of control that a shareholder might consider favorable. These provisions include a staggered board of directors, limitations on the ability of shareholders to remove directors, limitations on voting rights and certain transfer restrictions on its ordinary shares. In addition, certain provisions in the Companys Rights Agreement could delay or prevent a change of control that a shareholder might consider favorable. These provisions may prevent a shareholder from receiving the benefit of any premium over the market price of the Companys ordinary shares offered by a bidder in connection with a potential takeover. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt or an attempt to effect a change in management, these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of the Companys ordinary shares if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. See Market for 34 Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. In addition, insurance regulations in certain jurisdictions may also delay or prevent a change of control or limit the ability of a shareholder to acquire in excess of specified amounts of the Companys ordinary shares. It may be difficult to enforce judgments against XL Capital Ltd or its directors and executive officers. XL Capital Ltd is incorporated pursuant to the laws of the Cayman Islands and its principal executive offices are in Bermuda. In addition, certain of the Companys directors and officers reside outside the United States and a substantial portion of its assets and the assets of such directors and officers are located outside the United States. As such, it may be difficult or impossible to effect service of process within the United States upon those persons or to recover on judgments of U.S. courts against the Company or its directors and officers, including judgments predicated upon civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws. The Company has been advised by Cayman counsel that there is doubt as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands would enforce: judgments of U.S. courts based upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws obtained in actions against XL Capital Ltd or its directors and officers who reside outside the United States; or original actions brought in the Cayman Islands against these persons or XL Capital Ltd predicated solely upon U.S. federal securities laws. We have also been advised that there is no treaty in effect between the United States and the Cayman Islands providing for such enforcement and there are grounds upon which Cayman Islands courts may not enforce judgments of United States courts. Some remedies available under the laws of U.S. jurisdictions, including some remedies available under U.S. federal securities laws, may not be allowed in Cayman Islands courts as contrary to public policy. U.S. persons who own the Companys ordinary shares may have more difficulty protecting their interests than U.S. persons who are shareholders of a U.S. corporation. The law applicable to companies established in the Cayman Islands, under which the Company is governed, differs in certain material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. These differences include the manner in which directors must disclose transactions in which they have an interest and their ability to vote notwithstanding a conflict of interest, the rights of shareholders to bring class action and derivative lawsuits and the scope of indemnification available to directors and officers. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES The Company operates in Bermuda, the United States, Europe and various other locations around the world. In 1997, the Company acquired commercial real estate in Hamilton, Bermuda for the purpose of securing long term office space for its worldwide headquarters. The development was completed in April 2001. The total cost of this development, including land, was approximately $126.6 million. In July 2003, the Company acquired new offices at 70 Gracechurch Street, London, which have become the Companys new London headquarters. The acquisition was made through a purchase, sale and leaseback transaction. The move to the new offices was completed in 2004 and consolidated the Companys London businesses in one location. The Company has recorded a capital lease asset and liability of approximately $150.0 million related to this transaction. The majority of all other office facilities throughout the world that are occupied by the Company and its subsidiaries are leased. Total rent expense for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $34.5 million, $35.8 million and $34.9 million, respectively. See Item 8, Note 18(d) to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Commitments and Contingencies Properties, for discussion of the Companys lease commitments for real property. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS On September 21, 2004, a consolidated and amended class action complaint (the Amended Complaint) was served on the Company and certain of its present and former directors and officers as defendants in a putative class action (Malin et al. v. XL Capital Ltd et al.) filed in United States District Court, District of Connecticut (the Malin Action). The Malin Action purports to be on behalf of purchasers of the Companys common stock between November 1, 2001 and October 16, 2003, and alleges claims under Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b 5 promulgated thereunder (the Securities Laws). The Amended Complaint alleged that the defendants violated the Securities Laws by, among other things, failing to disclose in various public statements, reports to shareholders and other communications the alleged inadequacy of the Companys loss reserves for its NAC Re subsidiary (now known as XL Reinsurance America, Inc.) and that, as a consequence, the Companys earnings and assets were materially overstated. On August 26, 2005, the Court dismissed the Amended Complaint owing to its failure adequately to allege that the lead plaintiffs had sustained a loss, but provided leave for the plaintiffs to file a further amended complaint. The plaintiffs thereafter filed another amended complaint (the Second Amended Complaint), which is similar to the Amended Complaint in its substantive allegations. On December 31, 2005, the defendants filed a motion to dismiss the Second Amended Complaint. The plaintiffs opposed the motion. In addition, the plaintiffs filed a motion to strike certain documents and exhibits that the XL defendants had proffered in support of the motion to dismiss. By Order dated December 15, 2006, the Judge granted in part and denied in part plaintiffs motion to strike and allowed limited discovery through March 2, 2007. The Judge denied defendants motion to dismiss without prejudice to its renewal at the conclusion of such discovery. On March 22, 2007, the defendants filed their renewed motion to dismiss the Second Amended Complaint. By order dated July 21, 2007, the Judge granted defendants renewed motion and dismissed the Second Amended Complaint. On August 30, 2007 plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal. Briefing on the Appeal will be concluded in March, after which argument will be held. The Company and the defendant present and former officers and directors will continue to vigorously defend the Malin Action. In November 2006, a subsidiary of the Company received a grand jury subpoena from the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice and a subpoena from the SEC, both of which seek documents in connection with an investigation into the municipal guaranteed investment contract (GIC) market and related products. The Company is fully cooperating with these investigations. From time to time, the Company has also received and responded to additional requests from Attorneys General, state insurance regulators and federal regulators for information relating to the Companys contingent commission arrangements with 35 brokers and agents and or the Companys insurance and reinsurance practices in connection with certain finite risk and loss mitigation products. Similarly, the Companys affiliates outside the United States have, from time to time, received and responded to requests from regulators relating to the Companys insurance and reinsurance practices regarding contingent commissions or finite risk and loss mitigation products. The Company has fully cooperated with the regulators in these matters. In August 2005, plaintiffs in a proposed class action (the Class Action) that was consolidated into a multidistrict litigation in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey, captioned In re Insurance Brokerage Antitrust Litigation, MDL No. 1663, Civil Action No. 04 5184 (the MDL), filed a consolidated amended complaint (the Amended Complaint), which named as new defendants approximately 30 entities, including Greenwich Insurance Company, Indian Harbor Insurance Company and XL Capital Ltd. In the MDL, the Class Action plaintiffs asserted various claims purportedly on behalf of a class of commercial insureds against approximately 113 insurance companies and insurance brokers through which the named plaintiffs allegedly purchased insurance. The Amended Complaint alleged that the defendant insurance companies and insurance brokers conspired to manipulate bidding practices for insurance policies in certain insurance lines and failed to disclose certain commission arrangements. The named plaintiffs asserted statutory claims under the Sherman Act, various state antitrust laws and the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO), as well as common law claims alleging breach of fiduciary duty, aiding and abetting a breach of fiduciary duty and unjust enrichment. Discovery in the MDL commenced in the latter part of 2005. Defendants filed motions to dismiss the Amended Complaint in late November 2005. By Opinion and Order dated October 3, 2006, the Court ruled on defendants motions to dismiss the Amended Complaint, holding that plaintiffs RICO and antitrust claims were deficient as pled and directing plaintiffs to file a supplemental RICO case statement and a supplemental statement of particularity as to their Sherman Act claims. Plaintiffs filed their supplemental pleadings on October 25, 2006 and on November 30, 2006, defendants filed motions to dismiss plaintiffs supplemental pleadings. By Orders dated April 5, 2007, the Court dismissed plaintiffs Sherman Act and RICO claims without prejudice to their filing final amended pleadings. By Order dated April 11, 2007, the Court stayed all proceedings in the MDL, including discovery, pending the disposition of defendants motions to dismiss plaintiffs Second Amended Complaint, which was filed on May 22, 2007 and contained allegations as to XL that were materially similar to those set forth in plaintiffs October 2006 pleadings, but also purported to add as new defendants three other XL entities. On June 2007, XL (along with other defendants) filed motions to dismiss the Sherman Act and RICO claims alleged in the Second Amended Complaint and to strike the newly named parties. By Opinion and Order dated August 31, 2007, the Court dismissed the Class Action plaintiffs Sherman Act claims with prejudice and, by Opinion and Order dated September 28, 2007, the Court dismissed the Class Action plaintiffs RICO claims with prejudice. In its September 28, 2007, Opinion and Order, the Court declined to exercise supplemental jurisdiction over the Class Action plaintiffs state law claims. On October 10, 2007, the Class Action plaintiffs filed a Notice of Appeal, stating their intention to appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit (the Third Circuit) from the District Courts October 3, 2006 Opinion and Order; April 5, 2007 Opinions and Order; August 31, 2007 Opinion and Order; and September 28, 2007 Opinion and Order. Plaintiffs opening appellate brief was filed on February 19, 2008; defendants opposition appellate brief is due March 20, 2008 and plaintiffs reply appellate brief is due April 3, 2008. The District Court has not yet advised the parties whether it intends to continue its April 11, 2007 stay of all proceedings in the MDL pending a ruling on the appeal by the Third Circuit or set a schedule in connection with the various tag along actions that have been consolidated into the MDL. Various XL entities have been named as defendants in three of the many tag along actions that have been consolidated into the MDL for pretrial purposes. On April 4, 2006, a tag along Complaint was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia on behalf of New Cingular Wireless Headquarters LLC and several other corporations against approximately 100 defendants, including Greenwich Insurance Company, XL Specialty Insurance Company, XL Insurance America, Inc., XL Insurance Company Limited, Lloyds syndicates 861, 588 and 1209 and XL Capital Ltd. (the New Cingular Lawsuit). The New Cingular Lawsuit is a tag along action that does not purport to be a class action. The New Cingular Complaint, which made the same basic allegations as those alleged in the Class Action plaintiffs Second Amended Complaint, asserted statutory claims under the Sherman Act, the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, as well as common law claims alleging breach of fiduciary duty, inducement to breach fiduciary duty, unjust enrichment and fraud. On January 5, 2007, the plaintiffs in the New Cingular Lawsuit filed an Amended Complaint, a RICO Statement and a memorandum of law. In accordance with the Courts April 11, 2007 Order, all proceedings in the New Cingular Lawsuit, including discovery and motions by defendants to dismiss the New Cingular Amended Complaint, were stayed pending the Courts disposition of defendants motions to dismiss the Second Amended Complaint filed in the MDL. The parties are awaiting the District Courts decision as to whether the New Cingular Lawsuit will continued to be stayed or be permitted to proceed pending the Third Circuits disposition of the Class Action plaintiffs pending appeal. On or about May 21, 2007 a tag along Complaint was filed in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey on behalf of Henley Management Company, Big Bear Properties, Inc., Northbrook Properties, Inc., RCK Properties, Inc., Kitchens, Inc., Aberfeldy LP and Payroll and Insurance Group, Inc. against multiple defendants, including XL Winterthur International (the Henley Lawsuit). The Complaint in the Henley Lawsuit, which contains certain of the basic allegations that are contained in the Class Action plaintiffs Second Amended Complaint, alleges violations of Section 1 of the Sherman Act against all defendants and various other claims that are alleged against only defendant Marsh. The Henley Lawsuit is a tag along action that does not purport to be a class action. By Order dated July 11, 2007, the Court ordered that the Henley Lawsuit be consolidated into the MDL, making the 36 Henley Lawsuit subject to the Courts April 11, 2007 stay Order. The parties are awaiting the District Courts decision as to whether the Henley Lawsuit will continued to be stayed or be permitted to proceed pending the Third Circuits disposition of the Class Action plaintiffs pending appeal. On October 12, 2007, a Complaint in a third tag along action, captioned Sears Roebuck & Co. v. Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc., et al., No. 1:07 CV 2535 (the Sears Lawsuit), was filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia by Sears, Roebuck & Co., Sears Holdings Corporation, Kmart Corporation and Lands End Inc. Among the many named defendants are X.L. America, Inc., XL Insurance America, Inc., XL Specialty Insurance Company and XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd. The Complaint in the Sears Lawsuit, which contains many of the basic allegations that were contained in the Class Action plaintiffs Second Amended Complaint, alleges violations of the Sherman Act and RICO, as well as claims alleging breach of fiduciary duty against the broker defendants; inducement to breach fiduciary duty against the insurer defendants; breach of contract against the broker defendants; tortious interference with contract against the insurer defendants; unjust enrichment; common law fraud against the broker defendants; aiding and abetting common law fraud against the insurer defendants; violation of state consumer fraud statutes; and violation of state antitrust statutes. The Sears Lawsuit is a tag along action that does not purport to be a class action. The parties are awaiting the District Courts decision as to whether the Sears Lawsuit will continued to be stayed or be permitted to proceed pending the Third Circuits disposition of the Class Action plaintiffs pending appeal. Three similar class actions have been filed against XL Insurance Ltd (XLI) and others in the United States District Court, for the Southern District of New York on behalf of shareholders of Security Capital Assurance, Inc. (SCA). The complaints, filed December 7, 2007, December 18, 2007 and January 8, 2008 name as defendants SCA, two SCA officers, (and in two of the cases) Goldman Sachs & Co., J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc., and Merrill Lynch, Pierce Fenner & Smith, Inc. All allege violations of various U.S. Securities laws against the defendants arising from purchases of SCA shares in the June 6, 2007 secondary offering and shortly before. The complaints allege, among other things, that the Registration Statement and other public disclosures made by SCA and individual defendants contained untrue statements of material facts and omitted other necessary facts to make the statements not misleading. The complaints allege that the disclosures failed to disclose that SCA was materially exposed to extremely risky securities (RMBS) relating to sub prime real estate mortgages. The allegations against XLI claim it is liable as a selling shareholder and as a party that controlled SCA during the relevant time period. It is expected that the cases will be consolidated and an amended complaint may be filed. The Company intends to vigorously defend these claims. The Company is also subject to litigation and arbitration in the normal course of its business. These lawsuits and arbitrations principally involve claims on policies of insurance and contracts of reinsurance and are typical for the Company and for the property and casualty insurance and reinsurance industry in general. Such legal proceedings are considered in connection with the Companys loss and loss expense reserves. Reserves in varying amounts may or may not be established in respect of particular claims proceedings based on many factors, including the legal merits thereof. In addition to claims litigation, the Company and its subsidiaries are subject to lawsuits in the normal course of business that do not arise from or directly relate to claims on policies of insurance or contracts of reinsurance. The Company believes that the ultimate outcome of all outstanding litigation and arbitration will not have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial condition, operating results and or liquidity, although an adverse resolution of one or more of these items could have a material adverse effect on the Companys results of operations in a particular fiscal quarter or year. 37 ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS No matters were submitted to a vote of ordinary shareholders during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report. Executive Officers of the Company The table below sets forth the names, ages and titles of the persons who were the executive officers of the Company at December 31, 2007: Name Age Position Brian M. OHara 59 President, Chief Executive Officer and Acting Chairman of the Board Henry C.V. Keeling 52 Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer Fiona E. Luck 50 Executive Vice President, Chief of Staff Brian W. Nocco 55 Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Michael C. Lobdell 50 Executive Vice President, Chief Executive Global Business Services Sarah E. Street 45 Executive Vice President, Chief Investment Officer Clive R. Tobin 58 Executive Vice President, Chief Executive of Insurance Operations James H. Veghte 51 Executive Vice President, Chief Executive of Reinsurance Operations Kirstin Romann Gould 41 Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Brian M. OHara has been President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since 1994 and a Director of the Company since 1986, having previously served as Vice Chairman of the Company from 1987. He is Chairman of XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd and was Chief Executive Officer of XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd until 1998, having previously served as Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer from 1994, President and Chief Executive Officer from 1992 and as President and Chief Operating Officer from 1986. In late October 2007, the Company announced that Mr. Brian M. OHara had informed the Companys Board of Directors of his decision to retire as President and CEO in mid 2008. On December 28, 2007, Mr. Michael P. Esposito Jr., then Chairman of the Board, resigned from the Company and on the same day, Mr. OHara was appointed as Acting Chairman of the Board. Henry C.V. Keeling was appointed Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer in June 2006 having previously served as, Chief Executive of Reinsurance Operations from July 2000 until November 2004 when he was appointed Chief Executive of Reinsurance Operations and Global Head of Business Services, and January 2006 when he became Global Head of Business Services and Chief Executive, Reinsurance Life Operations. Mr. Keeling was Chief Executive Officer of XL Re Ltd since August 1998. Mr. Keeling was President and Chief Operating and Underwriting Officer of Mid Ocean Re (now known as XL Re Ltd) from 1992 to 1998. He previously served as a director of Taylor Clayton (Underwriting Agencies) Ltd and deputy underwriter for Syndicate 51 at Lloyds from 1984 through 1992. Fiona E. Luck was appointed Executive Vice President, Chief of Staff in June 2006 having previously served as Executive Vice President and Global Head of Corporate Services since November 2004 and Assistant Secretary since January 2002. In addition, Ms. Luck served as the Companys Interim Chief Financial Officer from March 2007 to August 2007. From 1999 to 2004, Ms. Luck was Executive Vice President of Group Operations of the Company. Ms. Luck was previously employed at ACE Bermuda as Executive Vice President from 1998, and Senior Vice President from 1997. From 1992 to 1997, Ms. Luck was the Managing Director of the Marsh & McLennan Global Broking office in Bermuda. Brian W. Nocco was appointed Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer in August 2007. Mr. Nocco was previously employed at Nationwide Insurance Group as Chief Risk Officer from 2006 to 2007, and Senior Vice President and Treasurer from 2001 to 2005. Prior to Nationwide, Mr. Nocco served as Executive Vice President, Corporate Development of Imperial Bank and Chief Financial Officer of two of its subsidiaries. From 1994 to 1998, Mr. Nocco served as Senior Vice President, Chief Compliance Officer with The Chubb Corporation. Michael C. Lobdell was appointed Executive Vice President, Chief Executive Global Business Services in July 2006. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Lobdell held numerous leadership positions at New York based JPMorganChase, including Senior Partner of the Mergers & Acquisitions Group, Managing Director and Chief Operating Officer of Global Investment Banking, Chairman of JPMorgan North American Investment Banking Management Committee, Head of Risk Technology Operations for Europe, and Managing Director and Head of Chase Middle Market Treasury Service Integration Project. Sarah E. Street was appointed to the position of Executive Vice President and Chief Investment Officer in October 2006. Ms. Street is also the Chief Executive Officer of XL Capital Investment Partners. Prior to joining XL, Ms. Street held numerous leadership positions at JPMorganChase and its predecessor organizations, working in a number of corporate finance units as well as in the capital markets business of the bank. 38 Clive R. Tobin has been Executive Vice President and Chief Executive of Insurance Operations since April 2004. Mr. Tobin was President and Chief Executive of XL Winterthur International from February 2002, having previously served as Deputy Chief Executive and Chief Underwriting Officer of XL Winterthur International following the Companys acquisition of the risk management business from Credit Suisse in 2001, and President and Chief Executive of XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd since July 1999. From 1995 to 1999, Mr. Tobin held a variety of senior management positions at XL. Prior to joining XL in 1995, Mr. Tobin served as President of Rockefeller Insurance Company and Acadia Risk Management Services, Inc., in New York. From 1979 to 1986, Mr. Tobin served as Vice President of Risk Management Services for Marsh & McLennan, Inc. On January 7, 2008, the Company announced that Mr. Tobin will retire effective April 1, 2008 from his role as Chief Executive of the Companys Insurance Operations, and will concentrate on assisting the Company with strategic opportunities in emerging markets. David B. Duclos, currently Chief Operating Officer of the Companys Insurance Operations, will succeed Mr. Tobin as Chief Executive. James H. Veghte was appointed Executive Vice President, Chief Executive of Reinsurance Operations in January 2006. Mr. Veghte was Chief Executive Officer of XL Reinsurance America Inc. (XLRA) having previously served as Chief Operating Officer of XLs reinsurance operations and President, Chief Operating Officer & Chief Underwriting Officer of XL Re Ltd. Previously held roles with the Company include President of XL Re Latin America Ltd., Chief Operating Officer of Le Mans Re (now the French branch of XL Re Europe Ltd.), General Manager of XL Re Ltds London branch and Executive Vice President and Underwriter of XL Mid Ocean Reinsurance Ltd in Bermuda. Prior to joining XL, Mr. Veghte was Senior Vice President and Chief Underwriting Officer of Winterthur Reinsurance Corp of America. Kirstin Romann Gould was appointed to the position of Executive Vice President, General Counsel in September 2007 and this new position includes her prior responsibilities as General Counsel, Corporate Affairs and Corporate Secretary. Ms. Gould was previously Executive Vice President, General Counsel of Corporate Affairs from July 2006 to September 2007 and has also served as Chief Corporate Legal Officer and Associate General Counsel. Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Gould was associated with the law firms of Clifford Chance and Dewey Ballantine in New York and London. 39 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES The Companys Class A ordinary shares, $0.01 par value, are listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol XL. The following table sets forth the high, low and closing sales prices per share of the Companys Class A ordinary shares per fiscal quarter, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape: High Low Close 2007: 1st Quarter $ 74.40 $ 66.93 $ 69.96 2nd Quarter 84.91 69.44 84.29 3rd Quarter 85.67 70.47 79.20 4th Quarter 82.10 48.16 50.31 High Low Close 2006: 1st Quarter $ 71.97 $ 63.80 $ 64.11 2nd Quarter 67.30 60.67 61.30 3rd Quarter 69.33 59.82 68.70 4th Quarter 72.90 68.25 72.02 Each Class A ordinary share has one vote, except if, and so long as, the Controlled Shares (defined below) of any person constitute ten percent (10%) or more of the issued Class A ordinary shares, the voting rights with respect to the Controlled Shares owned by such person are limited, in the aggregate, to a voting power of approximately 10%, pursuant to a formula specified in the Companys Articles of Association. Controlled Shares includes, among other things, all Class A ordinary shares which such person is deemed to beneficially own directly, indirectly or constructively (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or Section 958 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended). The number of record holders of Class A ordinary shares as of December 31, 2007 was 375. This figure does not represent the actual number of beneficial owners of the Companys Class A ordinary shares because such shares are frequently held in street name by securities dealers and others for the benefit of individual owners who may vote the shares. In 2007, four quarterly dividends were paid at $0.38 per share to all ordinary shareholders of record as of March 15, June 11, September 10 and December 10. In 2006, four quarterly dividends were paid at $0.38 per share to all ordinary shareholders of record as of March 15, June 12, September 11 and December 11. On January 25, 2008, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.38 per share payable on March 31, 2008 to shareholders of record on March 14, 2008. The declaration and payment of future dividends by the Company will be at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend upon many factors, including the Companys earnings, financial condition, business needs, capital and surplus requirements of the Companys operating subsidiaries and regulatory and contractual restrictions. As a holding company, the Companys principal source of income is dividends or other statutorily permissible payments from its subsidiaries. The ability to pay such dividends is limited by the applicable laws and regulations of the various countries that the Company operates in, including Bermuda, the United States and the U.K., and those of the Society of Lloyds, and certain contractual provisions. See Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 8, Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Statutory Financial Data, for further discussion. Rights to purchase Class A ordinary shares (Rights) were distributed as a dividend at the rate of one Right for each Class A ordinary share held of record as of the close of business on October 31, 1998. Each Right entitles holders of Class A ordinary shares to buy one ordinary share at an exercise price of $350. The Rights would be exercisable, and would detach from the Class A ordinary shares, only if a person or group were to acquire 20% or more of the Companys outstanding Class A ordinary shares, or were to announce a tender or exchange offer that, if consummated, would result in a person or group beneficially owning 20% or more of Class A ordinary shares. Upon a person or group without prior approval of the Board acquiring 20% or more of Class A ordinary shares, each Right would entitle the holder (other than such an acquiring person or group) to purchase Class A ordinary shares (or, in certain circumstances, Class A ordinary shares of the acquiring person) with a value of twice the Rights exercise price upon payment of the Rights exercise price. The Company will be entitled to redeem the Rights at $0.01 per Right at any time until the close of business on the tenth day after the Rights become exercisable. The Rights will expire at the close of business on September 30, 2008, 40 and do not initially have a fair value. The Company has initially reserved 119,073,878 Class A ordinary shares being authorized and unissued for issue upon exercise of Rights. Information concerning securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans appears in Part III, Item 12, Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters. Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliate Purchases The following table provides information about purchases by the Company during the quarter ended December 31, 2007 of equity securities that are registered by the Company pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act: Period Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs (1) October 271,341 $ 72.80 250,000 $ 489.1 million November 1,533,500 69.37 1,533,500 $ 375.5 million December 1,025 58.53 $ 375.5 million Total 1,805,866 $ 69.88 1,783,500 $ 375.5 million (1) On February 23, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company approved a share repurchase program that authorized the Company to repurchase up to $1.0 billion of its Class A ordinary shares and included the unused $135.4 million allocated to the share repurchase program authorized by the Board of Directors in January of 2000. Under the program, the Company repurchased and cancelled 13.2 million shares during the first nine months of 2007 and fully utilized the $1.0 billion authorized under the share repurchase program. On September 24, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company approved a new share repurchase program, authorizing the Company to repurchase up to $500.0 million of its Class A ordinary shares. As at December 31, 2007, the Company had repurchased 1.8 million shares for $124.5 million under the new share repurchase program. Class A Ordinary Share Performance Graph Set forth below is a line graph comparing the yearly dollar change in the cumulative total shareholder return, with all dividends reinvested, over a five year period on the Companys Class A ordinary shares from December 31, 2002 through December 31, 2007 as compared to the cumulative total return of the Standard & Poors 500 Stock Index and the cumulative total return of the Standard & Poors Property & Casualty Insurance Index. 41 ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The selected consolidated financial data below is based upon the Companys fiscal year end of December 31. The selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes thereto presented under Item 8. 2007 2006 (7) 2005 (7) 2004 (7) 2003 (7) (U.S. dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) Income Statement Data: Net premiums earned $ 7,205,356 $ 7,569,518 $ 9,365,495 $ 8,582,014 $ 6,993,916 Net investment income 2,248,807 1,978,184 1,475,039 1,035,012 815,487 Net realized (losses) gains on investments (603,268 ) (116,458 ) 241,882 246,547 120,195 Net realized and unrealized (losses) gains on derivative instruments (55,451 ) 101,183 28,858 73,493 6,073 Net income from investment fund affiliates (1) 326,007 269,036 154,844 124,008 119,200 Fee income and other 14,271 31,732 19,297 35,317 41,744 Net losses and loss expenses incurred (2) 3,841,003 4,201,194 7,434,336 4,865,102 4,652,064 Claims and policy benefits life operations 888,658 807,255 2,510,029 1,526,921 835,817 Acquisition costs, operating expenses and foreign exchange gains and losses 2,188,889 2,374,358 2,188,357 2,277,321 1,926,393 Interest expense 621,905 552,275 403,849 292,234 233,929 Amortization of intangible assets 1,680 2,355 10,752 15,827 4,637 Income (loss) before minority interests, net income from operating affiliates and income tax expense 1,593,587 1,895,758 (1,261,908 ) 1,118,986 443,775 Net (loss) income from operating affiliates (1)(2) (1,059,848 ) 111,670 67,426 143,357 8,923 Preference share dividends 69,514 40,322 40,322 40,321 40,321 Net income (loss) available to ordinary shareholders $ 206,375 $ 1,722,445 $ (1,292,298 ) $ 1,126,292 $ 371,658 Per Share Data: Net income (loss) per ordinary share basic (3) $ 1.16 $ 9.63 $ (9.14 ) $ 8.17 $ 2.71 Net income (loss) per ordinary share diluted (3) $ 1.15 $ 9.60 $ (9.14 ) $ 8.13 $ 2.69 Weighted average ordinary shares outstanding diluted (3) 179,693 179,450 141,406 138,582 138,187 Cash dividends per ordinary share $ 1.52 $ 1.52 $ 2.00 $ 1.96 $ 1.92 42 2007 2006 (7) 2005 (7) 2004 (7) 2003 (7) (U.S. dollars in thousands, except per share amounts and ratios) Balance Sheet Data: Total investments available for sale $ 36,265,803 $ 39,350,983 $ 35,724,439 $ 27,823,828 $ 20,775,256 Cash and cash equivalents 3,880,030 2,223,748 3,693,475 2,203,726 2,722,405 Investments in affiliates 2,611,149 2,308,781 2,046,721 1,936,852 1,903,341 Unpaid losses and loss expenses recoverable 4,697,471 5,027,772 6,441,522 6,971,356 6,045,025 Premiums receivable 3,637,452 3,591,238 3,799,041 3,838,228 3,487,322 Total assets 57,762,264 59,308,870 58,454,901 49,245,469 41,455,745 Unpaid losses and loss expenses 23,207,694 22,895,021 23,597,815 19,615,773 16,553,084 Future policy benefit reserves 6,772,042 6,476,057 5,776,318 4,556,952 3,443,885 Unearned premiums 4,681,989 5,652,897 5,388,996 5,191,368 4,729,989 Notes payable and debt 2,868,731 3,368,376 3,412,698 2,721,431 1,905,483 Shareholders equity 9,948,142 10,131,166 8,471,811 7,738,695 6,936,915 Book value per ordinary share $ 50.30 $ 53.12 $ 44.31 $ 51.98 $ 46.74 Operating Ratios: Loss and loss expense ratio (4) 59.8 % 62.2 % 107.4 % 68.8 % 75.6 % Underwriting expense ratio (5) 29.0 % 27.3 % 25.6 % 27.3 % 27.1 % Combined ratio (6) 88.8 % 89.5 % 133.0 % 96.1 % 102.7 % (1) The Company generally records the income related to alternative fund affiliates on a one month lag and the private investment fund affiliates on a three month lag in order for the Company to meet the accelerated filing deadlines. The Company generally records the income related to operating affiliates on a three month lag. (2) In 2007, $351.0 million of financial guarantee reserves related to reinsurance agreements with SCA were recorded within net loss from operating affiliates. (3) Net income per ordinary share is based on the basic and diluted weighted average number of Class A ordinary shares and share equivalents outstanding for each period. Net loss per ordinary share is based on the basic weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding. (4) The loss and loss expense ratio related to the property and casualty operations is calculated by dividing the losses and loss expenses incurred by the net premiums earned for the Insurance and Reinsurance segments. (5) The underwriting expense ratio related to the property and casualty operations is the sum of acquisition expenses and operating expenses for the Insurance and Reinsurance segments divided by net premiums earned for the Insurance and Reinsurance segments. See Item 8, Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Segment Information, for further information. (6) The combined ratio related to the property and casualty operations is the sum of the loss and loss expense ratio and the underwriting expense ratio. A combined ratio under 100% represents an underwriting profit and over 100% represents an underwriting loss. (7) Certain reclassifications to prior period information have been made to conform to current year presentation. 43 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward looking statements which involve inherent risks and uncertainties. Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about the Companys beliefs and expectations, are forward looking statements. These statements are based upon current plans, estimates and expectations. Actual results may differ materially from those projected in such forward looking statements, and therefore undue reliance should not be placed on them. See Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements for a list of additional factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statement. This discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto presented under Item 8. Certain aspects of the Companys business have loss experience characterized as low frequency and high severity. This may result in volatility in both the Companys results of operations and financial condition. Index Executive Overview 45 Financial Measures 47 Results of Operations 49 Other Key Focuses of Management 54 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 56 Segments 69 Income Statement Analysis 70 Insurance 70 Reinsurance 72 Life Operations 74 Other Financial Lines 76 SCA 76 Investment Activities 77 Investment Performance 78 Net realized gains and losses on investments and other than temporary declines in the value of investments 78 Other Revenues and Expenses 79 Balances Sheet Analysis 80 Investments 80 Net unrealized gains and losses on investments 81 Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses 82 Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses Recoverable and Reinsurance Balances Receivable 83 Liquidity and Capital Resources 84 Cross Default and Other Provisions in Debt Instruments 89 Long Term Contractual Obligations 90 Variable Interest Entities and Other Off Balance Sheet Arrangements 91 Recent Accounting Pronouncements 91 Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements 91 44 Executive Overview Background The Company operates on a global basis and is a leading provider of insurance and reinsurance coverages to industrial, commercial and professional service firms, insurance companies and other enterprises, typically the global equivalent of the Fortune 2000. The Company operates in markets where it believes its underwriting expertise and financial strength represent a relative advantage. The Company has grown through acquisitions and development of new business opportunities. Acquisitions included Global Capital Re in 1997, Mid Ocean Limited in 1998, ECS, Inc. and NAC Re Corp. in 1999, Winterthur International in 2001 and Le Mans R in 2002. All acquisitions have supported the Companys strategic plan to develop a global platform in insurance and reinsurance. The Company competes as an integrated global business with more than 4,000 employees in 28 countries. Underwriting Environment The property and casualty insurance and reinsurance markets have historically been cyclical, meaning that based on market conditions, there have been periods where premium rates are high and policy terms and conditions are more favorable to the Company (a hard market) and there have been periods where premium rates decline and policy terms and conditions are less favorable to the Company (a soft market). Market conditons are driven primarily by competition in the marketplace, the supply of capital in the industry, investment yields and the frequency and severity of loss events. Managements goal is to build long term shareholder value by capitalizing on current opportunities and managing through any cyclical downturns by reducing its property and casualty book of business and exposures if and when rates deteriorate to unprofitable levels. As part of its long term strategy, the Company also looks to its Life Operations segment to provide a diversified stream of earnings that are not directly tied to the property and casualty cycle. The Company earns its revenue primarily from net premiums written and earned. In 2005, downward pressure on rates across most non catastrophe exposed lines continued throughout the year although the impact of the 2004 storm season, the backdrop of continued emergence of adverse development related to the market of the late 1990s and concerns about reinsurer financial strength, all served to reinforce a sense of discipline in the market. Following the significant natural catastrophes of 2005, additional competitors were formed in the marketplace which had the effect of increasing the available capacity within the insurance and reinsurance markets during 2006. Although rates within some lines of business, such as catastrophe exposed property, experienced increases, an overall increasingly competitive environment and the entrance of these new competitors had a dampening effect on rates within many property and casualty lines of business, which ultimately contributed to reducing gross and net premiums written in 2006. During 2007, all lines of business within the Insurance segment continued to experience rate declines as well as increased competition as the insurance market continued to soften. Rate changes on business renewed varied by line of business with decreases ranging from roughly 1% to 11%. Premiums were also reduced over 2006 by the decision not to renew ICAT, a program which offered property catastrophe insurance primarily to small business customers. The Insurance segment wrote some new business lines, notably Excess & Surplus lines and Private Company Directors and Officers insurance, both in the U.S. Customer retentions ratios were generally consistent with historic levels, with the exception of lines in which deliberate action had been taken to reduce exposure, primarily in catastrophe prone businesses. The Insurance segment also saw an increase in the volume of long term agreements compared with the previous year, most notably in casualty lines of business, and also benefited from changes in foreign exchange rates. The following table provides an analysis of gross premiums written, net premiums written and net premiums earned for the Insurance segment for the last three years ended December 31: 2007 2006 (3) 2005 (3) (U.S. dollars in thousands) Gross Premiums Written Net Premiums Written Net Premiums Earned Gross Premiums Written Net Premiums Written Net Premiums Earned Gross Premiums Written Net Premiums Written Net Premiums Earned Casualty professional lines $ 1,516,412 $ 1,376,819 $ 1,404,567 $ 1,558,746 $ 1,490,896 $ 1,483,518 $ 1,575,897 $ 1,477,423 $ 1,407,188 Casualty other lines 1,342,817 848,919 819,687 1,304,245 799,957 847,834 1,567,825 985,331 919,268 Property catastrophe 15,312 (7,460 ) 52,541 149,436 68,847 56,714 157,491 69,119 57,027 Other property 982,492 686,932 632,959 958,942 595,783 585,366 913,970 602,841 561,135 Marine, energy, aviation, and satellite 809,073 623,085 638,162 942,974 695,391 676,009 929,174 650,649 661,260 Other specialty lines (1) 674,591 578,944 484,928 656,765 489,322 415,749 585,056 421,352 435,662 Other (2) 36,698 27,439 33,416 10,167 5,776 60,784 93,541 78,350 101,883 Structured indemnity 56,871 52,177 50,328 46,018 39,400 33,349 25,167 25,167 22,285 Total $ 5,434,266 $ 4,186,855 $ 4,116,588 $ 5,627,293 $ 4,185,372 $ 4,159,323 $ 5,848,121 $ 4,310,232 $ 4,165,708 (1) Other specialty lines within the Insurance segment includes: environmental, programs, equine, warranty, and excess and surplus lines. (2) Other includes employers liability, surety, political risk and other lines; (3) Certain lines of business previously reported under the Financial Lines segment have been reclassified and reported under the Insurance and Reinsurance segments based on the nature of the business written. 45 During 2007, most lines of business within the Reinsurance segment experienced pricing erosion, increased retentions by cedants and competitive pressures in the form of other reinsurers, capital markets, and local governments. In addition, the Company continued to focus on its stated intention of defending rate adequacy in the reinsurance market and maintaining underwriting discipline. Within U.S. catastrophe exposed property lines of business, rates decreased approximately 5 to 10% off prior highs for wind exposure while rates for U.S. earthquake remained flat to down 5%. For non U.S. non catastrophe property lines of business, increased competition also led to price reductions of approximately 10 to 15%. Ocean marine pricing rates fell by approximately 10% except on programs that had experienced adverse claims. In addition, casualty pricing trends in the Reinsurance segment grew following those of the Insurance segment with an overall deterioration in rates and pressures on terms and conditions. Within the aviation market, rate reductions in the region of 5 to 10% continued to be experienced, although the declines experienced were less than those in the primary insurance market. The following table provides an analysis of gross premiums written, net premiums written and net premiums earned for the Reinsurance segment for the last three years ended December 31: 2007 2006 (2) (3) 2005 (2) (3) (U.S. dollars in thousands) Gross Premiums Written Net Premiums Written Net Premiums Earned Gross Premiums Written Net Premiums Written Net Premiums Earned Gross Premiums Written Net Premiums Written Net Premiums Earned Casualty professional lines $ 256,280 $ 256,327 $ 273,494 $ 297,962 $ 296,221 $ 346,870 $ 346,758 $ 343,562 $ 356,937 Casualty other lines 543,251 527,860 602,452 660,455 613,056 723,854 861,113 810,971 858,651 Property catastrophe 475,540 286,866 264,666 449,347 234,724 234,965 481,765 309,293 302,291 Other property 970,196 677,764 753,278 1,044,316 730,445 749,714 1,008,333 724,837 701,459 Marine, energy, aviation, and satellite 150,548 128,942 141,619 176,928 139,748 154,313 241,045 192,445 194,646 Other (2) 239,418 204,845 240,049 365,844 298,860 294,532 396,274 320,526 288,403 Structured indemnity 28,261 28,261 26,481 71,286 71,286 66,711 36,901 31,531 31,774 Total $ 2,663,494 $ 2,110,865 $ 2,302,039 $ 3,066,138 $ 2,384,340 $ 2,570,959 $ 3,372,189 $ 2,733,165 $ 2,734,161 (1) Other includes employers liability, surety, political risk and other lines; (2) To facilitate period to period comparisons, certain short term Accident and Health business previously included in the Reinsurance segment has been reclassified to the Life Operations segment to conform to current segment management responsibilities. (3) Certain lines of business previously reported under the Financial Lines segment have been reclassified and reported under the Insurance and Reinsurance segments based on the nature of the business written. Going forward, management intends to maximize the Companys ability to achieve profitable growth by focusing on leveraging the Companys operational platforms and building out the Companys capabilities, teams and product offerings in its chosen markets. Such markets include excess & surplus, private company D&O, fine art and specie, U.S. term life reinsurance and other lines and regions where management believes positive market indicators exist. The following sets forth potential trends relevant to the Companys property and casualty operations in 2008: 2008 Underwriting Outlook In the Insurance segment, January 2008 renewals continue to reflect increasing soft market conditions as premium rates across most lines of business continue to decrease within the market. In addition, competitive pressures continue to make new business more difficult to win. Initial indications based on January 2008 renewals indicate decreases in premium rates of approximately 5 to 20%, while certain casualty lines have experienced premium rate reductions of approximately 5 to 15%. In addition, premium rates within certain specialty lines and the U.S. Excess and Surplus line of business have decreased by up to 10%. While market competition continues to increase in most lines of business in early 2008, desired retentions have broadly been maintained. However, as a result of recent rating agency downgrades in late January 2008, as described above, it may be more difficult for the Company, going forward, to attract new business and or retain previously written business, particularly within certain casualty and professional lines of business, however, initial reactions from customers and brokers have indicated this is likely to be limited. In the Reinsurance segment, initial indications based on January 1, 2008 renewals point to a decline in premium rates across most major lines of business, as market conditions continue to soften and the reinsurance industry continues to experience pricing erosion, increased competitive pressures and increased retentions by cedants. Consistent with 2007, renewals and new business in 2008 continue to be assessed against internal hurdle rates with a continued focus on underwriting discipline. U.S. catastrophe exposed property lines have experienced rate declines of approximately 10% to 15%, while rates for non U.S. catastrophe exposed property lines of business have dropped by up to 10%. Other property lines of business have seen rates decrease by 10% to 15%. Ocean marine pricing rates remain flat to down 5%, while rates within the aviation market have decreased by up to 10%. Casualty pricing trends in the reinsurance market have experienced deterioration in rates of up to 15%. However, rate changes on business actually bound in this line of business have decreased between 10 to 15%. 46 Investment Environment The Company seeks to generate revenue from investment activities through returns on its investment portfolio. The Companys current investment strategy seeks to support the liabilities arising from the operations of the Company, generate investment income and build book value over the longer term. In 2007, the Companys net investment income increased as a result of an increase in the overall size of the investment portfolio combined with higher investment yields. However, net realized losses and impairments totaled $603.3 million during 2007 of which $385.1 million related to sub prime and mortgage related structured assets held throughout the portfolios and primarily represented other than temporary impairments on securities with sub prime non agency collateral, second liens, ABS collateralized debt obligations (CDOs) with sub prime collateral as well as Alt A mortgage collateral holdings. In addition, net pre tax unrealized loss position on available for sale assets deteriorated by $772.1 million in 2007 primarily as a result of the impact on fixed income securities of the deterioration of global corporate and structured credit spreads during 2007, partially offset by the impact of declining government rates in the U.S. and the U.K. as well as losses realized. The increase in the size of the investment portfolio resulted from positive cash flows from operations and positive net cash flow from the Companys financing activities. Higher investment yields on the Companys investment portfolio were due primarily to the full 2007 financial year impact of the higher interest rates experienced in the U.S., U.K. and Euro zone, during the latter part of 2006 and the beginning part of 2007. The benchmark 5 year treasury fell from 4.69% to 3.44%, and the 30 year treasury fell from 4.81% to 4.45%. Interest rates also decreased in the U.K., where the yield on the benchmark 5 year Gilt fell from 5.06% to 4.41%. In the Euro zone, the yield on the benchmark 5 year German Bund rose slightly from 3.92% to 4.12%. In 2006, the Companys net investment income increased primarily due to the increase in the size of the investment portfolio and also a rise in the level of the U.S., U.K., and Euro zone interest rates. In 2006, the Company generated net realized losses from its investment portfolio primarily due to other than temporary impairments. Net gains from the equity and non U.S. dollar fixed income portfolios were offset by net losses on U.S. dollar fixed income portfolios, reflecting higher U.S. interest rates. In 2005, the Company generated net realized gains from both its equity and fixed income portfolios, reflecting the then current and accumulated performance of the capital markets. The Company expects stable net investment income from its property and casualty operations in 2008. The average asset base and yields are both expected to be stable relative to current levels. Claims Environment The Companys profitability in any given period is based upon its premium and investment revenues as noted above, less net losses incurred and expenses. Net losses incurred are based upon claims paid and changes to unpaid loss reserves. Unpaid loss reserves are estimated by the Company and include both reported loss reserves and reserves for losses incurred but not reported, or IBNR. The Companys positive underwriting results for 2007 and 2006 were partly a result of the lack of significant catastrophe events occurring throughout these years as well as net favorable development of prior year reserves, in various lines of business within the Companys Insurance and Reinsurance segments. This net favorable development was partially offset by the continuing increase in current period loss ratios in each of 2006 and 2007. These increases reflect the impact of the softening rate environment as well as higher levels of underlying attritional losses in those years. The Companys results for 2005 were significantly impacted by the unprecedented insured hurricane losses during the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season, the charge related to the conclusion of the independent actuarial process with Winterthur Swiss Insurance Company (the Winterthur Decision) and adverse development of prior year loss reserves in both insurance professional lines and reinsurance casualty lines. In 2008, claims activity within the D&O and E&O insurance markets overall, are expected to rise as a result of an increase in class action lawsuits filed against public companies due to market losses and related stock price depreciation associated with the sub prime mortgage and credit crisis in the U.S. Management actively monitors its potential exposure to such events and gives due consideration to emerging claim trends in determining its loss reserve requirements at each quarter end. For further analysis of this exposure, see Results of Operations below. Financial Measures The following are some of the financial measures management considers important in evaluating the Companys operating performance in the Companys property and casualty operations: (U.S. dollars in thousands, except ratios and per share amounts) 2007 2006 (3) (4) 2005 (3) (4) Underwriting profit (loss) property and casualty operations $ 737,449 $ 733,633 $ (2,257,768 ) Combined ratio property and casualty operations 88.8 % 89.5 % 133.0 % Net investment income property and casualty operations (1) $ 1,289,554 $ 1,090,785 $ 810,482 Book value per ordinary share $ 50.30 $ 53.12 $ 44.31 Fully diluted book value per ordinary share (2) $ 50.29 $ 53.01 $ 44.17 Return on average ordinary shareholders equity 2.2 % 19.6 % NA % 47 (1) Net investment income relating to property and casualty operations does not include the net investment income related to the net results from structured products. (2) Fully diluted book value per ordinary share represents book value per ordinary share combined with the impact from dilution of share based compensation including in the money stock options at any period end. The Company believes that fully diluted book value per ordinary share is a financial measure important to investors and other interested parties who benefit from having a consistent basis for comparison with other companies within the industry. However, this measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by companies either outside or inside of the insurance industry. (3) To facilitate period to period comparisons, certain short term Accident and Health business previously included in the Reinsurance segment has been reclassified to the Life Operations segment to conform to current segment management responsibilities. (4) Certain lines of business and transactions previously reported under the Financial Lines segment have been reclassified and reported under the Insurance, Reinsurance and Corporate (that includes the general investment and financing operations of the Company) segments based on the nature of the underlying business. Underwriting profit (loss) property and casualty operations One way that the Company evaluates the performance of its insurance and reinsurance operations is the underwriting profit or loss. The Company does not measure performance based on the amount of gross premiums written. Underwriting profit or loss is calculated from premiums earned and fee income, less net losses incurred and expenses related to underwriting activities, plus unrealized foreign exchange gains and losses on underwriting balances. As noted above, the Companys strong property and casualty underwriting profit for 2007 and 2006 were partly a result of the lack of significant catastrophe events occuring throughout these years and net favorable prior year loss development. The Companys underwriting loss in 2005 was negatively impacted by net losses incurred from catastrophic events, the results of the Winterthur Decision and adverse development of prior year loss reserves. Any changes to loss reserves affect the calculation of underwriting profit or loss but most often do not directly affect the Companys cash flow in the same period. See further discussion below. Combined ratio property and casualty operations The combined ratio for property and casualty operations is used by the Company and many other insurance and reinsurance companies as another measure of underwriting profitability. The combined ratio is calculated from the net losses incurred and underwriting expenses as a ratio of the net premiums earned for the Companys general insurance and reinsurance operations. A combined ratio of less than 100% indicates an underwriting profit and over 100% indicates an underwriting loss. The Companys combined ratio for the year ended December 31, 2007 was lower than the previous year, primarily as a result of a lower loss and loss expenses ratio partially offset by a higher underwriting expense ratio. The lower loss and loss expense ratio has resulted mainly from higher net favorable prior year development in the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to the same period in 2006. The increased underwriting expense ratio has been driven largely by increased compensation costs and continued pricing pressures that have resulted in less premium earned. The Companys improved combined ratio in 2006 as compared to 2005 was primarily due to the lack of significant catastrophe events in 2006 relative to 2005 in which significant losses were incurred following Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. Net investment income property and casualty operations Net investment income related to property and casualty operations is an important measure that affects the Companys overall profitability. The largest liability of the Company relates to its unpaid loss reserves, and the Companys investment portfolio provides liquidity for claims settlements of these reserves as they become due, and thus a significant part of the portfolio is in fixed income securities. Net investment income is influenced by a number of factors, including the amounts and timing of inward and outward cash flows, the level of interest rates and credit spreads and changes in overall asset allocation. The increase in net investment income in 2007, 2006 and 2005 is primarily due to several years of positive operating cash flows which have resulted in a higher overall average invested asset base. In addition, during 2007, portfolio yields increased in the Companys investment portfolio, due primarily to the full 2007 financial year impact of the higher interest rates experienced in the U.S., U.K. and Euro zone, during the latter part of 2006 and the beginning part of 2007. In 2007, the U.S. yield curve shifted downwards with short term U.S. interest rates decreasing markedly while medium to long term interest rates experienced a less dramatic fall. U.K. interest rates also decreased in 2007 with the exception of long term U.K. interest rates which rose slightly, while Euro zone interest rates increased in 2007. In 2006, the U.S. yield curve shifted upwards with short term U.S. interest rates increasing markedly while medium to long term interest rates had a less dramatic rise. U.K. and the Euro zone interest rates also increased in 2006. Book value per ordinary share Management also views the change in the Companys book value per ordinary share as an additional measure of the Companys performance. Book value per share is calculated by dividing ordinary shareholders equity by the number of outstanding ordinary shares at any period end. Book value per ordinary share is affected primarily by the Companys net income (loss), by any changes in the net unrealized gains and losses on its investment portfolio, currency translation adjustments and also the impact of any share repurchase or issuance activity. Book value per ordinary share has decreased by $2.82 during the year ended December 31, 2007 to $50.30 from $53.12, as compared to an increase of $8.81 in 2006. The decrease in book value per share in 2007 was primarily as a result of an increase in net unrealized losses on investments of $743.0 million, net of tax, partially offset by net income of $206.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, which increased book value, together with an increase in currency translation adjustments due to the impact of the decline in the value of the U.S. dollar on the net assets of European based subsidiaries. The increase in unrealized losses on investments was primarily as a result of widening credit spreads on corporate and structured credit assets, partially offset by declining U.S. and U.K. government interest rates in 2007. In addition, certain capital 48 and financing activities impacted book value per ordinary share, including the Companys share repurchase activity throughout 2007 which decreased book value per ordinary share, as the price paid for such shares was at a premium to book value; however, this was partially offset by the issuance of Class A ordinary shares upon maturity of the purchase contracts associated with the 6.5% Equity Security Units (the 6.5% Units), as the ordinary shares were issued at a premium to book value. Book value per ordinary share increased in 2006 mainly due to net income of $1.7 billion and was offset by decreases of $103.8 million, net of tax, in net unrealized gains associated with the Companys investment portfolio. The decrease in net unrealized gains in 2006 was generally due to interest rate increases, which were offset by the positive impact of equity and currency movements. As noted above, fully diluted book value per ordinary share represents book value per ordinary share combined with the impact from dilution of share based compensation including in the money stock options at any period end. Fully diluted book value per ordinary share decreased by $2.72 during the year ended December 31, 2007 as a result of the factors noted above and is generally consistent with the decrease in basic book value per ordinary share as the impact of in the money stock options at December 31, 2007 is negligible as a result of the reduction in market price of the Companys ordinary shares in late 2007. Return on average ordinary shareholders equity Return on average ordinary shareholders equity (ROE) is another financial measure that management considers important in evaluating the Companys operating performance. ROE is calculated by dividing the net income for any period by the average of the opening and closing ordinary shareholders equity. The Company establishes minimum target ROEs for its total operations, segments and lines of business. If the Companys minimum ROE targets over the longer term are not met with respect to any line of business, the Company seeks to modify and or exit these lines. In addition, the Companys compensation of its senior officers is significantly dependent on the achievement of the Companys performance goals to enhance shareholder value as measured by ROE (adjusted for certain items considered to be non operating in nature). In 2007, ROE was 2.2 %, 17.4 percentage points lower than the prior year, primarily as a result of losses recorded in the second half of 2007 in relation to adverse credit market conditions, including but not limited to, losses associated with the Companys investment in and reinsurance agreements with SCA and realized losses, including OTTI, on the Companys investment portfolio. For further details of these losses, see Results of Operations below. Partially offsetting these decreases were strong underwriting results in 2007 within the Companys core property and casualty operations and lower levels of shareholders equity resulting from capital activity and increases in unrealized losses on investments. In 2006, ROE was 19.6% due to solid underwriting results throughout its property and casualty operations combined with investment and affiliate income. Results of Operations The following table presents an analysis of the Companys net income (loss) available to ordinary shareholders and other financial measures (described below) for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005: (U.S. dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts) 2007 2006 2005 Net income (loss) available to ordinary shareholders $ 206,375 $ 1,722,445 $ (1,292,298 ) Earnings (loss) per ordinary share basic $ 1.16 $ 9.63 $ (9.14 ) Earnings (loss) per ordinary share diluted $ 1.15 $ 9.60 $ (9.14 ) Weighted average number of ordinary shares and ordinary share equivalents basic 178,500 178,793 141,406 Weighted average number of ordinary shares and ordinary share equivalents diluted 179,693 179,450 141,406 The Companys net income (loss) and other financial measures as shown above for the three years ended December 31 have been affected by among other things, the following significant items: 1) The impact due to the Companys investment in and relationships with SCA; 2) Impact of credit market movements on the Companys investment portfolio; 3) Prior year loss development; 4) Reduction in insured losses from natural catastrophes during 2007 and 2006 as compared to 2005; 5) The Companys growing invested asset base and higher net investment income. 1. Impact of the Companys investment in and relationships with SCA The Company has multiple relationships with SCA as a result of SCAs initial origins as a wholly owned subsidiary and its subsequent IPO. These relationships are detailed in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Security Capital Assurance, and include, most significantly, a 46% investment along with certain guarantees and reinsurance arrangements. The Company is not a primary originator or insurer of mortgages, nor does it guarantee mortgages other than indirectly through the activities of SCA, and as such the negative impact to the Company during the year with respect to deterioration in the credit markets and its impact on credit enhancement activities is largely limited to the SCA investment and related reinsurance agreements and guarantees. 49 The financial guarantees issued by SCA are generally guarantees of payments under financial guarantee insurance policies or credit default swaps. The financial guarantee business model generally provides for a guarantee of payment of interest and principal over the defined expected life of a transaction, with no acceleration or need for collateralization by the guarantor in the case of any weakness or default by the underlying obligor. These characteristics reduce the need for liquidity within the financial guarantor in case of underlying deterioration in the guaranteed transaction, since the calendar of payments remains as set in the original transaction. As a general matter, the obligations of XLCA under credit default swaps issued in connection with their business accrue in a similar manner, except in events of default, however, they do not qualify for the financial guarantee insurance scope exception under FAS 133 and, therefore, are reported at fair value, with changes in fair value included in earnings. Under most of the credit default swap contracts insured by XLCA, it would be an event of default if XLCA should become insolvent. If there were an event of default, the holders of these credit default swap contracts would have the right to terminate the swaps and to obtain a termination payment from XLCA, based on the market value of the swaps at the time of termination. The Company records 46.9% of the net income of SCA as earnings from operating affiliates. Subsequent to the secondary sale of shares in June 2007 and the associated deconsolidation of financial results, the Company reports such earnings on a one quarter lag due to the limited availability and timing of SCAs final audited financial results. Management expects to continue this practice on the same basis with appropriate consideration given by disclosure or otherwise to the effects of any known intervening events that materially affect the Companys financial position or results of operations. Management has done extensive analysis of SCAs financial guarantee portfolio to evaluate the exposures and underlying possible losses arising from recent credit market turbulence. Given managements view of the potential scale of SCAs estimated losses along with the uncertainty facing the entire financial guarantee industry, the Company has reduced the reported value of its investment in SCA to nil from the reported equity method value of $669.8 million as at September 30, 2007. Recent market developments with respect to monoline industry and industry analyst reports have indicated that the fair value of any investment in the financial guarantee sector has very uncertain value at this point in time. Subsequent to December 31, 2007, SCA was downgraded by several rating agencies, which significantly limits SCAs ability to write new business. In addition, the shares in SCA held by the Company are unregistered and thus illiquid. Based on the nature of the Companys investment in SCA and the resultant limitations on any future business models, management believes that the fair value of the Companys investment in SCA is substantially less than the traded market value at December 31, 2007 of $3.89 per share. Management believe this decline in value is other than temporary. In addition, net losses were recorded within loss from operating affiliates with respect to the excess of loss and facultative reinsurance of SCA subsidiaries in the amounts of $300.0 million and $51.0 million, respectively, and not within property and casualty underwriting results. These amounts represent the discounted value of expected losses net of related premiums and are discounted at approximately 5%. In the case of the excess of loss cover the recorded loss represents the discounted value of a $500.0 million full limit loss. In addition, the Company incurred $17.9 million in additional mark to market losses related to those underlying contracts in credit default swap form subject to the provisions noted above. As of December 31, 2007, the Companys total net exposure under its facultative agreements with SCA subsidiaries was approximately $7.7 billion of net par outstanding. Of this total, $138.0 million and $769.0 million of net par outstanding was related to RMBS and ABS CDOs, with greater than 50% RMBS collateral, respectively. Based on the Companys examination of exposures under these facultative agreements, the Company has reported loss reserves of $51.0 million on a net present value basis. The following tables present the net par outstanding related to the facultative reinsurance and the adverse development facultative reinsurance noted above at December 31, 2007 by credit quality and broad sector allocation: As at December 31, 2007 (U.S. dollars in millions) Net Par Outstanding % of Total Credit Quality: AAA $ 1,776.0 23.0 % AA 480.2 6.2 % A 981.6 12.7 % BBB 4,230.9 54.7 % BB and below 269.9 3.4 % Total* $ 7,738.6 100.0 % As at December 31, 2007 (U.S. dollars in millions) Net Par Outstanding % of Total Broad Sector Allocation: International Finance $ 4,433.9 57.3 % Public Finance 824.1 10.6 % Structured Finance 2,480.6 32.1 % Total* $ 7,738.6 100.0 % * As of December 31, 2007, $1.8 billion of the total $7.7 billion in net par outstanding was originally written by SCA in credit derivative form. 50 In addition, there are certain guarantees in place between the Company and SCA subsidiaries. It is important to note that the guarantees the Company has provided contain a dual trigger, such that losses are paid only if two events occur. First, the underlying guaranteed obligation must default on payments of interest and principal, and second, the relevant SCA subsidiary must fail to meet its obligations under the applicable reinsurance or guarantee. As of December 31, 2007, the Companys total net par outstanding under these guarantees was $75.2 billion. Indirect consumer mortgages exposures as a result of these guarantee agreements totaled approximately $2.9 billion related to RMBS and $3.3 billion related to ABS CDOs with greater than 50% RMBS collateral. Again, it is important to note that SCA subsidiaries must fail to meet their obligations under the applicable reinsurance or guarantee before the Company would be required to respond to claims under these guarantees and as such, these exposures must be compared to the relevant SCA subsidiarys current financial resources. Based on all of the above factors along with the Companys extensive analysis of the relevant exposures, the Company has concluded that no losses are expected under these guarantees and accordingly no loss reserves have been recorded. Recently published loss estimates by S&P appear to support this view. The following tables present the net par outstanding related to the guarantees provided by the Company at December 31, 2007 by credit quality and broad sector allocation: As at December 31, 2007 (U.S. dollars in millions) Net Par Outstanding % of Total Credit Quality: AAA $ 20,214.9 26.9 % AA 11,784.0 15.7 % A 24,577.4 32.7 % BBB 17,734.5 23.6 % BB and below 851.8 1.1 % Total $ 75,162.6 100.0 % As at December 31, 2007 (U.S. dollars in millions) Net Par Outstanding % of Total Broad Sector Allocation: International Finance $ 11,416.7 15.2 % Public Finance 36,691.4 48.8 % Structured Finance 27,054.5 36.0 % Total $ 75,162.6 100.0 % Where appropriate, further details of each of the items noted above can be found in the related section of See Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 8, Notes 3 and 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Security Capital Assurance and Investments in Affiliates. 2. Impact of credit market movements on the Companys investment portfolio In 2007, financial market conditions were extremely challenging as the global credit crisis that begun in July 2007 continued to adversely impact global fixed income markets. Elements which contributed to this included continued weakness in the U.S. housing market and increased mortgage delinquencies, investor anxiety over recessionary pressures, rating agency downgrades of various structured products, unresolved issues with structured investment vehicles and a serious dislocation in the interbank market. All of these elements led to significant declines in mortgage and structured credit prices. Continued declines in government rates did little to alleviate the concerns in either residential mortgage markets or the short term funding market during the fourth quarter of 2007. These elements were the primary drivers behind the $603.3 million in net realized losses on investments reported for the year ended December 31, 2007. The Companys management has been diligently engaged in market developments and has reduced the Companys exposure to lower rated investment grade 2005, 2006 and 2007 vintage sub prime securities given concerns about future deterioration. Management has performed in depth analyses of the Companys holdings in all of the topical asset classes, which are defined to be structured assets with underlying collateral of sub prime first liens, Alt A, second liens, and asset backed CDOs with sub prime collateral. In addition to extensive holding level reviews with the Companys third party managers, the Company has undertaken an independent evaluation of its topical assets to help further identify areas of potential economic loss to principal due to potentially deteriorating underlying fundamentals. 51 These market developments have negatively impacted the Companys results from operations through both impairment charges and realized losses largely in the specialised mortgage portfolios, spread business portfolios, losses related to exposure to the capital notes of a structured investment vehicle (SIV) and a loss recorded by one of the Companys investment manager affiliates. Realized losses and impairments in the topical asset exposed portfolios totaled $385.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2007 and represented a combination of losses on sub prime non agency securities, second liens, ABS CDOs with sub prime collateral as well as Alt A mortgage exposures. These losses and impairments were principally concentrated in 2005, 2006, and 2007 vintage securities. The following table details the current exposures to the topical assets within the Companys fixed income portfolio as well as the current net unrealized gain/loss position as at December 31, 2007, and related earnings and comprehensive earnings impact in 2007: (U.S. dollars in thousands) As at December 31, 2007 Year Ended December 31, 2007 Holding at Fair Value Percent of Fixed Income Portfolio Net Unrealized (Loss) Gain Realized (Loss) and (Impairments) Change in Net Unrealized (Loss) Gain Topical assets: Sub prime first lien mortgages $ 995,947 2.5 % $ (145,785 ) $ (125,167 ) $ (146,929 ) Alt A mortgages 924,783 2.3 % (40,145 ) (26,619 ) (38,589 ) Second lien mortgages (including sub prime second lien mortgages) 97,647 0.3 % 788 (133,003 ) 1,102 ABS CDOs with sub prime collateral 39,317 0.1 % 101 (100,326 ) 15 Total exposure to topical assets $ 2,057,694 5.2 % $ (185,041 ) $ (385,115 ) $ (184,401 ) The Companys sub prime and Alt A exposures remain primarily highly rated, have strong underlying loan characteristics and are supported by adequate subordination levels. The remaining net unrealized losses are primarily in higher rated securities, and the Company believes these losses are a result of technical spread widening rather than any fundamental deterioration. Based on the Companys stress testing, even in an extreme scenario, management believes principal impairments to these remaining pools is unlikely. Net realized and unrealized losses on investment derivatives for 2007 resulted primarily from a mark to market loss of $37.0 million in the third quarter with respect to a total return swap on an SIV impacted by the challenging credit markets. During the fourth quarter, the Company terminated the swap, recognized an additional $3.9 million mark to market loss and took delivery of the underlying asset. The asset was subsequently written off to nil in the fourth quarter resulting in a realized loss on investments of $57.3 million. Much of the negative impact of credit markets during 2007 was contained in the Companys Other Financial Lines segment which comprises the GIC and FA businesses which are largely credit spread activities and have a higher component of floating rate structured credit assets. During 2007, net realized losses and impairments within the Other Financial Lines segment totaled $370.7 million and net unrealized losses increased by $329.6 million. In addition to the impact on net income, the Companys book value also declined through the increase of net unrealized losses on the portfolio as a whole as a result of the overall widening of global credit spreads on corporate and structured credit assets, partially offset by declining U.S. and U.K. government interest rates for the year. As at December 31, 2007, approximately 14.1% of the asset and mortgage backed holdings were classifed as part of the Companys exposure to topical assets. This represented approximately 5.2% of the total fixed income portfolio and 29.0% of the total net unrealized loss position. Of the topical asset securities, approximately 99% are rated as investment grade. All portfolio holdings, including those with sub prime exposure, are reviewed as part of the ongoing other than temporary impairment monitoring process. The Company continues to actively monitor its exposures, and to the extent market disruptions continue, including but not limited to residential mortgages, the Companys financial position could be negatively impacted. 3. Prior year loss development Net prior year favorable loss development occurs when there is a decrease to loss reserves recorded at the beginning of the year, resulting from actual or reported loss development for prior years that is less than expected loss development. Net prior year adverse loss development occurs when there is an increase to loss reserves recorded at the beginning of the year, resulting from actual or reported loss development for prior years exceeding expected loss development. The following table presents the net (favorable) adverse prior year loss development of the Companys loss and loss expense reserves for its property and casualty operations which include the Insurance and Reinsurance segments for each of the years indicated: 52 (U.S. dollars in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Insurance segment $ (158.1 ) $ (13.2 ) $ 1,020.2 Reinsurance segment (267.3 ) (97.4 ) 93.5 Total $ (425.4 ) $ (110.6 ) $ 1,113.7 During 2007, the Company had net favorable prior year reserve development in property and casualty operations of $425.4 million compared to net favorable prior year reserve development of $110.6 million for the same period in 2006. Reinsurance net favorable development accounted for $267.3 million of the release in 2007, while net favorable development within the Insurance segment totaled $158.1 million for the same period. The corresponding prior year development on a gross basis was $259.7 million for the Reinsurance segment and $177.6 million for the Insurance segment. The Insurance segment net prior year reserve releases consisted of $95.0 million in property and $162.1 million in casualty lines of business, partially offset by net adverse development of $23.0 million, $7.0 million and $69.0 million in certain professional, marine and other lines of business, respectively. Casualty releases relate primarily to the European casualty portfolio in accident years 2002 2005. The professional lines development reflects net adverse development of the Bermuda E&O portfolio and releases from the U.S. and European professional lines portfolios. Strengthening in other insurance lines relates to net adverse prior year development in discontinued specialty lines, surety and environmental, partially offset by favorable development in aerospace and political risk. Within the Reinsurance segment, reserve releases of $188.7 million in property and other short tail lines of business and $87.4 million in casualty and other lines, was partially offset by adverse prior year development of $8.8 million within the structured indemnity line of business. Releases in the short tail lines relate primarily to the 2005 and 2006 accident years. The casualty and other lines favorable development of $87.4 million reflects the net result of releases of $121.4 million primarily in the US and non US casualty portfolios, partially offset by net adverse development of $13.0 million associated with the results of an external review of the Companys asbestos and environmental reserves and $21.0 million related to a commutation of a stop loss reinsurance agreement. During 2006, the Company had net favorable prior year reserve development in property and casualty operations of $110.6 million. Within the Insurance segment, net overall favorable prior year reserve development for the year ended December 31, 2006, was $13.2 million. This overall favorable development included reserve releases of $94.4 million in property lines and $91.1 million in casualty lines, partially offset by $96.5 million, $46.5 million and $29.3 million of prior year adverse development in certain professional, marine, and other lines of business, respectively. Within the Reinsurance segment, net overall favorable prior year reserve development for the year ended December 31, 2006 was $97.4 million. This overall favorable development was made up of releases of $133.0 million in property and other shorter tail lines of business and partially offset by prior year adverse reserve development of $7.3 million in casualty and other lines and $28.3 million within structured indemnity lines. The overall net favorable development within property and other short tail lines of $133.0 million included $75.4 million in adverse development specifically related to the 2005 catastrophes. During 2005, total net adverse prior year development within the Insurance Segment was $1.02 billion of which $834.2 million resulted from the negative outcome of the Winterthur Decision. The remaining $186.0 million was comprised of net adverse development of $259.7 million in professional lines and $34.7 million within other specialty lines including runoff and discontinued business partially offset by releases of $108.4 million primarily in European casualty business. During 2005, net prior year reserves across the Reinsurance segment developed adversely by $93.5 million. Net adverse development of $266.9 million in casualty and professional lines was partially offset by releases in short tail lines of business of $173.4 million. See Item 8, Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and see further discussion under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. 4. Reduction in insured losses from natural catastrophes during 2007 and 2006 as compared to 2005 Overall, 2007 and 2006 experienced a limited number of natural catastrophes as compared to 2005; however, 2007 did result in an increase in overall natural catastrophe activity and insured losses as compared to 2006. In 2007, six hurricanes formed in the Atlantic region including two Category 5 hurricanes, while other natural catastrophes in 2007 included European windstorms Kyrill and Per/Hanno, California wildfires, floods in the U.K. and Mexico, the Peruvian earthquake and five hurricanes in the Eastern Pacific region. In 2006, there were only five hurricanes in the Atlantic region and more importantly there was no significant insured damage for those hurricanes that did make landfall. During 2005, as a result of Hurricanes Katrina, Rita, and other catstrophes, the Company incurred losses, net of reinsurance recoveries, of $1.27 billion, $357.9 million, $247.1 million and $96.0 million, respectively, as at year end December 31, 2005. Net reserves established for these events developed adversely in 2006 by $119.4 million and were partially offset by additional loss sensitive premium received. 5. The Companys growing average investment asset base and higher net investment income Net investment income was $2.2 billion in 2007 as compared to $2.0 billion in 2006. This increase was primarily due to a larger average investment asset base combined with higher investment yields. The increase in the average size of the investment portfolio primarily 53 resulted from positive cash flows from operations. Higher investment yields on the Companys investment portfolio were due primarily to the full 2007 financial year impact of the higher interest rates experienced in the U.S., U.K. and Euro zone, during the latter part of 2006 and the beginning part of 2007. Other Key Focuses of Management Ratings and Capital Management The Companys ability to underwrite business is largely dependent upon the quality of its claims paying and financial strength ratings as evaluated by independent rating agencies. As a result, in the event that the Companys financial strength rating is downgraded, its ability to write business may be adversely affected. In January 2008, A.M. Best Company, Inc. (A.M. Best) revised the financial strength rating of the Companys leading property and casualty operating subsidiaries to A from A+ and affirmed them with a stable outlook. The downgrade by A.M. Best was primarily due to their concerns regarding the Companys historic earnings volatility. In addition, both Fitch and Moodys downgraded the financial strength rating of the Companys leading property and casualty operating subsidiaries to A+ from AA and to A1 from A3, respectively. The Company has continued to work closely with the various rating agencies in late 2007 and early 2008 in order to manage and evaluate its capital needs to support the volume of business written in order to maintain its claims paying and financial strength ratings. The Company continues to address these needs by monitoring various risk management measures and implementing capital structuring initiatives intended to reduce volatility while, at the same time, improve the quality of the Companys risk adjusted returns. Such risk management measures and capital structuring initiatives in 2007 and 2006 have included several key business initiatives such as reinsurance structures as well as debt and capital transactions. Details of these transactions are further described below in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Enterprise Risk Management The Company has in place an Enterprise Risk Management committee (the ERM Committee) to facilitate the management of firm wide risks that the Company faces across all of its businesses. The ERM Committee is comprised of the most senior risk takers and managers of the Company. The objective of the ERM Committee is to make recommendations to the Executive Management Board on overall risk aggregates, correlated risk as well as risk allocation in order to proactively manage enterprise risks. Talent Management and Succession Planning The Company believes that effective talent management and succession planning processes are key to the long term success of the Company. As such, the Company has implemented various development programs and succession planning efforts across the Company. The Companys development programs include the global development program for its high potential junior employees, the performance development program for its managers and team leaders, and the leadership development program for its senior managers. Succession planning efforts include identifying and monitoring the various talent pools within the Company to match the future needs and long term strategy of the Company. In addition and as noted above, the Board of Directors in late 2007 implemented a CEO succession plan including the authorization of a Succession Committee to lead the new CEO selection process for the Company. Execution of Refined Strategy In the second quarter of 2007, the Company announced a refined strategy that will focus on its insurance, reinsurance and life reinsurance operations. Thus, the Company no longer pursues diversification outside of its insurance and reinsurance platforms unless it meets high hurdle rates and is connected to its business. Accordingly, the following product lines or transactions previously managed by and reported via the Financial Lines Segment are now, depending on the nature of the business written, managed as part of the Insurance and Reinsurance segments and reported therewith: (i) structured indemnity products managed through the Companys financial solutions operations (XLFS), (ii) political risk products, (iii) weather and energy management products, and (iv) legacy financial guarantee business. The earnings on the Companys investment in Primus Guaranty Ltd. (Primus) and other financial operating affiliates as well as the results of certain structured finance products are reported as part of the Corporate segment that includes the general investment and financing operations of the Company. The Company has exited and placed into run off the political risk insurance business, but remains in the political risk reinsurance business. In addition, the GIC and funding agreement businesses are now reported separately within the Other Financial Lines segment. In addition, in connection with its refined strategy, the Company completed the secondary public offering of 10,627,422 SCA common shares previously held by XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd and received proceeds, net of offering costs, of approximately $316.3 million and thereby reduced its ownership of SCAs outstanding common shares from approximately 63% to approximately 46%. Subsequent to the effective date of sale, June 6, 2007, SCA was no longer a consolidated subsidiary or operating segment of the Company and its remaining investment in SCA was accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Evaluation of the impact of recent credit market volatility on core underwriting operations In addition to the evaluation of the impact of the credit and sub prime markets on the Companys investment portfolio and financial guarantee exposures, as discussed above, management has also completed detailed assessments of the exposure 54 to these credit related issues in the core property and casualty insurance and reinsurance business, in particular the Insurance segment professional lines portfolio exposures through D&O and E&O policies. The Company has a portfolio that is highly diversified by product and geographical region including growing European, Design, Select and Private Commercial portfolios. Total gross professional lines premiums written for 2007 were $1.5 billion. The average policy limit for the Companys public D&O portfolio is approximately $12 million, with higher average limits written in Bermuda and Europe and lower average limits in the United States. The Side A only component of the Companys public D&O portfolio is significant, representing approximately one third of the gross premiums written in 2007 and approximately 45% by policy limit. The Company has considered all filed notices through year end 2007, as well as potential further notice activity that it believes could arise from insureds that have been linked to sub prime related matters in establishing the unpaid loss and loss expenses as at December 31, 2007. In addition, clash events are considered by management in the underwriting, risk management and loss ratio selections. Specifically, with respect to financial institution exposures, the Company manages risk through limited line sizes, higher attachment points, risk adjusted rate levels and increased use of Side A policies. Furthermore, the 2007 professional lines reinsurance structure takes into account clash events, with $270 million of coverage available in the $35 million excess of $15 million layer. The 2008 reinsurance program has renewed in January 2008 on substantially the same basis as 2007. Management has also reviewed the potential sub prime exposure in the reinsurance segment which is more limited and again, potential exposure was factored into establishing the year end reserve position. Liquidity, Cash Flow and Collateral Management As an insurer, the Company must ensure that it has sufficient funds to settle claims promptly, especially upon the occurrence of a major catastrophic event or respond to other unscheduled signficant liquidity needs. Management is focused on making sure that liquidity requirements are supported by having lines of credit facilities available to the Company as well as by the Companys general investment portfolio, the majority of which is invested in high grade fixed income securities. The Company has had positive cash flow from operations in the three years ended December 31, 2007 generated from its underwriting activities (premiums less claim and expense settlements) as well as the receipt of investment income on its portfolio. The Company expects cash flow from operations to be positive in 2008. As at December 31, 2007, the Company had approximately $4.0 billion of deposit liabilities associated with GICs which were correspondingly matched with invested assets. XLCA provided financial guarantee insurance policies insuring timely payment of GICs issued by XLAF. Based on the terms and conditions of the underlying GICs, upon downgrades of XLCA below certain ratings levels, all or portions of outstanding principal balances on such GICs would come due. In January and February 2008, several rating agencies downgraded SCA and its subsidiaries and as a result, the Company will settle, by late March 2008, the majority of the GIC portfolio. Management had prepared for this possibility and does not expect this liquidity need to have any significant negative impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations. Another important matter on which management is focused (and which also affects the Companys ability to underwrite business) is the availability of collateral. Collateral includes letters of credit, insurance trusts and other credit facilities required to provide security to cedants (which are companies who reinsure their liabilities to the Company), particularly as required by state insurance regulation in the U.S. and at Lloyds, and also to provide the Company with liquidity as required. These facilities are provided to the Company from commercial banks. The Companys principal credit facilities have tenors of two, three, and five years. The Company has also utilized off balance sheet transactions in order to obtain more collateral capacity (these transactions are described below under Variable Interest Entities and Other Off Balance Sheet Arrangements). As the Company writes more business, its collateral requirements will increase. A key challenge for management is to ensure that sufficient collateral capacity is available to support future writing of business. Management Changes In late October 2007, the Company announced that Mr. Brian M. OHara, President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the Company, had informed the Companys Board of Directors of his decision to retire as President and CEO in mid 2008. Accordingly, the Board of Directors implemented a CEO succession plan including the authorization of a Succession Committee to lead the new CEO selection process. On December 28, 2007, Mr. Michael P. Esposito Jr., then Chairman of the Board, resigned from the Company and on the same day, Mr. OHara was appointed as Acting Chairman of the Board. On February 4, 2008, the Company announced that Celia R. Brown was appointed to the Companys Executive Management Board. Ms. Brown will remain in her current role, Head of Global Human Resources and Corporate Relations, which oversees the Companys Human Resources, Marketing, Global Communications, Public Relations and Corporate Social Responsibility functions. On January 7, 2008, the Company announced that Clive R. Tobin will retire effective April 1, 2008 from the role of Chief Executive of the Companys Insurance Operations, and will concentrate on assisting XL with strategic opportunities in emerging markets. David B. Duclos, currently Chief Operating Officer of the Companys Insurance Operations, will succeed Mr. Tobin as Chief Executive of the Companys Insurance Operations. 55 In September 2007, Ms. Kirstin Romann Gould was appointed to the role of General Counsel of the Company which also includes her prior responsibilities as General Counsel, Corporate Affairs and Corporate Secretary. In late July 2007, Mr. Brian W. Nocco joined the Company and effective August 10, 2007 began serving as the Companys Chief Financial Officer (CFO). Ms. Fiona E. Luck, who served as the Companys Interim CFO prior to that date and following the departure of the Companys former CFO, Jerry de St. Paer, on March 5, 2007, will continue in her role as the Companys Chief of Staff. Service Delivery and Operational Effectiveness The Company is committed to achieving competitive differentiation through the strategic alignment of initiatives that will deliver flexible and robust technology platforms to the Company and its customers. The focal point of this strategy is the development and enhancement of a reliable infrastructure. Senior management continues to devote significant attention to the development of multiple programs and initiatives across all aspects of the Company that will improve operational efficiency, standardize processes and optimize costs. For example, the Insurance segment has begun a multiple year operational transformation program that will result in enhanced product differentiation and business process standardization aligned with the segments growth strategy. In addition, the Company continues to invest in the information technology infrastructure and efficient process design within the Reinsurance segment and its operations center based in India. The Company has implemented a standardized common desktop computing environment for all its professionals globally. Finally, a financial reporting and controls program has implemented a standardized global financial platform along with consistently integrated business and financial processes. This program which has lead a transformation of the Companys financial architecture, also lead to the implementation of a new chart of accounts and technical architecture centered around an upgraded general ledger system. As a result of this program, the Company has benefited from a stronger control environment and greater flexibility in its ability to analyze financial information. The success of the above mentioned initiatives requires management focus and the investment of the Companys resources to achieve more consistent service delivery through the implementation of a reliable infrastructure. Foreign Exchange Exposure In the normal course of business, the Company is exposed to foreign exchange fluctuations on various items on its financial statements, in particular investments, future policy benefit reserves and unpaid losses and loss expenses. This exposure also exists on certain inter company balances, which are eliminated for consolidation purposes. The Company attempts to manage this economic exposure through matching foreign currency denominated liabilities with foreign currency denominated assets. While unrealized foreign exchange gains and losses on underwriting balances are reported in earnings, the offsetting unrealized gains and losses on invested assets are recorded as a separate component of shareholders equity, to the extent that the asset currency does not match that entitys functional currency. This results in an accounting mismatch, that will result in foreign exchange gains or loss in the consolidated statements of income depending on the movement in certain currencies. In order to improve administrative efficiencies as well as to address this accounting imbalance, the Company formed several branches with Euro and U.K. Sterling functional currencies during 2006 and 2007. Management continues to focus on attempting to limit this type of exposure in the future. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The following are considered to be the Companys critical accounting policies and estimates due to the judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of these policies and or the likelihood that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. If actual events differ significantly from the underlying assumptions or estimates applied for any or all of the accounting policies (either individually or in the aggregate), there could be a material adverse effect on the Companys results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. These critical accounting policies have been discussed by management with the Audit Committee of the Companys Board of Directors. Other significant accounting policies are nevertheless important to an understanding of the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements. Policies such as those related to revenue recognition, financial instruments and consolidation require difficult judgments on complex matters that are often subject to multiple sources of authoritative guidance. See Item 8, Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Significant Accounting Policies. 1) Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses and Unpaid Loss and Loss Expenses Recoverable As the Company earns premiums for the underwriting risks it assumes, it also establishes an estimate of the expected ultimate losses related to the premium. Loss reserves or unpaid losses and loss expenses are established due to the significant periods of time that may lapse between the occurrence, reporting and settlement of a loss. The process of establishing reserves for unpaid property and casualty claims can be complex and is subject to considerable variability, as it requires the use of informed estimates and judgments. These estimates and judgments are based on numerous factors, and may be revised as additional experience and other data become available and are reviewed, as new or improved methodologies are developed or as current laws change. Loss reserves include: a) Case reserves reserves for reported losses and loss expenses that have not yet been settled; and 56 b) Losses incurred but not reported (IBNR). Case reserves for the Companys property and casualty operations are established by management based on amounts reported from insureds or ceding companies and consultation with legal counsel, and represent the estimated ultimate cost of events or conditions that have been reported to or specifically identified by the Company. The method of establishing case reserves for reported claims differs among the Companys operations. With respect to the Companys insurance operations, the Company is notified of insured losses and records a case reserve for the estimated amount of the settlement, if any. The estimate reflects the judgment of claims personnel based on general reserving practices, the experience and knowledge of such personnel regarding the nature of the specific claim and, where appropriate, advice of legal counsel. Reserves are also established to provide for the estimated expense of settling claims, including legal and other fees and the general expenses of administering the claims adjustment process. With respect to the Companys reinsurance operations, case reserves for reported claims are generally established based on reports received from ceding companies. Additional case reserves may be established by the Company to reflect the estimated ultimate cost of a loss. The uncertainty in the reserving process for reinsurers is due, in part, to the time lags inherent in reporting from the original claimant to the primary insurer to the reinsurer. As a predominantly broker market reinsurer for both excess of loss and proportional contracts, the Company is subject to a potential additional time lag in the receipt of information as the primary insurer reports to the broker who in turn reports to the Company. As of December 31, 2007, the Company did not have any significant back log related to its processing of assumed reinsurance information. Since the Company relies on information regarding paid losses, case reserves and IBNR provided by ceding companies in order to assist it in estimating its liability for unpaid losses and LAE, the Company maintains certain procedures in order to help determine the completeness and accuracy of such information. Periodically, management assesses the reporting activities of these companies on the basis of qualitative and quantitative criteria. In addition to conferring with ceding companies or brokers on claims matters, the Companys claims personnel conduct periodic audits of specific claims and the overall claims procedures of its ceding companies at their offices. The Company relies on its ability to effectively monitor the claims handling and claims reserving practices of ceding companies in order to help establish the proper reinsurance premium for reinsurance agreements and to establish proper loss reserves. Disputes with ceding companies have been rare and generally have been resolved through negotiation. As noted above, case reserves for the Companys reinsurance operations are generally established based on reports received from ceding companies. Additional case reserves may be established by the Company to reflect the Companys estimated ultimate cost of a loss. In addition to information received from ceding companies on reported claims, the Company also utilizes information on the pattern of ceding company loss reporting and loss settlements from previous catastrophic events in order to estimate the Companys ultimate liability related to these hurricane loss events. Commercial catastrophe model analyses and zonal aggregate exposures are utilized to assess potential client loss before and after an event. Initial cedant loss reports are generally obtained shortly after a catastrophic event, with subsequent updates received as new information becomes available. The Company actively requests loss updates from cedants periodically for the first year following an event. The Companys claim settlement processes also incorporate an update to the total loss reserve at the time a claim payment is made to a ceding company. While the reliance on loss reports from ceding companies may increase the level of uncertainty associated with the estimation of total loss reserves for property reinsurance relative to direct property insurance, there are several factors which serve to reduce the uncertainty in loss reserve estimates for property reinsurance. First, for large natural catastrophe events such as Hurricane Katrina, aggregate limits in property catastrophe reinsurance contracts are generally fully exhausted by the loss reserve estimates. Second, as a reinsurer, the Company has access to information from a broad cross section of the insurance industry. The Company utilizes such information in order to perform consistency checks on the data provided by ceding companies and is able to identify trends in loss reporting and settlement activity and incorporate such information in its estimate of IBNR reserves. Finally, the Company also supplements the loss information received from cedants with loss estimates developed by market share techniques and or from third party catastrophe models applied to exposure data supplied by cedants. With respect to the Companys financial lines operations, financial guarantee claims incurred on policies written on an insurance basis are established consistent with the Companys insurance operations and financial guarantee claims incurred on policies written on a reinsurance basis are established consistent with the Companys reinsurance operations. IBNR reserves represent managements best estimate, at a given point in time, of the amount in excess of case reserves that is needed for the future settlement and loss adjustment costs associated with claims incurred. It is possible that the ultimate liability may differ materially from these estimates. Because the ultimate amount of unpaid losses and LAE is uncertain, the Company believes that quantitative techniques to estimate these amounts are enhanced by professional and managerial judgment. Management reviews the IBNR estimates produced by the Companys actuaries and determines its best estimate of the liabilities to record in the Companys financial statements. The Company considers this single point estimate to be one that has an equal likelihood of developing a redundancy or deficiency as the loss experience matures. IBNR reserves are estimated by the Companys actuaries using several standard actuarial methodologies including the loss ratio method, the loss development or chain ladder method, the Bornhuetter Ferguson (BF) method and frequency and severity approaches. IBNR related to a specific event may be based on the Companys estimated exposure to an industry loss and may include the use of catastrophe modeling software. On a quarterly basis, IBNR reserves are reviewed by the Companys actuaries, and are adjusted as new information 57 becomes available. Any such adjustments are accounted for as changes in estimates and are reflected in the results of operations in the period in which they are made. The Companys actuaries utilize one set of assumptions in determining its single point estimate, which includes actual loss data, loss development factors, loss ratios, reported claim frequency and severity. The actuarial reviews and documentation are completed in accordance with professional actuarial standards appropriate to the jurisdictions where the business is written. The selected assumptions reflect the actuarys judgment based on historical data and experience combined with information concerning current underwriting, economic, judicial, regulatory and other influences on ultimate claim settlements. When estimating IBNR reserves, each of the Companys insurance and reinsurance business units segregate business into exposure classes (over 150 classes are reviewed in total). Within each class, the business is further segregated by either the year in which the contract incepted (underwriting year), the year in which the claim occurred (accident year), or the year in which the claim is reported (report year). The majority of the Insurance segment is reviewed on an accident year basis. Professional lines insurance business is reviewed on a report year basis due to the claims made nature of the underlying policies. The majority of the Reinsurance segment is reviewed on an underwriting year basis. Generally, initial actuarial estimates of IBNR reserves not related to a specific event are based on the loss ratio method applied to each class of business. Actual paid losses and case reserves (reported losses) are subtracted from expected ultimate losses to determine IBNR reserves. The initial expected ultimate losses involve management judgment and are based on historical information for that class of business; which includes loss ratios, market conditions, changes in pricing and conditions, underwriting changes, changes in claims emergence, and other factors that may influence expected ultimate losses. Over time, as a greater number of claims are reported, actuarial estimates of IBNR are based on the BF and loss development techniques. The BF method utilizes actual loss data and the expected patterns of loss emergence, combined with an initial expectation of ultimate losses to determine an estimate of ultimate losses. This method may be appropriate when there is limited actual loss data and a relatively less stable pattern of loss emergence. The chain ladder method utilizes actual loss and expected patterns of loss emergence to determine an estimate of ultimate losses that is independent of the initial expectation of ultimate losses. This method may be appropriate when there is a relatively stable pattern of loss emergence and a relatively larger number of reported claims. Multiple estimates of ultimate losses using a variety of actuarial methods are calculated for many, but not all, of the Companys (150+) classes of business for each year of loss experience. The Companys actuaries look at each class and determine the most appropriate point estimate based on the characteristics of the particular class and other relevant factors, such as historical ultimate loss ratios, the presence of individual large losses, and known occurrences that have not yet resulted in reported losses. Once the Companys actuaries make their determination of the most appropriate point estimate for each class, this information is aggregated and presented to management for review and approval. The pattern of loss emergence is determined using actuarial analysis, including judgment, and is based on the historical patterns of the recording of paid and reported losses by the Company, as well as industry information. Information that may cause historical patterns to differ from future patterns is considered and reflected in expected patterns as appropriate. For property, marine and aviation insurance, losses are general reported within 2 to 3 years from the beginning of the accident year. For casualty insurance, loss emergence patterns can vary from 3 years to over 20 years depending on the type of business. For other insurance, loss emergence patterns fall between the property and casualty insurance. For reinsurance business, loss reporting lags the corresponding insurance classes by at least one quarter due to the need for loss information to flow from the ceding companies to the Company generally via reinsurance intermediaries. Such lags in loss reporting are reflected in the actuarys selections of loss reporting patterns used in establishing the Companys reserves. Such estimates are not precise because, among other things, they are based on predictions of future developments and estimates of future trends in claim severity, claim frequency, and other issues. In the process of estimating IBNR reserves, provisions for economic inflation and changes in the social and legal environment are considered, but involve considerable judgment. When estimating IBNR reserves, more judgement is typically required for lines of business with longer loss emergence patterns. Due to the low frequency and high severity nature of some of the business underwritten by the Company, the Companys reserve estimates are highly dependent on actuarial and management judgment and are therefore uncertain. In property classes, there can be additional uncertainty in loss estimation related to large catastrophe events. With wind events, such as hurricanes, the damage assessment process may take more than a year. The cost of claims is subject to volatility due to supply shortages for construction materials and labor. In the case of earthquakes, the damage assessment process may take several years as buildings are discovered to have structural weaknesses not initially detected. The uncertainty inherent in IBNR reserve estimates is particularly pronounced for casualty coverages, such as excess liability, professional liability coverages, and workers compensation, where information emerges relatively slowly over time. The Companys three types of property and casualty reserve exposure with the longest tails are: (1) high layer excess casualty insurance; (2) casualty reinsurance; and (3) discontinued asbestos and long tail environmental business. 58 Certain aspects of the Companys casualty operations complicate the actuarial process for establishing reserves. Certain casualty business written by the Companys insurance operations is high layer excess casualty business, meaning that the Companys liability attaches after large deductibles including self insurance or insurance from sources other than the Company. The Company commenced writing this type of business in 1986 and issued policies in forms that were different from traditional policies used by the industry at that time. Initially, there was a lack of industry data available for this type of business. Consequently, the basis for establishing loss reserves by the Company for this type of business was largely judgmental and based upon the Companys own reported loss experience which was used as basis for determining ultimate losses, and therefore IBNR reserves. Over time, the amount of available historical loss experience data has increased. As a result, the Company has obtained a larger statistical base to assist in establishing reserves for these excess casualty insurance claims. High layer excess casualty insurance claims typically involve claims relating to (i) a shock loss such as an explosion or transportation accident causing severe damage to persons and or property over a short period of time, (ii) a non shock loss where a large number of claimants are exposed to injurious conditions over a longer period of time, such as exposure to chemicals or pharmaceuticals or (iii) a professional liability loss such as a medical malpractice claim. In each case, these claims are ultimately settled following extensive negotiations and legal proceedings. This process can typically take 5 to 15 years following the date of loss. Reinsurance operations by their nature add further complications to the reserving process, particularly for casualty business written, in that there is an inherent lag in the timing and reporting of a loss event from an insured or ceding company to the reinsurer. This reporting lag creates an even longer period of time between the policy inception and when a claim is finally settled. As a result, more judgment is required to establish reserves for ultimate claims in the Companys reinsurance operations. In the Companys reinsurance operations, case reserves for reported claims are generally established based on reports received from ceding companies. Additional case reserves may be established by the Company to reflect the Companys estimated ultimate cost of a loss. Casualty reinsurance business involves reserving methods that generally include historical aggregated claim information as reported by ceding companies, combined with the results of claims and underwriting reviews of a sample of the ceding companys claims and underwriting files. Therefore, the Company does not always receive detailed claim information for this line of business. Discontinued asbestos and long tail environment business had been previously written by NAC Re Corp. (now known as XL Reinsurance America Inc.), prior to its acquisition by the Company. As at December 31, 2007, total gross unpaid losses and loss expenses in respect of this business represented less than 1% of unpaid losses and loss expenses. Except for certain workers compensation liabilities, the Company does not discount its unpaid losses and loss expenses. The Company utilizes tabular reserving for workers compensation unpaid losses that are considered fixed and determinable. For further discussion see the Consolidated Financial Statements. Loss and loss expenses are charged to income as they are incurred. These charges include loss and loss expense payments and any changes in case and IBNR reserves. During the loss settlement period, additional facts regarding claims are reported. As these additional facts are reported, it may be necessary to increase or decrease the unpaid losses and loss expense reserves. The actual final liability may be significantly different than prior estimates. As noted above, management reviews the IBNR estimates produced by the Companys actuaries and determines its best estimate of the liabilities to record in the Companys financial statements. The Company considers this single point estimate to be one that has an equal likelihood of developing a redundancy or deficiency as the loss experience matures. Management believes that the actuarial methods utilized adequately provide for loss development. Management does not build in a provision for uncertainty outside of the estimates prepared by the Companys actuaries. 59 The Companys net unpaid losses and losses expenses (excluding financial guarantee reserves related to reinsurance agreements with SCA that are recorded within Net loss from operating affiliates) relating to the Companys operating segments at December 31, 2007 and 2006 was as follows: (U.S. dollars in millions) December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 Insurance $ 11,138 $ 10,608 Reinsurance 7,053 7,138 SCA 154 Net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves $ 18,191 $ 17,900 (U.S. dollars in millions) Net Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses as at December 31, 2007 Case Reserves IBNR Reserves Total Reserves Insurance Casualty professional lines $ 1,563 $ 2,386 $ 3,949 Casualty other lines 1,644 2,371 4,015 Property catastrophe (1) 22 28 50 Other property 446 158 604 Marine, energy, aviation, and satellite 649 558 1,207 Other specialty lines (2) 268 430 698 Other (3) 285 189 474 Structured Indemnity 54 87 141 Total $ 4,931 $ 6,207 $ 11,138 Reinsurance Casualty (4) $ 1,966 $ 2,642 $ 4,608 Property catastrophe (1) 122 131 253 Other property 543 447 990 Marine, energy, aviation, and satellite 488 33 521 Other (3) 297 296 593 Structured Indemnity 88 88 Total $ 3,416 $ 3,637 $ 7,053 TOTAL $ 8,347 $ 9,844 $ 18,191 (U.S. dollars in millions) Net Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses as at December 31, 2006 (5) (6) Case Reserves IBNR Reserves Total Reserves Insurance Casualty professional lines $ 1,379 $ 2,143 $ 3,522 Casualty other lines 1,613 2,198 3,811 Property catastrophe (1) 57 33 90 Other property 548 238 786 Marine, energy, aviation, and satellite 609 474 1,083 Other specialty lines (2) 252 426 678 Other (3) 293 191 484 Structured Indemnity 15 139 154 Total $ 4,766 $ 5,842 $ 10,608 Reinsurance Casualty (4) $ 1,847 $ 2,606 $ 4,453 Property catastrophe (1) 288 165 453 Other property 456 432 888 Marine, energy, aviation, and satellite 513 67 580 Other (3) 318 315 633 Structured Indemnity 131 131 Total $ 3,422 $ 3,716 $ 7,138 SCA 72 82 154 TOTAL $ 8,260 $ 9,640 $ 17,900 (1) Property and catastrophe IBNR includes event specific reserves for losses that the Companys insureds and cedants have informed us they expect to incur but have not yet had reported known claims. 60 (2) Other specialty lines within the Insurance segment includes: environmental, programs, equine, warranty, and excess and surplus lines. (3) Other includes employers liability, surety, political risk and other lines. (4) Within the Reinsurance segment, casualty other and casualty professional lines of business are shown in the aggregate. (5) To facilitate period to period comparisons, certain short term Accident and Health business previously included in the Reinsurance segment has been reclassified to the Life Operations segment to conform to current segment management responsibilities. (6) Certain lines of business previously reported under the Financial Lines segment have been reclassified and reported under the Insurance and Reinsurance segments based on the nature of the business written. While the proportion of unpaid losses and loss expenses represented by IBNR is sensitive to a number of factors, the most significant ones have historically been accelerated business growth and changes in business mix. Other factors that have affected the ratio in the past include additions to prior period reserves, catastrophic occurrences, settlement of large claims and changes in claims settlement patterns. The ratio of IBNR to total reserves has increased in recent years due to the growth of casualty business written over that period. The ratio of IBNR to total reserves is higher for more recent years business because these immature years have relatively fewer claims reported and, as a result, a higher proportion of claims reserves are based on experience in respect of incurred but not reported losses. As each prior year of business matures and claims become known, the ratio of IBNR to total reserves will typically decline, all other factors remaining constant. Since the Company has experienced premium volume growth in recent years, the ratio of IBNR to total reserves has increased because the Companys aggregate exposure has become relatively less mature. Conversely, in a situation of declining premium volume, this ratio will typically decline, all other factors remaining constant. The Company writes insurance and reinsurance business in many different lines. Typically, the ratio of IBNR to total reserves is greater for casualty lines (which are longer tail in nature) than for property lines due to the policy forms utilized and timing of loss reporting. In recent years, casualty lines have increased as a proportion of the Companys business when compared to property lines (which are shorter tail in nature). IBNR reserves are calculated by the Companys actuaries using standard actuarial methodologies as discussed above. Since the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company adopted a methodology that provides a single point reserve estimate separately for each line of business and also a range of possible outcomes across each single point reserve estimate. This is discussed further below. The following table shows the recorded estimate and the high and low ends of the range of the Companys net unpaid losses and loss expenses (excluding financial guarantee reserves related to reinsurance agreements with SCA that are recorded within Net loss from operating affiliates) for each of the lines of business noted above at December 31, 2007: Range of Net Unpaid Losses & Loss Expenses Estimated as at December 31, 2007 Range of Net Unpaid Losses & Loss Expenses Estimated as at December 31, 2007 Net Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses Recorded as at December 31, 2007 (U.S. dollars in millions) High Low Insurance Casualty professional lines $ 3,949 $ 4,502 $ 3,426 Casualty other lines 4,015 4,558 3,504 Property catastrophe (1) 50 57 44 Other property 604 687 525 Marine, energy, aviation, and satellite 1,207 1,354 1,068 Other specialty lines (2) 698 747 652 Other (3) 474 573 384 Total (5) $ 10,997 $ 12,085 $ 9,953 Reinsurance Casualty (4) $ 4,608 $ 5,167 $ 4,122 Property catastrophe (1) 253 298 212 Other property 990 1,078 908 Marine, energy, aviation, and satellite 521 574 474 Other (3) 593 652 543 Total (5) $ 6,965 $ 7,590 $ 6,413 Structured Indemnity (5) $ 229 TOTAL $ 18,191 (1) Property and catastrophe IBNR includes event specific reserves for losses that the Companys insureds and cedants have informed it they expect to incur but have not yet had reported known claims. (2) Other specialty lines within the Insurance segment includes: environmental, programs, equine, warranty, and excess and surplus lines. (3) Other includes employers liability, surety, political risk and other lines. (4) Within the Reinsurance segment, casualty other and casualty professional lines of business are shown in the aggregate. (5) The range for the total Insurance and Reinsurance segment reserves is narrower than the sum of the ranges for the lines of business shown in the table due to diversification benefits across the lines of business. In addition, the total for each of the Insurance and Reinsurance segments does not include reserves relating to structured indemnity business as the Company does not develop reserve ranges for this line of business. 61 Actual development of recorded reserves as of December 31, 2006 during 2007 was within the estimated reserve range. There are factors that would cause reserves to increase or decrease within the context of the range provided. The magnitude of any change in ultimate losses would be determined by the magnitude of any changes to the Companys assumptions or combined impact of changes in assumptions. Factors that would increase reserves include, but are not limited to, increases in claim severity, increases in expected level of reported claims, changes to the regulatory environment which expand the exposure insured by the Company, changes in the litigation environment that increase claim awards, filings or verdicts, unexpected increases in loss inflation, and or new types of claims being pursued against the Company. Factors that would decrease reserves include, but are not limited to, decreases in claim severity, reductions in the expected level of reported claims, changes to the regulatory environment which contract the exposure insured by the Company, changes in the litigation environment that decrease claim awards, filings or verdicts, and or unexpected decreases in loss inflation. During 2007, the Company undertook a review of its methodology for calculating reserve ranges around its single point reserve estimate. The Company modeled a statistical distribution of potential reserve outcomes over a one year run off period for each of the approximately 50 lines of business. In doing so the Company evaluated a number of alternative models, and for each line of business the Companys actuaries selected the one deemed to be most appropriate. Factors affecting this decision included an assessment of the model fit, availability and relevance of data and the impact of changes in business mix. In addition, the Company commissioned an external review of its methodology which also included an independent assessment of potential reserve volatility. The Company used the modeled statistical distribution to calculate an 80% confidence interval for the potential reserve outcomes over this one year run off period. The high and low end points of the ranges set forth in the above table are such that there is a 10% modeled probability that the reserve will develop higher than the high point and a 10% modeled probability that the reserve will develop lower than the low point. The results of the external review noted above are consistent with the one year run off reserves ranges developed by the Company. The development of a reserve range models the uncertainty of the claim environment as well as the limited predictive power of past loss data. These uncertainties and limitations are not specific to the Company. The ranges represent an estimate of the range of possible outcomes over a one year development period. A range of possible outcomes should not be confused with a range of best estimates. The range of best estimates will generally be much narrower than the range of possible outcomes as it will reflect reasonable actuarial and management best estimates of the expected reserve. Reserve volatility was analyzed for each line of business (excluding structured indemnity) within each of the Reinsurance and Insurance segments using the Companys historical data supplemented by industry data. These ranges were then aggregated to the lines of business shown above taking into account correlation between lines of business. The practical result of the correlation approach to aggregation is that the ranges by line of business disclosed above, are narrower than the sum of the ranges of the individual lines of business. Similarly, the range for the Companys total reserves in the aggregate, is narrower than the sum of the ranges for the lines of business disclosed above. During 2006, the Company reviewed the correlation assumptions between its various lines of business. There was growth in certain lines of business as well as changes in the groupings of the data used in the reserving process. These changes necessitated a review of the correlation matrix used to develop the Companys reserve ranges. The Company took a simplified approach of assigning ratings of low, medium or high to its correlation assumptions for each line of business pairing based on the judgment of the reserving actuaries, as there was both limited historical experience within its portfolio and limited applicable industry data. However, the Companys actual historical experience and industry data were used to judgmentally select a range of values for the low, medium and high correlations, respectively, of 15%, 30% and 50%. It should be noted that both the Companys own experience and the industry data exhibit negative correlations in reserve developments between certain lines of business. However, as a measure of prudence in evaluating the reserve ranges, the Company has used a minimum of 15% correlation between any two lines of business. The analysis of correlations and the reflection of potential diversification benefits across lines of business represent another area of uncertainty in the development of estimated reserve ranges. The Company is not aware of any generally accepted model to perform the reserve range analysis described above, however, and other models may be employed to develop these ranges. See further discussion under Segments below for prior year development of loss reserves. Financial Guarantee Loss Reserving The financial guarantees that the Company reinsures or otherwise guarantees relate almost exclusively to transactions with SCA which reinsure scheduled payments of principal and interest due on various types of financial obligations against payment default by the issuers of such obligations. Management establishes reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses on such business based on managements best estimate of the ultimate expected incurred losses. The Companys estimated ultimate expected incurred losses are comprised of: 62 (i) case basis reserves, (ii) unallocated reserves, and (iii) cumulative paid losses to date. Establishment of such reserves requires the use and exercise of significant judgment by management, including with respect to estimates regarding the occurrence and amount of a loss on an insured obligation. Estimates of losses may differ from actual results and such difference may be material, due to the fact that the ultimate dispositions of claims are subject to the outcome of events that have not yet occurred. Examples of these events include changes in the level of interest rates, credit deterioration of insured obligations, and changes in the value of specific assets supporting insured obligations. Both qualitative and quantitative factors are used in establishing such reserves. In determining the reserves, management considers all factors in the aggregate, and does not attribute the reserve provisions or any portion thereof to any specific factor. Any estimate of future costs is subject to the inherent limitation on the Companys ability to predict the aggregate course of future events. It should therefore be expected that the actual emergence of losses and loss adjustment expenses will vary, perhaps materially, from any estimate. Case basis reserves on financial guarantee reinsurance assumed are generally established upon notification from SCA who is the Companys principal ceding company. Case basis reserves are established by SCA and the Companys proportionate share of these reserves are reported on a quarterly basis. Based on our evaluation of the loss activity reported to the Company on a quarterly basis, it may, in managements judgment, establish case reserves greater than those reported by SCA. This information is recorded into the Companys records upon receipt of these statements. Due to the timing of the receipts of such statements from SCA, the Company may at times need to rely on its independent assessment based on previously reported data. Case basis reserves on financial guarantee insurance business written by SCA and reinsured by the Company with respect to a specific policy or contract are established upon receipt of a claim notice or when management determines that (i) a claim is probable in the future based on credit events that have occurred and (ii) the amount of the ultimate loss that the Company will incur can be reasonably estimated. As specific case basis reserves are established, the Company considers whether any changes are required to the assumptions underlying the calculation of unallocated reserves (which are discussed below) as a result of such activity. Management would only expect such changes to occur in limited instances, such as economic events generating significant loss activity across a broad cross section of the portfolio. Management has not viewed the Companys case basis reserve and unallocated reserve activity to date to warrant a change in the unallocated reserves. While material case basis reserves were established in 2007, these reserves were concentrated in certain sectors of the financial guarantee portfolio and were associated with unprecedented credit market events. As such, these events did not alter the Companys perspective of the expected loss ratio associated with the remainder of the portfolio and the required level of unallocated reserves. The amount of the case basis reserve is based on the net present value of the expected ultimate loss and loss adjustment expense payments that the Company expects to make, net of expected recoveries under salvage and subrogation rights. Case basis reserves are determined using cash flow or similar models to estimate the net present value of the anticipated shortfall between (i) scheduled payments on the insured obligation plus anticipated loss adjustment expenses and (ii) anticipated cash flow from the proceeds to be received on sales of any collateral supporting the obligation and other anticipated recoveries. A number of quantitative and qualitative factors are considered when determining or assessing, in managements judgment, the need for a case basis reserve. These factors may include the creditworthiness of the underlying issuer of the insured obligation, whether the obligation is secured or unsecured, the projected cash flow or market value of any assets that collateralize or secure the insured obligation, and the historical and projected loss rates on such assets. Other factors that may affect the actual ultimate loss include the state of the economy, changes in interest rates, rates of inflation and the salvage values of specific collateral. Case basis reserves are generally discounted at a rate reflecting the yield on the Companys investment portfolio during the period the case basis reserve is established. The Company believes this yield is an appropriate rate to discount the Companys reserves because it reflects the rate of return on the assets supporting such business. When a case basis reserve is established for a guaranteed obligation whose premium is paid on an upfront basis, the Company continues to record premium earnings on such policy over its remaining life, unless it has recorded a full limit loss with respect to such policy, in which case the remaining deferred premium revenue relating thereto is immediately reflected in earnings. When a case basis reserve is established for a guaranteed obligation whose premium is paid on an installment basis, those premiums, if expected to be received prospectively, are considered a form of recovery netted against the loss reserves and are no longer earned as premium revenue. In addition to case basis reserves, the Company maintains an unallocated loss reserve for expected losses inherent in the Companys in force business (consisting of both financial guarantee insurance and reinsurance business) that is expected to emerge in the future. The unallocated loss reserves are reported to the Company by SCA as the cedant and represent the Companys estimated ultimate liability from claims expected to be incurred in the future under in force insured and reinsured policies less outstanding case basis reserves and cumulative paid claims to date on such policies. The Company updates estimates of losses and loss adjustment expense reserves quarterly and any resulting changes in reserves are recorded as a charge or credit to earnings in the period such estimates are changed. Management believes that its reserves are adequate to cover the Companys expected ultimate losses. However, due to the inherent uncertainties of estimating reserves for loss and loss adjustment expenses, actual experience may differ from the estimates reflected in the Companys consolidated financial statements, and the differences may be material. Differences exist within the 63 financial guarantee industry with regard to the methodology and measurement of such reserves. While management believes that the principles it applies are the most appropriate for its business and have applied them consistently within the periods presented, alternate methods may produce different estimates as compared to the current methodology currently used. Accounting practices in the financial guarantee insurance and reinsurance industry are currently being reviewed by applicable regulatory bodies and any changes required by that review could have a material effect on the reported operating results and financial condition of the industry or particular market participants, including the Company, depending on the extent to which current policies differ from those promulgated by such regulatory bodies. The Companys risk management department is responsible for monitoring the performance of the in force portfolio through coordination with SCAs surveillance system. They maintain a list of credits that they have determined need to be closely monitored and, for certain of those credits, the SCA surveillance team undertake remediation activities they determine to be appropriate in order to mitigate the likelihood and or amount of any loss that the Company could incur with respect to such credits. Unpaid losses and loss expenses recoverable The recognition of unpaid losses and loss expenses recoverable requires two key judgments. The first judgment involves the Companys estimation of the amount of gross IBNR to be ceded to reinsurers. Ceded IBNR is generally developed as part of the Companys loss reserving process and consequently, its estimation is subject to similar risks and uncertainties as the estimation of gross IBNR (see Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Unpaid losses and loss expenses and unpaid loss and loss expense recoverable). The second judgment involves the Companys estimate of the amount of the reinsurance recoverable balance that the Company will ultimately be unable to recover from related reinsurers due to insolvency, contractual dispute, or for other reasons. Amounts estimated to be uncollectible are reflected in a bad debt provision that reduces the reinsurance recoverable balance and shareholders equity. Changes in the bad debt provision are reflected in net income. See Financial Condition and Liquidity and Item 8, Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Reinsurance, for further information. The Company uses a default analysis to estimate uncollectible reinsurance. The primary components of the default analysis are reinsurance recoverable balances by reinsurer, net of collateral, and default factors used to determine the portion of a reinsurers balance deemed uncollectible. The definition of collateral for this purpose requires some judgment and is generally limited to assets held in trust, letters of credit, and liabilities held by us with the same legal entity for which the Company believes there is a right of offset. Default factors require considerable judgment and are determined using the current rating, or rating equivalent, of each reinsurer as well as other key considerations and assumptions. 2) Future Policy Benefit Reserves Future policy benefit reserves relate to the Companys life operations and are estimated using assumptions for investment yields, mortality, expenses and provisions for adverse loss deviation. Uncertainties related to interest rate volatility and mortality experience make it difficult to project and value the ultimate benefit payments. Most of the Companys future policy benefit reserves relate to annuity portfolio reinsurance contracts under which the Company makes annuity payments throughout the term of the contract for a specified portfolio of policies. For certain of these contracts, a single premium is paid at inception of the contract by way of a transfer of cash and investments to the Company. The reserving methodology for these annuity portfolio reinsurance contracts is described in FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 60 Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises (FAS 60), as amended by FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 97 Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Long Duration Contracts and for Realized Gains and Losses from the Sale of Investments (FAS 97). These contracts subject the Company to risks arising from policyholder mortality over a period that extends beyond the periods in which premiums are collected. Liabilities for future policy benefit reserves are established in accordance with the provisions of FAS 60. Claims and expenses for individual policies within these annuity reinsurance contracts are projected over the lifetime of the contract to calculate a net present value of future cash flows. Assumptions for each element of the basis (mortality, expenses and interest) are determined at the issue of the contract and these assumptions are locked in throughout the term of the contract unless a premium deficiency exists. The assumptions are best estimate assumptions plus provisions for adverse deviations on the key risk elements (i.e., mortality and interest). Provisions for adverse deviation are designed to cover reasonable deviations from the best estimate outcome of the contract. As the experience on the contracts emerges, the assumptions are reviewed. This occurs at least annually and includes both an analysis of experience and review of likely future experience. If such review would produce reserves in excess of those currently held then lock in assumptions will be revised and a loss recognized. During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, there were no adjustments to the locked in assumptions for these contracts. 64 The future policy benefit reserves for these annuity portfolio reinsurance contracts amounted to $5.8 billion and $5.7 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The Company holds the investment assets backing these liabilities. These investments are primarily fixed income securities with maturities that closely match the expected claims settlement profile. A 0.1% decrease in the investment yield assumption would result in approximately a $45 million increase in the value of future claims related to annuity portfolio reinsurance. As stated above, the future policy benefit reserves include provisions for adverse deviation in excess of best estimate assumptions that amounted to approximately $410 million and $371 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The future policy benefit reserves would only be increased if these provisions for adverse deviation became insufficient in the light of emerging claims experience. The present value of future claims would increase by approximately $21 million if mortality rates were to decrease by 1% in all future years, relative to the reserving assumptions. The Company also provides reinsurance of disability income protection, for an in force block of business. The future policy benefit reserves for these contracts amounted to approximately $90 million and $79 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Future policy benefit reserves are established in accordance with the provisions of FAS 60, including the lock in of assumptions at inception with periodic review against experience. The liabilities relate to in force blocks of business, comprising underlying insurance policies that provide an income if the policyholder becomes sick or disabled. The liabilities are therefore driven mainly by the rates at which policyholders become sick (where sickness is defined by the policy conditions) and by the rates at which these policyholders recover or die. A 1% increase in the incidence rate would increase the value of future claims by approximately $0.6 million, while a 1% decrease in the termination rate would increase the value of future claims by approximately $0.7 million. Following a review of claim termination experience, the reserving assumptions were revised during 2007. The overall effect of the revised assumptions was a reduction in income of $10.0 million. No changes to the locked in assumptions were made in 2006. The Company also provides reinsurance of term assurance and critical illness policies written in the U.K. and Ireland. The future policy benefit reserves for these contracts amounted to approximately $242 million and $135 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Future policy benefit reserves are established in accordance with the provisions of FAS 60, including the lock in of assumptions at inception with periodic review against experience. The provisions for adverse deviation in these reserves amounted to approximately $22m and $12m at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The liabilities relate to in force blocks of business and to treaties accepting new business, comprising underlying insurance policies that provide mainly lump sum benefits if the policyholder dies or becomes sick. For term assurance, the liabilities are therefore driven by the rates of mortality and for critical illness cover, the liabilities are driven predominantly by the rates at which policyholders become sick, where sickness is defined by the treaty conditions (i.e., the morbidity rates). A 1% increase in the mortality rate relative to the reserving assumption would increase the value of future claims by approximately $2.1 million, and a 1% increase in the morbidity rate would increase the value of future claims by approximately $2.0 million. The term assurance and critical illness treaties have been written using a variety of structures, some of which incur acquisition costs during an initial period. For such treaties, a deferred acquisition cost (DAC) asset has been established and an increase in future lapse rates could impact the recoverability of such costs from future premiums. The recoverability will also be influenced by the impact of lapses on future claims. An increase in the annual lapse rates by 1% could lead to a 5% 10% reduction in future margins available for amortizing the DAC asset. The Company also provided reinsurance of a block of U.S. based term assurance, which was novated to the Company from an insurance affiliate in December 2002. The future policy benefit reserves for these contracts amounted to approximately $245 million and $204 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Future policy benefit reserves are established in accordance with the provisions of FAS 60, including the lock in of assumptions at inception with periodic review against experience. The liabilities relate to in force blocks of business, which are comprised of underlying insurance policies that provide mainly lump sum benefits if the policyholder dies. The liabilities are therefore driven by the rates of mortality, and a 1% increase in the mortality rate relative to the reserving assumption would increase the value of future claims by approximately $9 million. The liabilities are also affected by lapse experience, and a 1% decrease in lapse rates relative to the reserving assumption would increase the reserve by approximately $1.4 million. Following a review of mortality and lapse experience, the locked in assumptions were reviewed during 2007 and it was determined that the assumptions should be revised. The overall effect of the revised assumptions was a reduction in income of $25.4 million. No changes to the locked in assumptions were made in 2006. During 2006, the Company also began to provide reinsurance of U.S. based term assurance derived from new business written by client companies. Future policy benefit reserves are established in accordance with the provisions of FAS 60, including the lock in of assumptions at inception with periodic review against experience. As at December 31, 2007, the benefit reserves for these contracts were immaterial. For further information see Item 8, Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Future Policy Benefit Reserves. 65 3) Deposit Liabilities The Companys deposit liabilities at December 31, 2007 reflect obligations assumed under funding agreements, municipal guaranteed reinvestment contracts, payment undertaking agreements and certain structured insurance and reinsurance agreements. For each of these contracts, the Company establishes a deposit liability equal to the net cash received at inception. Each deposit liability accrues at a rate equal to the internal rate of return of the payment receipts and obligations due during the life of the agreement. Where the timing and or amount of future payments are uncertain, cash flows reflecting the Companys actuarially determined best estimates are utilized. The ultimate size of underlying losses, the impact of the contractual limits upon settlement of such losses, and the impact of the underlying loss settlement process on the timing of payments are considered as appropriate. Where uncertainty is present, an increase in the ultimate claims cost or accelerated claims settlement would potentially lead to an increase in the deposit liability accretion rate or lead to incurred losses if significant. The interest expense reported due to the accretion of deposit liabilities associated with structured insurance and reinsurance contracts was $76.6 million, $37.8 million and $49.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. For some of the Companys deposit liabilities, the accretion rate is recorded at its contractual maximum level. For all other contracts, a 1% increase in the average accretion rate would result in an increase in deposit liabilities and interest expense by $25.5 million on an annualized basis. See Item 8, Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Deposit Liabilities. 4) Derivative Instruments The Company conducts activities in three main types of derivative instruments: investment related derivative instruments, embedded credit derivatives related to financial guarantee reinsurance agreements and weather and energy derivatives. The estimate of fair value for credit derivatives and weather and energy derivatives requires managements judgment. These two activities are discussed below: a) Credit Derivatives The Company is exposed to certain credit derivatives in connection with its financial guarantee reinsurance of subsidiaries of SCA. In determining fair value, the Company relies primarily on reported mark to market adjustments from SCA as well as its own analysis of the related exposures. The Company reviews the SCA methodology and its application. SCAs estimate of the fair value of its in force CDS contracts is based on the use of valuation techniques involving management judgment in regard to a number of factors, including: estimates of rates of return which would be required by market participants to assume the risks in the current market environment; the amount of subordination in the CDS contracts before liability attaches that would be required by a market participant in order for it to assume the risks; the actual amount of subordination in the CDS contracts before liability attaches; the quality of the specific assets referenced in the CDS contracts at the measurement date; the market perception of risk associated with asset classes referenced in the CDS contracts; the remaining average life of the CDS contract; credit price indices, published by non affiliated financial institutions, for the type(s) of assets; referenced in the CDS contracts (both in terms of type of assets and their credit rating); price discovery resulting from discussions and negotiations with market participants to commute or transfer the risks in any of the CDS contracts; and prices of guarantees issued in the retail market or commutations of contracts it has executed in proximity to the measurement date. SCA management considers all available relevant evidence in forming its best estimate of the fair value of the CDSs, as new information becomes available they may consider new or different factors than those listed above and change its estimates in the future. The weight ascribed to these factors in forming the best estimate of the fair value of SCAs CDS contracts may vary under changing circumstances. In periods prior to the quarter ended September 30, 2007, SCA principally considered price indices published by nonaffiliated financial institutions in forming the best estimate of the fair value of the CDS contracts. The fair value of the guarantee was determined by multiplying the percentage change in the applicable credit price index or indices applicable to the assets referenced in the CDS by the present value of the remaining expected future premiums to be received under the contract. In forming the best estimate of the fair value of the CDS contracts subsequent to June 30, 2007, however, SCA management concluded that limited reliance could be placed on price indices because events and conditions in the credit markets associated with subprime mortgage collateral and corporate loans resulted in limited or no transaction activity in many financial instruments since June 30, 2007 (including CDOs) of high grade ABS, CLOs, RMBS, and CDOs of CDOs, causing financial institutions which publish the indices that SCA management historically relied upon to estimate the fair value of credit derivatives either to refrain from updating such indices or base changes in the indices partly on judgments in regard to estimated price levels and not actual executed trades. In addition, evidence suggested that the limited price information available in the marketplace in regard to such instruments was influenced by trades resulting from margin calls and liquidity issues that are not part of the risks associated with SCAs business model or CDS contracts. As a result of that discussed above, the fair value of credit defaults swaps subsequent to June 30, 2007 were estimated by SCA management as follows: in instances where current market indices were reliable and available, the estimate of fair value was based on applying the percentage change in the applicable credit price index or indices applicable to the assets referenced in the CDS by the present value of the remaining expected future premiums to be received under the contract, and in substantially all other instances the estimate of the fair value of CDS contracts ascribed significant weight to judgments regarding rates of return required by market participants in the current market environment and the amount of subordination required by market participants before their liability would attach under the CDS contracts. The estimated fair value was calculated by adding any additional subordination, if required based on SCAs ratings or that of the rating agencies, to the amount of additional premium required to be paid to transfer the risk to achieve the selected rate of return. Such premium was calculated by adjusting the present value of the expected remaining future net cash flows under such contracts (which are comprised of the remaining expected future premiums to be received under the contract, less estimated maintenance expenses and a provision for expected losses that will manifest in the future) to reflect the best estimate of the rates of return that would be required by a counterparty to assume the risks on such contracts. Changes in fair value are unrealized as the credit derivatives are not traded to realize this value. See Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for sensitivity analysis and Item 8, Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Derivative Instruments. b) Weather and Energy Derivatives The fair value of weather and energy derivatives is determined through the use of quoted market prices where available. Where quoted market prices are unavailable, the fair value is estimated using available market data and internal pricing models using consistent statistical methodologies. Estimating fair value of instruments that do not have quoted market prices requires managements judgment in determining amounts that could reasonably be expected to be received from, or paid to, a third party in settlement of the contracts. The amounts could be materially different from the amounts that might be realized in an actual sale transaction. Fair values are subject to change in the near term and reflect managements best estimate based on various factors including, but not limited to, actual and forecasted weather conditions, changes in commodity prices, changes in interest rates and other market factors. See Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for sensitivity analysis and Item 8, Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Derivative Instruments. 5) Other Than Temporary Declines in Investments The Companys process for identifying declines in the fair value of investments that are other than temporary involves consideration of several factors. These primary factors include (i) the time period during which there has been a significant decline in value, (ii) an analysis of the liquidity, business prospects and financial condition of the issuer, (iii) the significance of the decline, (iv) an analysis of the collateral structure and other credit support, as applicable, of the securities in question, (v) expected future interest rate movements, and (vi) the Companys intent and ability to hold the investment for a sufficient period of time for the value to recover. In addition, EITF 99 20 requires that other than temporary impairments for certain asset backed and mortgage backed securities are recognized if the fair value of the security is less than its cost or amortized cost and there has been a decrease in the present value of the expected cash flows since the last reporting period. Where the Companys analysis of the above factors results in 66 the Companys conclusion that declines in fair values are other than temporary, the cost of the security is written down to fair value and the previously unrealized loss is therefore realized in the period such determination is made. With respect to securities where the decline in value is determined to be temporary and the securitys value is not written down, a subsequent decision may be made to sell that security and realize a loss. Subsequent decisions on security sales are made within the context of overall risk monitoring, changing information, market conditions generally and assessing value relative to other comparable securities. Day to day management of the Companys investment portfolio is outsourced to third party investment managers. While these investment managers may, at a given point in time, believe that the preferred course of action is to hold securities with unrealized losses that are considered temporary until such losses are recovered, the dynamic nature of the portfolio management may result in a subsequent decision to sell the security and realize the loss, based upon a change in market and other factors described above. The Company believes that subsequent decisions to sell such securities are consistent with the classification of the Companys portfolio as available for sale. As mentioned above, the Company considers its intent and ability to hold a security until the value recovers as part of the process of evaluating whether a securitys unrealized loss represents an other than temporary decline. Management reviews any significant sales of securities for a loss to determine if such sale impacts the assertion with respect to the intent and ability to hold to recovery. For further details on managements assessment of other than temporary impairments, see Item 8, Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Investments. However, this factor on its own does not dictate whether or not the Company recognizes an impairment charge. The Company believes its ability to hold such securities is supported by positive and sufficient cash flow from its operations and from maturities within its investment portfolio in order to meet its claims payment obligations arising from its underwriting operations without selling such investments. In this regard, cash flow from operating activities was $2.2 billion and $2.4 billion in 2007 and 2006, respectively. There are risks and uncertainties associated with determining whether declines in the fair value of investments are other than temporary. These include subsequent significant changes in general economic conditions as well as specific business conditions affecting particular issuers, the Companys liability profile, subjective assessment of issue specific factors (seniority of claims, collateral value, etc.), future financial market effects, stability of foreign governments and economies, future rating agency actions and significant disclosure of accounting, fraud or corporate governance issues that may adversely affect certain investments. In addition, significant assumptions and management judgment are involved in determining if the decline is other than temporary. If management determines that a decline in fair value is temporary, then a securitys value is not written down at that time. However, there are potential effects upon the Companys future earnings and financial position should management later conclude that some of the current declines in the fair value of the investments are other than temporary declines. See Investment Activities for further information on other than temporary declines in the value of investments and unrealized loss on investments. 6) Income Taxes The Company utilizes the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. The Company had capitalized net operating tax losses of $396.9 million and $334.0 million against which a valuation allowance of $204.4 million and $198.9 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, was established. The Company had capitalized realized and unrealized capital losses of approximately $404 million and $74 million, respectively, against which a valuation allowance of approximately $167 million at December 31, 2007 was established. The deferral of benefits from tax losses is evaluated based upon managements estimates of the future profitability of the Companys taxable entities based on current forecasts, the character of income and the period for which losses may be carried forward. A valuation allowance may have to be established for any portion of a deferred tax asset that management believes will not be realized. Should the future income of these entities fall below expectations, a further valuation allowance would have to be established, which could be significant. In addition, if any further losses are generated by these entities, these losses may not be tax affected. For further information see Other Revenues and Expenses and Item 8, Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Taxation. 7) Intangible Assets Intangible assets are carried at or below estimated fair value. There are many assumptions and estimates underlying the fair value calculation. Principally, the Company identifies the business entity that the intangible asset is attributed to, and reviews historical and forecasted performance and other underlying factors affecting such analysis, including market conditions, premium rates and loss trends. Other assumptions used could produce a significantly different result which may result in a change in the value of the intangible asset and related amortization charge in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Based on the current expectations of profitability, an impairment charge would only be recognized in the event of a significant decline in the expected profitability of those operations where such intangible assets are applicable. At December 31, 2007, intangible assets were $1.8 billion of which approximately $1.4 billion and $0.4 billion related to the Companys Reinsurance and Insurance segments, respectively. See Other Revenue and Expenses for further information. 67 8) Variable Interest Entities The Company utilizes variable interest entities both directly and indirectly in the ordinary course of business. The Company must assess consolidation of variable interest entities based on whether the Company is the primary beneficiary of the entity. The company that absorbs a majority of the expected losses or residual rewards of the entity is deemed to be the primary beneficiary and is therefore required to consolidate the entity. The determination of expected losses and expected residual returns requires the Company to estimate the expected cash flows of the entities and measure the expected variability of these cash flows. The use of different assumptions to determine the expected cash flows and variability could affect the Companys determination of the primary beneficiary. The assumptions used to determine the expected cash flows depend on the type of structure and the nature of the Companys variable interest. The Company has made assumptions primarily regarding default rates, the timing of defaults and recovery rates to estimate these expected cash flows of the variable interest entities that it utilizes. See Item 8, Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements Variable Interest Entities, for further information. 9) Reinsurance Premium Estimates The Company writes business on both an excess of loss and proportional basis. In the case of excess of loss contracts, the subject written premium is generally outlined within the treaty and the Company receives a minimum and or deposit premium on a quarterly basis which is normally followed by an adjustment premium based on the ultimate subject premium for the contract. The Company estimates the premium written on the basis of the expected subject premium and regularly reviews this against actual quarterly statements to revise the estimate based on the information provided by the cedant. On proportional contracts, written premiums are estimated to expected ultimate premiums based on information provided by the ceding companies. An estimate of premium is recorded at the inception of the contract. The ceding companys premium estimate may be adjusted based on their history of providing accurate premium estimates. When the actual premium is reported by the ceding company, normally on a quarterly basis, it may be materially higher or lower than the estimate. Adjustments arising from the reporting of actual premium by the ceding companies are recorded in the period in which they are determined. Written premiums on excess of loss contracts are earned in accordance with the loss occurring period defined within the treaty, normally 12 months following inception of the contract. Written premiums on proportional contracts are earned over the risk periods of the underlying policies issued and renewed, normally 24 months. For both excess of loss and proportional contracts, the earned premium is recognized ratably over the earning period, namely 12 24 months. The portion of the premium related to the unexpired portion of the policy at the end of any reporting period is reflected in unearned premiums. Reinstatement premiums are recognized at the time a loss event occurs where coverage limits for the remaining life of the contract are reinstated under pre defined contract terms and are fully earned when recognized. Accrual of reinstatement premiums is based on the Companys estimate of loss and loss adjustment expense reserves, which involves management judgment as described below. Reinsurance operations by their nature add further complications in that generally the ultimate premium due under a specific contract will not be known at the time the contract is entered into. As a result, more judgment and ongoing monitoring is required to establish premiums written and earned in the Companys reinsurance operations. The amount of premiums receivable related to the Companys reinsurance operations amounted to $2.0 billion as at December 31, 2007. A significant portion of amounts included as premiums receivable, which represent estimated premiums written, net of commissions, are not currently due based on the terms of the underlying contracts. Management reviews the premiums receivable balance at least quarterly and provides a provision for amounts deemed to be uncollectible. The Company recorded a provision for uncollectible premiums receivable at December 31, 2007 of $18.6 million. 68 The amount of proportional and excess of loss reinsurance gross premiums written and gross acquisition expenses recognized by the Companys reinsurance operations for each line of business for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was as follows: December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 (2) (3) December 31, 2005 (2) (3) (U.S. dollars in thousands) Gross Premiums Written Gross Acquisition Expenses Gross Premiums Written Gross Acquisition Expenses Gross Premiums Written Gross Acquisition Expenses Proportional Contracts: Property catastrophe $ $ $ $ $ $ Casualty other lines 133,444 52,062 370,780 59,274 582,451 121,758 Casualty professional lines 47,361 23,413 58,533 46,796 72,026 50,185 Other property 739,130 201,170 774,984 205,362 766,823 183,114 Marine, energy, aviation and satellite 47,359 14,981 56,866 11,092 88,485 16,087 Other (1) 222,374 37,177 340,122 72,668 350,465 65,316 Structured Indemnity Total Proportional contracts $ 1,189,668 $ 328,803 $ 1,601,285 $ 395,192 $ 1,860,250 $ 436,460 December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 (2) (3) December 31, 2005 (2) (3) (U.S. dollars in thousands) Gross Premiums Written Gross Acquisition Expenses Gross Premiums Written Gross Acquisition Expenses Gross Premiums Written Gross Acquisition Expenses Excess of loss Contracts: Property catastrophe $ 475,540 $ 46,621 $ 449,312 $ 39,368 $ 481,765 $ 24,989 Casualty other lines 409,807 69,133 289,674 6,816 278,662 56,623 Casualty professional lines 208,919 45,476 239,429 84,063 274,732 30,932 Other property 231,066 21,724 274,875 21,361 241,510 22,825 Marine, energy, aviation and satellite 103,189 11,121 120,061 13,002 152,560 12,021 Other (1) 17,044 2,956 20,216 2,530 45,809 6,403 Structured Indemnity 28,261 374 71,286 645 36,901 1,523 Total Excess of loss contracts $ 1,473,826 $ 197,405 $ 1,464,853 $ 167,785 $ 1,511,939 $ 155,316 (1) Other includes employers liability, surety, political risk and other lines; (2) To facilitate period to period comparisons, certain short term Accident and Health business previously included in the Reinsurance segment has been reclassified to the Life Operations segment to conform to current segment management responsibilities. (3) Certain lines of business previously reported under the Financial Lines segment have been reclassified and reported under the Insurance and Reinsurance segments based on the nature of the business written. Segments To better align the Companys operating and reporting structure with its current strategy and subsequent to the secondary offering of SCAs common shares on June 6, 2007, the Company revised its segment structure during the second quarter of 2007. Depending on the nature of the business written, the following product lines or transactions previously managed by and reported as part of the Financial Lines segment, are now managed as part of the Insurance and Reinsurance segments and reported therewith: (i) structured indemnity products managed through the Companys financial solutions operations (XLFS), (ii) political risk products, (iii) weather and energy management products, and (iv) legacy financial guarantee business. Subsequent to June 6, 2007, SCA is no longer a consolidated subsidiary or a separate operating segment of the Company and its remaining investment in SCA is accounted for using the equity method of accounting. However, historical consolidated results of the Company include the separately reported net income of SCA through to June 6, 2007. The earnings on the Companys investment in Primus and other financial operating affiliates as well as the results of certain structured finance products are reported as part of the Corporate segment that includes the general investment and financing operations of the Company. In addition, the guaranteed investment contract and funding agreement businesses are now reported separately within the Other Financial Lines segment. Given the changes in the Companys operating and reporting structure as described above, the Company is now organized into four operating segments: Insurance, Reinsurance, Life Operations, and Other Financial Lines in addition to a corporate segment that includes the general investment and financing operations of the Company. 69 The Company evaluates the performance for both the Insurance and Reinsurance segments based on underwriting profit and evaluates the contribution from each of the Life Operations and Other Financial Lines segments. Other items of revenue and expenditure of the Company are not evaluated at the segment level for reporting purposes. In addition, the Company does not allocate investment assets by segment for its property and casualty operations. Investment assets related to (i) the Companys Life Operations and Other Financial Lines segments and (ii) certain structured products included in the Insurance and Reinsurance segments, are held in separately identified portfolios. As such, net investment income from these assets is included in the contribution from each of these segments. Income Statement Analysis Insurance The following table summarizes the underwriting profit (loss) for the Insurance segment: (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2007 % Change 07 vs 06 2006 (1) % Change 06 vs 05 2005 (1) Gross premiums written $ 5,434,266 (3.4 )% $ 5,627,293 (3.8 )% $ 5,848,121 Net premiums written 4,186,855 0.1 % 4,185,372 (2.9 )% 4,310,232 Net premiums earned 4,116,588 (1.0 )% 4,159,323 (0.2 )% 4,165,708 Fee income and other 11,812 (51.6 )% 24,425 60.6 % 15,205 Net losses and loss expenses 2,594,812 (4.8 )% 2,726,847 (41.0 )% 4,624,664 Acquisition costs 484,014 (2.7 )% 497,367 (3.7 )% 516,622 Operating expenses 683,108 6.7 % 640,470 23.1 % 520,452 Underwriting profit (loss) $ 366,466 14.9 % $ 319,064 NM * $ (1,480,825 ) Exchange losses (gains) $ 29,567 (78.9 )% $ 140,248 NM * $ (25,407 ) Net results structured products $ (2,480 ) NM * $ 6,895 (60.8 )% $ 17,568 (1) Certain lines of business previously reported under the Financial Lines segment have been reclassified and reported under the Insurance and Reinsurance segments based on the nature of the business written. * NM Not Meaningful Gross premiums written decreased by 3.4% during the year ended December 31, 2007 compared with the year ended 2006, while net premiums written increased slightly during the same period. Decreases in gross premiums written were due primarily to a combination of a decrease in rates, reduced shares and selective non renewals in certain property and marine lines of business, as well as the runoff of certain property catastrophe exposures. Partially offsetting these decreases was growth in the excess and surplus book of business in the U.S., increases in the number of long term agreements, strong new business and higher renewal retentions within certain casualty lines of business, and favorable foreign exchange rate movements. Net premiums written increased slightly as the reduction in ceded premiums written was mostly offset by the reduction in gross premiums written noted above. Ceded premiums written decreased as a result of favorable outward reinsurance pricing conditions, increased retention related to certain captive programs and marine and energy treaties, as well as refunds associated with property catastrophe programs. Partially offsetting the decrease in ceded premiums was the impact of return premium associated with the commutation of ceded reinsurance policies in professional lines of business in 2006. Gross and net premiums written decreased by 3.8% and 2.9%, respectively, in the year ended December 31, 2006 compared with the year ended December 31, 2005. The decrease in gross premiums written was primarily due to continued competitive pressures across most non catastrophe exposed lines, corporate risk management initiatives to reduce catastrophe exposures, fewer multi year contracts, and the impact of foreign exchange movements on premium. Decreases in casualty premiums and the discontinuation of the segments surety business were partially offset by volume increases in certain specialty lines of business such as environmental and aerospace. The decrease in net premiums written was primarily a result of the factors impacting gross premiums written, partially offset by return premium associated with the commutation of ceded reinsurance policies in professional lines of business, the cancellation of certain property catastrophe reinsurance programs and the absence of catastrophe related ceded reinstatement premiums. Net premiums earned decreased by 1.0% in the year ended December 31, 2007 compared with the year ended 2006 and reflected the earn out of overall lower net premiums written in both 2006 and 2007. Net premiums earned decreased marginally by 0.2% in the year ended December 31, 2006 compared with the year ended December 31, 2005. The decrease over the prior year was primarily attributable to the reasons noted above affecting net premiums written and partially offset by 2005 hurricane ceded reinstatement premiums recognized and earned in 2005. Fee income and other decreased in 2007 as compared to 2006 and increased in 2006 as compared to 2005 primarily due to a favorable legal settlement recorded in 2006 in relation to a U.K. contract as well as certain foreign exchange adjustments recorded in 2006. 70 The following table presents the ratios for the Insurance segment for each of the last three years ended December 31: 2007 2006 2005 Loss and loss expense ratio 63.0 % 65.6 % 111.0 % Underwriting expense ratio 28.4 % 27.4 % 24.9 % Combined ratio 91.4 % 93.0 % 135.9 % The loss and loss expense ratio noted above includes net losses incurred for both the current year and any favorable or adverse prior year development of loss and loss expense reserves held at the beginning of the year. The following table summarizes the net (favorable) adverse prior year development by line of business relating to the Insurance segment for the last three years ended December 31: (U.S. dollars in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Property $ (95.0 ) $ (94.4 ) $ (45.4 ) Casualty and Professional (139.1 ) 5.4 1,030.9 Specialty and Other 76.0 75.8 34.7 Total $ (158.1 ) $ (13.2 ) $ 1,020.2 Loss and loss expense ratio excluding prior year development 66.9 % 65.9 % 86.5 % In addition, the following tables present the prior year (favorable) adverse development of the Companys gross and net loss and loss expense reserves within the Insurance segment for the last three years ended December 31: (U.S. dollars in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Gross: Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves at the beginning of the year $ 14,528 $ 14,756 $ 12,477 Net (favorable) adverse development of those reserves during the year (178 ) (371 ) 286 Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves re estimated one year later $ 14,350 $ 14,385 $ 12,763 (U.S. dollars in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Net: Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves at the beginning of the year $ 10,608 $ 9,950 $ 7,047 Net (favorable) adverse development of those reserves during the year (158 ) (13 ) 1,020 Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves re estimated one year later $ 10,450 $ 9,937 $ 8,067 The loss ratio for the Insurance segment for the year ended December 31, 2007 decreased compared with the year ended December 31, 2006, primarily due to net favorable prior year development in 2007 being greater than the net favorable prior year development in 2006. The Insurance segment net prior year reserve releases consisted of $95.0 million in property and $162.1 million in casualty lines of business, partially offset by net adverse development of $23.0 million, $7.0 million and $69.0 million in certain professional, marine and other lines of business, respectively. Casualty releases relate primarily to the European casualty portfolio in accident years 2002 2005. The professional lines development reflects net adverse prior year development of the Bermuda E&O portfolio and releases from the Hartford and European professional lines portfolios. Strengthening in other insurance lines relates to adverse development in discontinued specialty lines, surety and environmental, partially offset by favorable development in aerospace and political risk. Gross prior year development was also favorable at $177.6 million. Excluding prior year development in both years, the loss ratio increased by 1.0 points partly due to an increase in attritional and catastrophe related property experience and partly due to softening market conditions primarily in certain specialty lines. Within the Insurance segment, the loss and loss expense ratio for the year ended December 31, 2006 decreased compared with the year ended December 31, 2005, primarily as a result of the absence of large natural catastrophe events and the unfavorable result of Winterthur Decision during 2005. Excluding the impact of these events, the loss ratio in 2005 was 66.8%. The relative decrease in 2006 relates to net favorable prior year reserve releases. Net favorable prior year reserve development for the year ended 2006 was $13.2 million. This overall favorable development included reserve releases of $94.4 million in property lines and $91.1 million in casualty lines, partially offset by $96.5 million, $46.5 million and $29.3 million of prior year adverse development in certain professional, marine and other lines of business, respectively. The gross prior year favorable development for the Insurance segment was $371.4 million. This gross favorable development exceeds the corresponding net development as gross reported losses in casualty have developed more favorably than net losses. Lower gross reported loss amounts reflect reductions in several large recoverable losses on older years and an absence of new large losses, with consequent reductions to reinsurance recoveries. During 2005, total net adverse prior year development within the Insurance Segment was $1.02 billion of which $834.2 million resulted from the negative outcome of the Winterthur Decision. The remaining $186.0 million was comprised of net adverse prior year development of $259.7 million in professional lines and $34.7 million within other specialty lines including runoff and discontinued business partially offset by releases of $108.4 million primarily in European casualty business. 71 There is no assurance that conditions and trends that have affected the development of liabilities in the past will continue. Accordingly, it is not appropriate to extrapolate future redundancies or deficiencies based on the Companys historical results. The increase in the underwriting expense ratio in the year ended December 31, 2007, compared to the same period in 2006 was due to an increase in the operating expense ratio of 1.2 points (16.6% as compared to 15.4%), partially offset by a decrease in the acquisition expense ratio of 0.2 points (11.8% as compared to 12.0%). The increase in the operating expense ratio was due primarily to higher compensation costs associated with higher head count and corporate allocations, and was partially offset by adjustments booked in 2007 relating to previously accrued regulatory costs. The decrease in the acquisition expense ratio resulted primarily from an increase in outward reinsurance profit commissions as well as favorable prior year premium adjustments. Offsetting these decreases was the impact of a reduction in certain ceded brokerage costs in 2006. The underwriting expense ratio in the year ended December 31, 2006 increased compared to the same period in 2005, as a result of an increase in the operating expense ratio of 2.9 points (15.4 % as compared to 12.5%) partially offset by a lower acquisition expense ratio. The increase in the operating expense ratio was due primarily to increased performance based compensation costs. The lower acquisition expense ratio related primarily to a reduction in certain ceded brokerage costs in 2006 combined with the impact on the expense ratio of reinstatement premiums earned in 2005. Foreign exchange losses in the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, and foreign exchange gains in the year ended December 31, 2005, were due primarily to the change in the value of the U.S. dollar against certain European currencies including the U.K. Sterling and the Euro on certain inter company balances. Net results from structured insurance products include certain structured indemnity contracts that are accounted for as deposit contracts. Results from these contracts for the year ended December 31, 2007, decreased compared to the same period in 2006 due to an unfavorable accretion adjustment recorded in 2007 based on changes in expected cash flows and the accelerated earnings recorded in 2006 resulting from a commutation. Offsetting these decreases was higher net investment income as a result of higher yields and overall larger investment asset balances. Results for these contracts for the year ended December 31, 2006, decreased as compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, due to a favorable accretion adjustment recorded in 2005 based on changes in expected cash flows, partially offset by higher yields in 2006 and from the accelerated earnings in 2006 resulting from a commutation. Reinsurance The following table summarizes the underwriting profit (loss) for this segment: (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2007 % Change 07 vs 06 2006 (1) (2) % Change 06 vs 05 2005 (1) (2) Gross premiums written $ 2,663,494 (13.1 )% $ 3,066,138 (9.1 )% $ 3,372,189 Net premiums written 2,110,865 (11.5 )% 2,384,340 (12.8 )% 2,733,165 Net premiums earned 2,302,039 (10.5 )% 2,570,959 (6.0 )% 2,734,161 Fee income and other 1,698 (63.1 )% 4,597 54.3 % 2,979 Net losses and loss expenses 1,244,764 (14.7 )% 1,459,309 (47.6 )% 2,782,565 Acquisition costs 482,024 (5.7 )% 511,133 (12.1 )% 581,239 Operating expenses 205,966 8.1 % 190,545 26.8 % 150,279 Underwriting profit (loss) $ 370,983 (10.5 )% $ 414,569 NM * $ (776,943 ) Exchange (gains) losses (48,219 ) 12.4 % (42,894 ) NM * 33,183 Net results structured products 25,520 (29.5 )% 36,218 187.4 % 12,604 * NM Not meaningful (1) To facilitate period to period comparisons, certain short term Accident and Health business previously included in the Reinsurance segment has been reclassified to the Life Operations segment to conform to current segment management responsibilities. (2) Certain lines of business previously reported under the Financial Lines segment have been reclassified and reported under the Insurance and Reinsurance segments based on the nature of the business written. Gross and net premiums written decreased by 13.1% and 11.5%, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared with the year ended December 31, 2006. These decreases resulted from the Company declining business due to competitive pressures continuing to drive certain rates below the Companys acceptable underwriting levels as well as certain favorable reinstatement premium and U.S. property program adjustments recorded in 2006. For the year ended December 31, 2007, premium rate decreases were most significant in certain casualty and non U.S. property lines of business. Net premiums written reflect the above changes in gross premiums written, combined with a reduction in ceded premiums in 2007 as compared to 2006 as a result of higher retentions and a lower cost of external retrocession. Gross and net premiums written decreased 9.1% and 12.8%, respectively, in the year ended December 31, 2006 as compared to year ended December 31, 2005. The decrease in gross and net premiums written was primarily attributable to rate and volume reductions within the casualty line of business, and catastrophe gross and net reinstatement premiums of $138.7 million and $34.7 72 million, respectively, recorded in 2005. These decreases were partially offset by a change in accrual methodology and both written and ceded premiums adjustments for certain U.S. property programs in 2006. On a net premiums written basis, the decrease was also attributable to the catastrophe quota share reinsurance treaty with Cyrus Re. In addition, as part of the Companys aggregate risk reduction initiatives, there was a net reduction in catastrophe exposure and a restructuring of the Companys marine and energy exposures. Net premiums earned in the year ended December 31, 2007 decreased 10.5% as compared to the same period in 2006. Net premiums earned in the year ended December 31, 2006 decreased 6.0% as compared to the year ended December 31, 2005. The decrease in both 2007 and 2006 was a reflection of the overall reduction of net premiums written over the last three years. The following table presents the ratios for the Reinsurance segment for the last three years ended December 31: 2007 2006 2005 Loss and loss expense ratio 54.1 % 56.8 % 101.8 % Underwriting expense ratio 29.8 % 27.3 % 26.8 % Combined ratio 83.9 % 84.1 % 128.6 % The loss and loss expense ratio includes net losses incurred for both the current year and any favorable or adverse prior year development of loss reserves held at the beginning of the year. The following table summarizes the net (favorable) adverse prior year development by line of business relating to the Reinsurance segment for the last three years ended December 31: (U.S. dollars in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Property and other short tail lines $ (188.7 ) $ (133.0 ) $ (161.4 ) Casualty and other (87.4 ) 7.3 254.9 Structured Indemnity 8.8 28.3 Total $ (267.3 ) $ (97.4 ) $ 93.5 Loss and loss expense ratio excluding prior year development 65.7 % 60.6 % 98.4 % In addition, the following tables present the prior year (favorable) adverse development of the Companys gross and net loss and loss expense reserves within the Reinsurance segment for the last three years ended December 31: (U.S. dollars in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Gross: Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves at the beginning of the year $ 8,193 $ 8,704 $ 7,008 Net (favorable) adverse development of those reserves during the year (260 ) (18 ) 85 Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves re estimated one year later $ 7,933 $ 8,686 $ 7,093 (U.S. dollars in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Net: Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves at the beginning of the year $ 7,138 $ 7,112 $ 5,495 Net (favorable) adverse development of those reserves during the year (267 ) (98 ) 94 Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves re estimated one year later $ 6,871 $ 7,014 $ 5,589 The decrease in the loss and loss expense ratio for the Reinsurance segment in the year ended December 31, 2007, compared to the same period in 2006, is due primarily to net favorable prior year loss development. Within the Reinsurance segment, reserve releases of $188.7 million primarily in property and other short tail lines of business and $87.4 million in casualty and other lines, was partially offset by adverse prior year development of $8.8 million within the structured indemnity line of business. Releases in the short tail lines relate primarily to the 2005 and 2006 accident years. The casualty and other lines favorable development of $87.4 million reflects the net result of releases of $121.4 million primarily in the US and non US casualty portfolios, partially offset by net adverse development of $13.0 million associated with the results of an external review of the Companys asbestos and environmental reserves and $21.0 million related to a commutation of a stop loss reinsurance agreement. Excluding prior year development, the loss ratio for the year ended December 31, 2007 increased by 5.1 loss percentage points as compared to the same period in 2006 as a result of higher attritional losses within the property risk book of business as well as losses recorded relating to certain catastrophe losses including European windstorms Kyrill and Per/Hanno, California wildfires and the Peru earthquake. Favorable gross prior year development of $259.7 million was in line with the net development. Within the Reinsurance segment, the decrease in the loss and loss expense ratio in the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to the same period in 2005, primarily reflected the lack of large natural catastrophe events such as those that occurred 73 during 2005. In the year ended 2006, net favorable prior year development of $97.4 million resulted primarily from net favorable development in property and other short tail lines of $133.0 million including adverse development on the loss estimates for the 2005 catastrophes of $74.6 million. In addition, casualty lines reflected reserve releases of $10.9 million while structured indemnity and other lines of business resulted in net adverse reserve development of $28.3 million and $18.2 million, respectively. The gross prior year favorable development for the Reinsurance segment was $17.7 million. This gross favorable development was less than the corresponding net development as net adverse development on the 2005 catastrophes was less significant than the gross adverse development due to reinsurance recoveries. The increase in the loss and loss expense ratio in the year ended December 31, 2005 primarily reflected the effects of Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma combined with the Other Cats from which the Reinsurance segment incurred a combined $977.9 million of net losses. In addition, during 2005, net prior year reserves across the Reinsurance segment developed adversely by $93.5 million and included net adverse development of $266.9 million in casualty and professional lines was partially offset by releases in short tail lines of business of $173.4 million. The increase in the underwriting expense ratio in the year ended December 31, 2007, as compared with the year ended December 31, 2006, was due to an increase in both operating expense and acquisition expense ratios to 8.9% and 20.9%, respectively, as compared with 7.4% and 19.9%, respectively, in the year ended December 31, 2006. The increase in acquisition expenses was primarily due to a change in the mix of business as well as an adjustment related to the earning of acquisition expenses within the U.S. individual risk portfolio recorded in the first quarter of 2007. The operating expense ratio increase was due primarily to higher compensation expenses and corporate allocations, combined with a lower level of net premiums earned. The increase in the underwriting expense ratio in year ended December 31, 2006, compared to the same period in 2005, was due to an increase in the operating expense ratio to 7.4%, as compared to 5.5% in the year ended December 31, 2006. The operating expense ratio increase was primarily due to an increase in performance based compensation expenses and costs related to various strategic initiatives within the Reinsurance segment including the establishment of an integrated reinsurance platform in Europe. The increase in operating expenses was offset by a decrease in the acquisition expense ratio from 21.3% during the year ended December 31, 2005 to 19.9% in the same period in 2006. The decrease in the net acquisition expense ratio was due primarily to commissions received from Cyrus Re related to the property catastrophe retrocession. Foreign exchange gains in the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 and foreign exchange losses in the year ended December 31, 2005 were due primarily to the change in the value of the U.S. dollar against certain European currencies including the U.K. Sterling and the Euro on certain inter company balances. Net results from structured reinsurance products include certain structured indemnity contracts that are accounted for as deposit contracts. Results from these products for the year ended December 31, 2007 decreased compared to the same period in 2006 mainly as a result of a higher accretion rate recorded in 2007 on deposit liabilities relating to certain workers compensation coverage and partially offset by higher net investment income in 2007 as a result of an increase in the average size of investment asset balances as a result of new transactions. Net results from structured reinsurance products for the year ended December 31, 2006 increased compared to the same period in 2005 primarily as a results of higher net investment income from new transactions and a reduction in interest expense accretion in 2006 relating to certain deposit liabilities resulting from a change in the timing of estimated cash flows. Life Operations The following table summarizes the contribution from this segment: (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2007 % Change 07 vs 06 2006 (1) % Change 06 vs 05 2005 (1) Gross premiums written $ 743,220 8.2 % $ 686,906 (70.8 )% $ 2,350,319 Net premiums written 698,693 8.1 % 646,608 (72.0 )% 2,311,275 Net premiums earned 701,047 8.4 % 646,450 (72.0 )% 2,306,276 Fee income and other 698 113.5 % 327 2.2 % 320 Claims and policy benefits 888,658 10.1 % 807,255 (67.8 )% 2,510,029 Acquisition costs 90,923 21.8 % 74,675 (7.4 )% 80,636 Operating expenses 34,838 (2.5 )% 35,720 52.1 % 23,480 Exchange (gains) losses (1,121 ) NM * (8,158 ) NM * 1,421 Net investment income 390,227 10.9 % 351,935 17.9 % 298,408 Contribution from Life operations $ 78,674 (11.8 ) % $ 89,220 NM * $ (10,562 ) (1) To facilitate period to period comparisons, certain short term Accident and Health business previously included in the Reinsurance segment has been reclassified to the Life Operations segment to conform to current segment management responsibilities. * NM Not meaningful The following table is an analysis of the Life operations gross premiums written, net premiums written and net premiums earned for the last three years ended December 31: 74 (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2007 2006 2005 Gross Premiums Written Net Premiums Written Net Premiums Earned Gross Premiums Written Net Premiums Written Net Premiums Earned Gross Premiums Written Net Premiums Written Net Premiums Earned Other Life $ 435,415 $ 427,337 $ 429,690 $ 336,528 $ 332,555 $ 332,397 $ 261,740 $ 258,411 $ 253,412 Annuity 307,805 271,356 271,357 350,378 314,053 314,053 2,088,579 2,052,864 2,052,864 Total $ 743,220 $ 698,693 $ 701,047 $ 686,906 $ 646,608 $ 646,450 $ 2,350,319 $ 2,311,275 $ 2,306,276 With respect to the Life Operations segment, gross and net premiums written, net premiums earned and claims and policy benefits in each of the three years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 included the assumption of the following long duration single premium annuity portfolios: 1. Second quarter of 2007 one Irish immediate annuity portfolio bound, for which net premium earned totaled $94.6 million. 2. Second and fourth quarters of 2006 two Irish immediate annuity portfolios bound, for which net premium earned totaled $152.5 million. 3. Second and fourth quarters of 2005 A large U.K. immediate annuity portfolio contract bound representing $1.8 billion in net premiums earned and two Irish immediate annuity portfolios which totaled $96.2 million. The Company acquired cash and investment assets related to the future policy benefit reserves assumed at inception of these large contracts. While the Company expects to write more of these contracts, the frequency of these transactions will likely continue to be irregular and their sizes will differ from transaction to transaction. Gross premiums written relating to other life business increased by $98.9 million or 29.4% in the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2006 primarily as a result of growth in the underlying book of term assurance and critical illness business of $79.6 million, combined with favorable foreign exchange movements of $19.3 million. Gross premiums written relating to annuity business decreased by $42.6 million or 12.2% in the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to the year ended 2006 mainly due to a lower level of single premium annuity portfolio business of $57.8 million, offset by favorable foreign exchange rate movements of $15.2 million. Ceded premium ratios remained roughly consistent with the prior year. Gross premiums written relating to other life business increased by $74.8 million or 28.6% in the year ended December 31, 2006 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2005 primarily due to growth in the underlying book of term assurance and critical illness business of $57.6 million, growth in the underlying book of short term accident and health business of $11.2 million, and favorable foreign exchange movements of $6.0 million. Gross premiums written relating to annuity business decreased by $1,738.2 million or 83.2% in the year ended December 31, 2006 as compared to the year ended 2005 mainly as a result of the large U.K. immediate annuity portfolio contract bound in 2005 representing $1,797.3 million of gross premiums written, offset by an increase in Irish immediate annuity portfolio business of $56.3 million and favorable foreign exchange rate movements of $2.8 million. Ceded premium ratios remained roughly consistent with the prior year. Net premiums earned in the year ended December 31, 2007 increased 8.4% as compared to the same period in 2006. This increase was consistent with the increase in gross and net premiums written as described above. Net premiums earned in the year ended December 31, 2006 decreased by 72.0% compared to the same period in 2005, mainly as a result of the assumption of the large U.K immediate annuity portfolio contract noted above. Changes in claims and policy benefit reserves were generally consistent with movements in gross and net premiums written but also included the movement in policy benefit reserves related to other contracts (such as tranches of immediate annuity portfolios) where investment assets were acquired with the assumption of the policy benefit reserves at the inception of the contract. Claims and policy benefit reserves increased by $81.4 million or 10.1% in the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to the same period in 2006 mainly as a result of growth in the underlying block of term assurance and critical illness business increasing losses by $65.2 million, unfavorable foreign exchange rate movements of $52.8 million, a loss recognition adjustment of $25.4 million relating to certain novated blocks of U.S. based term life mortality reinsurance business, offset by lower losses relating to single premium immediate annuity business of $62.0 million from fewer single premium portfolio contracts bound during the year. In accordance with U.S. GAAP treatment for life business, a loss recognition test process was carried out in 2007 on a block of U.S. based term life mortality business, to determine if expected future premiums would be sufficient to pay for expected future losses. This process led to managements decision to unlock the then current policy benefit reserve basis and record a loss of $25.4 million on this block of business. In 2005, $37.4 million in losses were recorded relating to the same block of business as a result of a similar loss recognition test that was carried out during that year. 75 Claims and policy benefit reserves decreased significantly in 2006 as compared to 2005 mainly due to the large U.K. immediate annuity contract bound in 2005 as well as losses recorded relating to the novated blocks of U.S. based term life mortality business noted above. Acquisition costs increased by 21.8% in 2007 as compared to 2006 mainly as a result of the growth in the book of regular term assurance and critical illness treaties consistent with the earned premium variance, as well as the impact of a favorable profit commission adjustment recorded in 2006 relating to a term life treaty. Operating expenses decreased by 2.5% in 2007 as compared to 2006 primarily as a result of a decrease in both professional fees and corporate allocations, offset by unfavorable foreign exchange rate movements and higher compensation costs. Acquisition costs decreased by 7.4% in 2006 as compared to 2005, primarily as a result of a $25.9 million write off of certain deferred costs related to the novated blocks of U.S. mortality business noted above in 2005 and partially offset by a higher volume of regular term assurance and critical illness business in 2006. Operating expenses increased in 2006 as compared to 2005 due to the build out of existing operations and start up costs of new life operations, including the U.S. life reinsurance platform and the U.K. life fund integration team, as well as an increase in professional fees and corporate allocations related to these initiatives. Net investment income is included in the calculation of contribution from Life Operations, as it relates to income earned on portfolios of separately identified and managed life investment assets and other allocated assets. Net investment income increased by $38.3 million or 10.9% in 2007 as compared to 2006, primarily as a result of favorable foreign exchange rate movements of $23.9 million and increases in the average size of investment asset balances. Net investment income increased by $53.5 million or 17.9% in 2006 as compared to 2005, primarily as a result of an increase in the average size of investment asset balances, improved yields and favorable foreign exchange rate movements. Other Financial Lines The Other Financial Lines segment is comprised of the guaranteed investment contract and funding agreement businesses. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the net results from these structured products were $48.1 million and included net investment income, interest expense and operating expenses of $389.0 million, $326.4 million, and $14.5 million, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2006, the net results from these structured products were $34.7 million and included net investment income, interest expense and operating expenses of $341.9 million, $296.9 million, and $10.4 million, respectively, while in 2005, the net results from these structured products were $33.7 million and included net investment income, interest expense and operating expenses of $213.3 million, $166.4 million, and $13.2 million, respectively. For 2007, net investment income increased primarily as a result of an increase in yields on invested assets. Interest expense increased due to an increase in the average deposit liability balance combined with an increase in crediting rates consistent with the yield changes noted above. Operating expenses increased by $4.1 million during 2007 as compared to 2006 primarily due to reclassification of certain contract expenses and partially offset by reduced corporate allocations. Consistent with 2007, net investment income increased in 2006 as compared to 2005 as a result of an increase in the average asset balances while interest expense increased during the same period as a result of an increase in the average deposit liability balances. While not reported within the contribution from the Other Financial Lines segment, it should be noted that approximately $370.7 million of the reported realized losses on investments for 2007 related to portfolios associated with funding agreements and guaranteed investment contracts. As noted above, as a result of the downgrades of XLCA, the Company will settle, by late March 2008, the majority of the GIC portfolio. SCA Prior to the secondary offering of SCA common shares on June 6, 2007, net income from SCA was consolidated with the Companys results and SCA was considered an operating segment of the Company. Subsequent to June 6, 2007, SCA was no longer a consolidated subsidiary or an operating segment of the Company and its remaining investment in SCA has been accounted for using the equity method of accounting, recorded on a one quarter lag through equity earnings (loss) from financial operating affiliates. For the period from June 6 to December 31, 2007, the recent credit market volatility and concern over residential mortgage markets have impacted SCAs results significantly. For further information on SCA, see Results of Operations and Other Revenues and Expenses within Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. In addition, see Notes 3 and 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Security Capital Assurance and Investments in Affiliates, for further information. For the period from January 1 to June 6, 2007, continued growth in net premiums earned from SCAs financial guarantee business was offset by the absence of significant accelerated refunding premiums in 2007 that were reported in 2006. Net losses and loss expenses decreased mainly due to no significant new case basis provisions in the first five months of 2007 combined with a case reserve release recorded in the first quarter of 2007. Overall net income from SCA, however, decreased as net realized and unrealized losses related to outstanding credit derivatives increased significantly as market spreads widened during the first five months of 2007 which was partially offset by a decrease in realized investment losses associated with an impairment charge recorded in the first nine 76 months of 2006. In addition, operating expenses increased due to higher compensation expenses and the corporate costs associated with being a public company on a stand alone basis. For the year ended 2006 as compared to the year ended 2005, net income from SCA increased by 28.6% to $104.6 million from $81.3 million, respectively, primarily as a result of an increase in net premiums earned, lower net losses and loss expenses and higher net investment income. Net premiums earned increased in 2006, as compared to 2005, as a result of growth of the in force business (in particular, installment premium business written in prior periods) and earned premiums from the early retirement or refunding of insured securities. In addition, net losses and loss expenses for the year ended December 31, 2006, decreased compared to the same period in 2005 as a result of lower case basis reserves recorded in 2006 as compared to 2005, while net investment income increased in the same period due to increases in the investment asset balances in 2006. Investment Activities The following table illustrates the change in net investment income from property and casualty operations, net income from investment fund affiliates, net realized (losses) gains on investments, and net realized and unrealized (losses) gains on investment derivative instruments for each of the three years ended December 31: (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2007 % Change 07 vs 06 2006 % Change 06 vs 05 2005 Net investment income property and casualty operations (1) $ 1,289,554 18.2 % $ 1,090,785 34.6 % $ 810,482 Net income from investment fund affiliates (2) 326,007 21.2 % 269,036 73.7 % 154,844 Net realized (losses) gains on investments (603,268 ) NM * (116,458 ) NM * 241,882 Net realized and unrealized (losses) gains on investment and other derivative instruments (3) (55,451 ) NM * 101,183 NM * 28,858 (1) Net investment income relating to property and casualty operations does not include the net investment income related to the net results from structured products. (2) The Company records the income related to alternative fund affiliates on a one month lag and the private investment fund affiliates on a three month lag in order for the Company to meet the accelerated filing deadlines. (3) For a summary of realized and unrealized gains and losses on all derivative instruments, see Item 8, Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Derivative Instruments. * NM Not meaningful Net investment income related to property and casualty operations increased in 2007 as compared to 2006 due primarily to a higher investment base and increases in the yield of the portfolio. The market yield to maturity on the fixed income portfolio was 5.8% at December 31, 2007, as compared to 5.2% at December 31, 2006. The increase was primarily due to the full 2007 financial year impact of the higher interest rates experienced in the U.S., U.K. and Euro zone, during the latter part of 2006 and the beginning part of 2007. Net investment income related to property and casualty operations increased in 2006 as compared to 2005 due primarily to increases in the yield of the portfolio and a higher investment base. The market yield to maturity on the fixed income portfolio was 5.2% at December 31, 2006, as compared to 4.7% at December 31, 2005, due primarily to higher interest rates in the U.S., U.K., and Euro zone. The growth in the investment base reflected the Companys issuance of ordinary shares and equity units in the fourth quarter of 2005 and the Companys positive cash flow from operations. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, total investments, cash and cash equivalents, accrued investment income and net payable for investments purchased were $43.7 billion and $44.7 billion, respectively. This decrease of $0.9 billion was primarily due to the mark to market effect as a result of the challenging credit markets as well as impact of the Companys financing activities, and was partially offset by positive cash flow from operations of $2.2 billion. The annualized effective yield of the total investment portfolio (excluding non recurring items) was 5.6% for 2007 as compared to 5.1% for 2006, a 0.5% increase. The increase in the effective yield of the total investment portfolio was primarily due to investment duration being lengthened in early 2007 prior to declining interest rates in the U.S. and the U.K. The Company expects stable net investment income from its property and casualty operations in 2008, The average asset base and yields are both expected to be stable relative to current levels. For a further discussion see Liquidity and Capital Resources. Net income from investment fund affiliates includes earnings from the Companys investments in closed end investment funds and partnerships and similar vehicles that are equity accounted. Net income from investment fund affiliates increased in 2007 as compared to 2006 due primarily to exceptional results in the alternative portfolio and as a result of a higher investment asset base. Net income from investment fund affiliates increased in 2006 as compared to 2005 primarily due to a strong result in private investment portfolios due to a series of positive liquidity events and fair value adjustments, as well as good returns on the alternative portfolios. In addition, derivative losses for the year ended December 31, 2007 include a mark to market loss of $37.0 million in the third quarter with respect to a total return swap on the capital notes of a SIV impacted by the challenging credit markets. During the fourth quarter, the Company terminated the swap, recognized an additional $3.9 million mark to market loss and took delivery of the underlying asset. The asset was subsequently written off to nil resulting in a realized loss on investments of $57.3 million. 77 Investment Performance The Company manages its investment grade fixed income securities using an asset/liability management framework. Due to the unique nature of the underlying liabilities, customized benchmarks are used to measure investment performance and comparison to standard market indices is not meaningful. Investment performance is not monitored for certain assets primarily consisting of operating cash and special regulatory deposits. The following is a summary of the investment portfolio returns for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 of the asset/liability portfolio and risk asset portfolios: 2007(1) 2006(1) Asset/Liability Portfolio USD fixed income portfolio 1.6 % 4.6 % Non USD fixed income portfolio 1.0 % 2.9 % Risk Asset Portfolio Alternative portfolio (2) 17.0 % 11.5 % Equity portfolio 10.1 % 20.0 % High Yield fixed income portfolio 0.9 % 8.0 % (1) Portfolio returns are calculated by dividing the sum of the net investment income or net income from investment fund affiliates, realized gains (losses) and unrealized gains (losses) by the average market value of each portfolio. Performance is measured in either the underlying asset currency or the functional currency. (2) Performance on the alternative portfolio reflects the twelve months ended November 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Net Realized Gains and Losses on Investments and Other than Temporary Declines in the Value of Investments The Companys investment portfolio is classified as available for sale. Realized investment gains and losses occur through the normal turnover of the Companys investment portfolio. Realized investment losses include impairment charges relating to declines in value of securities that are considered to be other than temporary. See Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates for further information. In 2007, net realized losses on investments were $603.3 million which included $1,012.8 million of gross realized losses on fixed income and $46.9 million of gross realized losses on equity securities. Gross realized losses in 2007 included $611.0 million of provisions for declines in fair value considered to be other than temporary. Included in the balances noted below are realized losses and impairment in the sub prime and related mortgage exposed portfolios totaling $385.1 million. As a percentage of the total fixed income portfolio, the write down for other than temporary declines was 1.5% in 2007 as compared to 0.3% in 2006 and 0.1% in 2005. Further details are included in Results of Operations. In the U.S., the general level of corporate defaults was lower than in recent years. For example, Moodys Investors Service, Inc. (Moodys) reported that 12 issuers defaulted in 2007 compared with 23 issuers in 2006 and 30 issuers in 2005. The Companys exposure to these corporate defaults was limited in both 2007 and 2006, resulting in a low level in the write down for other than temporary declines related to corporate credit events. In 2006, net realized losses on investments were $116.5 million which includes $390.4 million of gross realized losses on fixed income and $88.5 million of gross realized losses on equity securities. Gross realized losses in 2006 included $151.4 million of provisions for declines in fair value considered to be other than temporary. In 2005, net realized gains on investments were $241.9 million which includes $250.8 million of gross realized losses on fixed income and $54.1 million of gross realized losses on equity securities. Gross realized losses in 2005 included $53.2 million of provisions for declines in fair value considered to be other than temporary. With respect to those securities that were sold at a loss during the year ended December 31, 2007, the following is an analysis of the period of time that those securities had been in a continual unrealized loss position, the amount of the realized loss recorded in the Companys results of operations as of the sale date and the amount of the impairment charge taken in the year: Length of time in a continual unrealized loss position (U.S. dollars in thousands) Fixed Income Securities Equity Securities Less than 6 months $ 111,174 $ 32,023 At least 6 months but less than 12 months 202,682 8,294 At least 12 months but less than 2 years 42,234 3,887 At least 2 years 48,393 126 Total gross realized loss from sales 404,483 44,330 Impairment charges for declines in value considered to be other than temporary 608,322 2,600 Total gross realized loss $ 1,012,805 $ 46,930 78 With respect to those securities that were sold at a loss during the year ended December 31, 2006, the following is an analysis of the period of time that those securities had been in a continual unrealized loss position, the amount of the realized loss recorded in the Companys results of operations as of the sale date and the amount of the impairment charge taken in the year: Length of time in a continual unrealized loss position (U.S. dollars in thousands) Fixed Income Securities Equity Securities Less than 6 months $ 168,462 $ 66,876 At least 6 months but less than 12 months 81,202 17,573 At least 12 months but less than 2 years 7,505 1,239 At least 2 years 73 Total gross realized loss from sales 257,242 85,688 Impairment charges for declines in value considered to be other than temporary 133,185 2,831 Total gross realized loss $ 390,427 $ 88,519 The Companys process for identifying declines in the fair value of investments that are other than temporary involves consideration of several factors, as discussed under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company realized losses of $90.6 million and $4.0 million upon the sale of fixed income securities and equity securities, respectively, that had been in an unrealized loss position for greater than twelve months. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company realized losses of $7.6 million and $1.2 million upon the sale of fixed income securities and equity securities, respectively, that had been in an unrealized loss position for greater than twelve months. The decisions to sell these securities were made by the Companys investment managers based upon a change in market conditions and other factors (these decisions were independent of the Companys previously stated intent and ability to hold such securities). Net realized and unrealized losses on investment derivatives for 2007 resulted primarily from losses associated with the capital notes of a SIV as noted above. For a further discussion see Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and Liquidity and Capital Resources. Other Revenues and Expenses The following table sets forth other revenues and expenses of the Company for each of the three years ended December 31: (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2007 % Change 2007 vs 2006 2006 % Change 2006 vs 2005 2005 Net (loss) income from operating affiliates (1) $ (1,059,848 ) NM * $ 111,670 65.6 % $ 67,426 Amortization of intangible assets 1,680 (28.7 )% 2,355 (78.1 )% 10,752 Corporate operating expenses 139,469 (30.2 )% 199,723 7.4 % 185,936 Interest expense (2) 210,499 1.7 % 207,066 10.5 % 187,457 Income tax expense 233,922 6.5 % 219,645 NM * 49,284 Minority interest 23,928 (4.3 )% 25,016 204.7 % 8,210 (1) The Company records the income related to certain operating affiliates on a three month lag in order for the Company to meet accelerated filing deadlines. (2) Interest expense does not include interest expense related structured products as reported within the Insurance and Reinsurance segments. * NM Not meaningful The following table sets forth the net income (loss) from operating affiliates for each of the three years ended December 31: (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2007 % Change 2007 vs 2006 2006 % Change 2006 vs 2005 2005 Net (loss) income from financial operating affiliates $ (1,190,161 ) NM * $ 23,461 NM * $ 5,055 Net income from investment manager affiliates 94,630 21.8 % 77,690 47.8 % 52,548 Net income from other strategic operating affiliates 35,683 239.2 % 10,519 7.1 % 9,823 Total $ (1,059,848 ) NM * $ 111,670 65.6 % $ 67,426 Net losses from financial operating affiliates in 2007 include the results and related write downs associated with SCA and Primus as well as the impact of losses recorded on reinsurance transactions with SCA of approximately $351.0 million. Further details are included in Results of Operations. In addition, see Notes 3 and 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Security Capital Assurance and Investments in Affiliates, for further information. 79 Investment manager affiliate income increased in 2007 as compared to 2006 mainly due to strong results generated from certain global equity and mortgage specialist investment manager affiliates, partially offset by the write off of the Companys investment in a manager that managed a series of structured investment vehicles and conduits. Net income from other strategic operating affiliates increased in 2007 as compared to 2006, primarily as a result of strong results from an insurance affiliate which writes largely U.S. homeowners insurance and the Companys Brazilian joint venture ITAU XL. In 2006, the increase in net income from operating affiliates relative to 2005 was primarily due to the gain on sale of the FrontPoint Partners LLC, an investment mangement affiliate, of $41.7 million. The results also include continued strong performance by the Companys investment management affiliates driven by strong growth in assets managed by these minority owned managers. Amortization of intangible assets decreased in 2007 as a result of certain intangible assets that were fully amortized during 2006. Corporate operating expenses decreased by 30.2% in 2007 as compared to 2006 primarily as a result of certain compensation costs being allocated to the operating segments in 2007. Corporate operating expenses increased by 7.4% in 2006 as compared to 2005 primarily as a result of increased performance based compensation costs and increased legal costs. Interest expense from property and casualty operations includes costs related to the Companys debt and collateral facilities as well as certain deposit liability accretion. Interest expense was higher in 2007 as compared to 2006 primarily due to the issuance of the 2027 Senior Notes in early May 2007 as well as the costs associated with the retirement of the 2009 Senior Notes. The increase in interest expense in 2006 as compared to 2005 primarily reflected the increase in average outstanding debt. For more information on the Companys financial structure, see Liquidity and Capital Resources. Income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2007 increased as compared to the same period in 2006, and increased from 2006 as compared to 2005, principally from an improvement in the profitability of the Companys U.S. and European property and casualty operations in those respective years. The Companys effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2007 increased from that in 2006 due primarily to non deductible asset impairment charges recorded in Bermuda, the U.S. and the U.K. The Companys effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2006 decreased slightly from that in 2005 due to $30.0 million of tax benefits associated with corrections in the year to reserves ceded to its Bermuda reinsurance entities. In addition, the Company recorded a tax charge in 2006 of $6.0 million in connection with the IPO of SCA. The deferral of tax losses is evaluated based upon the future profitability of the Companys taxable entities and, under current projections, the Company anticipates using this asset. The Companys net deferred tax asset at December 31, 2007 was $370.4 million, which consisted primarily of net operating losses generated by subsidiaries in the U.K. Should the taxable income of these entities fall below expectations, a further valuation allowance may have to be established, which could be significant. In addition, if any further losses are generated by these entities, these losses may not be tax effected. See Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Item 8, Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Taxation. Minority interest expense in 2007 related primarily to the 37% ownership interest in SCA common shares held by the public prior to the secondary offering of SCA common shares on June 6, 2007, while minority interest expense in 2006 related primarily to the 37% ownership interest in SCA following the initial public offering in August 2006 as well as the minority interest ownership in preferred shares of XL Financial Assurance (XLFA). In addition, included in each of the respective years presented is minority interest in the common shares of XL International (Bermuda) Ltd. Balance Sheet Analysis Investments The primary objectives of the investment strategy are to support the liabilities arising from the operations of the Company, generate stable investment income and to build book value for the Company over the longer term. The strategy strives to maximize investment returns while taking into account market and credit risk. The Companys overall investment portfolio is structured to take into account a number of variables including local regulatory requirements, business needs, collateral management and risk tolerance. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, total investments, cash and cash equivalents, accrued investment income and net payable for investments purchased were $43.7 billion and $44.7 billion, respectively. The following table summarizes the composition of the Companys invested assets at December 31, 2007 and 2006: 80 (U.S. dollars in thousands) Fair Value 2007 Percent of Total Fair Value 2006 Percent of Total Cash and cash equivalents $ 3,880,030 8.9 % $ 2,223,748 5.0 % Net payable for investments purchased (191,472 ) (0.4 )% (104,739 ) (0.2 )% Accrued investment income 447,660 1.0 % 432,618 1.0 % Short term investments 1,803,198 4.1 % 2,338,487 5.2 % Fixed maturities: U.S. Government and Government agency $ 2,685,773 6.1 % $ 2,557,533 5.7 % Corporate 12,987,248 29.7 % 14,185,964 31.7 % Mortgage and asset backed securities 14,493,877 33.1 % 16,236,893 36.3 % U.S. States and political subdivisions of the States 253,534 0.6 % 65,545 0.2 % Non U.S. Sovereign Government 3,187,358 7.3 % 3,075,423 6.9 % Total fixed maturities $ 33,607,790 76.8 % $ 36,121,358 80.8 % Equity securities 854,815 2.0 % 891,138 2.0 % Investments in affiliates 2,611,149 6.0 % 2,308,781 5.1 % Other investments 708,476 1.6 % 476,889 1.1 % Total investments and cash and cash equivalents $ 43,721,646 100.0 % $ 44,688,280 100.0 % The Company reviews on a regular basis its issuer concentration, credit quality and compliance with established guidelines. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the average credit quality of the Companys total fixed income portfolio (including fixed maturities, short term investments, cash and cash equivalents and net payable for investments purchased) was AA. At December 31, 2007 approximately 53.4% of the fixed income portfolio (including fixed maturities, short term investments, cash and cash equivalents and net payable for investments purchased) was rated AAA by one or more of the principal ratings agencies. Approximately 2.3% was below investment grade or not rated. Refer to Results of Operations for further discussion surrounding the impact of credit market movements on the Companys investment portfolio and exposure to sub prime related assets. Net Unrealized Gains and Losses on Investments At December 31, 2007, the Company had net (pre tax) unrealized losses on fixed maturities and short term investments of $637.3 million and net unrealized gains on equity securities of $190.6 million. Of these amounts, gross unrealized losses on fixed maturities and short term investments and equities were $1,069.5 million and $14.9 million, respectively. At December 31, 2006, the Company had net (pre tax) unrealized gains on fixed maturities and short term investments of $139.8 million and net unrealized gains on equity securities of $185.6 million. Of these amounts, gross unrealized losses on fixed maturities and short term investments and equities were $244.1 million and $5.4 million, respectively. The impact of the deteriorating corporate and structured credit spreads during the twelve months ended December 31, 2007, was the primary reason for the decline in the net unrealized position on fixed maturities and short term investments, offset by the impact of declining government rates in the U.S.and the U.K. The information shown below about the unrealized losses on the Companys investments at December 31, 2007 and 2006, concerns the potential effect upon future earnings and financial position should management later conclude that some of the current declines in the fair value of these investments are other than temporary. The following is an analysis of how long each of those investment securities with an unrealized loss at December 31, 2007 and 2006 had been in a continual unrealized loss position: Type of Securities (U.S. dollars in thousands) Length of time in a continual unrealized loss position Amount of unrealized loss at December 31, 2007 Amount of unrealized loss at December 31, 2006 Fixed Maturities and Short Term Investments Less than six months $ 145,992 $ 88,199 At least 6 months but less than 12 months 575,913 44,555 At least 12 months but less than 2 years 309,148 85,617 2 years or more 38,446 25,720 Total $ 1,069,499 $ 244,091 Equities Less than six months $ 10,400 $ 2,983 At least 6 months but less than 12 months 4,496 2,448 Total $ 14,896 $ 5,431 At December 31, 2007, the total gross unrealized losses represented approximately 7,600 fixed income securities out of a total of approximately 17,100 fixed income securities (representing fixed maturities, short term investments, cash and cash equivalents and net payable for investments purchased) and approximately 300 equity securities out of a total of approximately 1,000. At December 31, 2006, the total gross unrealized losses represented approximately 9,700 fixed income securities out of a total of approximately 17,300 and approximately 200 equity securities out of a total of approximately 1,300. Of the gross unrealized investment losses on the fixed income and short term investments portfolio at December 31, 2007 of $1,069.5 million, approximately $546.1 million related to corporate fixed income securities. Within the corporate fixed income securities, approximately 68.0% of the losses were in the financial sector, 4.2% in the consumer non cyclical sector and 4.0% in the industrial sector. No other sector was greater than 4%. The largest unrealized loss in the fixed income portfolio was $7.9 million. 81 Factors considered in determining that additional other than temporary impairment charges were not warranted include; managements consideration of current and near term liquidity needs, an evaluation of the factors and time necessary for recovery, and the results of on going retrospective reviews of security sales and the basis for such sales. Securities in an unrealized loss position at December 31, 2007 are comprised of sub prime first liens and Alt A asset backed securities, CDOs with insignificant residential mortgage collateral, unrealized foreign exchange losses on US dollar assets held in foreign subsidiaries with little underlying value impairment and unrealized losses on investments supporting long term liabilities which have no history of significant sales at a loss. Following a detailed review of the Companys underlying sub prime residential and related mortgage exposures (topical assets) described above, as well as a consideration of the broader structured credit market, the Company has concluded that the remaining investments in these asset classes have decreased in value due to technical spreads widening and broader market sentiment, rather than fundamental collateral deterioration. Topical assets are held primarily in the Companys Other Financial Lines segment GIC portfolios and management has put in place a strategy to monitor and address the liquidity needs associated with these portfolios with the intent of holding the positions to recovery. The fact that the underlying securities cash flows continue to be in accordance with their contractual terms, combined with manager evaluations of the fundamentals supporting the underlying positions, have lead management to conclude that the values of the investments for which it reports unrealized losses as at December 31, 2007 are not other than temporarily impaired, as management currently has the intent and ability to hold these securities for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value. No equity securities held by the Company at December 31, 2007 were in a continual unrealized loss position for 12 months. The largest individual unrealized loss in the equity portfolio was $1.0 million. Of the gross unrealized investment losses on the fixed income portfolio at December 31, 2006 of $244.1 million, approximately $122.5 million related to corporate fixed income securities. Within the corporate fixed income securities, approximately 52.9% of the losses were in the financial sector, 11.9% in the communications sector, 8.8% in the consumer non cyclical sector, 5.4% in the utilities sector and 5.1% in the industrial sector. No other sector was greater than 5%. The largest unrealized loss in the fixed income portfolio was $1.8 million. No equity securities held by the Company at December 31, 2006 were in a continual unrealized loss position for 12 months. The largest individual unrealized loss in the equity portfolio was $0.5 million. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the following table sets forth the maturity profile of the fixed income securities that were in a gross unrealized loss position: Maturity profile in years of fixed maturity securities in a gross unrealized loss position (U.S. dollars in thousands) Amount of unrealized loss at December 31, 2007 Amount of unrealized loss at December 31, 2006 Less than 1 year remaining $ 23,695 $ 8,462 At least 1 year but less than 5 years remaining 103,081 45,118 At least 5 years but less than 10 years remaining 150,786 61,283 More than 10 years but less than 20 years remaining 60,471 17,376 At least 20 years or more remaining 233,689 36,204 Mortgage and asset backed securities 497,777 75,648 Total $ 1,069,499 $ 244,091 Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses Unpaid losses and loss expenses reserves relate primarily to the casualty insurance and reinsurance business written by the Company. The balance was $23.2 billion at December 31, 2007, which is an increase of $0.3 billion from December 31, 2006. The increase was due primarily to losses in 2007 of $351.0 million associated with reinsurance agreements with SCA and partially offset by favorable net prior year development as well as a reduction in reserves related to payments made in 2007 relating to 2005 catastrophic events. The table below represents a reconciliation of the Companys unpaid losses and loss expenses for the year ended December 31, 2007: (U.S. dollars in thousands) Gross unpaid losses and loss expenses Unpaid losses and loss expenses recoverable Net unpaid losses and loss expenses Balance at December 31, 2006 $ 22,895,021 $ (4,995,373 ) $ 17,899,648 Losses and loss expenses incurred 5,058,485 (1,217,482 ) 3,841,003 Losses and loss expenses paid/recovered 5,410,635 (1,594,759 ) 3,815,876 Other (including losses disposed or acquired and foreign exchange revaluation) 313,835 (47,519 ) 266,316 Financial guarantee reserves related to reinsurance agreements with SCA that are recorded within Net loss from operating affiliates 350,988 350,988 Balance at December 31, 2007 $ 23,207,694 $ (4,665,615 ) $ 18,542,079 82 The net income impact of losses incurred with respect reinsurance provided to SCA subsequent to the secondary sales of SCA shares on June 6, 2007 of $351.0 million is included in net loss from operating affiliates, and the unpaid case reserves related to such losses are in unpaid losses and loss expenses. These losses are associated with credit enhancement of certain ABS CDO exposures as well as residential mortgage backed securities backed by home equity lines of credit collateral. Certain of these underlying exposures were written by SCA in derivative form as credit default swaps. Consistent with both the Companys and SCAs accounting policies the unrealized fair value liability on those contracts written in derivative form include both an insurance reserve component and a mark to market liability. A component of the overall fair value liability is classified as a case reserve once the loss in considered probable and can be reasonably estimated. Such case reserves are reported on a discounted basis and net of the present value of related future premiums. The remainder of the liability is classified as a derivative liability. While the Company reviews the adequacy of established reserves for unpaid losses and loss expenses regularly, no assurance can be given that actual claims made and payments related thereto will not be in excess of the amounts reserved. In the future, if such reserves develop adversely, such deficiency would have a negative impact on future results of operations. See Item 1, Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses, Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Item 8, Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Losses and Loss Expenses, for further discussion. Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses Recoverable and Reinsurance Balances Receivable In the normal course of business, the Company seeks to reduce the potential amount of loss arising from claims events by reinsuring certain levels of risk assumed in various areas of exposure with other insurers or reinsurers. While reinsurance agreements are designed to limit the Companys losses from large exposures and permit recovery of a portion of direct unpaid losses, reinsurance does not relieve the Company of its ultimate liability to the Companys insureds. Accordingly, the losses and loss expense reserves on the balance sheet represent the Companys total unpaid gross losses. Unpaid losses and loss expense recoverable relates to estimated reinsurance recoveries on the unpaid loss and loss expense reserves. Unpaid losses and loss expense recoverables were $4.7 billion and $5.0 billion at December 31, 2007, and 2006, respectively. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, reinsurance balances receivable were $0.9 and $1.1 billion, respectively. The table below presents the Companys net reinsurance recoverable at December 31, 2007 and 2006. (U.S. dollars in thousands) December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 Reinsurance balances receivable $ 872,465 $ 1,128,721 Reinsurance recoverable on future policy benefits 31,856 15,296 Reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses 4,804,209 5,208,749 Bad debt reserve on unpaid losses and loss expenses recoverable and reinsurance balances receivable (193,128 ) (218,343 ) Net paid and unpaid losses and loss expenses recoverable and reinsurance balances receivable $ 5,515,402 $ 6,134,423 The Company has credit risk should any of its reinsurers be unable or unwilling to settle amounts due. Of the $5.5 billion total unpaid losses and loss expenses recoverable and reinsurance balances receivable at December 31, 2007, no individual reinsurer accounted for 10% or more of the total. The Company is the beneficiary of letters of credit, trust accounts and funds withheld in the aggregate amount of $2.1 billion at December 31, 2007, collateralizing reinsurance recoverables with respect to certain reinsurers. The provision for uncollectible reinsurance is required principally due to the failure of reinsurers to indemnify the Company primarily because of disputes under reinsurance contracts and insolvencies. As at December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company had a reserve for potential non recoveries from reinsurers of $193.1 million and $218.3 million, respectively. Approximately 78% of the total unpaid loss and loss expense recoverable and reinsurance balances receivable (excluding collateral held) outstanding at December 31, 2007, were due from reinsurers rated A or better by S&P. The following is an analysis of the total recoverable and reinsurance balances receivable at December 31, 2007, by reinsurers owing more than 3% of such total: Name of reinsurer Standard and Poors rating % of total Munich Reinsurance Company AA /Stable 8.97 % Swiss Reinsurance Company AA /Stable 7.60 % Lloyds Syndicates A+/Stable 5.72 % Employers Reinsurance Corporation AA /Stable 5.40 % Transatlantic Reinsurance Company AA /Negative 3.69 % The following table sets forth the ratings profile of the reinsurers that support the unpaid loss and loss expense recoverable and reinsurance balances receivable net of security noted above. 83 Standard and Poors rating % of total AAA 5.3 % AA 46.4 % A 25.9 % BBB 0.7 % BB and below 0.7 % Captives 17.2 % Not Rated 0.8 % Other 3.0 % Total 100 % Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity Liquidity is a measure of a companys ability to generate cash flows sufficient to meet short term and long term cash requirements of its business operations. As a holding company, the Companys assets consist primarily of its investments in subsidiaries and affiliates, and the Companys future cash flows depend upon the availability of dividends or other statutorily permissible payments from its subsidiaries and affiliates. The ability to pay such dividends is limited by the applicable laws and regulations of the various countries in which the Company operates, including, among others, Bermuda, the United States, Ireland, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and those of the Society of Lloyds and certain contractual provisions. See Item 8, Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Statutory Financial Data, for further discussion. No assurance can be given that the Company or its subsidiaries will be permitted to pay dividends in the future. As an insurance company, one of the Companys principal responsibilities to its clients is to ensure that the Company has ready access to funds to settle large unforeseen claims. The Company would generally expect that positive cash flow from operations (underwriting activities and investment income) will be sufficient to cover cash outflows under most future loss scenarios. However, there is a possibility that unforeseen demands could be placed on the Company due to unforeseen claims activity. Potential events causing such a liquidity strain could be several significant catastrophes occurring in a relatively short period of time or large scale uncollectible reinsurance recoverables on paid losses (as a result of coverage disputes, reinsurers credit problems or decreases in the value of collateral supporting reinsurance recoverables). Additional strain on liquidity could occur if the investments sold to fund loss payments were sold at depressed prices. Because each subsidiary focuses on a more limited number of specific product lines than is collectively available from the consolidated group of companies, the mix of business tends to be less diverse at the subsidiary level. As a result, the probability of a liquidity strain, as described above, may be greater for individual subsidiaries than when liquidity is assessed on a consolidated basis. If such a liquidity strain were to occur in a subsidiary, the Company may be required to contribute capital to the particular subsidiary and or curtail dividends from the subsidiary to support holding company operations. Sources of Liquidity See Item 8 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. There are three main sources of cash flows for the Company those provided by operations, investing activities and financing activities. Operating Cash Flows Cash flow from operations is derived from two main sources: 1) The receipt of investment income on the Companys total investment portfolio; and 2) The net receipt of premiums less claims and expenses related to its underwriting activities in its property and casualty operations as well as its Life Operations segment. Cash flow from operations was $2.2 billion in 2007, as compared to $2.4 billion in 2006. The decrease in 2007 is due primarily to the softening market impacts on premiums and partially offset by increased net investment income. Net cash received from underwriting activities is comprised of receipt of premiums, minus payment of claims and operating and acquisition costs. Premiums and acquisition expenses are settled based on terms of trade as stipulated by an underwriting contract, and generally are received within the first year of inception of a policy when the premium is written, but can be up to three years on certain reinsurance business assumed. Operating expenses are generally paid within a year of being incurred. Claims especially for casualty business, may take a much longer time before they are reported and ultimately settled and this is why the Company establishes reserves for unpaid losses and loss expenses. Therefore, the amount of claims paid in any one year is not necessarily related to the amount of net losses incurred, as reported in the consolidated statement of income. Total net paid losses were $3.8 billion, $3.9 billion and $2.6 billion in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Net paid losses in 2007 continued to be impacted by payments on the 2005 catastrophes. Similarly, in 2006, the increase in net paid losses was due to payments for catastrophes that occurred in 2005. Net losses incurred were $3.8 billion, $4.2 billion and $7.4 billion in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The payout of the Companys casualty reserves at December 31, 2007, could be as long as a thirty year period. Property claims are generally reported and settled within a much shorter period, usually up to three years. Investing Cash Flows 84 Generally, positive cash flow from operations and financing activities is invested in the Companys portfolio, including affiliates or acquisition of subsidiaries. Investing activities in 2007 and 2006, were primarily related to the purchase and sale of portfolio investments. In addition to purchases and sales of the Companys total investment portfolio, the Company sold a portion of its interest in SCA on June 6, 2007, through a secondary offering for $316.3 million. However, as a result of the sale and subsequent deconsolidation of SCA, investing cash flows were reduced by $110.8 million. In 2006, the Company sold a portion of its interest in SCA through a secondary offering for $104.7 million and its interests in Frontpoint Investment Managers for $66.8 million. If paid losses accelerated beyond the Companys ability to fund such paid losses from current operating cash flows or events lead to negative cash flows from financing activities, the Company might need to either liquidate a portion of its investment portfolio or arrange for financing. To further ensure the sufficiency of funds to settle such claims, the Company holds a certain amount of invested assets in cash and short term investments and maintains available credit facilities. In addition, for certain insurance, reinsurance, or deposit contracts that tend to have relatively large and reasonably predictable cash outflows, the Company attempts to establish dedicated portfolios of assets that are duration matched with the related liabilities. Financing Cash Flows Cash flows related to financing activities include ordinary and preferred share related transactions, the payment of dividends, the issue or repayment of debt and deposit liability transactions. In 2007, the Company repurchased approximately $1.1 billion of ordinary shares through its share repurchase programs and issued approximately $825.0 million of ordinary shares in connection with the maturity of the purchase contracts associated with the 6.5% Units. In addition, the Company issued Series E preference ordinary shares for $1 billion and redeemed both its Series A and Series B preference ordinary shares for $230.0 million and $287.5 million, respectively. With regards to debt transactions in 2007, the Company purchased and retired the 2009 Senior Notes for $825.0 million in connection with the 6.5% Units and issued the 2027 Senior Notes for gross proceeds of approximately $324.4 million. In 2007, dividends paid were $274.0 million for ordinary shares and $69.5 million for preferred shares. In 2007, the Company paid out $360.0 million of net cash relating to deposit liability contracts. See below for further discussion surrounding recent and potential payments associated with GICs guaranteed by subsidiaries of SCA. In 2006, the Company received $342.2 million related to the sale of a portion of its interest in SCA through a primary offering. In addition, in the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company executed a number of debt and equity transactions which affected the cash flow from financing activities described below in Capital Resources, below. As noted above, as a result of the downgrades of XLCA, the Company will settle, by late March 2008, the majority of the GIC portfolio. The Company is considered a Well Known Seasoned Issuer (WKSI) under the rules of the SEC. The Company maintains shelf registration statement on Form S 3 and is eligible for automatically effective future registration statements for the potential offering and sale of an unlimited amount of debt and equity securities. The Registration Statement allows for the following types of securities to be offered: (i) debt securities, preferred stock, common stock, depositary shares, warrants, stock purchase contracts, stock purchase units and junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures of the Company, (ii) preferred securities of any of one or more capital trusts organized by the Company and guarantees of such securities by the Company and (iii) debt securities of XL Capital Finance (Europe) plc and guarantees of such securities by the Company. Under Rule 3 09 of Regulation S X, the Company is required to file separate audited financial statements of SCA (the SCA Financials). The SCA Financials were not available at the time of filing this Annual Report on Form 10 K (the 10 K). The Company intends to file the SCA Financials as an exhibit to an amendment to the 10 K (the 10 K/A) as soon as they are available. Until such time, the Company may not satisfy the registrant requirements for use of Form S 3 and therefore may be ineligible to use such Form. Should the Company be unable to file the 10 K/A on or before March 17, 2008, the Company may be ineligible to use Form S 3 for a period of twelve months. In addition the Company maintains letter of credit facilities which provide liquidity. Details of these facilities are described below in Capital Resources. Capital Resources In addition to ordinary share capital, the Company depends on external sources of financing to support its underwriting activities in the form of: a. ordinary share capital; b. debt; c. preference shares; d. contingent capital; and e. letter of Credit Facilities and other sources of collateral. In particular, the Company requires, among other things: Sufficient capital to maintain its financial strength, claims paying and debt ratings, as issued by several ratings agencies, at levels considered necessary by management to enable the Companys key operating subsidiaries to compete. Sufficient capital to enable its underwriting subsidiaries to meet the capital adequacy tests performed by statutory agencies in the U.S., the U.K., and other key markets. 85 Letters of credit and other forms of collateral that are required by the Companys operating companies that are non admitted under U.S. state insurance regulations. The Company also uses letters of credit to support its operations at Lloyds. Revolving credit to meet short term liquidity needs. The majority of the Companys principal credit facilities are multi year transactions that will expire in 2009, 2010 and 2012. The following risks are associated with the Companys requirement to renew these facilities in future years: The credit available from banks may be reduced resulting in the Companys need to pledge its investment portfolio to customers. This could result in a lower investment yield. The Company may be downgraded by one or more rating agencies which could materially and negatively impact the Companys business, financial condition, results of operations and or liquidity. The volume of business that the Companys non admitted subsidiaries are able to transact could be reduced if the Company is unable to renew its letter of credit facilities at an appropriate amount. Continued consolidation within the banking industry may result in the aggregate amount of credit provided to the Company being reduced. The Company attempts to mitigate this risk by identifying and or selecting additional banks that can participate in the credit facilities upon renewal. a) Ordinary Share Capital On February 23, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company approved a share repurchase program that authorized the Company to repurchase up to $1.0 billion of its Class A ordinary shares and included the unused $135.4 million allocated to the share repurchase program authorized by the Board of Directors in January of 2000. Under the program, the Company repurchased and cancelled approximately 13.2 million shares during the first nine months of 2007 and fully utilized the $1.0 billion authorized under the share repurchase program. On September 24, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company approved a new share repurchase program, authorizing the Company to repurchase up to $500.0 million of its Class A ordinary shares. Repurchases may be made from time to time in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, and the Company expects that those repurchases will be funded from cash on hand. The timing and amount of the share repurchases under the program will depend on a variety of factors, including market conditions, legal requirements and other factors. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had repurchased 1.8 million shares for $124.5 million under the new share repurchase program. In connection with the maturity of the purchase contracts associated with the 6.5% Units, the Company issued 10,799,913 Class A ordinary shares for net proceeds of approximately $823.0 million, a portion of which was used to retire the 2009 Senior Notes. In December 2005, the Company issued 38.9 million ordinary shares at a price of $65.0 per share to support capital requirements subsequent to the 2005 Atlantic hurricane losses and the loss related to the conclusion of the Winterthur Decision. The net proceeds from this issuance were $2.4 billion. See Item 8, Note 20, to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Share Capital. b) Debt At December 31, 2007, banks and investors provided the Company and its subsidiaries with $4.0 billion of debt capacity, of which $2.9 billion was utilized by the Company. These facilities consist of: Revolving credit facilities of $1.1 billion in aggregate. Senior Unsecured Notes of approximately $2.9 billion. These notes require the Company to pay a fixed rate of interest during their lives. At December 31, 2007, there were six outstanding issues of senior unsecured notes: $255 million senior notes due April 2011, with a fixed coupon of 6.58%. These notes were privately placed and are not traded on a public exchange. $600 million senior notes due January 2012, with a fixed coupon of 6.5%. The security is publicly traded. The notes were issued at $99.469 and gross proceeds were $596.8 million. Related expenses of the offering amounted to $7.9 million. $600 million senior notes due September 2014, with a fixed coupon of 5.25%. The security is publicly traded. The notes were issued in two tranches of $300 million aggregate principal amount each one tranche at 99.432% and the other at 98.419%. Aggregate gross proceeds were $593.6 million. Related expenses of the offering amounted to $4 million. $350 million senior notes due November 2024, with a fixed coupon of 6.375%. The security is publicly traded. The notes were issued at 100.0% and gross proceeds were $350 million. Related expenses of the offering amounted to $2 million. 86 $745 million of senior notes due February 2011 with a fixed coupon of 5.25%. These securities are a component of 7.00% Equity Security Units (the 7.00% Units) that are publicly traded. In addition to the coupon paid on the senior notes, contract adjustment payments of 1.75% per annum are paid on forward purchase contracts for the Companys common shares for a total distribution of 7.00% per annum. The purchase contracts mature in 2009, and the senior notes mature in 2011. In February 2009, the senior notes will be remarketed whereby the interest rate will be reset in order to generate sufficient remarketing proceeds to satisfy the 7.00% Unit holders obligations under the purchase contract. $325 million of senior notes due 2027, with a fixed coupon of 6.25%. The security is publicly traded. The notes were issued at 99.805% and gross proceeds were $324.4 million. Related expenses of the offering amounted to $2.5 million. The following tables present the Companys debt under outstanding securities and lenders commitments as at December 31, 2007: Payments Due by Period Notes Payable and Debt (U.S. dollars in thousands) Commitment In Use Year of Expiry Less than 1 Year 1 to 3 Years 3 to 5 Years After 5 Years 5 year revolvers (1) 1,000,000 2010/ 2012 5 year revolver 100,000 2010 5.25% Senior Notes 745,000 745,000 2011 745,000 6.58% Guaranteed Senior Notes 255,000 255,000 2011 255,000 6.50% Guaranteed Senior Notes 598,713 598,713 2012 600,000 5.25% Senior Notes 595,631 595,631 2014 600,000 6.375% Senior Notes 350,000 350,000 2024 350,000 6.25% Senior Notes 324,387 324,387 2027 325,000 3,968,731 2,868,731 1,600,000 1,275,000 Commitment and In Use data represent December 31, 2007 accreted values. Payments Due by Period data represent ultimate redemption values. (1) The 2010 and 2012 5 year revolving credit facilities share a $1.0 billion revolving credit sublimit. c) Preferred shares On March 15, 2007, the Company issued 1,000,000 Fixed/Floating Series E Perpetual Non Cumulative Preference Ordinary Shares, par value $0.01 each, with liquidation preference US$1,000 per share (the Series E Preference Shares). The Company received net proceeds of approximately $983.8 million from the offering. Until April 15, 2017, dividends on the Series E Preference Shares are payable semiannually on a non cumulative basis, when, as and if declared by the Companys Board of Directors, on April 15 and October 15 of each year, commencing in 2007, at a fixed rate equal to 6.5% per annum on the liquidation preference. From and after April 15, 2017, dividends on the Series E Preference Shares are payable quarterly on a non cumulative basis, when, as and if declared by the Companys Board of Directors, on January 15, April 15, July 15 and October 15 of each year at a floating rate equal to three month LIBOR plus 2.4575% on the liquidation preference. The Series E Preference Shares are perpetual securities with no fixed maturity date and are not convertible into any of the Companys other securities. On August 14, 2007, the Company redeemed all of its outstanding 8.0% Series A Preference Ordinary Shares (the Series A Preference Shares) for approximately $25.24 per Series A Preference Share including accrued dividends. The aggregate redemption price was approximately $232.2 million. On November 18, 2007, the Company redeemed all of its outstanding 7.625% Series B Preference Ordinary Shares (the Series B Preference Shares) for approximately $25.26 per Series B Preference Share including accrued dividends. The aggregate redemption price was approximately $290.5 million. d) Contingent Capital In addition to funded debt transactions, the Company has entered into contingent capital transactions. No up front proceeds were received by the Company under these transactions, however, in the event that the associated irrevocable put option agreements are exercised, 87 proceeds previously raised from investors from the issuance of pass through trust securities would be received in return for the issuance of preferred shares. On December 5, 2006, the Company and certain operating subsidiaries (Ceding Insurers) entered into a securities issuance agreement (the Securities Issuance Agreement), and certain of its foreign insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries (Ceding Insurers) entered into an excess of loss reinsurance agreement (the Reinsurance Agreement), Stoneheath Re (Stoneheath). The net effect of these agreements to the Company is the creation of a contingent put option to issue $350.0 million of preference ordinary shares in the aggregate. The agreements provide the Company with a Reinsurance Collateral Account in support of certain Covered Perils named in the Reinsurance Agreement. The initial Covered Perils will include United States wind, European wind, California earthquake and terrorism worldwide. After an initial three month period, the covered perils as well as the attachment points and aggregate retention amounts may be changed by the Ceding Insurers in their sole discretion. This may result in a material increase or decrease in the likelihood of payment under the Reinsurance Agreement. On each date on which a Ceding Insurer withdraws funds from the Reinsurance Collateral Account, the Company shall issue and deliver to Stoneheath an amount of XL Capital Ltd Series D Preference Shares (the XL Preferred Securities) having an aggregate liquidation preference that is equal to the amount of funds so withdrawn from the Collateral Account. The Company is obligated to reimburse Stoneheath for certain fees and ordinary expenses. The initial term of the Reinsurance Agreement will be for the period from the Closing Date through June 30, 2007, with four annual mandatory extensions through June 30, 2011 (unless coverage is exhausted there under prior to such date). The Ceding Insurers may thereafter extend the Reinsurance Agreement at their option for additional calendar quarters without limit (unless coverage is exhausted there under). The contingent put option is recorded at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in earnings. The XL Preferred Securities, if issued, will pay dividends on a non cumulative basis at a fixed rate of 6.868% per annum through October 15, 2011 and thereafter at a floating rate based on 3 month LIBOR, plus 3.12%. In July 2003, the Company entered into a contingent capital transaction with an aggregate value of $500.0 million. This transaction also provides the Company with an insurance trust that provides the Company with statutory relief under state insurance regulations in the U.S. Under the terms of this facility, the Company has acquired an irrevocable put option to issue preference ordinary shares into a trust in return for proceeds raised from investors. This put option may be exercised by the Company at any time. In addition, the Company may be required to issue preference ordinary shares to the trust under certain circumstances, including, but not limited to, the non payment of the put option premium and a ratings downgrade of the Company. In connection with this transaction, the fair value of the put premiums and other related costs, in total of $109.9 million was charged to Additional Paid in Capital and a deferred liability was established (included with Other liabilities) of $102.5 million in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2003. The Company amortizes this liability that resulted in an interest expense of approximately $2.3 million in 2007 and $2.6 million in 2006. e) Letter of Credit Facilities and other sources of collateral At December 31, 2007, the Company had six letter of credit facilities in place with total availability of $7.3 billion, of which $3.7 billion was utilized. Amount of Commitment Expiration per period Other Commercial Commitments (U.S. dollars in thousands) Commitment In Use Year of Expiry Less than 1 Year 1 to 3 Years 3 to 5 Years After 5 Years Letter of Credit Facility $ 200,000 $ 157,041 Continuous $ 200,000 $ $ $ Letter of Credit Facility 541 541 2008 541 Letter of Credit Facility 1,728 1,728 2008 1,728 Letter of Credit Facility 893,790 686,044 2009 893,790 Letter of Credit Facility (1) 2,250,000 2010 2,250,000 Letter of Credit Facility (1) 4,000,000 2,842,497 2012 4,000,000 Six letter of credit facilities $ 7,346,059 $ 3,687,851 $ 202,269 $ 3,143,790 $ 4,000,000 $ (1) Of the total letter of credit facilities above, $1 billion is also included in the revolvers under notes payable and debt. It is anticipated that the commercial facilities will be renewed on expiry but such renewals are subject to the availability of credit from banks utilized by the Company, or other financial institutions. In the event that such credit support is insufficient, the Company could be required to provide alternative security to cedants. This could take the form of insurance trusts supported by the Companys investment portfolio or funds withheld (amounts retained by ceding companies to collateralize loss or premium reserves) using the Companys cash resources or combinations thereof. The face amount of letters of credit required is driven by, among other things, loss development of existing reserves, the payment pattern of such reserves, the expansion of business written by the Company and the loss experience of such business. In addition to letters of credit, the Company has established insurance trusts in the U.S. that provide cedants with statutory relief required under state insurance regulation in the U.S. The Company reviews current and projected collateral requirements on a regular basis, as well as new sources of collateral. Managements objective is to maintain an excess amount of collateral sources over expected uses. The Company also reviews its liquidity needs on a regular basis. 88 The following letter of credit facilities were originated or renewed during 2007: On February 21, 2007, the Company amended the letter of credit facility supporting its syndicates at Lloyds of London by reducing the aggregate commitments from the participating banks from 500 million to 450 million. On November 14, 2007, the Company renewed this facility for a further two years. On March 22, 2007, the Company amended the $500 million letter of credit facility that originally closed on May 9, 2006, by extending the expiration date to June 22, 2007. On June 22, 2007, three facilities expired a $2 billion three year unsecured credit and letter of credit facility, a $500 million 364 day letter of credit facility, and a bilateral 364 day $100 million credit and letter of credit facility. On June 22, 2007, the Company closed a new $4 billion unsecured revolving credit and letter of credit facility. The new facility has a term of five years. The facility is available in the form of revolving credit in the amount of $1 billion (such limit is shared with the Companys other syndicated revolving credit facility that closed in June 2005) and in the form of letters of credit in the aggregate amount of $4 billion. In addition to the letter of credit facilities described above, the Company had the following facility at December 31, 2007 but was subsequently terminated in February 2008: In February 2003, the Company entered into an aggregate of $300.0 million of commercial paper based credit facilities (the Credit Facilities). These facilities were increased to $500.0 million in June 2003. The proceeds of advances under the Credit Facilities were used to fund a trust account (Trust) to collateralize the reinsurance obligations of the Company under an intercompany quota share reinsurance agreement. The Company could have faced additional obligations under the Credit Facilities prior to the stated maturity of February 25, 2008, if certain events had occurred, including, but not limited to the Companys insolvency, withdrawal of assets from the Regulation 114 trust by the ceding company, the downgrade of the Companys credit ratings below certain specified levels, or the failure of the agent to have a first priority perfected security interest in the collateral posted by the Company. The issued securities and the Companys repayment obligations were recorded as a net balance on the Companys balance sheet because the Company had a contractual legal right of offset. In February 2008, the Company terminated this arrangement, resulting in a repayment of $500.0 million and termination of the Trust. Cross Default and Other Provisions in Debt Instruments The following describes certain terms of the documents referred to below. All documents referred to below have been filed with the SEC and should be referred to for an assessment of the complete contractual obligations of the Company. In general, all of the Companys bank facilities, indentures and other documents relating to the Companys outstanding indebtedness, including the Credit Facilities discussed above (collectively, the Companys Debt Documents), contain cross default provisions to each other and the Companys Debt Documents contain affirmative covenants. These covenants provide for, among other things, minimum required ratings of the Companys insurance and reinsurance operating subsidiaries and the level of secured indebtedness in the future. In addition, generally each of the Companys Debt Documents provide for an event of default in the event of a change of control of the Company or some events involving bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization of the Company. The Companys credit facilities and the 6.58% Guaranteed Senior Notes also contain minimum consolidated net worth covenants. Under the Companys 2 year Lloyds and five year U.S. credit facilities placement notes described above, in the event that the XL Capital Group, XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd and XL Re Ltd fail to maintain a financial strength rating of at least A from A.M. Best, an event of default would occur. In January 2008, A.M. Best Company, Inc. (A.M. Best) revised the financial strength rating of the Companys leading property and casualty operating subsidiaries to A from A+ and affirmed them with a stable outlook. The downgrade by A.M. Best was primarily due to their concerns regarding the Companys historic earnings volatility. Consistent with the ratings actions noted above, Fitch Ratings (Fitch), in 2008, revised the financial strength rating of the Companys leading property and casualty operating subsidiaries to A+ from AA and affirmed them with a stable outlook. As well, in January 2008, Moodys Investors Service, Inc. (Moodys) downgraded the insurance financial strength ratings of the Companys core property and casualty operating companies to A1 from Aa3. In December 2007, Standard & Poors (S&P), affirmed the Companys core property and casualty operating companies financial strength ratings at A+ with a stable outlook. Subsequent the aforementioned fourth quarter 2007 charges, in January 2008, S&P announced it would be taking no rating actions and the Companys financial strength ratings remained unchanged. Under the Companys ten year private placement notes described above, in the event that the Company fails to maintain a financial strength rating of at least A from A.M. Best or XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd and XL Re Ltd fail to maintain a financial strength rating of at least A from S&P, an event of default would occur. The Company and its subsidiaries currently has an A+ (stable) rating from S&P and an A (stable) rating from A.M. Best. 89 The 6.5% Guaranteed Senior Notes indentures contains a cross default provision. In general, in the event that the Company defaults in the payment of indebtedness in the amount of $50.0 million or more, an event of default would be triggered under the Guaranteed Senior Notes indentures. Given that all of the Companys Debt Documents contain cross default provisions, this may result in all holders declaring such debt due and payable and an acceleration of all debt due under those documents. If this were to occur, the Company may not have funds sufficient at that time to repay any or all of such indebtedness. In addition, the Companys unsecured Lloyds letter of credit facility provides that, in the event that the Companys insurance and reinsurance rated operating subsidiaries in Bermuda fall below a rating of A from A.M. Best, the facility would then be required to be fully secured by the Company, at which time the Company would be required to either (i) provide an amount in cash to cover an amount equal to the aggregate letters of credit outstanding at that time or (ii) deposit assets in trust securing 105% of the aggregate letters of credit outstanding at that time. If this were to occur, the Company may not be able to provide the collateral required in order to maintain this facility. Long Term Contractual Obligations The following table presents the Companys long term contractual obligations and related payments as at December 31, 2007, due by period. This table excludes further commitments of $204.7 million to the Companys related investment funds and certain limited partnerships, and letter of credit facilities of $3.7 billion. See Item 8, Note 15, Derivative Instruments, and Note 18, Commitments and Contingencies, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. See Item 8, Note 14, Notes Payable and Debt and Financing Arrangements, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Contractual Obligations (U.S. dollars in thousands) Total Less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years More than 5 years Long term debt obligations $ 2,875,000 $ $ $ 1,600,000 $ 1,275,000 Interest on long term debt 1,361,012 169,017 347,811 241,215 602,969 Contingent capital facilities 98,610 17,450 38,960 30,840 11,360 Equity Units 16,297 13,038 3,259 Alternative Collateral 8,910 8,910 Operating lease obligations 229,040 35,241 61,216 43,919 88,664 Capital lease obligations 342,829 13,009 27,001 28,368 274,451 Deposit liabilities (1) 10,540,935 3,310,520 1,895,404 685,306 4,649,705 Future policy benefits (2) 10,840,888 409,505 829,142 852,887 8,749,354 Unpaid losses and loss expenses property and casualty operations (3) 23,904,100 5,267,085 6,736,161 3,689,161 8,211,693 Total $ 50,217,621 $ 9,243,775 $ 9,938,954 $ 7,171,696 $ 23,863,196 (1) Deposit liabilities on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2007 were $7,920,085. The difference from the amount included above relates to the discount on payments due in the future. The payment related to these liabilities varies primarily based on interest rates. The ultimate payments associated with these liabilities could differ from the Companys estimate. As noted above, as a result of the downgrades of XLCA in January and February 2008, the Company will settle, by late March 2008, the majority of the GIC portfolio. See Item 8, Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Deposit Liabilities, for further information. (2) Future policy benefit reserves related to Life operations were $6,772,042 on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2007. Amounts included above include an allowance for future premiums in respect of contracts under which premiums are payable throughout the life of the underlying policy. The value of the discount is also included for those lines of business that have reserves where future claim payments and future premium receipts can be estimated using actuarial principles. The timing and amounts of actual claims payments and premium receipts related to these reserves vary based on the underlying experience of the portfolio. Typical elements of the experience include mortality, morbidity and persistency. The ultimate amount of the claims payments and premium receipts could differ materially from the Companys estimated amounts. (3) The unpaid loss and loss expenses were $23,207,694 on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2007. The timing and amounts of actual claims payments related to these P&C and financial guarantee reserves vary based on many factors including large individual losses, changes in the legal environment, as well as general market conditions. The ultimate amount of the claims payments could differ materially from the Companys estimated amounts. For information regarding the estimates for unpaid loss and loss expenses as well as factors effecting potential payment patterns of reserves for actual and potential claims related the Companys different lines of business see Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above. Certain lines of business written by the Company, such as excess casualty, have loss experience characterized as low frequency and high severity. This may result in significant variability in loss payment patterns and, therefore, may impact the related asset/liability investment management process. In order to be in a position, if necessary, to make these payments, the Companys liquidity requirements are supported by having revolving lines of credit facilities available to the Company and significant reinsurance programs, in addition to the Companys general high grade fixed income investment portfolio. Variable Interest Entities and Other Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company utilizes variable interest entities both indirectly and directly in the ordinary course of the Companys business. On December 5, 2006, the Company and certain operating subsidiaries (Ceding Insurers) entered into a securities issuance agreement (the Securities Issuance Agreement), and certain of its foreign insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries (Ceding Insurers) entered into an excess of loss reinsurance agreement (the Reinsurance Agreement), with Stoneheath Re (Stoneheath). The net effect of these agreements to the Company is the creation of a contingent put option in the amount of $350.0 million in the aggregate. 90 The agreements provide the Company with a Reinsurance Collateral Account in support of certain Covered Perils named in the Reinsurance Agreement. The initial Covered Perils will include United States wind, European wind, California earthquake and terrorism worldwide. After an initial three month period, the covered perils as well as the attachment points and aggregate retention amounts may be changed by the Ceding Insurers in their sole discretion. This may result in a material increase or decrease in the likelihood of payment under the Reinsurance Agreement. On each date on which a Ceding Insurer withdraws funds from the Reinsurance Collateral Account, the Company shall issue and deliver to the Issuer an amount of XL Capital Ltd Series D Preference Shares having an aggregate liquidation preference that is equal to the amount of funds so withdrawn from the Collateral Account. The Company is obligated to reimburse Stoneheath for certain fees and ordinary expenses. The initial term of the Reinsurance Agreement will be for the period from the Closing Date through June 30, 2007, with four annual mandatory extensions through June 30, 2011 (unless coverage is exhausted there under prior to such date). The Ceding Insurers may thereafter extend the Reinsurance Agreement at their option for additional calendar quarters without limit (unless coverage is exhausted there under). The contingent put option is recorded at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in earnings. The Stoneheath preferred securities and, if issued, the XL Series D Preference Shares will pay dividends on a non cumulative basis at a fixed rate of 6.868% per annum through October 15, 2011 and thereafter at a floating rate based on 3 month LIBOR, plus 3.12%. The Company through SCA has historically provided various forms of credit enhancement including financial guarantee insurance and reinsurance of structured transactions backed by pools of assets of specified types, municipal obligations supported by the issuers ability to charge fees for specified services or projects, and structured single risk based obligations including essential infrastructure projects and obligations backed by receivables from future sales of commodities and other specified services. The obligations related to these transactions are often securitized through variable interest entities. Subsequent to June 6, 2007 an the deconsolidation of SCA, the Companys involvement with such variable interest entities is limited to its reinsurance of SCA. In synthetic transactions, the Company guarantees payment obligations of counterparties including special purpose vehicles under credit derivatives referencing asset portfolios. The Company invests in CDOs, and other investment vehicles that are issued through variable interest entities as part of the Companys risk asset portfolio. In February 2003, the Company entered into an aggregate of $300.0 million of commercial paper based credit facilities (the Credit Facilities). These facilities were increased to $500.0 million in June 2003. The proceeds of advances under the Credit Facilities were used to fund a trust account (Trust) to collateralize the reinsurance obligations of the Company under an intercompany quota share reinsurance agreement. The issued securities and the Companys repayment obligations were recorded as a net balance on the Companys balance sheet because the Company had a contractual legal right of offset. In February 2008, the Company terminated this arrangement, resulting in a repayment of $500.0 million and termination of the Trust. In July 2003, the Company entered into a contingent capital transaction with an aggregate value of $500.0 million. This transaction also provides the Company with an insurance trust that provides the Company with statutory relief under state insurance regulations in the U.S. Under the terms of this facility, the Company has acquired an irrevocable put option to issue preference ordinary shares into a trust in return for proceeds raised from investors. This put option may be exercised by the Company at any time. In addition, the Company may be required to issue preference ordinary shares to the trust under certain circumstances, including, but not limited to, the non payment of the put option premium and a ratings downgrade of the Company. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Item 8, Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Significant Accounting Policies, for a discussion on recent accounting pronouncements. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA) provides a safe harbor for forward looking statements. Any prospectus, prospectus supplement, the Companys Annual Report to ordinary shareholders, any proxy statement, any other Form 10 K, Form 10 Q or Form 8 K of the Company or any other written or oral statements made by or on behalf of the Company may include forward looking statements that reflect the Companys current views with respect to future events and financial performance. Such statements include forward looking statements both with respect to the Company in general, and to the insurance and reinsurance sectors in particular (both as to underwriting and investment matters). Statements that include the words expect, intend, plan, believe, project, anticipate, will, may, and similar statements of a future or forward looking nature identify forward looking statements for purposes of the PSLRA or otherwise. All forward looking statements address matters that involve risks and uncertainties. Accordingly, there are or will be important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in such statements. The Company believes that these factors include, but are not limited to, the following: (i) changes to the size of the Companys claims relating to natural catastrophes; (ii) the timely and full recoverability of reinsurance placed by the Company with third parties, or other amounts due to the Company; (iii) the projected amount of ceded reinsurance recoverables and the ratings and creditworthiness of reinsurers may change; (iv) the timing of claims payments being faster or the receipt of reinsurance recoverables being slower than anticipated by the Company; (v) higher than expected defaults on relevant underlying obligations of SCAs subsidiaries and the adequacy of the claims paying ability of those SCA subsidiaries; (vi) the potential for larger than expected mark to market movements on credit derivatives originally written by SCA and reinsured by the Company; (vii) ineffectiveness or obsolescence of the Companys business strategy due to changes in current or future market conditions; (viii) increased competition on the basis of pricing, capacity, coverage terms or other factors; (ix) greater frequency or 91 severity of claims and loss activity, including as a result of natural or man made catastrophic events, than the Companys underwriting, reserving or investment practices anticipate based on historical experience or industry data; (x) developments in the worlds financial and capital markets that adversely affect the performance of the Companys investments and the Companys access to such markets including, but not limited to further market developments relating to sub prime and residential mortgages (xi) the potential impact on the Company from government mandated insurance coverage for acts of terrorism; (xii) the potential impact of variable interest entities or other off balance sheet arrangements on the Company; (xiii) developments in bankruptcy proceedings or other developments related to bankruptcies of companies insofar as they affect property and casualty insurance and reinsurance coverages or claims that the Company may have as a counterparty; (xiv) availability of borrowings and letters of credit under the Companys credit facilities; (xv) changes in regulation or tax laws applicable to the Company or its subsidiaries, brokers or customers; (xvi) acceptance of the Companys products and services, including new products and services; (xvii) changes in the availability, cost or quality of reinsurance; (xviii) changes in the distribution or placement of risks due to increased consolidation of insurance and reinsurance brokers; (xix) loss of key personnel; (xx) the effects of mergers, acquisitions and divestitures; (xxi) changes in ratings, rating agency policies or practices; (xxii) changes in accounting policies or practices or the application thereof; (xxiii) legislative or regulatory developments; (xxiv) changes in general economic conditions, including inflation, foreign currency exchange rates and other factors; (xxv) the effects of business disruption or economic contraction due to war, terrorism or other hostilities; and (xxvi) the other factors set forth in the Companys other documents on file with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). The foregoing review of important factors should not be construed as exhaustive and should be read in conjunction with the other cautionary statements that are included herein or elsewhere. The Company undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The following risk management discussion and the estimated amounts generated from the sensitivity and value at risk (VaR) analyses presented in this document are forward looking statements of market risk assuming certain adverse market conditions occur. Actual results in the future may differ materially from these estimated results due to, among other things, actual developments in the global financial markets and changes in the composition of the Companys investment portfolio. The results of analysis used by the Company to assess and mitigate risk should not be considered projections of future events of losses. See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements. Market risk represents the potential for loss due to adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments. The Company is principally exposed to the following market risks: interest rate risk; foreign currency exchange rate risk; equity price risk; credit risk; weather and energy related risk, and other related market risks. The Companys investment market risk arises from its investment portfolio which consists of fixed income securities, alternative investments, public equities, private investments, derivatives, other investments, and cash, denominated in both U.S. and foreign currencies, which are sensitive to changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, foreign currency exchange rates and other related market risks. The Companys fixed income and equity securities are classified as available for sale, and as such changes in interest rates, credit spreads on corporate and structured credit, equity prices, foreign currency exchange rates or other related market instruments will have an immediate effect on comprehensive income and shareholders equity but will not ordinarily have an immediate effect on net income. Nevertheless, changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices and other related market instruments effect consolidated net income when, and if, a security is sold or impaired. The Company enters into derivatives and other financial instruments primarily for risk management purposes. The Company conducts activities in three main types of derivative instruments: credit derivatives, weather and energy derivatives and investment related derivative instruments. From time to time, the Company also uses investment derivative instruments such as futures, options, interest rate swaps, and foreign currency forward contracts to manage the duration of its investment portfolio and foreign currency exposures and also to obtain exposure to a particular financial market. The Companys derivative transactions can expose the Company to credit derivative risk, weather and energy risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, etc.. The Company attempts to manage these risks based on guidelines established by senior management. Derivative instruments are carried at fair value with the resulting changes in fair value recognized in income in the period in which they occur. The following is a discussion and measurement of the Companys primary market risk exposures at December 31, 2007 using, where applicable, sensitivity and VaR analyses. The Companys policies to address these risks in 2007 were not materially different from 2006. The Company does not currently anticipate significant changes in its primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. Interest Rate Risk The Companys fixed income portfolio is exposed to interest rate risk. Interest rate risk is the price sensitivity of a fixed income security to changes in interest rates. The Company manages interest rate risk within the context of its overall asset liability management strategy by setting duration targets for its investment portfolio in line with the estimated duration of its liabilities, thus 92 mitigating the overall economic effect of interest rate risk. The Company remains nevertheless exposed to accounting interest rate risk since the assets are marked to market, thus subject to market conditions, while liabilities are accrued at a static rate. The hypothetical case of an immediate 100 basis point adverse parallel shift in global bond curves as at December 31, 2007, would decrease the fair value of the Companys fixed income portfolio by approximately 4.3% or $1.7 billion. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk Many of the Companys non U.S. subsidiaries maintain both assets and liabilities in local currencies. Foreign currency exchange rate gains and losses arise for accounting purposes where net assets or liabilities are denominated in foreign currencies that differ from the functional currency of those subsidiaries. In addition, the Companys shareholders equity is impacted by movements in currency exchange rates through both the foreign exchange component of realized and unrealized gains and losses within the Companys investment portfolio, and the cumulative translation adjustments resulting from the translation of foreign subsidiary results. Foreign currency exchange rate risk in general is reviewed as part of the Companys risk management process. Foreign exchange contracts within the investment portfolio are utilized to manage individual portfolio foreign exchange exposures, subject to investment manager guidelines established by management. These contracts are not designated as specific hedges for financial reporting purposes and, therefore, realized and unrealized gains and losses on these contracts are recorded in income in the period in which they occur. These contracts generally have maturities of three months or less. The Company also attempts to manage the foreign exchange volatility arising on certain transactions denominated in foreign currencies. These include, but are not limited to, premium receivable, reinsurance contracts, claims payable and investments in subsidiaries. The principal currencies creating foreign exchange risk for us are the British pound sterling, the Euro, the Swiss Franc, and the Canadian dollar. The Companys net notional foreign currency denominated exposure on foreign exchange contracts was $341.7 million and receivable of $211.5 million as at December 31, 2007 and 2006 respectively, with a net unrealized gain of $0.9 million and $15.5 million as at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Equity Price Risk The Companys equity portfolio as well as certain derivatives and certain affiliate investments are exposed to equity price risk. Equity price risk is the potential loss arising from changes in the market value of equities. An immediate hypothetical 10% change in the value of each equity position in the Companys equity portfolio would affect the fair value of the portfolio by approximately $75.7 million as at December 31, 2007. As at December 31, 2007, the Companys equity portfolio was $757 million as compared to $699 million as at December 31, 2006. This excludes fixed income fund investments and publicly traded alternative funds that generally do not have the risk characteristics of equity investments. As at December 31, 2007, the Companys allocation to equity securities was approximately 1.7% of the total investment portfolio (including cash and cash equivalents, accrued investment income and net payable for investments purchased) as compared to approximately 1.6% as at December 31, 2006. As at December 31, 2007, approximately 28.8% of the equity holdings was invested in U.S. companies as compared to approximately 45.0% as at December 31, 2006. As at December 31, 2007, the top ten equity holdings represented approximately 11.5% of the Companys total equity portfolio as compared to approximately 7.9% as at December 31, 2006. For further discussion of the exporsure to equity market movements in the Companys investment portfolio see the Investment Value at Risk section below. Credit Risk The Companys exposure to market movements related to credit risk is primarily due to its investment portfolio, credit derivatives embedded in financial guarantee reinsurance exposures, receivable and ceded reinsurance balances. Within the investment portfolio, credit risk is the exposure to adverse change in the creditworthiness of individual investment holdings, issuers, groups of issuers, industries or countries. In addition, credit risk pertains to adverse change in the creditworthiness of the Companys reinsurers and retrocessionaires, and their ability to pay certain reinsurance receivable and recoverable balances. The Company manages credit risk in the investment portfolio, including fixed maturity, alternative and short term investment through the credit research performed primarily by the external investment professionals and limitations on the investment portfolios exposure to individual credits. Credit limits for corporate exposures are based on an internal model that allows the limits to be linked to the Companys balance sheet credit risk taking capacity while also taking into consideration internal views on specific issuers and on current or expected market credit conditions. Credit limits for other sectors are derived from the corporate limits using multipliers as a way to quantify intrinsic credit quality characteristics differences with the corporate sector. Limits are reviewed annually and ensure that potential losses from individual defaults should not exceed predetermined levels. In the investment portfolio, the Company reviews on a regular basis its issuer concentration, credit quality and compliance with established credit limits. Any issuer over its credit limits, experiencing financial difficulties, material credit quality deterioration or potentially subject to forthcoming credit quality deterioration is placed on a Watch List for closer monitoring. Where appropriate, exposures are reduced or prevented from increasing. The Company has also developed a proprietary model for the investment portfolio to assess corporate credit risk based upon its individual holdings mark to market exposure, credit rating, seniority in the capital structure, migration and default probabilities, 93 durations, default correlations and loss severity given a default event. Based upon these factors and related market based inputs, the Company can estimate the credit risk of the Companys investment portfolio and its various components. Assumptions are reviewed regularly to ensure the risk estimates are reasonable and reflect underlying exposures. The table below shows the Companys fixed income portfolio by credit rating in percentage terms of the Companys total fixed income exposure (including fixed maturities, short term investments, cash and cash equivalents and net payable for investments purchased) as at December 31, 2007. Total AAA 53.4 AA 18.1 A 16.9 BBB 9.3 BB & below 2.2 NR 0.1 Total 100.0 % At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the average credit quality of the Companys total fixed income portfolio was AA. As at December 31, 2007, the top 10 corporate holdings, which exclude government guaranteed and government sponsored enterprises, represented approximately 4.8% of the total fixed income portfolio and approximately 13.4% of all corporate holdings. The top 10 corporate holdings listed below represent the direct exposure to the corporations listed below, including their subsidiaries, and excludes any securitized, credit enhanced and collateralized asset or mortgage backed securities, cash and cash equivalents, pooled notes and any over the counter (OTC) derivative counterparty exposures, if applicable. Top 10 Corporate Holdings (2) Percentage of Total Fixed Income Portfolio (1) HBOS plc 0.6 % General Electric Company 0.6 % Citigroup Inc 0.6 % The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc 0.6 % Bank of America Corporation 0.5 % HSBC Holdings plc 0.5 % Lloyds TSB Group plc 0.4 % Merril Lynch & Co., Inc 0.4 % Barclays plc 0.3 % The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc 0.3 % (1) Including fixed maturities, short term investments, cash and cash equivalents and net payable for investments purchased. The Company also has exposure to market movement related to credit risk associated with its mortgage backed and asset backed securities. The table below shows the breakdown of the $14.6 billion structured credit portfolio, of which 85.0% is AAA rated: (U.S. dollars in millions) Fair Value Percent of Portfolio CMBS $ 4,073.6 27.9 % Agency 2,545.3 17.4 % Whole Loans 1,833.8 12.5 % Core CDO (non ABS CDOs and CLOs) 1,085.1 7.4 % ABS Other Real Estate 206.3 1.4 % Other ABS: ABS Auto 1,155.5 7.9 % ABS Credit Cards 758.3 5.2 % ABS Other 908.9 6.2 % Topical: Sub prime first lien 995.9 6.8 % Alt A 924.8 6.3 % Second lien (including sub prime second lien mortgages) 97.6 0.7 % ABS CDOs with sub prime collateral 39.3 0.3 % Total $ 14,624.4 100.0 % For further discussion of the exposure to credit market movements in the Companys investment portfolio see the Investment Value at Risk section below. The Company also has exposure to market movements as a result of credit risk exposures related to financial guarantee reinsurance of SCA. This exposure generally relates to certain specific facultative and excess of loss reinsurance agreements which are not, in their entirety, required to be marked to market. For further details surrounding this exposure, see Item 7 Managements Discussion 94 and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 8, Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Security Capital Assurance. A portion of the exposures resulting from this business represent risks written by SCA in credit derivative form which are reinsured by the Company. These components of the overall exposure are required to be marked to fair value. The fair value of such instruments is determined using models developed by SCA management and reviewed by the Company. With regards to unpaid losses and loss expenses recoverable and reinsurance balances receivable, the Company has credit risk should any of its reinsurers be unable or unwilling to settlement amounts due to the Company, however, these exposures are not marked to market. For further information relating to reinsurer credit risk, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses Recoverable and Reinsurance Balances Receivable and Item 8, Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Commitments and Contingencies. The Company is exposed to credit risk in the event of non performance by the other parties to its derivative instruments in general, however the Company does not anticipate non performance. The difference between the notional principal amounts and the associated market value is the Companys maximum credit exposure. Weather and Energy Risk The Company offers weather and contingent energy risk management products in insurance or derivative form to end users, while managing the risks in the over the counter and exchange traded derivatives markets or through the use of quota share or excess of loss arrangements. The fair value of weather and energy derivatives is determined through the use of quoted market prices where available. Where quoted market prices are unavailable, the fair value is estimated using available market data and internal pricing models using consistent statistical methodologies. Estimating fair value of instruments that do not have quoted market prices requires managements judgment in determining amounts that could reasonably be expected to be received from, or paid to, a third party in settlement of the contracts. The amounts could be materially different from the amounts that might be realized in an actual sale transaction. Fair values are subject to change in the near term and reflect managements best estimate based on various factors including, but not limited to, actual and forecasted weather conditions, changes in commodity prices, changes in interest rates and other market factors. The Company manages its weather and energy risk portfolio through the employment of a variety of strategies. These include geographical and directional diversification of risk exposures and direct hedging within the capital and reinsurance markets. Risk management is undertaken on a portfolio wide basis, to maintain a portfolio that the Company believes is well diversified and which remains within the aggregate risk tolerance established by the Companys senior management. At present, the Companys VaR related to these risks does not exceed $20.0 million in any one season. Other Market Risks The Companys private investment portfolio is invested in limited partnerships and other entities which are not publicly traded. In addition to normal market risks, these positions may also be exposed to liquidity risk, risks related to distressed investments, and risks specific to startup or small companies. As at December 31, 2007, the Companys exposure to private investments was $427.5 million compared to $330.2 million as at December 31, 2006. At December 31, 2007, bond and stock index futures outstanding had a net short position of $384.5 million as compared to a net long position of $23.8 million at December 31, 2006. A 10% appreciation or depreciation of the underlying exposure to these derivative instruments would have resulted in realized gains or realized losses of $38.5 million as at December 31, 2007 and $2.4 million as at December 31, 2006, respectively. The Company may reduce its exposure to these futures through offsetting transactions, including options and forwards. Investment Value at Risk (VaR) Central to the Companys market risk management framework is VaR. VaR is a statistical risk measure, calculating the level of potential losses that could be expected to be exceeded, over a specified holding period and at a given level of confidence, in normal market conditions, due to adverse movements in the investment portfolios underlying securities and investments valuations. The Company uses VaR as a statistical risk measure of the two main components of its investment portfolio the Asset Liability Portfolio and the Risk Portfolio. The Asset Liability Portfolio principal objectives are to support the liabilities arising from the Companys operations, to produce a steady stream of investment income and to preserve capital. The Asset Liability portfolio is invested in investment grade fixed income and cash securities (fixed income instruments maturing one year or less at the time of issuance). The Risk Portfolio principal objective is to build book value over the long term. The Risk Portfolio is invested in equity securities, below investment grade fixed income securities, alternative investment strategies and private investments. 95 The Company calculates the VaR of the investment portfolio using a one month time horizon and a 95% level of confidence. This means that, on average, the Company could expect marked to market results greater than predicted by the VaR results 5% of the time, or once every 20 months. The calculation of VaR is performed monthly using a full valuation based on a Monte Carlo approach and it is expressed both in terms of U.S. dollars and as a percentage of the Companys investment portfolio. The modeling of the risk of any portfolio, as measured by VaR, involves a number of assumptions and approximations. While the Company believes that its assumptions and approximations are appropriate, there is no uniform industry methodology for calculating VaR. The Company notes that different VaR results can be produced for the same portfolio dependent not only on the approach used but also on the assumptions employed when implementing the approach. The VaR approach uses historical data to determine the sensitivity of each of the underlying securities to the risk factors incorporated into the models that are employed in the Monte Carlo simulations. In calculating these sensitivities, greater importance is placed on the more recent data points and information. Since the VaR approach is based on historical positions and market data, VaR results should not be viewed as an absolute and predictive gauge of future financial performance or as a way for the Company to predict risk. There is no assurance that the Companys actual future losses will not exceed its VaR and the Company expects that 5% of the time the VaR will be exceeded. Additionally, the Company acknowledges the fact that risks associated with abnormal market events can be significantly different from the VaR results and these are by definition not reflected or assessed in the VaR analysis, rather this is evaluated using the Companys stress testing framework. The VaR of the investment portfolio at December 31, 2007 was approximately $648 million. The VaR of all investment related derivatives excluding investments in affiliates and other investments was approximately $19.1 million. In instances where the data or time series are insufficient to determine the risk factor sensitivities, the VaR approach uses proxy time series data available for similar instruments. As at December 31, 2007, approximately $18.8 billion used proxy time series data. Approximately $14.1 billion related to various fixed income portfolios (of which $11.7 billion was in mortgage backed and asset backed securities), $2.0 billion to various cash portfolios, $2.1 billion to alternative investments, $439.5 million to private investments, $163.3 million to equity portfolios, and $5.1 million to derivatives. The Company reviews the proxies to ensure that an appropriate data and time series is being used in the calculations and that the proxies used are conservative. The following table shows the Companys average, minimum and maximum VaR in percentage and dollar terms for the investment portfolio during the year ended December 31, 2007, based upon the VaR at quarter end dates. The table also includes the Companys VaR in percentage and dollar terms, respectively, for the investment portfolio as at December 31, 2007. The Companys investment portfolio VaR as at December 31, 2007 is not necessarily indicative of future VaR levels. During 2007, the Company did not experience a single calendar month in which the monthly price return (representing net realized and unrealized gains and net income from affiliates excluding net investment income) on the investment portfolio exceeded the risk level indicated by the corresponding months VaR. The Company uses VaR as a statistical risk measure of the two main components of its investment portfolio only the Asset Liability Portfolio and the Risk Asset Portfolio. Average VaR % VaR(1) Minimum VaR % VaR(1) Maximum VaR % VaR(1) At December 31, 2007 % VaR(1) Asset Liability Portfolio 1.3 % 1.1 % 1.8 % 1.8 % Risk Asset Portfolio 3.0 % 1.9 % 3.9 % 3.7 % Undiversified VaR (2) 1.5 % 1.2 % 2.0 % 2.0 % Diversification VaR (3) 0.3 % % % 0.5 % Investment Portfolio VaR (4)(6) 1.2 % 1.0 % 1.5 % 1.5 % (U.S. dollars in millions) Average VaR during 2007 $VaR(5) Minimum VaR during 2007 $VaR(5) Maximum VaR during 2007 $VaR(5) VaR as at December 31, 2007 $VaR(5) Investment Portfolio VaR (4)(6) $ 526.0 $ 423.9 $ 648.3 $ 648.3 (1) Based on a 95% confidence level with a one month holding period and expressed as a percentage of the investment portfolio. (2) Average Undiversified VaR for the year ended December 31, 2007 and Undiversified VaR at December 31, 2007 is the summation of the individual VaRs for the Asset Liability and Risk Asset portfolios and, by construction, ignores any and all correlations between these portfolios (and their underlying asset classes). The Undiversified VaR therefore ignores diversification benefits that exist in between these portfolios (and their underlying asset classes). Maximum and Minimum Undiversified VaR is not necessarily the summation of the individual VaRs for each of the separate portfolios since the Maximum and Minimum VaR and the Maximum and Minimum Undiversified VaR do not necessarily refer to the same point in time. (3) Diversification VaR equals the difference between the Investment Portfolio VaR and the Undiversified VaR. As the former explicitly accounts for the correlations and diversification benefits that exist between the Asset Liability and Risk Asset portfolios and the latter explicitly does not, the difference in the two VaR results is due to the diversification benefits. These diversification benefits arise due to the risk reduction that occurs when different assets, that are not perfectly correlated, are combined in a portfolio. It will vary over time dependent on: allocations changes; changes in the 96 correlations between the different underlying asset classes; and changes in the underlying asset class risks. The NA reflects the fact that, since the Minimum and Maximum VaR do not refer to the same point in time, it is therefore not meaningful to calculate the Diversification VaR. (4) Investment Portfolio VaR is based on the prescribed methodology that explicitly accounts for the diversification benefits that occur when each of the allocations to the Asset Liability and Risk Asset portfolios (and their underlying asset classes) are included in the investment portfolio. (5) Based on a 95% confidence level with a one month holding period, expressed in millions of U.S. Dollars. (6) Investment Portfolio refers to the two main components of the Companys investment portfolio the Asset Liability Portfolio and the Risk Asset Portfolio. The Companys total investment portfolio VaR is driven by: the size of the overall investment portfolio; the size of the allocations to the different asset classes and securities in the asset classes; the risks associated with each of the asset classes and securities; and the correlations and diversification benefits between each of the asset classes and securities. Changes in any of these variables will have a direct impact on the Companys VaR. At December 31, 2007 the Companys investment portfolio VaR, Undiversified VaR and Asset Liability Portfolio VaR were all running at the maximum month end levels experienced in 2007 of 1.5%, 2.0% and 1.8%, respectively. The higher year end results were primarily a result of increased market volatilities across substantially all asset classes that the investment portfolio is exposed to. Stress Testing VaR does not provide the means to estimate the magnitude of the loss in the 5% of occurrences that the Company expects the VaR level to be exceeded. To complement the VaR analysis based on normal market environments, the Company considers the impact on the investment portfolio in several different historical stress periods to analyze the effect of unusual market conditions. The Company establishes certain historical stress test scenarios which are applied to the actual investment portfolio. As these stress tests and estimated gains and losses are based on historical events, they will not necessarily reflect future stress events or gains and losses from such events. The results of the stress test scenarios are reviewed on a regular basis to ensure they are appropriate, based on current shareholders equity, market conditions and the Companys total risk tolerance. It is important to note that when assessing the risk of the Companys investment portfolio, the Company does not take into account either the value or risk associated with the liabilities arising from the Companys operations. Since the principal objectives of the Asset Liability portfolio component of the investment portfolio are to support and generally offset or hedge certain of the risks associated with the liabilities. The table below shows the maximum impact on the Companys investment portfolio if all events stress tested were to repeat themselves, given the actual investment portfolios allocations at the quarters ended March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31, 2007. The Company assumes that no action is taken during the stress period to either liquidate or rebalance the portfolio. The Company believes that this fairly reflects the potential decreased liquidity that is often associated with stressed market environments. Stress Test March 31, 2007 June 30, 2007 September 30, 2007 December 31, 2007 Maximum loss impact on portfolio (5.3 )% (5.5 )% (5.7 )% (6.0 )% Maximum gain impact on portfolio 16.7 % 16.7 % 17.5 % 18.1 % From the different scenarios that the Company analyzes, the largest downside event risk exposure during 2007 was 6.0%, based on the investment portfolio as at December 31, 2007. The largest upside risk exposure during 2007 was 18.1% as at December 31, 2007. At December 31, 2007 the Companys maximum loss impact and maximum gain impact on the investment portfolio were at their maximum month end ranges. The higher year end results were primarily a result of changes in the level of interest rates, spread levels and other key risk factors during the quarter. Given the investment portfolio allocations as at December 31, 2007, the Company would expect to lose approximately 6.0% of the portfolio if the most damaging event stress tested was repeated, all other things held equal. Given the investment portfolio allocations as at December 31, 2007, the Company would expect to gain approximately 18.1% of the portfolio if the most favorable event stress tested was repeated, all other things held equal. 97 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward looking statements which involve inherent risks and uncertainties. Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about the Companys beliefs and expectations, are forward looking statements. These statements are based upon current plans, estimates and expectations. Actual results may differ materially from those projected in such forward looking statements, and therefore undue reliance should not be placed on them. See Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements for a list of additional factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statement. This discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto presented under Item 8. Certain aspects of the Companys business have loss experience characterized as low frequency and high severity. This may result in volatility in both the Companys results of operations and financial condition. Index Executive Overview 45 Financial Measures 47 Results of Operations 49 Other Key Focuses of Management 54 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 56 Segments 69 Income Statement Analysis 70 Insurance 70 Reinsurance 72 Life Operations 74 Other Financial Lines 76 SCA 76 Investment Activities 77 Investment Performance 78 Net realized gains and losses on investments and other than temporary declines in the value of investments 78 Other Revenues and Expenses 79 Balances Sheet Analysis 80 Investments 80 Net unrealized gains and losses on investments 81 Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses 82 Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses Recoverable and Reinsurance Balances Receivable 83 Liquidity and Capital Resources 84 Cross Default and Other Provisions in Debt Instruments 89 Long Term Contractual Obligations 90 Variable Interest Entities and Other Off Balance Sheet Arrangements 91 Recent Accounting Pronouncements 91 Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements 91 44 Executive Overview Background The Company operates on a global basis and is a leading provider of insurance and reinsurance coverages to industrial, commercial and professional service firms, insurance companies and other enterprises, typically the global equivalent of the Fortune 2000. The Company operates in markets where it believes its underwriting expertise and financial strength represent a relative advantage. The Company has grown through acquisitions and development of new business opportunities. Acquisitions included Global Capital Re in 1997, Mid Ocean Limited in 1998, ECS, Inc. and NAC Re Corp. in 1999, Winterthur International in 2001 and Le Mans R in 2002. All acquisitions have supported the Companys strategic plan to develop a global platform in insurance and reinsurance. The Company competes as an integrated global business with more than 4,000 employees in 28 countries. Underwriting Environment The property and casualty insurance and reinsurance markets have historically been cyclical, meaning that based on market conditions, there have been periods where premium rates are high and policy terms and conditions are more favorable to the Company (a hard market) and there have been periods where premium rates decline and policy terms and conditions are less favorable to the Company (a soft market). Market conditons are driven primarily by competition in the marketplace, the supply of capital in the industry, investment yields and the frequency and severity of loss events. Managements goal is to build long term shareholder value by capitalizing on current opportunities and managing through any cyclical downturns by reducing its property and casualty book of business and exposures if and when rates deteriorate to unprofitable levels. As part of its long term strategy, the Company also looks to its Life Operations segment to provide a diversified stream of earnings that are not directly tied to the property and casualty cycle. The Company earns its revenue primarily from net premiums written and earned. In 2005, downward pressure on rates across most non catastrophe exposed lines continued throughout the year although the impact of the 2004 storm season, the backdrop of continued emergence of adverse development related to the market of the late 1990s and concerns about reinsurer financial strength, all served to reinforce a sense of discipline in the market. Following the significant natural catastrophes of 2005, additional competitors were formed in the marketplace which had the effect of increasing the available capacity within the insurance and reinsurance markets during 2006. Although rates within some lines of business, such as catastrophe exposed property, experienced increases, an overall increasingly competitive environment and the entrance of these new competitors had a dampening effect on rates within many property and casualty lines of business, which ultimately contributed to reducing gross and net premiums written in 2006. During 2007, all lines of business within the Insurance segment continued to experience rate declines as well as increased competition as the insurance market continued to soften. Rate changes on business renewed varied by line of business with decreases ranging from roughly 1% to 11%. Premiums were also reduced over 2006 by the decision not to renew ICAT, a program which offered property catastrophe insurance primarily to small business customers. The Insurance segment wrote some new business lines, notably Excess & Surplus lines and Private Company Directors and Officers insurance, both in the U.S. Customer retentions ratios were generally consistent with historic levels, with the exception of lines in which deliberate action had been taken to reduce exposure, primarily in catastrophe prone businesses. The Insurance segment also saw an increase in the volume of long term agreements compared with the previous year, most notably in casualty lines of business, and also benefited from changes in foreign exchange rates. The following table provides an analysis of gross premiums written, net premiums written and net premiums earned for the Insurance segment for the last three years ended December 31: 2007 2006 (3) 2005 (3) (U.S. dollars in thousands) Gross Premiums Written Net Premiums Written Net Premiums Earned Gross Premiums Written Net Premiums Written Net Premiums Earned Gross Premiums Written Net Premiums Written Net Premiums Earned Casualty professional lines $ 1,516,412 $ 1,376,819 $ 1,404,567 $ 1,558,746 $ 1,490,896 $ 1,483,518 $ 1,575,897 $ 1,477,423 $ 1,407,188 Casualty other lines 1,342,817 848,919 819,687 1,304,245 799,957 847,834 1,567,825 985,331 919,268 Property catastrophe 15,312 (7,460 ) 52,541 149,436 68,847 56,714 157,491 69,119 57,027 Other property 982,492 686,932 632,959 958,942 595,783 585,366 913,970 602,841 561,135 Marine, energy, aviation, and satellite 809,073 623,085 638,162 942,974 695,391 676,009 929,174 650,649 661,260 Other specialty lines (1) 674,591 578,944 484,928 656,765 489,322 415,749 585,056 421,352 435,662 Other (2) 36,698 27,439 33,416 10,167 5,776 60,784 93,541 78,350 101,883 Structured indemnity 56,871 52,177 50,328 46,018 39,400 33,349 25,167 25,167 22,285 Total $ 5,434,266 $ 4,186,855 $ 4,116,588 $ 5,627,293 $ 4,185,372 $ 4,159,323 $ 5,848,121 $ 4,310,232 $ 4,165,708 (1) Other specialty lines within the Insurance segment includes: environmental, programs, equine, warranty, and excess and surplus lines. (2) Other includes employers liability, surety, political risk and other lines; (3) Certain lines of business previously reported under the Financial Lines segment have been reclassified and reported under the Insurance and Reinsurance segments based on the nature of the business written. 45 During 2007, most lines of business within the Reinsurance segment experienced pricing erosion, increased retentions by cedants and competitive pressures in the form of other reinsurers, capital markets, and local governments. In addition, the Company continued to focus on its stated intention of defending rate adequacy in the reinsurance market and maintaining underwriting discipline. Within U.S. catastrophe exposed property lines of business, rates decreased approximately 5 to 10% off prior highs for wind exposure while rates for U.S. earthquake remained flat to down 5%. For non U.S. non catastrophe property lines of business, increased competition also led to price reductions of approximately 10 to 15%. Ocean marine pricing rates fell by approximately 10% except on programs that had experienced adverse claims. In addition, casualty pricing trends in the Reinsurance segment grew following those of the Insurance segment with an overall deterioration in rates and pressures on terms and conditions. Within the aviation market, rate reductions in the region of 5 to 10% continued to be experienced, although the declines experienced were less than those in the primary insurance market. The following table provides an analysis of gross premiums written, net premiums written and net premiums earned for the Reinsurance segment for the last three years ended December 31: 2007 2006 (2) (3) 2005 (2) (3) (U.S. dollars in thousands) Gross Premiums Written Net Premiums Written Net Premiums Earned Gross Premiums Written Net Premiums Written Net Premiums Earned Gross Premiums Written Net Premiums Written Net Premiums Earned Casualty professional lines $ 256,280 $ 256,327 $ 273,494 $ 297,962 $ 296,221 $ 346,870 $ 346,758 $ 343,562 $ 356,937 Casualty other lines 543,251 527,860 602,452 660,455 613,056 723,854 861,113 810,971 858,651 Property catastrophe 475,540 286,866 264,666 449,347 234,724 234,965 481,765 309,293 302,291 Other property 970,196 677,764 753,278 1,044,316 730,445 749,714 1,008,333 724,837 701,459 Marine, energy, aviation, and satellite 150,548 128,942 141,619 176,928 139,748 154,313 241,045 192,445 194,646 Other (2) 239,418 204,845 240,049 365,844 298,860 294,532 396,274 320,526 288,403 Structured indemnity 28,261 28,261 26,481 71,286 71,286 66,711 36,901 31,531 31,774 Total $ 2,663,494 $ 2,110,865 $ 2,302,039 $ 3,066,138 $ 2,384,340 $ 2,570,959 $ 3,372,189 $ 2,733,165 $ 2,734,161 (1) Other includes employers liability, surety, political risk and other lines; (2) To facilitate period to period comparisons, certain short term Accident and Health business previously included in the Reinsurance segment has been reclassified to the Life Operations segment to conform to current segment management responsibilities. (3) Certain lines of business previously reported under the Financial Lines segment have been reclassified and reported under the Insurance and Reinsurance segments based on the nature of the business written. Going forward, management intends to maximize the Companys ability to achieve profitable growth by focusing on leveraging the Companys operational platforms and building out the Companys capabilities, teams and product offerings in its chosen markets. Such markets include excess & surplus, private company D&O, fine art and specie, U.S. term life reinsurance and other lines and regions where management believes positive market indicators exist. The following sets forth potential trends relevant to the Companys property and casualty operations in 2008: 2008 Underwriting Outlook In the Insurance segment, January 2008 renewals continue to reflect increasing soft market conditions as premium rates across most lines of business continue to decrease within the market. In addition, competitive pressures continue to make new business more difficult to win. Initial indications based on January 2008 renewals indicate decreases in premium rates of approximately 5 to 20%, while certain casualty lines have experienced premium rate reductions of approximately 5 to 15%. In addition, premium rates within certain specialty lines and the U.S. Excess and Surplus line of business have decreased by up to 10%. While market competition continues to increase in most lines of business in early 2008, desired retentions have broadly been maintained. However, as a result of recent rating agency downgrades in late January 2008, as described above, it may be more difficult for the Company, going forward, to attract new business and or retain previously written business, particularly within certain casualty and professional lines of business, however, initial reactions from customers and brokers have indicated this is likely to be limited. In the Reinsurance segment, initial indications based on January 1, 2008 renewals point to a decline in premium rates across most major lines of business, as market conditions continue to soften and the reinsurance industry continues to experience pricing erosion, increased competitive pressures and increased retentions by cedants. Consistent with 2007, renewals and new business in 2008 continue to be assessed against internal hurdle rates with a continued focus on underwriting discipline. U.S. catastrophe exposed property lines have experienced rate declines of approximately 10% to 15%, while rates for non U.S. catastrophe exposed property lines of business have dropped by up to 10%. Other property lines of business have seen rates decrease by 10% to 15%. Ocean marine pricing rates remain flat to down 5%, while rates within the aviation market have decreased by up to 10%. Casualty pricing trends in the reinsurance market have experienced deterioration in rates of up to 15%. However, rate changes on business actually bound in this line of business have decreased between 10 to 15%. 46 Investment Environment The Company seeks to generate revenue from investment activities through returns on its investment portfolio. The Companys current investment strategy seeks to support the liabilities arising from the operations of the Company, generate investment income and build book value over the longer term. In 2007, the Companys net investment income increased as a result of an increase in the overall size of the investment portfolio combined with higher investment yields. However, net realized losses and impairments totaled $603.3 million during 2007 of which $385.1 million related to sub prime and mortgage related structured assets held throughout the portfolios and primarily represented other than temporary impairments on securities with sub prime non agency collateral, second liens, ABS collateralized debt obligations (CDOs) with sub prime collateral as well as Alt A mortgage collateral holdings. In addition, net pre tax unrealized loss position on available for sale assets deteriorated by $772.1 million in 2007 primarily as a result of the impact on fixed income securities of the deterioration of global corporate and structured credit spreads during 2007, partially offset by the impact of declining government rates in the U.S. and the U.K. as well as losses realized. The increase in the size of the investment portfolio resulted from positive cash flows from operations and positive net cash flow from the Companys financing activities. Higher investment yields on the Companys investment portfolio were due primarily to the full 2007 financial year impact of the higher interest rates experienced in the U.S., U.K. and Euro zone, during the latter part of 2006 and the beginning part of 2007. The benchmark 5 year treasury fell from 4.69% to 3.44%, and the 30 year treasury fell from 4.81% to 4.45%. Interest rates also decreased in the U.K., where the yield on the benchmark 5 year Gilt fell from 5.06% to 4.41%. In the Euro zone, the yield on the benchmark 5 year German Bund rose slightly from 3.92% to 4.12%. In 2006, the Companys net investment income increased primarily due to the increase in the size of the investment portfolio and also a rise in the level of the U.S., U.K., and Euro zone interest rates. In 2006, the Company generated net realized losses from its investment portfolio primarily due to other than temporary impairments. Net gains from the equity and non U.S. dollar fixed income portfolios were offset by net losses on U.S. dollar fixed income portfolios, reflecting higher U.S. interest rates. In 2005, the Company generated net realized gains from both its equity and fixed income portfolios, reflecting the then current and accumulated performance of the capital markets. The Company expects stable net investment income from its property and casualty operations in 2008. The average asset base and yields are both expected to be stable relative to current levels. Claims Environment The Companys profitability in any given period is based upon its premium and investment revenues as noted above, less net losses incurred and expenses. Net losses incurred are based upon claims paid and changes to unpaid loss reserves. Unpaid loss reserves are estimated by the Company and include both reported loss reserves and reserves for losses incurred but not reported, or IBNR. The Companys positive underwriting results for 2007 and 2006 were partly a result of the lack of significant catastrophe events occurring throughout these years as well as net favorable development of prior year reserves, in various lines of business within the Companys Insurance and Reinsurance segments. This net favorable development was partially offset by the continuing increase in current period loss ratios in each of 2006 and 2007. These increases reflect the impact of the softening rate environment as well as higher levels of underlying attritional losses in those years. The Companys results for 2005 were significantly impacted by the unprecedented insured hurricane losses during the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season, the charge related to the conclusion of the independent actuarial process with Winterthur Swiss Insurance Company (the Winterthur Decision) and adverse development of prior year loss reserves in both insurance professional lines and reinsurance casualty lines. In 2008, claims activity within the D&O and E&O insurance markets overall, are expected to rise as a result of an increase in class action lawsuits filed against public companies due to market losses and related stock price depreciation associated with the sub prime mortgage and credit crisis in the U.S. Management actively monitors its potential exposure to such events and gives due consideration to emerging claim trends in determining its loss reserve requirements at each quarter end. For further analysis of this exposure, see Results of Operations below. Financial Measures The following are some of the financial measures management considers important in evaluating the Companys operating performance in the Companys property and casualty operations: (U.S. dollars in thousands, except ratios and per share amounts) 2007 2006 (3) (4) 2005 (3) (4) Underwriting profit (loss) property and casualty operations $ 737,449 $ 733,633 $ (2,257,768 ) Combined ratio property and casualty operations 88.8 % 89.5 % 133.0 % Net investment income property and casualty operations (1) $ 1,289,554 $ 1,090,785 $ 810,482 Book value per ordinary share $ 50.30 $ 53.12 $ 44.31 Fully diluted book value per ordinary share (2) $ 50.29 $ 53.01 $ 44.17 Return on average ordinary shareholders equity 2.2 % 19.6 % NA % 47 (1) Net investment income relating to property and casualty operations does not include the net investment income related to the net results from structured products. (2) Fully diluted book value per ordinary share represents book value per ordinary share combined with the impact from dilution of share based compensation including in the money stock options at any period end. The Company believes that fully diluted book value per ordinary share is a financial measure important to investors and other interested parties who benefit from having a consistent basis for comparison with other companies within the industry. However, this measure may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by companies either outside or inside of the insurance industry. (3) To facilitate period to period comparisons, certain short term Accident and Health business previously included in the Reinsurance segment has been reclassified to the Life Operations segment to conform to current segment management responsibilities. (4) Certain lines of business and transactions previously reported under the Financial Lines segment have been reclassified and reported under the Insurance, Reinsurance and Corporate (that includes the general investment and financing operations of the Company) segments based on the nature of the underlying business. Underwriting profit (loss) property and casualty operations One way that the Company evaluates the performance of its insurance and reinsurance operations is the underwriting profit or loss. The Company does not measure performance based on the amount of gross premiums written. Underwriting profit or loss is calculated from premiums earned and fee income, less net losses incurred and expenses related to underwriting activities, plus unrealized foreign exchange gains and losses on underwriting balances. As noted above, the Companys strong property and casualty underwriting profit for 2007 and 2006 were partly a result of the lack of significant catastrophe events occuring throughout these years and net favorable prior year loss development. The Companys underwriting loss in 2005 was negatively impacted by net losses incurred from catastrophic events, the results of the Winterthur Decision and adverse development of prior year loss reserves. Any changes to loss reserves affect the calculation of underwriting profit or loss but most often do not directly affect the Companys cash flow in the same period. See further discussion below. Combined ratio property and casualty operations The combined ratio for property and casualty operations is used by the Company and many other insurance and reinsurance companies as another measure of underwriting profitability. The combined ratio is calculated from the net losses incurred and underwriting expenses as a ratio of the net premiums earned for the Companys general insurance and reinsurance operations. A combined ratio of less than 100% indicates an underwriting profit and over 100% indicates an underwriting loss. The Companys combined ratio for the year ended December 31, 2007 was lower than the previous year, primarily as a result of a lower loss and loss expenses ratio partially offset by a higher underwriting expense ratio. The lower loss and loss expense ratio has resulted mainly from higher net favorable prior year development in the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to the same period in 2006. The increased underwriting expense ratio has been driven largely by increased compensation costs and continued pricing pressures that have resulted in less premium earned. The Companys improved combined ratio in 2006 as compared to 2005 was primarily due to the lack of significant catastrophe events in 2006 relative to 2005 in which significant losses were incurred following Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. Net investment income property and casualty operations Net investment income related to property and casualty operations is an important measure that affects the Companys overall profitability. The largest liability of the Company relates to its unpaid loss reserves, and the Companys investment portfolio provides liquidity for claims settlements of these reserves as they become due, and thus a significant part of the portfolio is in fixed income securities. Net investment income is influenced by a number of factors, including the amounts and timing of inward and outward cash flows, the level of interest rates and credit spreads and changes in overall asset allocation. The increase in net investment income in 2007, 2006 and 2005 is primarily due to several years of positive operating cash flows which have resulted in a higher overall average invested asset base. In addition, during 2007, portfolio yields increased in the Companys investment portfolio, due primarily to the full 2007 financial year impact of the higher interest rates experienced in the U.S., U.K. and Euro zone, during the latter part of 2006 and the beginning part of 2007. In 2007, the U.S. yield curve shifted downwards with short term U.S. interest rates decreasing markedly while medium to long term interest rates experienced a less dramatic fall. U.K. interest rates also decreased in 2007 with the exception of long term U.K. interest rates which rose slightly, while Euro zone interest rates increased in 2007. In 2006, the U.S. yield curve shifted upwards with short term U.S. interest rates increasing markedly while medium to long term interest rates had a less dramatic rise. U.K. and the Euro zone interest rates also increased in 2006. Book value per ordinary share Management also views the change in the Companys book value per ordinary share as an additional measure of the Companys performance. Book value per share is calculated by dividing ordinary shareholders equity by the number of outstanding ordinary shares at any period end. Book value per ordinary share is affected primarily by the Companys net income (loss), by any changes in the net unrealized gains and losses on its investment portfolio, currency translation adjustments and also the impact of any share repurchase or issuance activity. Book value per ordinary share has decreased by $2.82 during the year ended December 31, 2007 to $50.30 from $53.12, as compared to an increase of $8.81 in 2006. The decrease in book value per share in 2007 was primarily as a result of an increase in net unrealized losses on investments of $743.0 million, net of tax, partially offset by net income of $206.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, which increased book value, together with an increase in currency translation adjustments due to the impact of the decline in the value of the U.S. dollar on the net assets of European based subsidiaries. The increase in unrealized losses on investments was primarily as a result of widening credit spreads on corporate and structured credit assets, partially offset by declining U.S. and U.K. government interest rates in 2007. In addition, certain capital 48 and financing activities impacted book value per ordinary share, including the Companys share repurchase activity throughout 2007 which decreased book value per ordinary share, as the price paid for such shares was at a premium to book value; however, this was partially offset by the issuance of Class A ordinary shares upon maturity of the purchase contracts associated with the 6.5% Equity Security Units (the 6.5% Units), as the ordinary shares were issued at a premium to book value. Book value per ordinary share increased in 2006 mainly due to net income of $1.7 billion and was offset by decreases of $103.8 million, net of tax, in net unrealized gains associated with the Companys investment portfolio. The decrease in net unrealized gains in 2006 was generally due to interest rate increases, which were offset by the positive impact of equity and currency movements. As noted above, fully diluted book value per ordinary share represents book value per ordinary share combined with the impact from dilution of share based compensation including in the money stock options at any period end. Fully diluted book value per ordinary share decreased by $2.72 during the year ended December 31, 2007 as a result of the factors noted above and is generally consistent with the decrease in basic book value per ordinary share as the impact of in the money stock options at December 31, 2007 is negligible as a result of the reduction in market price of the Companys ordinary shares in late 2007. Return on average ordinary shareholders equity Return on average ordinary shareholders equity (ROE) is another financial measure that management considers important in evaluating the Companys operating performance. ROE is calculated by dividing the net income for any period by the average of the opening and closing ordinary shareholders equity. The Company establishes minimum target ROEs for its total operations, segments and lines of business. If the Companys minimum ROE targets over the longer term are not met with respect to any line of business, the Company seeks to modify and or exit these lines. In addition, the Companys compensation of its senior officers is significantly dependent on the achievement of the Companys performance goals to enhance shareholder value as measured by ROE (adjusted for certain items considered to be non operating in nature). In 2007, ROE was 2.2 %, 17.4 percentage points lower than the prior year, primarily as a result of losses recorded in the second half of 2007 in relation to adverse credit market conditions, including but not limited to, losses associated with the Companys investment in and reinsurance agreements with SCA and realized losses, including OTTI, on the Companys investment portfolio. For further details of these losses, see Results of Operations below. Partially offsetting these decreases were strong underwriting results in 2007 within the Companys core property and casualty operations and lower levels of shareholders equity resulting from capital activity and increases in unrealized losses on investments. In 2006, ROE was 19.6% due to solid underwriting results throughout its property and casualty operations combined with investment and affiliate income. Results of Operations The following table presents an analysis of the Companys net income (loss) available to ordinary shareholders and other financial measures (described below) for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005: (U.S. dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts) 2007 2006 2005 Net income (loss) available to ordinary shareholders $ 206,375 $ 1,722,445 $ (1,292,298 ) Earnings (loss) per ordinary share basic $ 1.16 $ 9.63 $ (9.14 ) Earnings (loss) per ordinary share diluted $ 1.15 $ 9.60 $ (9.14 ) Weighted average number of ordinary shares and ordinary share equivalents basic 178,500 178,793 141,406 Weighted average number of ordinary shares and ordinary share equivalents diluted 179,693 179,450 141,406 The Companys net income (loss) and other financial measures as shown above for the three years ended December 31 have been affected by among other things, the following significant items: 1) The impact due to the Companys investment in and relationships with SCA; 2) Impact of credit market movements on the Companys investment portfolio; 3) Prior year loss development; 4) Reduction in insured losses from natural catastrophes during 2007 and 2006 as compared to 2005; 5) The Companys growing invested asset base and higher net investment income. 1. Impact of the Companys investment in and relationships with SCA The Company has multiple relationships with SCA as a result of SCAs initial origins as a wholly owned subsidiary and its subsequent IPO. These relationships are detailed in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Security Capital Assurance, and include, most significantly, a 46% investment along with certain guarantees and reinsurance arrangements. The Company is not a primary originator or insurer of mortgages, nor does it guarantee mortgages other than indirectly through the activities of SCA, and as such the negative impact to the Company during the year with respect to deterioration in the credit markets and its impact on credit enhancement activities is largely limited to the SCA investment and related reinsurance agreements and guarantees. 49 The financial guarantees issued by SCA are generally guarantees of payments under financial guarantee insurance policies or credit default swaps. The financial guarantee business model generally provides for a guarantee of payment of interest and principal over the defined expected life of a transaction, with no acceleration or need for collateralization by the guarantor in the case of any weakness or default by the underlying obligor. These characteristics reduce the need for liquidity within the financial guarantor in case of underlying deterioration in the guaranteed transaction, since the calendar of payments remains as set in the original transaction. As a general matter, the obligations of XLCA under credit default swaps issued in connection with their business accrue in a similar manner, except in events of default, however, they do not qualify for the financial guarantee insurance scope exception under FAS 133 and, therefore, are reported at fair value, with changes in fair value included in earnings. Under most of the credit default swap contracts insured by XLCA, it would be an event of default if XLCA should become insolvent. If there were an event of default, the holders of these credit default swap contracts would have the right to terminate the swaps and to obtain a termination payment from XLCA, based on the market value of the swaps at the time of termination. The Company records 46.9% of the net income of SCA as earnings from operating affiliates. Subsequent to the secondary sale of shares in June 2007 and the associated deconsolidation of financial results, the Company reports such earnings on a one quarter lag due to the limited availability and timing of SCAs final audited financial results. Management expects to continue this practice on the same basis with appropriate consideration given by disclosure or otherwise to the effects of any known intervening events that materially affect the Companys financial position or results of operations. Management has done extensive analysis of SCAs financial guarantee portfolio to evaluate the exposures and underlying possible losses arising from recent credit market turbulence. Given managements view of the potential scale of SCAs estimated losses along with the uncertainty facing the entire financial guarantee industry, the Company has reduced the reported value of its investment in SCA to nil from the reported equity method value of $669.8 million as at September 30, 2007. Recent market developments with respect to monoline industry and industry analyst reports have indicated that the fair value of any investment in the financial guarantee sector has very uncertain value at this point in time. Subsequent to December 31, 2007, SCA was downgraded by several rating agencies, which significantly limits SCAs ability to write new business. In addition, the shares in SCA held by the Company are unregistered and thus illiquid. Based on the nature of the Companys investment in SCA and the resultant limitations on any future business models, management believes that the fair value of the Companys investment in SCA is substantially less than the traded market value at December 31, 2007 of $3.89 per share. Management believe this decline in value is other than temporary. In addition, net losses were recorded within loss from operating affiliates with respect to the excess of loss and facultative reinsurance of SCA subsidiaries in the amounts of $300.0 million and $51.0 million, respectively, and not within property and casualty underwriting results. These amounts represent the discounted value of expected losses net of related premiums and are discounted at approximately 5%. In the case of the excess of loss cover the recorded loss represents the discounted value of a $500.0 million full limit loss. In addition, the Company incurred $17.9 million in additional mark to market losses related to those underlying contracts in credit default swap form subject to the provisions noted above. As of December 31, 2007, the Companys total net exposure under its facultative agreements with SCA subsidiaries was approximately $7.7 billion of net par outstanding. Of this total, $138.0 million and $769.0 million of net par outstanding was related to RMBS and ABS CDOs, with greater than 50% RMBS collateral, respectively. Based on the Companys examination of exposures under these facultative agreements, the Company has reported loss reserves of $51.0 million on a net present value basis. The following tables present the net par outstanding related to the facultative reinsurance and the adverse development facultative reinsurance noted above at December 31, 2007 by credit quality and broad sector allocation: As at December 31, 2007 (U.S. dollars in millions) Net Par Outstanding % of Total Credit Quality: AAA $ 1,776.0 23.0 % AA 480.2 6.2 % A 981.6 12.7 % BBB 4,230.9 54.7 % BB and below 269.9 3.4 % Total* $ 7,738.6 100.0 % As at December 31, 2007 (U.S. dollars in millions) Net Par Outstanding % of Total Broad Sector Allocation: International Finance $ 4,433.9 57.3 % Public Finance 824.1 10.6 % Structured Finance 2,480.6 32.1 % Total* $ 7,738.6 100.0 % * As of December 31, 2007, $1.8 billion of the total $7.7 billion in net par outstanding was originally written by SCA in credit derivative form. 50 In addition, there are certain guarantees in place between the Company and SCA subsidiaries. It is important to note that the guarantees the Company has provided contain a dual trigger, such that losses are paid only if two events occur. First, the underlying guaranteed obligation must default on payments of interest and principal, and second, the relevant SCA subsidiary must fail to meet its obligations under the applicable reinsurance or guarantee. As of December 31, 2007, the Companys total net par outstanding under these guarantees was $75.2 billion. Indirect consumer mortgages exposures as a result of these guarantee agreements totaled approximately $2.9 billion related to RMBS and $3.3 billion related to ABS CDOs with greater than 50% RMBS collateral. Again, it is important to note that SCA subsidiaries must fail to meet their obligations under the applicable reinsurance or guarantee before the Company would be required to respond to claims under these guarantees and as such, these exposures must be compared to the relevant SCA subsidiarys current financial resources. Based on all of the above factors along with the Companys extensive analysis of the relevant exposures, the Company has concluded that no losses are expected under these guarantees and accordingly no loss reserves have been recorded. Recently published loss estimates by S&P appear to support this view. The following tables present the net par outstanding related to the guarantees provided by the Company at December 31, 2007 by credit quality and broad sector allocation: As at December 31, 2007 (U.S. dollars in millions) Net Par Outstanding % of Total Credit Quality: AAA $ 20,214.9 26.9 % AA 11,784.0 15.7 % A 24,577.4 32.7 % BBB 17,734.5 23.6 % BB and below 851.8 1.1 % Total $ 75,162.6 100.0 % As at December 31, 2007 (U.S. dollars in millions) Net Par Outstanding % of Total Broad Sector Allocation: International Finance $ 11,416.7 15.2 % Public Finance 36,691.4 48.8 % Structured Finance 27,054.5 36.0 % Total $ 75,162.6 100.0 % Where appropriate, further details of each of the items noted above can be found in the related section of See Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 8, Notes 3 and 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Security Capital Assurance and Investments in Affiliates. 2. Impact of credit market movements on the Companys investment portfolio In 2007, financial market conditions were extremely challenging as the global credit crisis that begun in July 2007 continued to adversely impact global fixed income markets. Elements which contributed to this included continued weakness in the U.S. housing market and increased mortgage delinquencies, investor anxiety over recessionary pressures, rating agency downgrades of various structured products, unresolved issues with structured investment vehicles and a serious dislocation in the interbank market. All of these elements led to significant declines in mortgage and structured credit prices. Continued declines in government rates did little to alleviate the concerns in either residential mortgage markets or the short term funding market during the fourth quarter of 2007. These elements were the primary drivers behind the $603.3 million in net realized losses on investments reported for the year ended December 31, 2007. The Companys management has been diligently engaged in market developments and has reduced the Companys exposure to lower rated investment grade 2005, 2006 and 2007 vintage sub prime securities given concerns about future deterioration. Management has performed in depth analyses of the Companys holdings in all of the topical asset classes, which are defined to be structured assets with underlying collateral of sub prime first liens, Alt A, second liens, and asset backed CDOs with sub prime collateral. In addition to extensive holding level reviews with the Companys third party managers, the Company has undertaken an independent evaluation of its topical assets to help further identify areas of potential economic loss to principal due to potentially deteriorating underlying fundamentals. 51 These market developments have negatively impacted the Companys results from operations through both impairment charges and realized losses largely in the specialised mortgage portfolios, spread business portfolios, losses related to exposure to the capital notes of a structured investment vehicle (SIV) and a loss recorded by one of the Companys investment manager affiliates. Realized losses and impairments in the topical asset exposed portfolios totaled $385.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2007 and represented a combination of losses on sub prime non agency securities, second liens, ABS CDOs with sub prime collateral as well as Alt A mortgage exposures. These losses and impairments were principally concentrated in 2005, 2006, and 2007 vintage securities. The following table details the current exposures to the topical assets within the Companys fixed income portfolio as well as the current net unrealized gain/loss position as at December 31, 2007, and related earnings and comprehensive earnings impact in 2007: (U.S. dollars in thousands) As at December 31, 2007 Year Ended December 31, 2007 Holding at Fair Value Percent of Fixed Income Portfolio Net Unrealized (Loss) Gain Realized (Loss) and (Impairments) Change in Net Unrealized (Loss) Gain Topical assets: Sub prime first lien mortgages $ 995,947 2.5 % $ (145,785 ) $ (125,167 ) $ (146,929 ) Alt A mortgages 924,783 2.3 % (40,145 ) (26,619 ) (38,589 ) Second lien mortgages (including sub prime second lien mortgages) 97,647 0.3 % 788 (133,003 ) 1,102 ABS CDOs with sub prime collateral 39,317 0.1 % 101 (100,326 ) 15 Total exposure to topical assets $ 2,057,694 5.2 % $ (185,041 ) $ (385,115 ) $ (184,401 ) The Companys sub prime and Alt A exposures remain primarily highly rated, have strong underlying loan characteristics and are supported by adequate subordination levels. The remaining net unrealized losses are primarily in higher rated securities, and the Company believes these losses are a result of technical spread widening rather than any fundamental deterioration. Based on the Companys stress testing, even in an extreme scenario, management believes principal impairments to these remaining pools is unlikely. Net realized and unrealized losses on investment derivatives for 2007 resulted primarily from a mark to market loss of $37.0 million in the third quarter with respect to a total return swap on an SIV impacted by the challenging credit markets. During the fourth quarter, the Company terminated the swap, recognized an additional $3.9 million mark to market loss and took delivery of the underlying asset. The asset was subsequently written off to nil in the fourth quarter resulting in a realized loss on investments of $57.3 million. Much of the negative impact of credit markets during 2007 was contained in the Companys Other Financial Lines segment which comprises the GIC and FA businesses which are largely credit spread activities and have a higher component of floating rate structured credit assets. During 2007, net realized losses and impairments within the Other Financial Lines segment totaled $370.7 million and net unrealized losses increased by $329.6 million. In addition to the impact on net income, the Companys book value also declined through the increase of net unrealized losses on the portfolio as a whole as a result of the overall widening of global credit spreads on corporate and structured credit assets, partially offset by declining U.S. and U.K. government interest rates for the year. As at December 31, 2007, approximately 14.1% of the asset and mortgage backed holdings were classifed as part of the Companys exposure to topical assets. This represented approximately 5.2% of the total fixed income portfolio and 29.0% of the total net unrealized loss position. Of the topical asset securities, approximately 99% are rated as investment grade. All portfolio holdings, including those with sub prime exposure, are reviewed as part of the ongoing other than temporary impairment monitoring process. The Company continues to actively monitor its exposures, and to the extent market disruptions continue, including but not limited to residential mortgages, the Companys financial position could be negatively impacted. 3. Prior year loss development Net prior year favorable loss development occurs when there is a decrease to loss reserves recorded at the beginning of the year, resulting from actual or reported loss development for prior years that is less than expected loss development. Net prior year adverse loss development occurs when there is an increase to loss reserves recorded at the beginning of the year, resulting from actual or reported loss development for prior years exceeding expected loss development. The following table presents the net (favorable) adverse prior year loss development of the Companys loss and loss expense reserves for its property and casualty operations which include the Insurance and Reinsurance segments for each of the years indicated: 52 (U.S. dollars in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Insurance segment $ (158.1 ) $ (13.2 ) $ 1,020.2 Reinsurance segment (267.3 ) (97.4 ) 93.5 Total $ (425.4 ) $ (110.6 ) $ 1,113.7 During 2007, the Company had net favorable prior year reserve development in property and casualty operations of $425.4 million compared to net favorable prior year reserve development of $110.6 million for the same period in 2006. Reinsurance net favorable development accounted for $267.3 million of the release in 2007, while net favorable development within the Insurance segment totaled $158.1 million for the same period. The corresponding prior year development on a gross basis was $259.7 million for the Reinsurance segment and $177.6 million for the Insurance segment. The Insurance segment net prior year reserve releases consisted of $95.0 million in property and $162.1 million in casualty lines of business, partially offset by net adverse development of $23.0 million, $7.0 million and $69.0 million in certain professional, marine and other lines of business, respectively. Casualty releases relate primarily to the European casualty portfolio in accident years 2002 2005. The professional lines development reflects net adverse development of the Bermuda E&O portfolio and releases from the U.S. and European professional lines portfolios. Strengthening in other insurance lines relates to net adverse prior year development in discontinued specialty lines, surety and environmental, partially offset by favorable development in aerospace and political risk. Within the Reinsurance segment, reserve releases of $188.7 million in property and other short tail lines of business and $87.4 million in casualty and other lines, was partially offset by adverse prior year development of $8.8 million within the structured indemnity line of business. Releases in the short tail lines relate primarily to the 2005 and 2006 accident years. The casualty and other lines favorable development of $87.4 million reflects the net result of releases of $121.4 million primarily in the US and non US casualty portfolios, partially offset by net adverse development of $13.0 million associated with the results of an external review of the Companys asbestos and environmental reserves and $21.0 million related to a commutation of a stop loss reinsurance agreement. During 2006, the Company had net favorable prior year reserve development in property and casualty operations of $110.6 million. Within the Insurance segment, net overall favorable prior year reserve development for the year ended December 31, 2006, was $13.2 million. This overall favorable development included reserve releases of $94.4 million in property lines and $91.1 million in casualty lines, partially offset by $96.5 million, $46.5 million and $29.3 million of prior year adverse development in certain professional, marine, and other lines of business, respectively. Within the Reinsurance segment, net overall favorable prior year reserve development for the year ended December 31, 2006 was $97.4 million. This overall favorable development was made up of releases of $133.0 million in property and other shorter tail lines of business and partially offset by prior year adverse reserve development of $7.3 million in casualty and other lines and $28.3 million within structured indemnity lines. The overall net favorable development within property and other short tail lines of $133.0 million included $75.4 million in adverse development specifically related to the 2005 catastrophes. During 2005, total net adverse prior year development within the Insurance Segment was $1.02 billion of which $834.2 million resulted from the negative outcome of the Winterthur Decision. The remaining $186.0 million was comprised of net adverse development of $259.7 million in professional lines and $34.7 million within other specialty lines including runoff and discontinued business partially offset by releases of $108.4 million primarily in European casualty business. During 2005, net prior year reserves across the Reinsurance segment developed adversely by $93.5 million. Net adverse development of $266.9 million in casualty and professional lines was partially offset by releases in short tail lines of business of $173.4 million. See Item 8, Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and see further discussion under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. 4. Reduction in insured losses from natural catastrophes during 2007 and 2006 as compared to 2005 Overall, 2007 and 2006 experienced a limited number of natural catastrophes as compared to 2005; however, 2007 did result in an increase in overall natural catastrophe activity and insured losses as compared to 2006. In 2007, six hurricanes formed in the Atlantic region including two Category 5 hurricanes, while other natural catastrophes in 2007 included European windstorms Kyrill and Per/Hanno, California wildfires, floods in the U.K. and Mexico, the Peruvian earthquake and five hurricanes in the Eastern Pacific region. In 2006, there were only five hurricanes in the Atlantic region and more importantly there was no significant insured damage for those hurricanes that did make landfall. During 2005, as a result of Hurricanes Katrina, Rita, and other catstrophes, the Company incurred losses, net of reinsurance recoveries, of $1.27 billion, $357.9 million, $247.1 million and $96.0 million, respectively, as at year end December 31, 2005. Net reserves established for these events developed adversely in 2006 by $119.4 million and were partially offset by additional loss sensitive premium received. 5. The Companys growing average investment asset base and higher net investment income Net investment income was $2.2 billion in 2007 as compared to $2.0 billion in 2006. This increase was primarily due to a larger average investment asset base combined with higher investment yields. The increase in the average size of the investment portfolio primarily 53 resulted from positive cash flows from operations. Higher investment yields on the Companys investment portfolio were due primarily to the full 2007 financial year impact of the higher interest rates experienced in the U.S., U.K. and Euro zone, during the latter part of 2006 and the beginning part of 2007. Other Key Focuses of Management Ratings and Capital Management The Companys ability to underwrite business is largely dependent upon the quality of its claims paying and financial strength ratings as evaluated by independent rating agencies. As a result, in the event that the Companys financial strength rating is downgraded, its ability to write business may be adversely affected. In January 2008, A.M. Best Company, Inc. (A.M. Best) revised the financial strength rating of the Companys leading property and casualty operating subsidiaries to A from A+ and affirmed them with a stable outlook. The downgrade by A.M. Best was primarily due to their concerns regarding the Companys historic earnings volatility. In addition, both Fitch and Moodys downgraded the financial strength rating of the Companys leading property and casualty operating subsidiaries to A+ from AA and to A1 from A3, respectively. The Company has continued to work closely with the various rating agencies in late 2007 and early 2008 in order to manage and evaluate its capital needs to support the volume of business written in order to maintain its claims paying and financial strength ratings. The Company continues to address these needs by monitoring various risk management measures and implementing capital structuring initiatives intended to reduce volatility while, at the same time, improve the quality of the Companys risk adjusted returns. Such risk management measures and capital structuring initiatives in 2007 and 2006 have included several key business initiatives such as reinsurance structures as well as debt and capital transactions. Details of these transactions are further described below in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Enterprise Risk Management The Company has in place an Enterprise Risk Management committee (the ERM Committee) to facilitate the management of firm wide risks that the Company faces across all of its businesses. The ERM Committee is comprised of the most senior risk takers and managers of the Company. The objective of the ERM Committee is to make recommendations to the Executive Management Board on overall risk aggregates, correlated risk as well as risk allocation in order to proactively manage enterprise risks. Talent Management and Succession Planning The Company believes that effective talent management and succession planning processes are key to the long term success of the Company. As such, the Company has implemented various development programs and succession planning efforts across the Company. The Companys development programs include the global development program for its high potential junior employees, the performance development program for its managers and team leaders, and the leadership development program for its senior managers. Succession planning efforts include identifying and monitoring the various talent pools within the Company to match the future needs and long term strategy of the Company. In addition and as noted above, the Board of Directors in late 2007 implemented a CEO succession plan including the authorization of a Succession Committee to lead the new CEO selection process for the Company. Execution of Refined Strategy In the second quarter of 2007, the Company announced a refined strategy that will focus on its insurance, reinsurance and life reinsurance operations. Thus, the Company no longer pursues diversification outside of its insurance and reinsurance platforms unless it meets high hurdle rates and is connected to its business. Accordingly, the following product lines or transactions previously managed by and reported via the Financial Lines Segment are now, depending on the nature of the business written, managed as part of the Insurance and Reinsurance segments and reported therewith: (i) structured indemnity products managed through the Companys financial solutions operations (XLFS), (ii) political risk products, (iii) weather and energy management products, and (iv) legacy financial guarantee business. The earnings on the Companys investment in Primus Guaranty Ltd. (Primus) and other financial operating affiliates as well as the results of certain structured finance products are reported as part of the Corporate segment that includes the general investment and financing operations of the Company. The Company has exited and placed into run off the political risk insurance business, but remains in the political risk reinsurance business. In addition, the GIC and funding agreement businesses are now reported separately within the Other Financial Lines segment. In addition, in connection with its refined strategy, the Company completed the secondary public offering of 10,627,422 SCA common shares previously held by XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd and received proceeds, net of offering costs, of approximately $316.3 million and thereby reduced its ownership of SCAs outstanding common shares from approximately 63% to approximately 46%. Subsequent to the effective date of sale, June 6, 2007, SCA was no longer a consolidated subsidiary or operating segment of the Company and its remaining investment in SCA was accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Evaluation of the impact of recent credit market volatility on core underwriting operations In addition to the evaluation of the impact of the credit and sub prime markets on the Companys investment portfolio and financial guarantee exposures, as discussed above, management has also completed detailed assessments of the exposure 54 to these credit related issues in the core property and casualty insurance and reinsurance business, in particular the Insurance segment professional lines portfolio exposures through D&O and E&O policies. The Company has a portfolio that is highly diversified by product and geographical region including growing European, Design, Select and Private Commercial portfolios. Total gross professional lines premiums written for 2007 were $1.5 billion. The average policy limit for the Companys public D&O portfolio is approximately $12 million, with higher average limits written in Bermuda and Europe and lower average limits in the United States. The Side A only component of the Companys public D&O portfolio is significant, representing approximately one third of the gross premiums written in 2007 and approximately 45% by policy limit. The Company has considered all filed notices through year end 2007, as well as potential further notice activity that it believes could arise from insureds that have been linked to sub prime related matters in establishing the unpaid loss and loss expenses as at December 31, 2007. In addition, clash events are considered by management in the underwriting, risk management and loss ratio selections. Specifically, with respect to financial institution exposures, the Company manages risk through limited line sizes, higher attachment points, risk adjusted rate levels and increased use of Side A policies. Furthermore, the 2007 professional lines reinsurance structure takes into account clash events, with $270 million of coverage available in the $35 million excess of $15 million layer. The 2008 reinsurance program has renewed in January 2008 on substantially the same basis as 2007. Management has also reviewed the potential sub prime exposure in the reinsurance segment which is more limited and again, potential exposure was factored into establishing the year end reserve position. Liquidity, Cash Flow and Collateral Management As an insurer, the Company must ensure that it has sufficient funds to settle claims promptly, especially upon the occurrence of a major catastrophic event or respond to other unscheduled signficant liquidity needs. Management is focused on making sure that liquidity requirements are supported by having lines of credit facilities available to the Company as well as by the Companys general investment portfolio, the majority of which is invested in high grade fixed income securities. The Company has had positive cash flow from operations in the three years ended December 31, 2007 generated from its underwriting activities (premiums less claim and expense settlements) as well as the receipt of investment income on its portfolio. The Company expects cash flow from operations to be positive in 2008. As at December 31, 2007, the Company had approximately $4.0 billion of deposit liabilities associated with GICs which were correspondingly matched with invested assets. XLCA provided financial guarantee insurance policies insuring timely payment of GICs issued by XLAF. Based on the terms and conditions of the underlying GICs, upon downgrades of XLCA below certain ratings levels, all or portions of outstanding principal balances on such GICs would come due. In January and February 2008, several rating agencies downgraded SCA and its subsidiaries and as a result, the Company will settle, by late March 2008, the majority of the GIC portfolio. Management had prepared for this possibility and does not expect this liquidity need to have any significant negative impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations. Another important matter on which management is focused (and which also affects the Companys ability to underwrite business) is the availability of collateral. Collateral includes letters of credit, insurance trusts and other credit facilities required to provide security to cedants (which are companies who reinsure their liabilities to the Company), particularly as required by state insurance regulation in the U.S. and at Lloyds, and also to provide the Company with liquidity as required. These facilities are provided to the Company from commercial banks. The Companys principal credit facilities have tenors of two, three, and five years. The Company has also utilized off balance sheet transactions in order to obtain more collateral capacity (these transactions are described below under Variable Interest Entities and Other Off Balance Sheet Arrangements). As the Company writes more business, its collateral requirements will increase. A key challenge for management is to ensure that sufficient collateral capacity is available to support future writing of business. Management Changes In late October 2007, the Company announced that Mr. Brian M. OHara, President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the Company, had informed the Companys Board of Directors of his decision to retire as President and CEO in mid 2008. Accordingly, the Board of Directors implemented a CEO succession plan including the authorization of a Succession Committee to lead the new CEO selection process. On December 28, 2007, Mr. Michael P. Esposito Jr., then Chairman of the Board, resigned from the Company and on the same day, Mr. OHara was appointed as Acting Chairman of the Board. On February 4, 2008, the Company announced that Celia R. Brown was appointed to the Companys Executive Management Board. Ms. Brown will remain in her current role, Head of Global Human Resources and Corporate Relations, which oversees the Companys Human Resources, Marketing, Global Communications, Public Relations and Corporate Social Responsibility functions. On January 7, 2008, the Company announced that Clive R. Tobin will retire effective April 1, 2008 from the role of Chief Executive of the Companys Insurance Operations, and will concentrate on assisting XL with strategic opportunities in emerging markets. David B. Duclos, currently Chief Operating Officer of the Companys Insurance Operations, will succeed Mr. Tobin as Chief Executive of the Companys Insurance Operations. 55 In September 2007, Ms. Kirstin Romann Gould was appointed to the role of General Counsel of the Company which also includes her prior responsibilities as General Counsel, Corporate Affairs and Corporate Secretary. In late July 2007, Mr. Brian W. Nocco joined the Company and effective August 10, 2007 began serving as the Companys Chief Financial Officer (CFO). Ms. Fiona E. Luck, who served as the Companys Interim CFO prior to that date and following the departure of the Companys former CFO, Jerry de St. Paer, on March 5, 2007, will continue in her role as the Companys Chief of Staff. Service Delivery and Operational Effectiveness The Company is committed to achieving competitive differentiation through the strategic alignment of initiatives that will deliver flexible and robust technology platforms to the Company and its customers. The focal point of this strategy is the development and enhancement of a reliable infrastructure. Senior management continues to devote significant attention to the development of multiple programs and initiatives across all aspects of the Company that will improve operational efficiency, standardize processes and optimize costs. For example, the Insurance segment has begun a multiple year operational transformation program that will result in enhanced product differentiation and business process standardization aligned with the segments growth strategy. In addition, the Company continues to invest in the information technology infrastructure and efficient process design within the Reinsurance segment and its operations center based in India. The Company has implemented a standardized common desktop computing environment for all its professionals globally. Finally, a financial reporting and controls program has implemented a standardized global financial platform along with consistently integrated business and financial processes. This program which has lead a transformation of the Companys financial architecture, also lead to the implementation of a new chart of accounts and technical architecture centered around an upgraded general ledger system. As a result of this program, the Company has benefited from a stronger control environment and greater flexibility in its ability to analyze financial information. The success of the above mentioned initiatives requires management focus and the investment of the Companys resources to achieve more consistent service delivery through the implementation of a reliable infrastructure. Foreign Exchange Exposure In the normal course of business, the Company is exposed to foreign exchange fluctuations on various items on its financial statements, in particular investments, future policy benefit reserves and unpaid losses and loss expenses. This exposure also exists on certain inter company balances, which are eliminated for consolidation purposes. The Company attempts to manage this economic exposure through matching foreign currency denominated liabilities with foreign currency denominated assets. While unrealized foreign exchange gains and losses on underwriting balances are reported in earnings, the offsetting unrealized gains and losses on invested assets are recorded as a separate component of shareholders equity, to the extent that the asset currency does not match that entitys functional currency. This results in an accounting mismatch, that will result in foreign exchange gains or loss in the consolidated statements of income depending on the movement in certain currencies. In order to improve administrative efficiencies as well as to address this accounting imbalance, the Company formed several branches with Euro and U.K. Sterling functional currencies during 2006 and 2007. Management continues to focus on attempting to limit this type of exposure in the future. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The following are considered to be the Companys critical accounting policies and estimates due to the judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of these policies and or the likelihood that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. If actual events differ significantly from the underlying assumptions or estimates applied for any or all of the accounting policies (either individually or in the aggregate), there could be a material adverse effect on the Companys results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. These critical accounting policies have been discussed by management with the Audit Committee of the Companys Board of Directors. Other significant accounting policies are nevertheless important to an understanding of the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements. Policies such as those related to revenue recognition, financial instruments and consolidation require difficult judgments on complex matters that are often subject to multiple sources of authoritative guidance. See Item 8, Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Significant Accounting Policies. 1) Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses and Unpaid Loss and Loss Expenses Recoverable As the Company earns premiums for the underwriting risks it assumes, it also establishes an estimate of the expected ultimate losses related to the premium. Loss reserves or unpaid losses and loss expenses are established due to the significant periods of time that may lapse between the occurrence, reporting and settlement of a loss. The process of establishing reserves for unpaid property and casualty claims can be complex and is subject to considerable variability, as it requires the use of informed estimates and judgments. These estimates and judgments are based on numerous factors, and may be revised as additional experience and other data become available and are reviewed, as new or improved methodologies are developed or as current laws change. Loss reserves include: a) Case reserves reserves for reported losses and loss expenses that have not yet been settled; and 56 b) Losses incurred but not reported (IBNR). Case reserves for the Companys property and casualty operations are established by management based on amounts reported from insureds or ceding companies and consultation with legal counsel, and represent the estimated ultimate cost of events or conditions that have been reported to or specifically identified by the Company. The method of establishing case reserves for reported claims differs among the Companys operations. With respect to the Companys insurance operations, the Company is notified of insured losses and records a case reserve for the estimated amount of the settlement, if any. The estimate reflects the judgment of claims personnel based on general reserving practices, the experience and knowledge of such personnel regarding the nature of the specific claim and, where appropriate, advice of legal counsel. Reserves are also established to provide for the estimated expense of settling claims, including legal and other fees and the general expenses of administering the claims adjustment process. With respect to the Companys reinsurance operations, case reserves for reported claims are generally established based on reports received from ceding companies. Additional case reserves may be established by the Company to reflect the estimated ultimate cost of a loss. The uncertainty in the reserving process for reinsurers is due, in part, to the time lags inherent in reporting from the original claimant to the primary insurer to the reinsurer. As a predominantly broker market reinsurer for both excess of loss and proportional contracts, the Company is subject to a potential additional time lag in the receipt of information as the primary insurer reports to the broker who in turn reports to the Company. As of December 31, 2007, the Company did not have any significant back log related to its processing of assumed reinsurance information. Since the Company relies on information regarding paid losses, case reserves and IBNR provided by ceding companies in order to assist it in estimating its liability for unpaid losses and LAE, the Company maintains certain procedures in order to help determine the completeness and accuracy of such information. Periodically, management assesses the reporting activities of these companies on the basis of qualitative and quantitative criteria. In addition to conferring with ceding companies or brokers on claims matters, the Companys claims personnel conduct periodic audits of specific claims and the overall claims procedures of its ceding companies at their offices. The Company relies on its ability to effectively monitor the claims handling and claims reserving practices of ceding companies in order to help establish the proper reinsurance premium for reinsurance agreements and to establish proper loss reserves. Disputes with ceding companies have been rare and generally have been resolved through negotiation. As noted above, case reserves for the Companys reinsurance operations are generally established based on reports received from ceding companies. Additional case reserves may be established by the Company to reflect the Companys estimated ultimate cost of a loss. In addition to information received from ceding companies on reported claims, the Company also utilizes information on the pattern of ceding company loss reporting and loss settlements from previous catastrophic events in order to estimate the Companys ultimate liability related to these hurricane loss events. Commercial catastrophe model analyses and zonal aggregate exposures are utilized to assess potential client loss before and after an event. Initial cedant loss reports are generally obtained shortly after a catastrophic event, with subsequent updates received as new information becomes available. The Company actively requests loss updates from cedants periodically for the first year following an event. The Companys claim settlement processes also incorporate an update to the total loss reserve at the time a claim payment is made to a ceding company. While the reliance on loss reports from ceding companies may increase the level of uncertainty associated with the estimation of total loss reserves for property reinsurance relative to direct property insurance, there are several factors which serve to reduce the uncertainty in loss reserve estimates for property reinsurance. First, for large natural catastrophe events such as Hurricane Katrina, aggregate limits in property catastrophe reinsurance contracts are generally fully exhausted by the loss reserve estimates. Second, as a reinsurer, the Company has access to information from a broad cross section of the insurance industry. The Company utilizes such information in order to perform consistency checks on the data provided by ceding companies and is able to identify trends in loss reporting and settlement activity and incorporate such information in its estimate of IBNR reserves. Finally, the Company also supplements the loss information received from cedants with loss estimates developed by market share techniques and or from third party catastrophe models applied to exposure data supplied by cedants. With respect to the Companys financial lines operations, financial guarantee claims incurred on policies written on an insurance basis are established consistent with the Companys insurance operations and financial guarantee claims incurred on policies written on a reinsurance basis are established consistent with the Companys reinsurance operations. IBNR reserves represent managements best estimate, at a given point in time, of the amount in excess of case reserves that is needed for the future settlement and loss adjustment costs associated with claims incurred. It is possible that the ultimate liability may differ materially from these estimates. Because the ultimate amount of unpaid losses and LAE is uncertain, the Company believes that quantitative techniques to estimate these amounts are enhanced by professional and managerial judgment. Management reviews the IBNR estimates produced by the Companys actuaries and determines its best estimate of the liabilities to record in the Companys financial statements. The Company considers this single point estimate to be one that has an equal likelihood of developing a redundancy or deficiency as the loss experience matures. IBNR reserves are estimated by the Companys actuaries using several standard actuarial methodologies including the loss ratio method, the loss development or chain ladder method, the Bornhuetter Ferguson (BF) method and frequency and severity approaches. IBNR related to a specific event may be based on the Companys estimated exposure to an industry loss and may include the use of catastrophe modeling software. On a quarterly basis, IBNR reserves are reviewed by the Companys actuaries, and are adjusted as new information 57 becomes available. Any such adjustments are accounted for as changes in estimates and are reflected in the results of operations in the period in which they are made. The Companys actuaries utilize one set of assumptions in determining its single point estimate, which includes actual loss data, loss development factors, loss ratios, reported claim frequency and severity. The actuarial reviews and documentation are completed in accordance with professional actuarial standards appropriate to the jurisdictions where the business is written. The selected assumptions reflect the actuarys judgment based on historical data and experience combined with information concerning current underwriting, economic, judicial, regulatory and other influences on ultimate claim settlements. When estimating IBNR reserves, each of the Companys insurance and reinsurance business units segregate business into exposure classes (over 150 classes are reviewed in total). Within each class, the business is further segregated by either the year in which the contract incepted (underwriting year), the year in which the claim occurred (accident year), or the year in which the claim is reported (report year). The majority of the Insurance segment is reviewed on an accident year basis. Professional lines insurance business is reviewed on a report year basis due to the claims made nature of the underlying policies. The majority of the Reinsurance segment is reviewed on an underwriting year basis. Generally, initial actuarial estimates of IBNR reserves not related to a specific event are based on the loss ratio method applied to each class of business. Actual paid losses and case reserves (reported losses) are subtracted from expected ultimate losses to determine IBNR reserves. The initial expected ultimate losses involve management judgment and are based on historical information for that class of business; which includes loss ratios, market conditions, changes in pricing and conditions, underwriting changes, changes in claims emergence, and other factors that may influence expected ultimate losses. Over time, as a greater number of claims are reported, actuarial estimates of IBNR are based on the BF and loss development techniques. The BF method utilizes actual loss data and the expected patterns of loss emergence, combined with an initial expectation of ultimate losses to determine an estimate of ultimate losses. This method may be appropriate when there is limited actual loss data and a relatively less stable pattern of loss emergence. The chain ladder method utilizes actual loss and expected patterns of loss emergence to determine an estimate of ultimate losses that is independent of the initial expectation of ultimate losses. This method may be appropriate when there is a relatively stable pattern of loss emergence and a relatively larger number of reported claims. Multiple estimates of ultimate losses using a variety of actuarial methods are calculated for many, but not all, of the Companys (150+) classes of business for each year of loss experience. The Companys actuaries look at each class and determine the most appropriate point estimate based on the characteristics of the particular class and other relevant factors, such as historical ultimate loss ratios, the presence of individual large losses, and known occurrences that have not yet resulted in reported losses. Once the Companys actuaries make their determination of the most appropriate point estimate for each class, this information is aggregated and presented to management for review and approval. The pattern of loss emergence is determined using actuarial analysis, including judgment, and is based on the historical patterns of the recording of paid and reported losses by the Company, as well as industry information. Information that may cause historical patterns to differ from future patterns is considered and reflected in expected patterns as appropriate. For property, marine and aviation insurance, losses are general reported within 2 to 3 years from the beginning of the accident year. For casualty insurance, loss emergence patterns can vary from 3 years to over 20 years depending on the type of business. For other insurance, loss emergence patterns fall between the property and casualty insurance. For reinsurance business, loss reporting lags the corresponding insurance classes by at least one quarter due to the need for loss information to flow from the ceding companies to the Company generally via reinsurance intermediaries. Such lags in loss reporting are reflected in the actuarys selections of loss reporting patterns used in establishing the Companys reserves. Such estimates are not precise because, among other things, they are based on predictions of future developments and estimates of future trends in claim severity, claim frequency, and other issues. In the process of estimating IBNR reserves, provisions for economic inflation and changes in the social and legal environment are considered, but involve considerable judgment. When estimating IBNR reserves, more judgement is typically required for lines of business with longer loss emergence patterns. Due to the low frequency and high severity nature of some of the business underwritten by the Company, the Companys reserve estimates are highly dependent on actuarial and management judgment and are therefore uncertain. In property classes, there can be additional uncertainty in loss estimation related to large catastrophe events. With wind events, such as hurricanes, the damage assessment process may take more than a year. The cost of claims is subject to volatility due to supply shortages for construction materials and labor. In the case of earthquakes, the damage assessment process may take several years as buildings are discovered to have structural weaknesses not initially detected. The uncertainty inherent in IBNR reserve estimates is particularly pronounced for casualty coverages, such as excess liability, professional liability coverages, and workers compensation, where information emerges relatively slowly over time. The Companys three types of property and casualty reserve exposure with the longest tails are: (1) high layer excess casualty insurance; (2) casualty reinsurance; and (3) discontinued asbestos and long tail environmental business. 58 Certain aspects of the Companys casualty operations complicate the actuarial process for establishing reserves. Certain casualty business written by the Companys insurance operations is high layer excess casualty business, meaning that the Companys liability attaches after large deductibles including self insurance or insurance from sources other than the Company. The Company commenced writing this type of business in 1986 and issued policies in forms that were different from traditional policies used by the industry at that time. Initially, there was a lack of industry data available for this type of business. Consequently, the basis for establishing loss reserves by the Company for this type of business was largely judgmental and based upon the Companys own reported loss experience which was used as basis for determining ultimate losses, and therefore IBNR reserves. Over time, the amount of available historical loss experience data has increased. As a result, the Company has obtained a larger statistical base to assist in establishing reserves for these excess casualty insurance claims. High layer excess casualty insurance claims typically involve claims relating to (i) a shock loss such as an explosion or transportation accident causing severe damage to persons and or property over a short period of time, (ii) a non shock loss where a large number of claimants are exposed to injurious conditions over a longer period of time, such as exposure to chemicals or pharmaceuticals or (iii) a professional liability loss such as a medical malpractice claim. In each case, these claims are ultimately settled following extensive negotiations and legal proceedings. This process can typically take 5 to 15 years following the date of loss. Reinsurance operations by their nature add further complications to the reserving process, particularly for casualty business written, in that there is an inherent lag in the timing and reporting of a loss event from an insured or ceding company to the reinsurer. This reporting lag creates an even longer period of time between the policy inception and when a claim is finally settled. As a result, more judgment is required to establish reserves for ultimate claims in the Companys reinsurance operations. In the Companys reinsurance operations, case reserves for reported claims are generally established based on reports received from ceding companies. Additional case reserves may be established by the Company to reflect the Companys estimated ultimate cost of a loss. Casualty reinsurance business involves reserving methods that generally include historical aggregated claim information as reported by ceding companies, combined with the results of claims and underwriting reviews of a sample of the ceding companys claims and underwriting files. Therefore, the Company does not always receive detailed claim information for this line of business. Discontinued asbestos and long tail environment business had been previously written by NAC Re Corp. (now known as XL Reinsurance America Inc.), prior to its acquisition by the Company. As at December 31, 2007, total gross unpaid losses and loss expenses in respect of this business represented less than 1% of unpaid losses and loss expenses. Except for certain workers compensation liabilities, the Company does not discount its unpaid losses and loss expenses. The Company utilizes tabular reserving for workers compensation unpaid losses that are considered fixed and determinable. For further discussion see the Consolidated Financial Statements. Loss and loss expenses are charged to income as they are incurred. These charges include loss and loss expense payments and any changes in case and IBNR reserves. During the loss settlement period, additional facts regarding claims are reported. As these additional facts are reported, it may be necessary to increase or decrease the unpaid losses and loss expense reserves. The actual final liability may be significantly different than prior estimates. As noted above, management reviews the IBNR estimates produced by the Companys actuaries and determines its best estimate of the liabilities to record in the Companys financial statements. The Company considers this single point estimate to be one that has an equal likelihood of developing a redundancy or deficiency as the loss experience matures. Management believes that the actuarial methods utilized adequately provide for loss development. Management does not build in a provision for uncertainty outside of the estimates prepared by the Companys actuaries. 59 The Companys net unpaid losses and losses expenses (excluding financial guarantee reserves related to reinsurance agreements with SCA that are recorded within Net loss from operating affiliates) relating to the Companys operating segments at December 31, 2007 and 2006 was as follows: (U.S. dollars in millions) December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 Insurance $ 11,138 $ 10,608 Reinsurance 7,053 7,138 SCA 154 Net unpaid loss and loss expense reserves $ 18,191 $ 17,900 (U.S. dollars in millions) Net Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses as at December 31, 2007 Case Reserves IBNR Reserves Total Reserves Insurance Casualty professional lines $ 1,563 $ 2,386 $ 3,949 Casualty other lines 1,644 2,371 4,015 Property catastrophe (1) 22 28 50 Other property 446 158 604 Marine, energy, aviation, and satellite 649 558 1,207 Other specialty lines (2) 268 430 698 Other (3) 285 189 474 Structured Indemnity 54 87 141 Total $ 4,931 $ 6,207 $ 11,138 Reinsurance Casualty (4) $ 1,966 $ 2,642 $ 4,608 Property catastrophe (1) 122 131 253 Other property 543 447 990 Marine, energy, aviation, and satellite 488 33 521 Other (3) 297 296 593 Structured Indemnity 88 88 Total $ 3,416 $ 3,637 $ 7,053 TOTAL $ 8,347 $ 9,844 $ 18,191 (U.S. dollars in millions) Net Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses as at December 31, 2006 (5) (6) Case Reserves IBNR Reserves Total Reserves Insurance Casualty professional lines $ 1,379 $ 2,143 $ 3,522 Casualty other lines 1,613 2,198 3,811 Property catastrophe (1) 57 33 90 Other property 548 238 786 Marine, energy, aviation, and satellite 609 474 1,083 Other specialty lines (2) 252 426 678 Other (3) 293 191 484 Structured Indemnity 15 139 154 Total $ 4,766 $ 5,842 $ 10,608 Reinsurance Casualty (4) $ 1,847 $ 2,606 $ 4,453 Property catastrophe (1) 288 165 453 Other property 456 432 888 Marine, energy, aviation, and satellite 513 67 580 Other (3) 318 315 633 Structured Indemnity 131 131 Total $ 3,422 $ 3,716 $ 7,138 SCA 72 82 154 TOTAL $ 8,260 $ 9,640 $ 17,900 (1) Property and catastrophe IBNR includes event specific reserves for losses that the Companys insureds and cedants have informed us they expect to incur but have not yet had reported known claims. 60 (2) Other specialty lines within the Insurance segment includes: environmental, programs, equine, warranty, and excess and surplus lines. (3) Other includes employers liability, surety, political risk and other lines. (4) Within the Reinsurance segment, casualty other and casualty professional lines of business are shown in the aggregate. (5) To facilitate period to period comparisons, certain short term Accident and Health business previously included in the Reinsurance segment has been reclassified to the Life Operations segment to conform to current segment management responsibilities. (6) Certain lines of business previously reported under the Financial Lines segment have been reclassified and reported under the Insurance and Reinsurance segments based on the nature of the business written. While the proportion of unpaid losses and loss expenses represented by IBNR is sensitive to a number of factors, the most significant ones have historically been accelerated business growth and changes in business mix. Other factors that have affected the ratio in the past include additions to prior period reserves, catastrophic occurrences, settlement of large claims and changes in claims settlement patterns. The ratio of IBNR to total reserves has increased in recent years due to the growth of casualty business written over that period. The ratio of IBNR to total reserves is higher for more recent years business because these immature years have relatively fewer claims reported and, as a result, a higher proportion of claims reserves are based on experience in respect of incurred but not reported losses. As each prior year of business matures and claims become known, the ratio of IBNR to total reserves will typically decline, all other factors remaining constant. Since the Company has experienced premium volume growth in recent years, the ratio of IBNR to total reserves has increased because the Companys aggregate exposure has become relatively less mature. Conversely, in a situation of declining premium volume, this ratio will typically decline, all other factors remaining constant. The Company writes insurance and reinsurance business in many different lines. Typically, the ratio of IBNR to total reserves is greater for casualty lines (which are longer tail in nature) than for property lines due to the policy forms utilized and timing of loss reporting. In recent years, casualty lines have increased as a proportion of the Companys business when compared to property lines (which are shorter tail in nature). IBNR reserves are calculated by the Companys actuaries using standard actuarial methodologies as discussed above. Since the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company adopted a methodology that provides a single point reserve estimate separately for each line of business and also a range of possible outcomes across each single point reserve estimate. This is discussed further below. The following table shows the recorded estimate and the high and low ends of the range of the Companys net unpaid losses and loss expenses (excluding financial guarantee reserves related to reinsurance agreements with SCA that are recorded within Net loss from operating affiliates) for each of the lines of business noted above at December 31, 2007: Range of Net Unpaid Losses & Loss Expenses Estimated as at December 31, 2007 Range of Net Unpaid Losses & Loss Expenses Estimated as at December 31, 2007 Net Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses Recorded as at December 31, 2007 (U.S. dollars in millions) High Low Insurance Casualty professional lines $ 3,949 $ 4,502 $ 3,426 Casualty other lines 4,015 4,558 3,504 Property catastrophe (1) 50 57 44 Other property 604 687 525 Marine, energy, aviation, and satellite 1,207 1,354 1,068 Other specialty lines (2) 698 747 652 Other (3) 474 573 384 Total (5) $ 10,997 $ 12,085 $ 9,953 Reinsurance Casualty (4) $ 4,608 $ 5,167 $ 4,122 Property catastrophe (1) 253 298 212 Other property 990 1,078 908 Marine, energy, aviation, and satellite 521 574 474 Other (3) 593 652 543 Total (5) $ 6,965 $ 7,590 $ 6,413 Structured Indemnity (5) $ 229 TOTAL $ 18,191 (1) Property and catastrophe IBNR includes event specific reserves for losses that the Companys insureds and cedants have informed it they expect to incur but have not yet had reported known claims. (2) Other specialty lines within the Insurance segment includes: environmental, programs, equine, warranty, and excess and surplus lines. (3) Other includes employers liability, surety, political risk and other lines. (4) Within the Reinsurance segment, casualty other and casualty professional lines of business are shown in the aggregate. (5) The range for the total Insurance and Reinsurance segment reserves is narrower than the sum of the ranges for the lines of business shown in the table due to diversification benefits across the lines of business. In addition, the total for each of the Insurance and Reinsurance segments does not include reserves relating to structured indemnity business as the Company does not develop reserve ranges for this line of business. 61 Actual development of recorded reserves as of December 31, 2006 during 2007 was within the estimated reserve range. There are factors that would cause reserves to increase or decrease within the context of the range provided. The magnitude of any change in ultimate losses would be determined by the magnitude of any changes to the Companys assumptions or combined impact of changes in assumptions. Factors that would increase reserves include, but are not limited to, increases in claim severity, increases in expected level of reported claims, changes to the regulatory environment which expand the exposure insured by the Company, changes in the litigation environment that increase claim awards, filings or verdicts, unexpected increases in loss inflation, and or new types of claims being pursued against the Company. Factors that would decrease reserves include, but are not limited to, decreases in claim severity, reductions in the expected level of reported claims, changes to the regulatory environment which contract the exposure insured by the Company, changes in the litigation environment that decrease claim awards, filings or verdicts, and or unexpected decreases in loss inflation. During 2007, the Company undertook a review of its methodology for calculating reserve ranges around its single point reserve estimate. The Company modeled a statistical distribution of potential reserve outcomes over a one year run off period for each of the approximately 50 lines of business. In doing so the Company evaluated a number of alternative models, and for each line of business the Companys actuaries selected the one deemed to be most appropriate. Factors affecting this decision included an assessment of the model fit, availability and relevance of data and the impact of changes in business mix. In addition, the Company commissioned an external review of its methodology which also included an independent assessment of potential reserve volatility. The Company used the modeled statistical distribution to calculate an 80% confidence interval for the potential reserve outcomes over this one year run off period. The high and low end points of the ranges set forth in the above table are such that there is a 10% modeled probability that the reserve will develop higher than the high point and a 10% modeled probability that the reserve will develop lower than the low point. The results of the external review noted above are consistent with the one year run off reserves ranges developed by the Company. The development of a reserve range models the uncertainty of the claim environment as well as the limited predictive power of past loss data. These uncertainties and limitations are not specific to the Company. The ranges represent an estimate of the range of possible outcomes over a one year development period. A range of possible outcomes should not be confused with a range of best estimates. The range of best estimates will generally be much narrower than the range of possible outcomes as it will reflect reasonable actuarial and management best estimates of the expected reserve. Reserve volatility was analyzed for each line of business (excluding structured indemnity) within each of the Reinsurance and Insurance segments using the Companys historical data supplemented by industry data. These ranges were then aggregated to the lines of business shown above taking into account correlation between lines of business. The practical result of the correlation approach to aggregation is that the ranges by line of business disclosed above, are narrower than the sum of the ranges of the individual lines of business. Similarly, the range for the Companys total reserves in the aggregate, is narrower than the sum of the ranges for the lines of business disclosed above. During 2006, the Company reviewed the correlation assumptions between its various lines of business. There was growth in certain lines of business as well as changes in the groupings of the data used in the reserving process. These changes necessitated a review of the correlation matrix used to develop the Companys reserve ranges. The Company took a simplified approach of assigning ratings of low, medium or high to its correlation assumptions for each line of business pairing based on the judgment of the reserving actuaries, as there was both limited historical experience within its portfolio and limited applicable industry data. However, the Companys actual historical experience and industry data were used to judgmentally select a range of values for the low, medium and high correlations, respectively, of 15%, 30% and 50%. It should be noted that both the Companys own experience and the industry data exhibit negative correlations in reserve developments between certain lines of business. However, as a measure of prudence in evaluating the reserve ranges, the Company has used a minimum of 15% correlation between any two lines of business. The analysis of correlations and the reflection of potential diversification benefits across lines of business represent another area of uncertainty in the development of estimated reserve ranges. The Company is not aware of any generally accepted model to perform the reserve range analysis described above, however, and other models may be employed to develop these ranges. See further discussion under Segments below for prior year development of loss reserves. Financial Guarantee Loss Reserving The financial guarantees that the Company reinsures or otherwise guarantees relate almost exclusively to transactions with SCA which reinsure scheduled payments of principal and interest due on various types of financial obligations against payment default by the issuers of such obligations. Management establishes reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses on such business based on managements best estimate of the ultimate expected incurred losses. The Companys estimated ultimate expected incurred losses are comprised of: 62 (i) case basis reserves, (ii) unallocated reserves, and (iii) cumulative paid losses to date. Establishment of such reserves requires the use and exercise of significant judgment by management, including with respect to estimates regarding the occurrence and amount of a loss on an insured obligation. Estimates of losses may differ from actual results and such difference may be material, due to the fact that the ultimate dispositions of claims are subject to the outcome of events that have not yet occurred. Examples of these events include changes in the level of interest rates, credit deterioration of insured obligations, and changes in the value of specific assets supporting insured obligations. Both qualitative and quantitative factors are used in establishing such reserves. In determining the reserves, management considers all factors in the aggregate, and does not attribute the reserve provisions or any portion thereof to any specific factor. Any estimate of future costs is subject to the inherent limitation on the Companys ability to predict the aggregate course of future events. It should therefore be expected that the actual emergence of losses and loss adjustment expenses will vary, perhaps materially, from any estimate. Case basis reserves on financial guarantee reinsurance assumed are generally established upon notification from SCA who is the Companys principal ceding company. Case basis reserves are established by SCA and the Companys proportionate share of these reserves are reported on a quarterly basis. Based on our evaluation of the loss activity reported to the Company on a quarterly basis, it may, in managements judgment, establish case reserves greater than those reported by SCA. This information is recorded into the Companys records upon receipt of these statements. Due to the timing of the receipts of such statements from SCA, the Company may at times need to rely on its independent assessment based on previously reported data. Case basis reserves on financial guarantee insurance business written by SCA and reinsured by the Company with respect to a specific policy or contract are established upon receipt of a claim notice or when management determines that (i) a claim is probable in the future based on credit events that have occurred and (ii) the amount of the ultimate loss that the Company will incur can be reasonably estimated. As specific case basis reserves are established, the Company considers whether any changes are required to the assumptions underlying the calculation of unallocated reserves (which are discussed below) as a result of such activity. Management would only expect such changes to occur in limited instances, such as economic events generating significant loss activity across a broad cross section of the portfolio. Management has not viewed the Companys case basis reserve and unallocated reserve activity to date to warrant a change in the unallocated reserves. While material case basis reserves were established in 2007, these reserves were concentrated in certain sectors of the financial guarantee portfolio and were associated with unprecedented credit market events. As such, these events did not alter the Companys perspective of the expected loss ratio associated with the remainder of the portfolio and the required level of unallocated reserves. The amount of the case basis reserve is based on the net present value of the expected ultimate loss and loss adjustment expense payments that the Company expects to make, net of expected recoveries under salvage and subrogation rights. Case basis reserves are determined using cash flow or similar models to estimate the net present value of the anticipated shortfall between (i) scheduled payments on the insured obligation plus anticipated loss adjustment expenses and (ii) anticipated cash flow from the proceeds to be received on sales of any collateral supporting the obligation and other anticipated recoveries. A number of quantitative and qualitative factors are considered when determining or assessing, in managements judgment, the need for a case basis reserve. These factors may include the creditworthiness of the underlying issuer of the insured obligation, whether the obligation is secured or unsecured, the projected cash flow or market value of any assets that collateralize or secure the insured obligation, and the historical and projected loss rates on such assets. Other factors that may affect the actual ultimate loss include the state of the economy, changes in interest rates, rates of inflation and the salvage values of specific collateral. Case basis reserves are generally discounted at a rate reflecting the yield on the Companys investment portfolio during the period the case basis reserve is established. The Company believes this yield is an appropriate rate to discount the Companys reserves because it reflects the rate of return on the assets supporting such business. When a case basis reserve is established for a guaranteed obligation whose premium is paid on an upfront basis, the Company continues to record premium earnings on such policy over its remaining life, unless it has recorded a full limit loss with respect to such policy, in which case the remaining deferred premium revenue relating thereto is immediately reflected in earnings. When a case basis reserve is established for a guaranteed obligation whose premium is paid on an installment basis, those premiums, if expected to be received prospectively, are considered a form of recovery netted against the loss reserves and are no longer earned as premium revenue. In addition to case basis reserves, the Company maintains an unallocated loss reserve for expected losses inherent in the Companys in force business (consisting of both financial guarantee insurance and reinsurance business) that is expected to emerge in the future. The unallocated loss reserves are reported to the Company by SCA as the cedant and represent the Companys estimated ultimate liability from claims expected to be incurred in the future under in force insured and reinsured policies less outstanding case basis reserves and cumulative paid claims to date on such policies. The Company updates estimates of losses and loss adjustment expense reserves quarterly and any resulting changes in reserves are recorded as a charge or credit to earnings in the period such estimates are changed. Management believes that its reserves are adequate to cover the Companys expected ultimate losses. However, due to the inherent uncertainties of estimating reserves for loss and loss adjustment expenses, actual experience may differ from the estimates reflected in the Companys consolidated financial statements, and the differences may be material. Differences exist within the 63 financial guarantee industry with regard to the methodology and measurement of such reserves. While management believes that the principles it applies are the most appropriate for its business and have applied them consistently within the periods presented, alternate methods may produce different estimates as compared to the current methodology currently used. Accounting practices in the financial guarantee insurance and reinsurance industry are currently being reviewed by applicable regulatory bodies and any changes required by that review could have a material effect on the reported operating results and financial condition of the industry or particular market participants, including the Company, depending on the extent to which current policies differ from those promulgated by such regulatory bodies. The Companys risk management department is responsible for monitoring the performance of the in force portfolio through coordination with SCAs surveillance system. They maintain a list of credits that they have determined need to be closely monitored and, for certain of those credits, the SCA surveillance team undertake remediation activities they determine to be appropriate in order to mitigate the likelihood and or amount of any loss that the Company could incur with respect to such credits. Unpaid losses and loss expenses recoverable The recognition of unpaid losses and loss expenses recoverable requires two key judgments. The first judgment involves the Companys estimation of the amount of gross IBNR to be ceded to reinsurers. Ceded IBNR is generally developed as part of the Companys loss reserving process and consequently, its estimation is subject to similar risks and uncertainties as the estimation of gross IBNR (see Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Unpaid losses and loss expenses and unpaid loss and loss expense recoverable). The second judgment involves the Companys estimate of the amount of the reinsurance recoverable balance that the Company will ultimately be unable to recover from related reinsurers due to insolvency, contractual dispute, or for other reasons. Amounts estimated to be uncollectible are reflected in a bad debt provision that reduces the reinsurance recoverable balance and shareholders equity. Changes in the bad debt provision are reflected in net income. See Financial Condition and Liquidity and Item 8, Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Reinsurance, for further information. The Company uses a default analysis to estimate uncollectible reinsurance. The primary components of the default analysis are reinsurance recoverable balances by reinsurer, net of collateral, and default factors used to determine the portion of a reinsurers balance deemed uncollectible. The definition of collateral for this purpose requires some judgment and is generally limited to assets held in trust, letters of credit, and liabilities held by us with the same legal entity for which the Company believes there is a right of offset. Default factors require considerable judgment and are determined using the current rating, or rating equivalent, of each reinsurer as well as other key considerations and assumptions. 2) Future Policy Benefit Reserves Future policy benefit reserves relate to the Companys life operations and are estimated using assumptions for investment yields, mortality, expenses and provisions for adverse loss deviation. Uncertainties related to interest rate volatility and mortality experience make it difficult to project and value the ultimate benefit payments. Most of the Companys future policy benefit reserves relate to annuity portfolio reinsurance contracts under which the Company makes annuity payments throughout the term of the contract for a specified portfolio of policies. For certain of these contracts, a single premium is paid at inception of the contract by way of a transfer of cash and investments to the Company. The reserving methodology for these annuity portfolio reinsurance contracts is described in FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 60 Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises (FAS 60), as amended by FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 97 Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Long Duration Contracts and for Realized Gains and Losses from the Sale of Investments (FAS 97). These contracts subject the Company to risks arising from policyholder mortality over a period that extends beyond the periods in which premiums are collected. Liabilities for future policy benefit reserves are established in accordance with the provisions of FAS 60. Claims and expenses for individual policies within these annuity reinsurance contracts are projected over the lifetime of the contract to calculate a net present value of future cash flows. Assumptions for each element of the basis (mortality, expenses and interest) are determined at the issue of the contract and these assumptions are locked in throughout the term of the contract unless a premium deficiency exists. The assumptions are best estimate assumptions plus provisions for adverse deviations on the key risk elements (i.e., mortality and interest). Provisions for adverse deviation are designed to cover reasonable deviations from the best estimate outcome of the contract. As the experience on the contracts emerges, the assumptions are reviewed. This occurs at least annually and includes both an analysis of experience and review of likely future experience. If such review would produce reserves in excess of those currently held then lock in assumptions will be revised and a loss recognized. During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, there were no adjustments to the locked in assumptions for these contracts. 64 The future policy benefit reserves for these annuity portfolio reinsurance contracts amounted to $5.8 billion and $5.7 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The Company holds the investment assets backing these liabilities. These investments are primarily fixed income securities with maturities that closely match the expected claims settlement profile. A 0.1% decrease in the investment yield assumption would result in approximately a $45 million increase in the value of future claims related to annuity portfolio reinsurance. As stated above, the future policy benefit reserves include provisions for adverse deviation in excess of best estimate assumptions that amounted to approximately $410 million and $371 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The future policy benefit reserves would only be increased if these provisions for adverse deviation became insufficient in the light of emerging claims experience. The present value of future claims would increase by approximately $21 million if mortality rates were to decrease by 1% in all future years, relative to the reserving assumptions. The Company also provides reinsurance of disability income protection, for an in force block of business. The future policy benefit reserves for these contracts amounted to approximately $90 million and $79 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Future policy benefit reserves are established in accordance with the provisions of FAS 60, including the lock in of assumptions at inception with periodic review against experience. The liabilities relate to in force blocks of business, comprising underlying insurance policies that provide an income if the policyholder becomes sick or disabled. The liabilities are therefore driven mainly by the rates at which policyholders become sick (where sickness is defined by the policy conditions) and by the rates at which these policyholders recover or die. A 1% increase in the incidence rate would increase the value of future claims by approximately $0.6 million, while a 1% decrease in the termination rate would increase the value of future claims by approximately $0.7 million. Following a review of claim termination experience, the reserving assumptions were revised during 2007. The overall effect of the revised assumptions was a reduction in income of $10.0 million. No changes to the locked in assumptions were made in 2006. The Company also provides reinsurance of term assurance and critical illness policies written in the U.K. and Ireland. The future policy benefit reserves for these contracts amounted to approximately $242 million and $135 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Future policy benefit reserves are established in accordance with the provisions of FAS 60, including the lock in of assumptions at inception with periodic review against experience. The provisions for adverse deviation in these reserves amounted to approximately $22m and $12m at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The liabilities relate to in force blocks of business and to treaties accepting new business, comprising underlying insurance policies that provide mainly lump sum benefits if the policyholder dies or becomes sick. For term assurance, the liabilities are therefore driven by the rates of mortality and for critical illness cover, the liabilities are driven predominantly by the rates at which policyholders become sick, where sickness is defined by the treaty conditions (i.e., the morbidity rates). A 1% increase in the mortality rate relative to the reserving assumption would increase the value of future claims by approximately $2.1 million, and a 1% increase in the morbidity rate would increase the value of future claims by approximately $2.0 million. The term assurance and critical illness treaties have been written using a variety of structures, some of which incur acquisition costs during an initial period. For such treaties, a deferred acquisition cost (DAC) asset has been established and an increase in future lapse rates could impact the recoverability of such costs from future premiums. The recoverability will also be influenced by the impact of lapses on future claims. An increase in the annual lapse rates by 1% could lead to a 5% 10% reduction in future margins available for amortizing the DAC asset. The Company also provided reinsurance of a block of U.S. based term assurance, which was novated to the Company from an insurance affiliate in December 2002. The future policy benefit reserves for these contracts amounted to approximately $245 million and $204 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Future policy benefit reserves are established in accordance with the provisions of FAS 60, including the lock in of assumptions at inception with periodic review against experience. The liabilities relate to in force blocks of business, which are comprised of underlying insurance policies that provide mainly lump sum benefits if the policyholder dies. The liabilities are therefore driven by the rates of mortality, and a 1% increase in the mortality rate relative to the reserving assumption would increase the value of future claims by approximately $9 million. The liabilities are also affected by lapse experience, and a 1% decrease in lapse rates relative to the reserving assumption would increase the reserve by approximately $1.4 million. Following a review of mortality and lapse experience, the locked in assumptions were reviewed during 2007 and it was determined that the assumptions should be revised. The overall effect of the revised assumptions was a reduction in income of $25.4 million. No changes to the locked in assumptions were made in 2006. During 2006, the Company also began to provide reinsurance of U.S. based term assurance derived from new business written by client companies. Future policy benefit reserves are established in accordance with the provisions of FAS 60, including the lock in of assumptions at inception with periodic review against experience. As at December 31, 2007, the benefit reserves for these contracts were immaterial. For further information see Item 8, Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Future Policy Benefit Reserves. 65 3) Deposit Liabilities The Companys deposit liabilities at December 31, 2007 reflect obligations assumed under funding agreements, municipal guaranteed reinvestment contracts, payment undertaking agreements and certain structured insurance and reinsurance agreements. For each of these contracts, the Company establishes a deposit liability equal to the net cash received at inception. Each deposit liability accrues at a rate equal to the internal rate of return of the payment receipts and obligations due during the life of the agreement. Where the timing and or amount of future payments are uncertain, cash flows reflecting the Companys actuarially determined best estimates are utilized. The ultimate size of underlying losses, the impact of the contractual limits upon settlement of such losses, and the impact of the underlying loss settlement process on the timing of payments are considered as appropriate. Where uncertainty is present, an increase in the ultimate claims cost or accelerated claims settlement would potentially lead to an increase in the deposit liability accretion rate or lead to incurred losses if significant. The interest expense reported due to the accretion of deposit liabilities associated with structured insurance and reinsurance contracts was $76.6 million, $37.8 million and $49.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. For some of the Companys deposit liabilities, the accretion rate is recorded at its contractual maximum level. For all other contracts, a 1% increase in the average accretion rate would result in an increase in deposit liabilities and interest expense by $25.5 million on an annualized basis. See Item 8, Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Deposit Liabilities. 4) Derivative Instruments The Company conducts activities in three main types of derivative instruments: investment related derivative instruments, embedded credit derivatives related to financial guarantee reinsurance agreements and weather and energy derivatives. The estimate of fair value for credit derivatives and weather and energy derivatives requires managements judgment. These two activities are discussed below: a) Credit Derivatives The Company is exposed to certain credit derivatives in connection with its financial guarantee reinsurance of subsidiaries of SCA. In determining fair value, the Company relies primarily on reported mark to market adjustments from SCA as well as its own analysis of the related exposures. The Company reviews the SCA methodology and its application. SCAs estimate of the fair value of its in force CDS contracts is based on the use of valuation techniques involving management judgment in regard to a number of factors, including: estimates of rates of return which would be required by market participants to assume the risks in the current market environment; the amount of subordination in the CDS contracts before liability attaches that would be required by a market participant in order for it to assume the risks; the actual amount of subordination in the CDS contracts before liability attaches; the quality of the specific assets referenced in the CDS contracts at the measurement date; the market perception of risk associated with asset classes referenced in the CDS contracts; the remaining average life of the CDS contract; credit price indices, published by non affiliated financial institutions, for the type(s) of assets; referenced in the CDS contracts (both in terms of type of assets and their credit rating); price discovery resulting from discussions and negotiations with market participants to commute or transfer the risks in any of the CDS contracts; and prices of guarantees issued in the retail market or commutations of contracts it has executed in proximity to the measurement date. SCA management considers all available relevant evidence in forming its best estimate of the fair value of the CDSs, as new information becomes available they may consider new or different factors than those listed above and change its estimates in the future. The weight ascribed to these factors in forming the best estimate of the fair value of SCAs CDS contracts may vary under changing circumstances. In periods prior to the quarter ended September 30, 2007, SCA principally considered price indices published by nonaffiliated financial institutions in forming the best estimate of the fair value of the CDS contracts. The fair value of the guarantee was determined by multiplying the percentage change in the applicable credit price index or indices applicable to the assets referenced in the CDS by the present value of the remaining expected future premiums to be received under the contract. In forming the best estimate of the fair value of the CDS contracts subsequent to June 30, 2007, however, SCA management concluded that limited reliance could be placed on price indices because events and conditions in the credit markets associated with subprime mortgage collateral and corporate loans resulted in limited or no transaction activity in many financial instruments since June 30, 2007 (including CDOs) of high grade ABS, CLOs, RMBS, and CDOs of CDOs, causing financial institutions which publish the indices that SCA management historically relied upon to estimate the fair value of credit derivatives either to refrain from updating such indices or base changes in the indices partly on judgments in regard to estimated price levels and not actual executed trades. In addition, evidence suggested that the limited price information available in the marketplace in regard to such instruments was influenced by trades resulting from margin calls and liquidity issues that are not part of the risks associated with SCAs business model or CDS contracts. As a result of that discussed above, the fair value of credit defaults swaps subsequent to June 30, 2007 were estimated by SCA management as follows: in instances where current market indices were reliable and available, the estimate of fair value was based on applying the percentage change in the applicable credit price index or indices applicable to the assets referenced in the CDS by the present value of the remaining expected future premiums to be received under the contract, and in substantially all other instances the estimate of the fair value of CDS contracts ascribed significant weight to judgments regarding rates of return required by market participants in the current market environment and the amount of subordination required by market participants before their liability would attach under the CDS contracts. The estimated fair value was calculated by adding any additional subordination, if required based on SCAs ratings or that of the rating agencies, to the amount of additional premium required to be paid to transfer the risk to achieve the selected rate of return. Such premium was calculated by adjusting the present value of the expected remaining future net cash flows under such contracts (which are comprised of the remaining expected future premiums to be received under the contract, less estimated maintenance expenses and a provision for expected losses that will manifest in the future) to reflect the best estimate of the rates of return that would be required by a counterparty to assume the risks on such contracts. Changes in fair value are unrealized as the credit derivatives are not traded to realize this value. See Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for sensitivity analysis and Item 8, Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Derivative Instruments. b) Weather and Energy Derivatives The fair value of weather and energy derivatives is determined through the use of quoted market prices where available. Where quoted market prices are unavailable, the fair value is estimated using available market data and internal pricing models using consistent statistical methodologies. Estimating fair value of instruments that do not have quoted market prices requires managements judgment in determining amounts that could reasonably be expected to be received from, or paid to, a third party in settlement of the contracts. The amounts could be materially different from the amounts that might be realized in an actual sale transaction. Fair values are subject to change in the near term and reflect managements best estimate based on various factors including, but not limited to, actual and forecasted weather conditions, changes in commodity prices, changes in interest rates and other market factors. See Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for sensitivity analysis and Item 8, Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Derivative Instruments. 5) Other Than Temporary Declines in Investments The Companys process for identifying declines in the fair value of investments that are other than temporary involves consideration of several factors. These primary factors include (i) the time period during which there has been a significant decline in value, (ii) an analysis of the liquidity, business prospects and financial condition of the issuer, (iii) the significance of the decline, (iv) an analysis of the collateral structure and other credit support, as applicable, of the securities in question, (v) expected future interest rate movements, and (vi) the Companys intent and ability to hold the investment for a sufficient period of time for the value to recover. In addition, EITF 99 20 requires that other than temporary impairments for certain asset backed and mortgage backed securities are recognized if the fair value of the security is less than its cost or amortized cost and there has been a decrease in the present value of the expected cash flows since the last reporting period. Where the Companys analysis of the above factors results in 66 the Companys conclusion that declines in fair values are other than temporary, the cost of the security is written down to fair value and the previously unrealized loss is therefore realized in the period such determination is made. With respect to securities where the decline in value is determined to be temporary and the securitys value is not written down, a subsequent decision may be made to sell that security and realize a loss. Subsequent decisions on security sales are made within the context of overall risk monitoring, changing information, market conditions generally and assessing value relative to other comparable securities. Day to day management of the Companys investment portfolio is outsourced to third party investment managers. While these investment managers may, at a given point in time, believe that the preferred course of action is to hold securities with unrealized losses that are considered temporary until such losses are recovered, the dynamic nature of the portfolio management may result in a subsequent decision to sell the security and realize the loss, based upon a change in market and other factors described above. The Company believes that subsequent decisions to sell such securities are consistent with the classification of the Companys portfolio as available for sale. As mentioned above, the Company considers its intent and ability to hold a security until the value recovers as part of the process of evaluating whether a securitys unrealized loss represents an other than temporary decline. Management reviews any significant sales of securities for a loss to determine if such sale impacts the assertion with respect to the intent and ability to hold to recovery. For further details on managements assessment of other than temporary impairments, see Item 8, Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Investments. However, this factor on its own does not dictate whether or not the Company recognizes an impairment charge. The Company believes its ability to hold such securities is supported by positive and sufficient cash flow from its operations and from maturities within its investment portfolio in order to meet its claims payment obligations arising from its underwriting operations without selling such investments. In this regard, cash flow from operating activities was $2.2 billion and $2.4 billion in 2007 and 2006, respectively. There are risks and uncertainties associated with determining whether declines in the fair value of investments are other than temporary. These include subsequent significant changes in general economic conditions as well as specific business conditions affecting particular issuers, the Companys liability profile, subjective assessment of issue specific factors (seniority of claims, collateral value, etc.), future financial market effects, stability of foreign governments and economies, future rating agency actions and significant disclosure of accounting, fraud or corporate governance issues that may adversely affect certain investments. In addition, significant assumptions and management judgment are involved in determining if the decline is other than temporary. If management determines that a decline in fair value is temporary, then a securitys value is not written down at that time. However, there are potential effects upon the Companys future earnings and financial position should management later conclude that some of the current declines in the fair value of the investments are other than temporary declines. See Investment Activities for further information on other than temporary declines in the value of investments and unrealized loss on investments. 6) Income Taxes The Company utilizes the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. The Company had capitalized net operating tax losses of $396.9 million and $334.0 million against which a valuation allowance of $204.4 million and $198.9 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, was established. The Company had capitalized realized and unrealized capital losses of approximately $404 million and $74 million, respectively, against which a valuation allowance of approximately $167 million at December 31, 2007 was established. The deferral of benefits from tax losses is evaluated based upon managements estimates of the future profitability of the Companys taxable entities based on current forecasts, the character of income and the period for which losses may be carried forward. A valuation allowance may have to be established for any portion of a deferred tax asset that management believes will not be realized. Should the future income of these entities fall below expectations, a further valuation allowance would have to be established, which could be significant. In addition, if any further losses are generated by these entities, these losses may not be tax affected. For further information see Other Revenues and Expenses and Item 8, Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Taxation. 7) Intangible Assets Intangible assets are carried at or below estimated fair value. There are many assumptions and estimates underlying the fair value calculation. Principally, the Company identifies the business entity that the intangible asset is attributed to, and reviews historical and forecasted performance and other underlying factors affecting such analysis, including market conditions, premium rates and loss trends. Other assumptions used could produce a significantly different result which may result in a change in the value of the intangible asset and related amortization charge in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Based on the current expectations of profitability, an impairment charge would only be recognized in the event of a significant decline in the expected profitability of those operations where such intangible assets are applicable. At December 31, 2007, intangible assets were $1.8 billion of which approximately $1.4 billion and $0.4 billion related to the Companys Reinsurance and Insurance segments, respectively. See Other Revenue and Expenses for further information. 67 8) Variable Interest Entities The Company utilizes variable interest entities both directly and indirectly in the ordinary course of business. The Company must assess consolidation of variable interest entities based on whether the Company is the primary beneficiary of the entity. The company that absorbs a majority of the expected losses or residual rewards of the entity is deemed to be the primary beneficiary and is therefore required to consolidate the entity. The determination of expected losses and expected residual returns requires the Company to estimate the expected cash flows of the entities and measure the expected variability of these cash flows. The use of different assumptions to determine the expected cash flows and variability could affect the Companys determination of the primary beneficiary. The assumptions used to determine the expected cash flows depend on the type of structure and the nature of the Companys variable interest. The Company has made assumptions primarily regarding default rates, the timing of defaults and recovery rates to estimate these expected cash flows of the variable interest entities that it utilizes. See Item 8, Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements Variable Interest Entities, for further information. 9) Reinsurance Premium Estimates The Company writes business on both an excess of loss and proportional basis. In the case of excess of loss contracts, the subject written premium is generally outlined within the treaty and the Company receives a minimum and or deposit premium on a quarterly basis which is normally followed by an adjustment premium based on the ultimate subject premium for the contract. The Company estimates the premium written on the basis of the expected subject premium and regularly reviews this against actual quarterly statements to revise the estimate based on the information provided by the cedant. On proportional contracts, written premiums are estimated to expected ultimate premiums based on information provided by the ceding companies. An estimate of premium is recorded at the inception of the contract. The ceding companys premium estimate may be adjusted based on their history of providing accurate premium estimates. When the actual premium is reported by the ceding company, normally on a quarterly basis, it may be materially higher or lower than the estimate. Adjustments arising from the reporting of actual premium by the ceding companies are recorded in the period in which they are determined. Written premiums on excess of loss contracts are earned in accordance with the loss occurring period defined within the treaty, normally 12 months following inception of the contract. Written premiums on proportional contracts are earned over the risk periods of the underlying policies issued and renewed, normally 24 months. For both excess of loss and proportional contracts, the earned premium is recognized ratably over the earning period, namely 12 24 months. The portion of the premium related to the unexpired portion of the policy at the end of any reporting period is reflected in unearned premiums. Reinstatement premiums are recognized at the time a loss event occurs where coverage limits for the remaining life of the contract are reinstated under pre defined contract terms and are fully earned when recognized. Accrual of reinstatement premiums is based on the Companys estimate of loss and loss adjustment expense reserves, which involves management judgment as described below. Reinsurance operations by their nature add further complications in that generally the ultimate premium due under a specific contract will not be known at the time the contract is entered into. As a result, more judgment and ongoing monitoring is required to establish premiums written and earned in the Companys reinsurance operations. The amount of premiums receivable related to the Companys reinsurance operations amounted to $2.0 billion as at December 31, 2007. A significant portion of amounts included as premiums receivable, which represent estimated premiums written, net of commissions, are not currently due based on the terms of the underlying contracts. Management reviews the premiums receivable balance at least quarterly and provides a provision for amounts deemed to be uncollectible. The Company recorded a provision for uncollectible premiums receivable at December 31, 2007 of $18.6 million. 68 The amount of proportional and excess of loss reinsurance gross premiums written and gross acquisition expenses recognized by the Companys reinsurance operations for each line of business for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was as follows: December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 (2) (3) December 31, 2005 (2) (3) (U.S. dollars in thousands) Gross Premiums Written Gross Acquisition Expenses Gross Premiums Written Gross Acquisition Expenses Gross Premiums Written Gross Acquisition Expenses Proportional Contracts: Property catastrophe $ $ $ $ $ $ Casualty other lines 133,444 52,062 370,780 59,274 582,451 121,758 Casualty professional lines 47,361 23,413 58,533 46,796 72,026 50,185 Other property 739,130 201,170 774,984 205,362 766,823 183,114 Marine, energy, aviation and satellite 47,359 14,981 56,866 11,092 88,485 16,087 Other (1) 222,374 37,177 340,122 72,668 350,465 65,316 Structured Indemnity Total Proportional contracts $ 1,189,668 $ 328,803 $ 1,601,285 $ 395,192 $ 1,860,250 $ 436,460 December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 (2) (3) December 31, 2005 (2) (3) (U.S. dollars in thousands) Gross Premiums Written Gross Acquisition Expenses Gross Premiums Written Gross Acquisition Expenses Gross Premiums Written Gross Acquisition Expenses Excess of loss Contracts: Property catastrophe $ 475,540 $ 46,621 $ 449,312 $ 39,368 $ 481,765 $ 24,989 Casualty other lines 409,807 69,133 289,674 6,816 278,662 56,623 Casualty professional lines 208,919 45,476 239,429 84,063 274,732 30,932 Other property 231,066 21,724 274,875 21,361 241,510 22,825 Marine, energy, aviation and satellite 103,189 11,121 120,061 13,002 152,560 12,021 Other (1) 17,044 2,956 20,216 2,530 45,809 6,403 Structured Indemnity 28,261 374 71,286 645 36,901 1,523 Total Excess of loss contracts $ 1,473,826 $ 197,405 $ 1,464,853 $ 167,785 $ 1,511,939 $ 155,316 (1) Other includes employers liability, surety, political risk and other lines; (2) To facilitate period to period comparisons, certain short term Accident and Health business previously included in the Reinsurance segment has been reclassified to the Life Operations segment to conform to current segment management responsibilities. (3) Certain lines of business previously reported under the Financial Lines segment have been reclassified and reported under the Insurance and Reinsurance segments based on the nature of the business written. Segments To better align the Companys operating and reporting structure with its current strategy and subsequent to the secondary offering of SCAs common shares on June 6, 2007, the Company revised its segment structure during the second quarter of 2007. Depending on the nature of the business written, the following product lines or transactions previously managed by and reported as part of the Financial Lines segment, are now managed as part of the Insurance and Reinsurance segments and reported therewith: (i) structured indemnity products managed through the Companys financial solutions operations (XLFS), (ii) political risk products, (iii) weather and energy management products, and (iv) legacy financial guarantee business. Subsequent to June 6, 2007, SCA is no longer a consolidated subsidiary or a separate operating segment of the Company and its remaining investment in SCA is accounted for using the equity method of accounting. However, historical consolidated results of the Company include the separately reported net income of SCA through to June 6, 2007. The earnings on the Companys investment in Primus and other financial operating affiliates as well as the results of certain structured finance products are reported as part of the Corporate segment that includes the general investment and financing operations of the Company. In addition, the guaranteed investment contract and funding agreement businesses are now reported separately within the Other Financial Lines segment. Given the changes in the Companys operating and reporting structure as described above, the Company is now organized into four operating segments: Insurance, Reinsurance, Life Operations, and Other Financial Lines in addition to a corporate segment that includes the general investment and financing operations of the Company. 69 The Company evaluates the performance for both the Insurance and Reinsurance segments based on underwriting profit and evaluates the contribution from each of the Life Operations and Other Financial Lines segments. Other items of revenue and expenditure of the Company are not evaluated at the segment level for reporting purposes. In addition, the Company does not allocate investment assets by segment for its property and casualty operations. Investment assets related to (i) the Companys Life Operations and Other Financial Lines segments and (ii) certain structured products included in the Insurance and Reinsurance segments, are held in separately identified portfolios. As such, net investment income from these assets is included in the contribution from each of these segments. Income Statement Analysis Insurance The following table summarizes the underwriting profit (loss) for the Insurance segment: (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2007 % Change 07 vs 06 2006 (1) % Change 06 vs 05 2005 (1) Gross premiums written $ 5,434,266 (3.4 )% $ 5,627,293 (3.8 )% $ 5,848,121 Net premiums written 4,186,855 0.1 % 4,185,372 (2.9 )% 4,310,232 Net premiums earned 4,116,588 (1.0 )% 4,159,323 (0.2 )% 4,165,708 Fee income and other 11,812 (51.6 )% 24,425 60.6 % 15,205 Net losses and loss expenses 2,594,812 (4.8 )% 2,726,847 (41.0 )% 4,624,664 Acquisition costs 484,014 (2.7 )% 497,367 (3.7 )% 516,622 Operating expenses 683,108 6.7 % 640,470 23.1 % 520,452 Underwriting profit (loss) $ 366,466 14.9 % $ 319,064 NM * $ (1,480,825 ) Exchange losses (gains) $ 29,567 (78.9 )% $ 140,248 NM * $ (25,407 ) Net results structured products $ (2,480 ) NM * $ 6,895 (60.8 )% $ 17,568 (1) Certain lines of business previously reported under the Financial Lines segment have been reclassified and reported under the Insurance and Reinsurance segments based on the nature of the business written. * NM Not Meaningful Gross premiums written decreased by 3.4% during the year ended December 31, 2007 compared with the year ended 2006, while net premiums written increased slightly during the same period. Decreases in gross premiums written were due primarily to a combination of a decrease in rates, reduced shares and selective non renewals in certain property and marine lines of business, as well as the runoff of certain property catastrophe exposures. Partially offsetting these decreases was growth in the excess and surplus book of business in the U.S., increases in the number of long term agreements, strong new business and higher renewal retentions within certain casualty lines of business, and favorable foreign exchange rate movements. Net premiums written increased slightly as the reduction in ceded premiums written was mostly offset by the reduction in gross premiums written noted above. Ceded premiums written decreased as a result of favorable outward reinsurance pricing conditions, increased retention related to certain captive programs and marine and energy treaties, as well as refunds associated with property catastrophe programs. Partially offsetting the decrease in ceded premiums was the impact of return premium associated with the commutation of ceded reinsurance policies in professional lines of business in 2006. Gross and net premiums written decreased by 3.8% and 2.9%, respectively, in the year ended December 31, 2006 compared with the year ended December 31, 2005. The decrease in gross premiums written was primarily due to continued competitive pressures across most non catastrophe exposed lines, corporate risk management initiatives to reduce catastrophe exposures, fewer multi year contracts, and the impact of foreign exchange movements on premium. Decreases in casualty premiums and the discontinuation of the segments surety business were partially offset by volume increases in certain specialty lines of business such as environmental and aerospace. The decrease in net premiums written was primarily a result of the factors impacting gross premiums written, partially offset by return premium associated with the commutation of ceded reinsurance policies in professional lines of business, the cancellation of certain property catastrophe reinsurance programs and the absence of catastrophe related ceded reinstatement premiums. Net premiums earned decreased by 1.0% in the year ended December 31, 2007 compared with the year ended 2006 and reflected the earn out of overall lower net premiums written in both 2006 and 2007. Net premiums earned decreased marginally by 0.2% in the year ended December 31, 2006 compared with the year ended December 31, 2005. The decrease over the prior year was primarily attributable to the reasons noted above affecting net premiums written and partially offset by 2005 hurricane ceded reinstatement premiums recognized and earned in 2005. Fee income and other decreased in 2007 as compared to 2006 and increased in 2006 as compared to 2005 primarily due to a favorable legal settlement recorded in 2006 in relation to a U.K. contract as well as certain foreign exchange adjustments recorded in 2006. 70 The following table presents the ratios for the Insurance segment for each of the last three years ended December 31: 2007 2006 2005 Loss and loss expense ratio 63.0 % 65.6 % 111.0 % Underwriting expense ratio 28.4 % 27.4 % 24.9 % Combined ratio 91.4 % 93.0 % 135.9 % The loss and loss expense ratio noted above includes net losses incurred for both the current year and any favorable or adverse prior year development of loss and loss expense reserves held at the beginning of the year. The following table summarizes the net (favorable) adverse prior year development by line of business relating to the Insurance segment for the last three years ended December 31: (U.S. dollars in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Property $ (95.0 ) $ (94.4 ) $ (45.4 ) Casualty and Professional (139.1 ) 5.4 1,030.9 Specialty and Other 76.0 75.8 34.7 Total $ (158.1 ) $ (13.2 ) $ 1,020.2 Loss and loss expense ratio excluding prior year development 66.9 % 65.9 % 86.5 % In addition, the following tables present the prior year (favorable) adverse development of the Companys gross and net loss and loss expense reserves within the Insurance segment for the last three years ended December 31: (U.S. dollars in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Gross: Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves at the beginning of the year $ 14,528 $ 14,756 $ 12,477 Net (favorable) adverse development of those reserves during the year (178 ) (371 ) 286 Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves re estimated one year later $ 14,350 $ 14,385 $ 12,763 (U.S. dollars in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Net: Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves at the beginning of the year $ 10,608 $ 9,950 $ 7,047 Net (favorable) adverse development of those reserves during the year (158 ) (13 ) 1,020 Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves re estimated one year later $ 10,450 $ 9,937 $ 8,067 The loss ratio for the Insurance segment for the year ended December 31, 2007 decreased compared with the year ended December 31, 2006, primarily due to net favorable prior year development in 2007 being greater than the net favorable prior year development in 2006. The Insurance segment net prior year reserve releases consisted of $95.0 million in property and $162.1 million in casualty lines of business, partially offset by net adverse development of $23.0 million, $7.0 million and $69.0 million in certain professional, marine and other lines of business, respectively. Casualty releases relate primarily to the European casualty portfolio in accident years 2002 2005. The professional lines development reflects net adverse prior year development of the Bermuda E&O portfolio and releases from the Hartford and European professional lines portfolios. Strengthening in other insurance lines relates to adverse development in discontinued specialty lines, surety and environmental, partially offset by favorable development in aerospace and political risk. Gross prior year development was also favorable at $177.6 million. Excluding prior year development in both years, the loss ratio increased by 1.0 points partly due to an increase in attritional and catastrophe related property experience and partly due to softening market conditions primarily in certain specialty lines. Within the Insurance segment, the loss and loss expense ratio for the year ended December 31, 2006 decreased compared with the year ended December 31, 2005, primarily as a result of the absence of large natural catastrophe events and the unfavorable result of Winterthur Decision during 2005. Excluding the impact of these events, the loss ratio in 2005 was 66.8%. The relative decrease in 2006 relates to net favorable prior year reserve releases. Net favorable prior year reserve development for the year ended 2006 was $13.2 million. This overall favorable development included reserve releases of $94.4 million in property lines and $91.1 million in casualty lines, partially offset by $96.5 million, $46.5 million and $29.3 million of prior year adverse development in certain professional, marine and other lines of business, respectively. The gross prior year favorable development for the Insurance segment was $371.4 million. This gross favorable development exceeds the corresponding net development as gross reported losses in casualty have developed more favorably than net losses. Lower gross reported loss amounts reflect reductions in several large recoverable losses on older years and an absence of new large losses, with consequent reductions to reinsurance recoveries. During 2005, total net adverse prior year development within the Insurance Segment was $1.02 billion of which $834.2 million resulted from the negative outcome of the Winterthur Decision. The remaining $186.0 million was comprised of net adverse prior year development of $259.7 million in professional lines and $34.7 million within other specialty lines including runoff and discontinued business partially offset by releases of $108.4 million primarily in European casualty business. 71 There is no assurance that conditions and trends that have affected the development of liabilities in the past will continue. Accordingly, it is not appropriate to extrapolate future redundancies or deficiencies based on the Companys historical results. The increase in the underwriting expense ratio in the year ended December 31, 2007, compared to the same period in 2006 was due to an increase in the operating expense ratio of 1.2 points (16.6% as compared to 15.4%), partially offset by a decrease in the acquisition expense ratio of 0.2 points (11.8% as compared to 12.0%). The increase in the operating expense ratio was due primarily to higher compensation costs associated with higher head count and corporate allocations, and was partially offset by adjustments booked in 2007 relating to previously accrued regulatory costs. The decrease in the acquisition expense ratio resulted primarily from an increase in outward reinsurance profit commissions as well as favorable prior year premium adjustments. Offsetting these decreases was the impact of a reduction in certain ceded brokerage costs in 2006. The underwriting expense ratio in the year ended December 31, 2006 increased compared to the same period in 2005, as a result of an increase in the operating expense ratio of 2.9 points (15.4 % as compared to 12.5%) partially offset by a lower acquisition expense ratio. The increase in the operating expense ratio was due primarily to increased performance based compensation costs. The lower acquisition expense ratio related primarily to a reduction in certain ceded brokerage costs in 2006 combined with the impact on the expense ratio of reinstatement premiums earned in 2005. Foreign exchange losses in the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, and foreign exchange gains in the year ended December 31, 2005, were due primarily to the change in the value of the U.S. dollar against certain European currencies including the U.K. Sterling and the Euro on certain inter company balances. Net results from structured insurance products include certain structured indemnity contracts that are accounted for as deposit contracts. Results from these contracts for the year ended December 31, 2007, decreased compared to the same period in 2006 due to an unfavorable accretion adjustment recorded in 2007 based on changes in expected cash flows and the accelerated earnings recorded in 2006 resulting from a commutation. Offsetting these decreases was higher net investment income as a result of higher yields and overall larger investment asset balances. Results for these contracts for the year ended December 31, 2006, decreased as compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, due to a favorable accretion adjustment recorded in 2005 based on changes in expected cash flows, partially offset by higher yields in 2006 and from the accelerated earnings in 2006 resulting from a commutation. Reinsurance The following table summarizes the underwriting profit (loss) for this segment: (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2007 % Change 07 vs 06 2006 (1) (2) % Change 06 vs 05 2005 (1) (2) Gross premiums written $ 2,663,494 (13.1 )% $ 3,066,138 (9.1 )% $ 3,372,189 Net premiums written 2,110,865 (11.5 )% 2,384,340 (12.8 )% 2,733,165 Net premiums earned 2,302,039 (10.5 )% 2,570,959 (6.0 )% 2,734,161 Fee income and other 1,698 (63.1 )% 4,597 54.3 % 2,979 Net losses and loss expenses 1,244,764 (14.7 )% 1,459,309 (47.6 )% 2,782,565 Acquisition costs 482,024 (5.7 )% 511,133 (12.1 )% 581,239 Operating expenses 205,966 8.1 % 190,545 26.8 % 150,279 Underwriting profit (loss) $ 370,983 (10.5 )% $ 414,569 NM * $ (776,943 ) Exchange (gains) losses (48,219 ) 12.4 % (42,894 ) NM * 33,183 Net results structured products 25,520 (29.5 )% 36,218 187.4 % 12,604 * NM Not meaningful (1) To facilitate period to period comparisons, certain short term Accident and Health business previously included in the Reinsurance segment has been reclassified to the Life Operations segment to conform to current segment management responsibilities. (2) Certain lines of business previously reported under the Financial Lines segment have been reclassified and reported under the Insurance and Reinsurance segments based on the nature of the business written. Gross and net premiums written decreased by 13.1% and 11.5%, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared with the year ended December 31, 2006. These decreases resulted from the Company declining business due to competitive pressures continuing to drive certain rates below the Companys acceptable underwriting levels as well as certain favorable reinstatement premium and U.S. property program adjustments recorded in 2006. For the year ended December 31, 2007, premium rate decreases were most significant in certain casualty and non U.S. property lines of business. Net premiums written reflect the above changes in gross premiums written, combined with a reduction in ceded premiums in 2007 as compared to 2006 as a result of higher retentions and a lower cost of external retrocession. Gross and net premiums written decreased 9.1% and 12.8%, respectively, in the year ended December 31, 2006 as compared to year ended December 31, 2005. The decrease in gross and net premiums written was primarily attributable to rate and volume reductions within the casualty line of business, and catastrophe gross and net reinstatement premiums of $138.7 million and $34.7 72 million, respectively, recorded in 2005. These decreases were partially offset by a change in accrual methodology and both written and ceded premiums adjustments for certain U.S. property programs in 2006. On a net premiums written basis, the decrease was also attributable to the catastrophe quota share reinsurance treaty with Cyrus Re. In addition, as part of the Companys aggregate risk reduction initiatives, there was a net reduction in catastrophe exposure and a restructuring of the Companys marine and energy exposures. Net premiums earned in the year ended December 31, 2007 decreased 10.5% as compared to the same period in 2006. Net premiums earned in the year ended December 31, 2006 decreased 6.0% as compared to the year ended December 31, 2005. The decrease in both 2007 and 2006 was a reflection of the overall reduction of net premiums written over the last three years. The following table presents the ratios for the Reinsurance segment for the last three years ended December 31: 2007 2006 2005 Loss and loss expense ratio 54.1 % 56.8 % 101.8 % Underwriting expense ratio 29.8 % 27.3 % 26.8 % Combined ratio 83.9 % 84.1 % 128.6 % The loss and loss expense ratio includes net losses incurred for both the current year and any favorable or adverse prior year development of loss reserves held at the beginning of the year. The following table summarizes the net (favorable) adverse prior year development by line of business relating to the Reinsurance segment for the last three years ended December 31: (U.S. dollars in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Property and other short tail lines $ (188.7 ) $ (133.0 ) $ (161.4 ) Casualty and other (87.4 ) 7.3 254.9 Structured Indemnity 8.8 28.3 Total $ (267.3 ) $ (97.4 ) $ 93.5 Loss and loss expense ratio excluding prior year development 65.7 % 60.6 % 98.4 % In addition, the following tables present the prior year (favorable) adverse development of the Companys gross and net loss and loss expense reserves within the Reinsurance segment for the last three years ended December 31: (U.S. dollars in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Gross: Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves at the beginning of the year $ 8,193 $ 8,704 $ 7,008 Net (favorable) adverse development of those reserves during the year (260 ) (18 ) 85 Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves re estimated one year later $ 7,933 $ 8,686 $ 7,093 (U.S. dollars in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Net: Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves at the beginning of the year $ 7,138 $ 7,112 $ 5,495 Net (favorable) adverse development of those reserves during the year (267 ) (98 ) 94 Unpaid losses and loss expense reserves re estimated one year later $ 6,871 $ 7,014 $ 5,589 The decrease in the loss and loss expense ratio for the Reinsurance segment in the year ended December 31, 2007, compared to the same period in 2006, is due primarily to net favorable prior year loss development. Within the Reinsurance segment, reserve releases of $188.7 million primarily in property and other short tail lines of business and $87.4 million in casualty and other lines, was partially offset by adverse prior year development of $8.8 million within the structured indemnity line of business. Releases in the short tail lines relate primarily to the 2005 and 2006 accident years. The casualty and other lines favorable development of $87.4 million reflects the net result of releases of $121.4 million primarily in the US and non US casualty portfolios, partially offset by net adverse development of $13.0 million associated with the results of an external review of the Companys asbestos and environmental reserves and $21.0 million related to a commutation of a stop loss reinsurance agreement. Excluding prior year development, the loss ratio for the year ended December 31, 2007 increased by 5.1 loss percentage points as compared to the same period in 2006 as a result of higher attritional losses within the property risk book of business as well as losses recorded relating to certain catastrophe losses including European windstorms Kyrill and Per/Hanno, California wildfires and the Peru earthquake. Favorable gross prior year development of $259.7 million was in line with the net development. Within the Reinsurance segment, the decrease in the loss and loss expense ratio in the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to the same period in 2005, primarily reflected the lack of large natural catastrophe events such as those that occurred 73 during 2005. In the year ended 2006, net favorable prior year development of $97.4 million resulted primarily from net favorable development in property and other short tail lines of $133.0 million including adverse development on the loss estimates for the 2005 catastrophes of $74.6 million. In addition, casualty lines reflected reserve releases of $10.9 million while structured indemnity and other lines of business resulted in net adverse reserve development of $28.3 million and $18.2 million, respectively. The gross prior year favorable development for the Reinsurance segment was $17.7 million. This gross favorable development was less than the corresponding net development as net adverse development on the 2005 catastrophes was less significant than the gross adverse development due to reinsurance recoveries. The increase in the loss and loss expense ratio in the year ended December 31, 2005 primarily reflected the effects of Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma combined with the Other Cats from which the Reinsurance segment incurred a combined $977.9 million of net losses. In addition, during 2005, net prior year reserves across the Reinsurance segment developed adversely by $93.5 million and included net adverse development of $266.9 million in casualty and professional lines was partially offset by releases in short tail lines of business of $173.4 million. The increase in the underwriting expense ratio in the year ended December 31, 2007, as compared with the year ended December 31, 2006, was due to an increase in both operating expense and acquisition expense ratios to 8.9% and 20.9%, respectively, as compared with 7.4% and 19.9%, respectively, in the year ended December 31, 2006. The increase in acquisition expenses was primarily due to a change in the mix of business as well as an adjustment related to the earning of acquisition expenses within the U.S. individual risk portfolio recorded in the first quarter of 2007. The operating expense ratio increase was due primarily to higher compensation expenses and corporate allocations, combined with a lower level of net premiums earned. The increase in the underwriting expense ratio in year ended December 31, 2006, compared to the same period in 2005, was due to an increase in the operating expense ratio to 7.4%, as compared to 5.5% in the year ended December 31, 2006. The operating expense ratio increase was primarily due to an increase in performance based compensation expenses and costs related to various strategic initiatives within the Reinsurance segment including the establishment of an integrated reinsurance platform in Europe. The increase in operating expenses was offset by a decrease in the acquisition expense ratio from 21.3% during the year ended December 31, 2005 to 19.9% in the same period in 2006. The decrease in the net acquisition expense ratio was due primarily to commissions received from Cyrus Re related to the property catastrophe retrocession. Foreign exchange gains in the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 and foreign exchange losses in the year ended December 31, 2005 were due primarily to the change in the value of the U.S. dollar against certain European currencies including the U.K. Sterling and the Euro on certain inter company balances. Net results from structured reinsurance products include certain structured indemnity contracts that are accounted for as deposit contracts. Results from these products for the year ended December 31, 2007 decreased compared to the same period in 2006 mainly as a result of a higher accretion rate recorded in 2007 on deposit liabilities relating to certain workers compensation coverage and partially offset by higher net investment income in 2007 as a result of an increase in the average size of investment asset balances as a result of new transactions. Net results from structured reinsurance products for the year ended December 31, 2006 increased compared to the same period in 2005 primarily as a results of higher net investment income from new transactions and a reduction in interest expense accretion in 2006 relating to certain deposit liabilities resulting from a change in the timing of estimated cash flows. Life Operations The following table summarizes the contribution from this segment: (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2007 % Change 07 vs 06 2006 (1) % Change 06 vs 05 2005 (1) Gross premiums written $ 743,220 8.2 % $ 686,906 (70.8 )% $ 2,350,319 Net premiums written 698,693 8.1 % 646,608 (72.0 )% 2,311,275 Net premiums earned 701,047 8.4 % 646,450 (72.0 )% 2,306,276 Fee income and other 698 113.5 % 327 2.2 % 320 Claims and policy benefits 888,658 10.1 % 807,255 (67.8 )% 2,510,029 Acquisition costs 90,923 21.8 % 74,675 (7.4 )% 80,636 Operating expenses 34,838 (2.5 )% 35,720 52.1 % 23,480 Exchange (gains) losses (1,121 ) NM * (8,158 ) NM * 1,421 Net investment income 390,227 10.9 % 351,935 17.9 % 298,408 Contribution from Life operations $ 78,674 (11.8 ) % $ 89,220 NM * $ (10,562 ) (1) To facilitate period to period comparisons, certain short term Accident and Health business previously included in the Reinsurance segment has been reclassified to the Life Operations segment to conform to current segment management responsibilities. * NM Not meaningful The following table is an analysis of the Life operations gross premiums written, net premiums written and net premiums earned for the last three years ended December 31: 74 (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2007 2006 2005 Gross Premiums Written Net Premiums Written Net Premiums Earned Gross Premiums Written Net Premiums Written Net Premiums Earned Gross Premiums Written Net Premiums Written Net Premiums Earned Other Life $ 435,415 $ 427,337 $ 429,690 $ 336,528 $ 332,555 $ 332,397 $ 261,740 $ 258,411 $ 253,412 Annuity 307,805 271,356 271,357 350,378 314,053 314,053 2,088,579 2,052,864 2,052,864 Total $ 743,220 $ 698,693 $ 701,047 $ 686,906 $ 646,608 $ 646,450 $ 2,350,319 $ 2,311,275 $ 2,306,276 With respect to the Life Operations segment, gross and net premiums written, net premiums earned and claims and policy benefits in each of the three years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 included the assumption of the following long duration single premium annuity portfolios: 1. Second quarter of 2007 one Irish immediate annuity portfolio bound, for which net premium earned totaled $94.6 million. 2. Second and fourth quarters of 2006 two Irish immediate annuity portfolios bound, for which net premium earned totaled $152.5 million. 3. Second and fourth quarters of 2005 A large U.K. immediate annuity portfolio contract bound representing $1.8 billion in net premiums earned and two Irish immediate annuity portfolios which totaled $96.2 million. The Company acquired cash and investment assets related to the future policy benefit reserves assumed at inception of these large contracts. While the Company expects to write more of these contracts, the frequency of these transactions will likely continue to be irregular and their sizes will differ from transaction to transaction. Gross premiums written relating to other life business increased by $98.9 million or 29.4% in the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2006 primarily as a result of growth in the underlying book of term assurance and critical illness business of $79.6 million, combined with favorable foreign exchange movements of $19.3 million. Gross premiums written relating to annuity business decreased by $42.6 million or 12.2% in the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to the year ended 2006 mainly due to a lower level of single premium annuity portfolio business of $57.8 million, offset by favorable foreign exchange rate movements of $15.2 million. Ceded premium ratios remained roughly consistent with the prior year. Gross premiums written relating to other life business increased by $74.8 million or 28.6% in the year ended December 31, 2006 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2005 primarily due to growth in the underlying book of term assurance and critical illness business of $57.6 million, growth in the underlying book of short term accident and health business of $11.2 million, and favorable foreign exchange movements of $6.0 million. Gross premiums written relating to annuity business decreased by $1,738.2 million or 83.2% in the year ended December 31, 2006 as compared to the year ended 2005 mainly as a result of the large U.K. immediate annuity portfolio contract bound in 2005 representing $1,797.3 million of gross premiums written, offset by an increase in Irish immediate annuity portfolio business of $56.3 million and favorable foreign exchange rate movements of $2.8 million. Ceded premium ratios remained roughly consistent with the prior year. Net premiums earned in the year ended December 31, 2007 increased 8.4% as compared to the same period in 2006. This increase was consistent with the increase in gross and net premiums written as described above. Net premiums earned in the year ended December 31, 2006 decreased by 72.0% compared to the same period in 2005, mainly as a result of the assumption of the large U.K immediate annuity portfolio contract noted above. Changes in claims and policy benefit reserves were generally consistent with movements in gross and net premiums written but also included the movement in policy benefit reserves related to other contracts (such as tranches of immediate annuity portfolios) where investment assets were acquired with the assumption of the policy benefit reserves at the inception of the contract. Claims and policy benefit reserves increased by $81.4 million or 10.1% in the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to the same period in 2006 mainly as a result of growth in the underlying block of term assurance and critical illness business increasing losses by $65.2 million, unfavorable foreign exchange rate movements of $52.8 million, a loss recognition adjustment of $25.4 million relating to certain novated blocks of U.S. based term life mortality reinsurance business, offset by lower losses relating to single premium immediate annuity business of $62.0 million from fewer single premium portfolio contracts bound during the year. In accordance with U.S. GAAP treatment for life business, a loss recognition test process was carried out in 2007 on a block of U.S. based term life mortality business, to determine if expected future premiums would be sufficient to pay for expected future losses. This process led to managements decision to unlock the then current policy benefit reserve basis and record a loss of $25.4 million on this block of business. In 2005, $37.4 million in losses were recorded relating to the same block of business as a result of a similar loss recognition test that was carried out during that year. 75 Claims and policy benefit reserves decreased significantly in 2006 as compared to 2005 mainly due to the large U.K. immediate annuity contract bound in 2005 as well as losses recorded relating to the novated blocks of U.S. based term life mortality business noted above. Acquisition costs increased by 21.8% in 2007 as compared to 2006 mainly as a result of the growth in the book of regular term assurance and critical illness treaties consistent with the earned premium variance, as well as the impact of a favorable profit commission adjustment recorded in 2006 relating to a term life treaty. Operating expenses decreased by 2.5% in 2007 as compared to 2006 primarily as a result of a decrease in both professional fees and corporate allocations, offset by unfavorable foreign exchange rate movements and higher compensation costs. Acquisition costs decreased by 7.4% in 2006 as compared to 2005, primarily as a result of a $25.9 million write off of certain deferred costs related to the novated blocks of U.S. mortality business noted above in 2005 and partially offset by a higher volume of regular term assurance and critical illness business in 2006. Operating expenses increased in 2006 as compared to 2005 due to the build out of existing operations and start up costs of new life operations, including the U.S. life reinsurance platform and the U.K. life fund integration team, as well as an increase in professional fees and corporate allocations related to these initiatives. Net investment income is included in the calculation of contribution from Life Operations, as it relates to income earned on portfolios of separately identified and managed life investment assets and other allocated assets. Net investment income increased by $38.3 million or 10.9% in 2007 as compared to 2006, primarily as a result of favorable foreign exchange rate movements of $23.9 million and increases in the average size of investment asset balances. Net investment income increased by $53.5 million or 17.9% in 2006 as compared to 2005, primarily as a result of an increase in the average size of investment asset balances, improved yields and favorable foreign exchange rate movements. Other Financial Lines The Other Financial Lines segment is comprised of the guaranteed investment contract and funding agreement businesses. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the net results from these structured products were $48.1 million and included net investment income, interest expense and operating expenses of $389.0 million, $326.4 million, and $14.5 million, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2006, the net results from these structured products were $34.7 million and included net investment income, interest expense and operating expenses of $341.9 million, $296.9 million, and $10.4 million, respectively, while in 2005, the net results from these structured products were $33.7 million and included net investment income, interest expense and operating expenses of $213.3 million, $166.4 million, and $13.2 million, respectively. For 2007, net investment income increased primarily as a result of an increase in yields on invested assets. Interest expense increased due to an increase in the average deposit liability balance combined with an increase in crediting rates consistent with the yield changes noted above. Operating expenses increased by $4.1 million during 2007 as compared to 2006 primarily due to reclassification of certain contract expenses and partially offset by reduced corporate allocations. Consistent with 2007, net investment income increased in 2006 as compared to 2005 as a result of an increase in the average asset balances while interest expense increased during the same period as a result of an increase in the average deposit liability balances. While not reported within the contribution from the Other Financial Lines segment, it should be noted that approximately $370.7 million of the reported realized losses on investments for 2007 related to portfolios associated with funding agreements and guaranteed investment contracts. As noted above, as a result of the downgrades of XLCA, the Company will settle, by late March 2008, the majority of the GIC portfolio. SCA Prior to the secondary offering of SCA common shares on June 6, 2007, net income from SCA was consolidated with the Companys results and SCA was considered an operating segment of the Company. Subsequent to June 6, 2007, SCA was no longer a consolidated subsidiary or an operating segment of the Company and its remaining investment in SCA has been accounted for using the equity method of accounting, recorded on a one quarter lag through equity earnings (loss) from financial operating affiliates. For the period from June 6 to December 31, 2007, the recent credit market volatility and concern over residential mortgage markets have impacted SCAs results significantly. For further information on SCA, see Results of Operations and Other Revenues and Expenses within Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. In addition, see Notes 3 and 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Security Capital Assurance and Investments in Affiliates, for further information. For the period from January 1 to June 6, 2007, continued growth in net premiums earned from SCAs financial guarantee business was offset by the absence of significant accelerated refunding premiums in 2007 that were reported in 2006. Net losses and loss expenses decreased mainly due to no significant new case basis provisions in the first five months of 2007 combined with a case reserve release recorded in the first quarter of 2007. Overall net income from SCA, however, decreased as net realized and unrealized losses related to outstanding credit derivatives increased significantly as market spreads widened during the first five months of 2007 which was partially offset by a decrease in realized investment losses associated with an impairment charge recorded in the first nine 76 months of 2006. In addition, operating expenses increased due to higher compensation expenses and the corporate costs associated with being a public company on a stand alone basis. For the year ended 2006 as compared to the year ended 2005, net income from SCA increased by 28.6% to $104.6 million from $81.3 million, respectively, primarily as a result of an increase in net premiums earned, lower net losses and loss expenses and higher net investment income. Net premiums earned increased in 2006, as compared to 2005, as a result of growth of the in force business (in particular, installment premium business written in prior periods) and earned premiums from the early retirement or refunding of insured securities. In addition, net losses and loss expenses for the year ended December 31, 2006, decreased compared to the same period in 2005 as a result of lower case basis reserves recorded in 2006 as compared to 2005, while net investment income increased in the same period due to increases in the investment asset balances in 2006. Investment Activities The following table illustrates the change in net investment income from property and casualty operations, net income from investment fund affiliates, net realized (losses) gains on investments, and net realized and unrealized (losses) gains on investment derivative instruments for each of the three years ended December 31: (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2007 % Change 07 vs 06 2006 % Change 06 vs 05 2005 Net investment income property and casualty operations (1) $ 1,289,554 18.2 % $ 1,090,785 34.6 % $ 810,482 Net income from investment fund affiliates (2) 326,007 21.2 % 269,036 73.7 % 154,844 Net realized (losses) gains on investments (603,268 ) NM * (116,458 ) NM * 241,882 Net realized and unrealized (losses) gains on investment and other derivative instruments (3) (55,451 ) NM * 101,183 NM * 28,858 (1) Net investment income relating to property and casualty operations does not include the net investment income related to the net results from structured products. (2) The Company records the income related to alternative fund affiliates on a one month lag and the private investment fund affiliates on a three month lag in order for the Company to meet the accelerated filing deadlines. (3) For a summary of realized and unrealized gains and losses on all derivative instruments, see Item 8, Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Derivative Instruments. * NM Not meaningful Net investment income related to property and casualty operations increased in 2007 as compared to 2006 due primarily to a higher investment base and increases in the yield of the portfolio. The market yield to maturity on the fixed income portfolio was 5.8% at December 31, 2007, as compared to 5.2% at December 31, 2006. The increase was primarily due to the full 2007 financial year impact of the higher interest rates experienced in the U.S., U.K. and Euro zone, during the latter part of 2006 and the beginning part of 2007. Net investment income related to property and casualty operations increased in 2006 as compared to 2005 due primarily to increases in the yield of the portfolio and a higher investment base. The market yield to maturity on the fixed income portfolio was 5.2% at December 31, 2006, as compared to 4.7% at December 31, 2005, due primarily to higher interest rates in the U.S., U.K., and Euro zone. The growth in the investment base reflected the Companys issuance of ordinary shares and equity units in the fourth quarter of 2005 and the Companys positive cash flow from operations. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, total investments, cash and cash equivalents, accrued investment income and net payable for investments purchased were $43.7 billion and $44.7 billion, respectively. This decrease of $0.9 billion was primarily due to the mark to market effect as a result of the challenging credit markets as well as impact of the Companys financing activities, and was partially offset by positive cash flow from operations of $2.2 billion. The annualized effective yield of the total investment portfolio (excluding non recurring items) was 5.6% for 2007 as compared to 5.1% for 2006, a 0.5% increase. The increase in the effective yield of the total investment portfolio was primarily due to investment duration being lengthened in early 2007 prior to declining interest rates in the U.S. and the U.K. The Company expects stable net investment income from its property and casualty operations in 2008, The average asset base and yields are both expected to be stable relative to current levels. For a further discussion see Liquidity and Capital Resources. Net income from investment fund affiliates includes earnings from the Companys investments in closed end investment funds and partnerships and similar vehicles that are equity accounted. Net income from investment fund affiliates increased in 2007 as compared to 2006 due primarily to exceptional results in the alternative portfolio and as a result of a higher investment asset base. Net income from investment fund affiliates increased in 2006 as compared to 2005 primarily due to a strong result in private investment portfolios due to a series of positive liquidity events and fair value adjustments, as well as good returns on the alternative portfolios. In addition, derivative losses for the year ended December 31, 2007 include a mark to market loss of $37.0 million in the third quarter with respect to a total return swap on the capital notes of a SIV impacted by the challenging credit markets. During the fourth quarter, the Company terminated the swap, recognized an additional $3.9 million mark to market loss and took delivery of the underlying asset. The asset was subsequently written off to nil resulting in a realized loss on investments of $57.3 million. 77 Investment Performance The Company manages its investment grade fixed income securities using an asset/liability management framework. Due to the unique nature of the underlying liabilities, customized benchmarks are used to measure investment performance and comparison to standard market indices is not meaningful. Investment performance is not monitored for certain assets primarily consisting of operating cash and special regulatory deposits. The following is a summary of the investment portfolio returns for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 of the asset/liability portfolio and risk asset portfolios: 2007(1) 2006(1) Asset/Liability Portfolio USD fixed income portfolio 1.6 % 4.6 % Non USD fixed income portfolio 1.0 % 2.9 % Risk Asset Portfolio Alternative portfolio (2) 17.0 % 11.5 % Equity portfolio 10.1 % 20.0 % High Yield fixed income portfolio 0.9 % 8.0 % (1) Portfolio returns are calculated by dividing the sum of the net investment income or net income from investment fund affiliates, realized gains (losses) and unrealized gains (losses) by the average market value of each portfolio. Performance is measured in either the underlying asset currency or the functional currency. (2) Performance on the alternative portfolio reflects the twelve months ended November 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Net Realized Gains and Losses on Investments and Other than Temporary Declines in the Value of Investments The Companys investment portfolio is classified as available for sale. Realized investment gains and losses occur through the normal turnover of the Companys investment portfolio. Realized investment losses include impairment charges relating to declines in value of securities that are considered to be other than temporary. See Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates for further information. In 2007, net realized losses on investments were $603.3 million which included $1,012.8 million of gross realized losses on fixed income and $46.9 million of gross realized losses on equity securities. Gross realized losses in 2007 included $611.0 million of provisions for declines in fair value considered to be other than temporary. Included in the balances noted below are realized losses and impairment in the sub prime and related mortgage exposed portfolios totaling $385.1 million. As a percentage of the total fixed income portfolio, the write down for other than temporary declines was 1.5% in 2007 as compared to 0.3% in 2006 and 0.1% in 2005. Further details are included in Results of Operations. In the U.S., the general level of corporate defaults was lower than in recent years. For example, Moodys Investors Service, Inc. (Moodys) reported that 12 issuers defaulted in 2007 compared with 23 issuers in 2006 and 30 issuers in 2005. The Companys exposure to these corporate defaults was limited in both 2007 and 2006, resulting in a low level in the write down for other than temporary declines related to corporate credit events. In 2006, net realized losses on investments were $116.5 million which includes $390.4 million of gross realized losses on fixed income and $88.5 million of gross realized losses on equity securities. Gross realized losses in 2006 included $151.4 million of provisions for declines in fair value considered to be other than temporary. In 2005, net realized gains on investments were $241.9 million which includes $250.8 million of gross realized losses on fixed income and $54.1 million of gross realized losses on equity securities. Gross realized losses in 2005 included $53.2 million of provisions for declines in fair value considered to be other than temporary. With respect to those securities that were sold at a loss during the year ended December 31, 2007, the following is an analysis of the period of time that those securities had been in a continual unrealized loss position, the amount of the realized loss recorded in the Companys results of operations as of the sale date and the amount of the impairment charge taken in the year: Length of time in a continual unrealized loss position (U.S. dollars in thousands) Fixed Income Securities Equity Securities Less than 6 months $ 111,174 $ 32,023 At least 6 months but less than 12 months 202,682 8,294 At least 12 months but less than 2 years 42,234 3,887 At least 2 years 48,393 126 Total gross realized loss from sales 404,483 44,330 Impairment charges for declines in value considered to be other than temporary 608,322 2,600 Total gross realized loss $ 1,012,805 $ 46,930 78 With respect to those securities that were sold at a loss during the year ended December 31, 2006, the following is an analysis of the period of time that those securities had been in a continual unrealized loss position, the amount of the realized loss recorded in the Companys results of operations as of the sale date and the amount of the impairment charge taken in the year: Length of time in a continual unrealized loss position (U.S. dollars in thousands) Fixed Income Securities Equity Securities Less than 6 months $ 168,462 $ 66,876 At least 6 months but less than 12 months 81,202 17,573 At least 12 months but less than 2 years 7,505 1,239 At least 2 years 73 Total gross realized loss from sales 257,242 85,688 Impairment charges for declines in value considered to be other than temporary 133,185 2,831 Total gross realized loss $ 390,427 $ 88,519 The Companys process for identifying declines in the fair value of investments that are other than temporary involves consideration of several factors, as discussed under Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company realized losses of $90.6 million and $4.0 million upon the sale of fixed income securities and equity securities, respectively, that had been in an unrealized loss position for greater than twelve months. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company realized losses of $7.6 million and $1.2 million upon the sale of fixed income securities and equity securities, respectively, that had been in an unrealized loss position for greater than twelve months. The decisions to sell these securities were made by the Companys investment managers based upon a change in market conditions and other factors (these decisions were independent of the Companys previously stated intent and ability to hold such securities). Net realized and unrealized losses on investment derivatives for 2007 resulted primarily from losses associated with the capital notes of a SIV as noted above. For a further discussion see Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and Liquidity and Capital Resources. Other Revenues and Expenses The following table sets forth other revenues and expenses of the Company for each of the three years ended December 31: (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2007 % Change 2007 vs 2006 2006 % Change 2006 vs 2005 2005 Net (loss) income from operating affiliates (1) $ (1,059,848 ) NM * $ 111,670 65.6 % $ 67,426 Amortization of intangible assets 1,680 (28.7 )% 2,355 (78.1 )% 10,752 Corporate operating expenses 139,469 (30.2 )% 199,723 7.4 % 185,936 Interest expense (2) 210,499 1.7 % 207,066 10.5 % 187,457 Income tax expense 233,922 6.5 % 219,645 NM * 49,284 Minority interest 23,928 (4.3 )% 25,016 204.7 % 8,210 (1) The Company records the income related to certain operating affiliates on a three month lag in order for the Company to meet accelerated filing deadlines. (2) Interest expense does not include interest expense related structured products as reported within the Insurance and Reinsurance segments. * NM Not meaningful The following table sets forth the net income (loss) from operating affiliates for each of the three years ended December 31: (U.S. dollars in thousands) 2007 % Change 2007 vs 2006 2006 % Change 2006 vs 2005 2005 Net (loss) income from financial operating affiliates $ (1,190,161 ) NM * $ 23,461 NM * $ 5,055 Net income from investment manager affiliates 94,630 21.8 % 77,690 47.8 % 52,548 Net income from other strategic operating affiliates 35,683 239.2 % 10,519 7.1 % 9,823 Total $ (1,059,848 ) NM * $ 111,670 65.6 % $ 67,426 Net losses from financial operating affiliates in 2007 include the results and related write downs associated with SCA and Primus as well as the impact of losses recorded on reinsurance transactions with SCA of approximately $351.0 million. Further details are included in Results of Operations. In addition, see Notes 3 and 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Security Capital Assurance and Investments in Affiliates, for further information. 79 Investment manager affiliate income increased in 2007 as compared to 2006 mainly due to strong results generated from certain global equity and mortgage specialist investment manager affiliates, partially offset by the write off of the Companys investment in a manager that managed a series of structured investment vehicles and conduits. Net income from other strategic operating affiliates increased in 2007 as compared to 2006, primarily as a result of strong results from an insurance affiliate which writes largely U.S. homeowners insurance and the Companys Brazilian joint venture ITAU XL. In 2006, the increase in net income from operating affiliates relative to 2005 was primarily due to the gain on sale of the FrontPoint Partners LLC, an investment mangement affiliate, of $41.7 million. The results also include continued strong performance by the Companys investment management affiliates driven by strong growth in assets managed by these minority owned managers. Amortization of intangible assets decreased in 2007 as a result of certain intangible assets that were fully amortized during 2006. Corporate operating expenses decreased by 30.2% in 2007 as compared to 2006 primarily as a result of certain compensation costs being allocated to the operating segments in 2007. Corporate operating expenses increased by 7.4% in 2006 as compared to 2005 primarily as a result of increased performance based compensation costs and increased legal costs. Interest expense from property and casualty operations includes costs related to the Companys debt and collateral facilities as well as certain deposit liability accretion. Interest expense was higher in 2007 as compared to 2006 primarily due to the issuance of the 2027 Senior Notes in early May 2007 as well as the costs associated with the retirement of the 2009 Senior Notes. The increase in interest expense in 2006 as compared to 2005 primarily reflected the increase in average outstanding debt. For more information on the Companys financial structure, see Liquidity and Capital Resources. Income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2007 increased as compared to the same period in 2006, and increased from 2006 as compared to 2005, principally from an improvement in the profitability of the Companys U.S. and European property and casualty operations in those respective years. The Companys effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2007 increased from that in 2006 due primarily to non deductible asset impairment charges recorded in Bermuda, the U.S. and the U.K. The Companys effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2006 decreased slightly from that in 2005 due to $30.0 million of tax benefits associated with corrections in the year to reserves ceded to its Bermuda reinsurance entities. In addition, the Company recorded a tax charge in 2006 of $6.0 million in connection with the IPO of SCA. The deferral of tax losses is evaluated based upon the future profitability of the Companys taxable entities and, under current projections, the Company anticipates using this asset. The Companys net deferred tax asset at December 31, 2007 was $370.4 million, which consisted primarily of net operating losses generated by subsidiaries in the U.K. Should the taxable income of these entities fall below expectations, a further valuation allowance may have to be established, which could be significant. In addition, if any further losses are generated by these entities, these losses may not be tax effected. See Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Item 8, Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Taxation. Minority interest expense in 2007 related primarily to the 37% ownership interest in SCA common shares held by the public prior to the secondary offering of SCA common shares on June 6, 2007, while minority interest expense in 2006 related primarily to the 37% ownership interest in SCA following the initial public offering in August 2006 as well as the minority interest ownership in preferred shares of XL Financial Assurance (XLFA). In addition, included in each of the respective years presented is minority interest in the common shares of XL International (Bermuda) Ltd. Balance Sheet Analysis Investments The primary objectives of the investment strategy are to support the liabilities arising from the operations of the Company, generate stable investment income and to build book value for the Company over the longer term. The strategy strives to maximize investment returns while taking into account market and credit risk. The Companys overall investment portfolio is structured to take into account a number of variables including local regulatory requirements, business needs, collateral management and risk tolerance. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, total investments, cash and cash equivalents, accrued investment income and net payable for investments purchased were $43.7 billion and $44.7 billion, respectively. The following table summarizes the composition of the Companys invested assets at December 31, 2007 and 2006: 80 (U.S. dollars in thousands) Fair Value 2007 Percent of Total Fair Value 2006 Percent of Total Cash and cash equivalents $ 3,880,030 8.9 % $ 2,223,748 5.0 % Net payable for investments purchased (191,472 ) (0.4 )% (104,739 ) (0.2 )% Accrued investment income 447,660 1.0 % 432,618 1.0 % Short term investments 1,803,198 4.1 % 2,338,487 5.2 % Fixed maturities: U.S. Government and Government agency $ 2,685,773 6.1 % $ 2,557,533 5.7 % Corporate 12,987,248 29.7 % 14,185,964 31.7 % Mortgage and asset backed securities 14,493,877 33.1 % 16,236,893 36.3 % U.S. States and political subdivisions of the States 253,534 0.6 % 65,545 0.2 % Non U.S. Sovereign Government 3,187,358 7.3 % 3,075,423 6.9 % Total fixed maturities $ 33,607,790 76.8 % $ 36,121,358 80.8 % Equity securities 854,815 2.0 % 891,138 2.0 % Investments in affiliates 2,611,149 6.0 % 2,308,781 5.1 % Other investments 708,476 1.6 % 476,889 1.1 % Total investments and cash and cash equivalents $ 43,721,646 100.0 % $ 44,688,280 100.0 % The Company reviews on a regular basis its issuer concentration, credit quality and compliance with established guidelines. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the average credit quality of the Companys total fixed income portfolio (including fixed maturities, short term investments, cash and cash equivalents and net payable for investments purchased) was AA. At December 31, 2007 approximately 53.4% of the fixed income portfolio (including fixed maturities, short term investments, cash and cash equivalents and net payable for investments purchased) was rated AAA by one or more of the principal ratings agencies. Approximately 2.3% was below investment grade or not rated. Refer to Results of Operations for further discussion surrounding the impact of credit market movements on the Companys investment portfolio and exposure to sub prime related assets. Net Unrealized Gains and Losses on Investments At December 31, 2007, the Company had net (pre tax) unrealized losses on fixed maturities and short term investments of $637.3 million and net unrealized gains on equity securities of $190.6 million. Of these amounts, gross unrealized losses on fixed maturities and short term investments and equities were $1,069.5 million and $14.9 million, respectively. At December 31, 2006, the Company had net (pre tax) unrealized gains on fixed maturities and short term investments of $139.8 million and net unrealized gains on equity securities of $185.6 million. Of these amounts, gross unrealized losses on fixed maturities and short term investments and equities were $244.1 million and $5.4 million, respectively. The impact of the deteriorating corporate and structured credit spreads during the twelve months ended December 31, 2007, was the primary reason for the decline in the net unrealized position on fixed maturities and short term investments, offset by the impact of declining government rates in the U.S.and the U.K. The information shown below about the unrealized losses on the Companys investments at December 31, 2007 and 2006, concerns the potential effect upon future earnings and financial position should management later conclude that some of the current declines in the fair value of these investments are other than temporary. The following is an analysis of how long each of those investment securities with an unrealized loss at December 31, 2007 and 2006 had been in a continual unrealized loss position: Type of Securities (U.S. dollars in thousands) Length of time in a continual unrealized loss position Amount of unrealized loss at December 31, 2007 Amount of unrealized loss at December 31, 2006 Fixed Maturities and Short Term Investments Less than six months $ 145,992 $ 88,199 At least 6 months but less than 12 months 575,913 44,555 At least 12 months but less than 2 years 309,148 85,617 2 years or more 38,446 25,720 Total $ 1,069,499 $ 244,091 Equities Less than six months $ 10,400 $ 2,983 At least 6 months but less than 12 months 4,496 2,448 Total $ 14,896 $ 5,431 At December 31, 2007, the total gross unrealized losses represented approximately 7,600 fixed income securities out of a total of approximately 17,100 fixed income securities (representing fixed maturities, short term investments, cash and cash equivalents and net payable for investments purchased) and approximately 300 equity securities out of a total of approximately 1,000. At December 31, 2006, the total gross unrealized losses represented approximately 9,700 fixed income securities out of a total of approximately 17,300 and approximately 200 equity securities out of a total of approximately 1,300. Of the gross unrealized investment losses on the fixed income and short term investments portfolio at December 31, 2007 of $1,069.5 million, approximately $546.1 million related to corporate fixed income securities. Within the corporate fixed income securities, approximately 68.0% of the losses were in the financial sector, 4.2% in the consumer non cyclical sector and 4.0% in the industrial sector. No other sector was greater than 4%. The largest unrealized loss in the fixed income portfolio was $7.9 million. 81 Factors considered in determining that additional other than temporary impairment charges were not warranted include; managements consideration of current and near term liquidity needs, an evaluation of the factors and time necessary for recovery, and the results of on going retrospective reviews of security sales and the basis for such sales. Securities in an unrealized loss position at December 31, 2007 are comprised of sub prime first liens and Alt A asset backed securities, CDOs with insignificant residential mortgage collateral, unrealized foreign exchange losses on US dollar assets held in foreign subsidiaries with little underlying value impairment and unrealized losses on investments supporting long term liabilities which have no history of significant sales at a loss. Following a detailed review of the Companys underlying sub prime residential and related mortgage exposures (topical assets) described above, as well as a consideration of the broader structured credit market, the Company has concluded that the remaining investments in these asset classes have decreased in value due to technical spreads widening and broader market sentiment, rather than fundamental collateral deterioration. Topical assets are held primarily in the Companys Other Financial Lines segment GIC portfolios and management has put in place a strategy to monitor and address the liquidity needs associated with these portfolios with the intent of holding the positions to recovery. The fact that the underlying securities cash flows continue to be in accordance with their contractual terms, combined with manager evaluations of the fundamentals supporting the underlying positions, have lead management to conclude that the values of the investments for which it reports unrealized losses as at December 31, 2007 are not other than temporarily impaired, as management currently has the intent and ability to hold these securities for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value. No equity securities held by the Company at December 31, 2007 were in a continual unrealized loss position for 12 months. The largest individual unrealized loss in the equity portfolio was $1.0 million. Of the gross unrealized investment losses on the fixed income portfolio at December 31, 2006 of $244.1 million, approximately $122.5 million related to corporate fixed income securities. Within the corporate fixed income securities, approximately 52.9% of the losses were in the financial sector, 11.9% in the communications sector, 8.8% in the consumer non cyclical sector, 5.4% in the utilities sector and 5.1% in the industrial sector. No other sector was greater than 5%. The largest unrealized loss in the fixed income portfolio was $1.8 million. No equity securities held by the Company at December 31, 2006 were in a continual unrealized loss position for 12 months. The largest individual unrealized loss in the equity portfolio was $0.5 million. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the following table sets forth the maturity profile of the fixed income securities that were in a gross unrealized loss position: Maturity profile in years of fixed maturity securities in a gross unrealized loss position (U.S. dollars in thousands) Amount of unrealized loss at December 31, 2007 Amount of unrealized loss at December 31, 2006 Less than 1 year remaining $ 23,695 $ 8,462 At least 1 year but less than 5 years remaining 103,081 45,118 At least 5 years but less than 10 years remaining 150,786 61,283 More than 10 years but less than 20 years remaining 60,471 17,376 At least 20 years or more remaining 233,689 36,204 Mortgage and asset backed securities 497,777 75,648 Total $ 1,069,499 $ 244,091 Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses Unpaid losses and loss expenses reserves relate primarily to the casualty insurance and reinsurance business written by the Company. The balance was $23.2 billion at December 31, 2007, which is an increase of $0.3 billion from December 31, 2006. The increase was due primarily to losses in 2007 of $351.0 million associated with reinsurance agreements with SCA and partially offset by favorable net prior year development as well as a reduction in reserves related to payments made in 2007 relating to 2005 catastrophic events. The table below represents a reconciliation of the Companys unpaid losses and loss expenses for the year ended December 31, 2007: (U.S. dollars in thousands) Gross unpaid losses and loss expenses Unpaid losses and loss expenses recoverable Net unpaid losses and loss expenses Balance at December 31, 2006 $ 22,895,021 $ (4,995,373 ) $ 17,899,648 Losses and loss expenses incurred 5,058,485 (1,217,482 ) 3,841,003 Losses and loss expenses paid/recovered 5,410,635 (1,594,759 ) 3,815,876 Other (including losses disposed or acquired and foreign exchange revaluation) 313,835 (47,519 ) 266,316 Financial guarantee reserves related to reinsurance agreements with SCA that are recorded within Net loss from operating affiliates 350,988 350,988 Balance at December 31, 2007 $ 23,207,694 $ (4,665,615 ) $ 18,542,079 82 The net income impact of losses incurred with respect reinsurance provided to SCA subsequent to the secondary sales of SCA shares on June 6, 2007 of $351.0 million is included in net loss from operating affiliates, and the unpaid case reserves related to such losses are in unpaid losses and loss expenses. These losses are associated with credit enhancement of certain ABS CDO exposures as well as residential mortgage backed securities backed by home equity lines of credit collateral. Certain of these underlying exposures were written by SCA in derivative form as credit default swaps. Consistent with both the Companys and SCAs accounting policies the unrealized fair value liability on those contracts written in derivative form include both an insurance reserve component and a mark to market liability. A component of the overall fair value liability is classified as a case reserve once the loss in considered probable and can be reasonably estimated. Such case reserves are reported on a discounted basis and net of the present value of related future premiums. The remainder of the liability is classified as a derivative liability. While the Company reviews the adequacy of established reserves for unpaid losses and loss expenses regularly, no assurance can be given that actual claims made and payments related thereto will not be in excess of the amounts reserved. In the future, if such reserves develop adversely, such deficiency would have a negative impact on future results of operations. See Item 1, Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses, Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Item 8, Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Losses and Loss Expenses, for further discussion. Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses Recoverable and Reinsurance Balances Receivable In the normal course of business, the Company seeks to reduce the potential amount of loss arising from claims events by reinsuring certain levels of risk assumed in various areas of exposure with other insurers or reinsurers. While reinsurance agreements are designed to limit the Companys losses from large exposures and permit recovery of a portion of direct unpaid losses, reinsurance does not relieve the Company of its ultimate liability to the Companys insureds. Accordingly, the losses and loss expense reserves on the balance sheet represent the Companys total unpaid gross losses. Unpaid losses and loss expense recoverable relates to estimated reinsurance recoveries on the unpaid loss and loss expense reserves. Unpaid losses and loss expense recoverables were $4.7 billion and $5.0 billion at December 31, 2007, and 2006, respectively. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, reinsurance balances receivable were $0.9 and $1.1 billion, respectively. The table below presents the Companys net reinsurance recoverable at December 31, 2007 and 2006. (U.S. dollars in thousands) December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 Reinsurance balances receivable $ 872,465 $ 1,128,721 Reinsurance recoverable on future policy benefits 31,856 15,296 Reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss expenses 4,804,209 5,208,749 Bad debt reserve on unpaid losses and loss expenses recoverable and reinsurance balances receivable (193,128 ) (218,343 ) Net paid and unpaid losses and loss expenses recoverable and reinsurance balances receivable $ 5,515,402 $ 6,134,423 The Company has credit risk should any of its reinsurers be unable or unwilling to settle amounts due. Of the $5.5 billion total unpaid losses and loss expenses recoverable and reinsurance balances receivable at December 31, 2007, no individual reinsurer accounted for 10% or more of the total. The Company is the beneficiary of letters of credit, trust accounts and funds withheld in the aggregate amount of $2.1 billion at December 31, 2007, collateralizing reinsurance recoverables with respect to certain reinsurers. The provision for uncollectible reinsurance is required principally due to the failure of reinsurers to indemnify the Company primarily because of disputes under reinsurance contracts and insolvencies. As at December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company had a reserve for potential non recoveries from reinsurers of $193.1 million and $218.3 million, respectively. Approximately 78% of the total unpaid loss and loss expense recoverable and reinsurance balances receivable (excluding collateral held) outstanding at December 31, 2007, were due from reinsurers rated A or better by S&P. The following is an analysis of the total recoverable and reinsurance balances receivable at December 31, 2007, by reinsurers owing more than 3% of such total: Name of reinsurer Standard and Poors rating % of total Munich Reinsurance Company AA /Stable 8.97 % Swiss Reinsurance Company AA /Stable 7.60 % Lloyds Syndicates A+/Stable 5.72 % Employers Reinsurance Corporation AA /Stable 5.40 % Transatlantic Reinsurance Company AA /Negative 3.69 % The following table sets forth the ratings profile of the reinsurers that support the unpaid loss and loss expense recoverable and reinsurance balances receivable net of security noted above. 83 Standard and Poors rating % of total AAA 5.3 % AA 46.4 % A 25.9 % BBB 0.7 % BB and below 0.7 % Captives 17.2 % Not Rated 0.8 % Other 3.0 % Total 100 % Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity Liquidity is a measure of a companys ability to generate cash flows sufficient to meet short term and long term cash requirements of its business operations. As a holding company, the Companys assets consist primarily of its investments in subsidiaries and affiliates, and the Companys future cash flows depend upon the availability of dividends or other statutorily permissible payments from its subsidiaries and affiliates. The ability to pay such dividends is limited by the applicable laws and regulations of the various countries in which the Company operates, including, among others, Bermuda, the United States, Ireland, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and those of the Society of Lloyds and certain contractual provisions. See Item 8, Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Statutory Financial Data, for further discussion. No assurance can be given that the Company or its subsidiaries will be permitted to pay dividends in the future. As an insurance company, one of the Companys principal responsibilities to its clients is to ensure that the Company has ready access to funds to settle large unforeseen claims. The Company would generally expect that positive cash flow from operations (underwriting activities and investment income) will be sufficient to cover cash outflows under most future loss scenarios. However, there is a possibility that unforeseen demands could be placed on the Company due to unforeseen claims activity. Potential events causing such a liquidity strain could be several significant catastrophes occurring in a relatively short period of time or large scale uncollectible reinsurance recoverables on paid losses (as a result of coverage disputes, reinsurers credit problems or decreases in the value of collateral supporting reinsurance recoverables). Additional strain on liquidity could occur if the investments sold to fund loss payments were sold at depressed prices. Because each subsidiary focuses on a more limited number of specific product lines than is collectively available from the consolidated group of companies, the mix of business tends to be less diverse at the subsidiary level. As a result, the probability of a liquidity strain, as described above, may be greater for individual subsidiaries than when liquidity is assessed on a consolidated basis. If such a liquidity strain were to occur in a subsidiary, the Company may be required to contribute capital to the particular subsidiary and or curtail dividends from the subsidiary to support holding company operations. Sources of Liquidity See Item 8 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. There are three main sources of cash flows for the Company those provided by operations, investing activities and financing activities. Operating Cash Flows Cash flow from operations is derived from two main sources: 1) The receipt of investment income on the Companys total investment portfolio; and 2) The net receipt of premiums less claims and expenses related to its underwriting activities in its property and casualty operations as well as its Life Operations segment. Cash flow from operations was $2.2 billion in 2007, as compared to $2.4 billion in 2006. The decrease in 2007 is due primarily to the softening market impacts on premiums and partially offset by increased net investment income. Net cash received from underwriting activities is comprised of receipt of premiums, minus payment of claims and operating and acquisition costs. Premiums and acquisition expenses are settled based on terms of trade as stipulated by an underwriting contract, and generally are received within the first year of inception of a policy when the premium is written, but can be up to three years on certain reinsurance business assumed. Operating expenses are generally paid within a year of being incurred. Claims especially for casualty business, may take a much longer time before they are reported and ultimately settled and this is why the Company establishes reserves for unpaid losses and loss expenses. Therefore, the amount of claims paid in any one year is not necessarily related to the amount of net losses incurred, as reported in the consolidated statement of income. Total net paid losses were $3.8 billion, $3.9 billion and $2.6 billion in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Net paid losses in 2007 continued to be impacted by payments on the 2005 catastrophes. Similarly, in 2006, the increase in net paid losses was due to payments for catastrophes that occurred in 2005. Net losses incurred were $3.8 billion, $4.2 billion and $7.4 billion in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The payout of the Companys casualty reserves at December 31, 2007, could be as long as a thirty year period. Property claims are generally reported and settled within a much shorter period, usually up to three years. Investing Cash Flows 84 Generally, positive cash flow from operations and financing activities is invested in the Companys portfolio, including affiliates or acquisition of subsidiaries. Investing activities in 2007 and 2006, were primarily related to the purchase and sale of portfolio investments. In addition to purchases and sales of the Companys total investment portfolio, the Company sold a portion of its interest in SCA on June 6, 2007, through a secondary offering for $316.3 million. However, as a result of the sale and subsequent deconsolidation of SCA, investing cash flows were reduced by $110.8 million. In 2006, the Company sold a portion of its interest in SCA through a secondary offering for $104.7 million and its interests in Frontpoint Investment Managers for $66.8 million. If paid losses accelerated beyond the Companys ability to fund such paid losses from current operating cash flows or events lead to negative cash flows from financing activities, the Company might need to either liquidate a portion of its investment portfolio or arrange for financing. To further ensure the sufficiency of funds to settle such claims, the Company holds a certain amount of invested assets in cash and short term investments and maintains available credit facilities. In addition, for certain insurance, reinsurance, or deposit contracts that tend to have relatively large and reasonably predictable cash outflows, the Company attempts to establish dedicated portfolios of assets that are duration matched with the related liabilities. Financing Cash Flows Cash flows related to financing activities include ordinary and preferred share related transactions, the payment of dividends, the issue or repayment of debt and deposit liability transactions. In 2007, the Company repurchased approximately $1.1 billion of ordinary shares through its share repurchase programs and issued approximately $825.0 million of ordinary shares in connection with the maturity of the purchase contracts associated with the 6.5% Units. In addition, the Company issued Series E preference ordinary shares for $1 billion and redeemed both its Series A and Series B preference ordinary shares for $230.0 million and $287.5 million, respectively. With regards to debt transactions in 2007, the Company purchased and retired the 2009 Senior Notes for $825.0 million in connection with the 6.5% Units and issued the 2027 Senior Notes for gross proceeds of approximately $324.4 million. In 2007, dividends paid were $274.0 million for ordinary shares and $69.5 million for preferred shares. In 2007, the Company paid out $360.0 million of net cash relating to deposit liability contracts. See below for further discussion surrounding recent and potential payments associated with GICs guaranteed by subsidiaries of SCA. In 2006, the Company received $342.2 million related to the sale of a portion of its interest in SCA through a primary offering. In addition, in the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company executed a number of debt and equity transactions which affected the cash flow from financing activities described below in Capital Resources, below. As noted above, as a result of the downgrades of XLCA, the Company will settle, by late March 2008, the majority of the GIC portfolio. The Company is considered a Well Known Seasoned Issuer (WKSI) under the rules of the SEC. The Company maintains shelf registration statement on Form S 3 and is eligible for automatically effective future registration statements for the potential offering and sale of an unlimited amount of debt and equity securities. The Registration Statement allows for the following types of securities to be offered: (i) debt securities, preferred stock, common stock, depositary shares, warrants, stock purchase contracts, stock purchase units and junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures of the Company, (ii) preferred securities of any of one or more capital trusts organized by the Company and guarantees of such securities by the Company and (iii) debt securities of XL Capital Finance (Europe) plc and guarantees of such securities by the Company. Under Rule 3 09 of Regulation S X, the Company is required to file separate audited financial statements of SCA (the SCA Financials). The SCA Financials were not available at the time of filing this Annual Report on Form 10 K (the 10 K). The Company intends to file the SCA Financials as an exhibit to an amendment to the 10 K (the 10 K/A) as soon as they are available. Until such time, the Company may not satisfy the registrant requirements for use of Form S 3 and therefore may be ineligible to use such Form. Should the Company be unable to file the 10 K/A on or before March 17, 2008, the Company may be ineligible to use Form S 3 for a period of twelve months. In addition the Company maintains letter of credit facilities which provide liquidity. Details of these facilities are described below in Capital Resources. Capital Resources In addition to ordinary share capital, the Company depends on external sources of financing to support its underwriting activities in the form of: a. ordinary share capital; b. debt; c. preference shares; d. contingent capital; and e. letter of Credit Facilities and other sources of collateral. In particular, the Company requires, among other things: Sufficient capital to maintain its financial strength, claims paying and debt ratings, as issued by several ratings agencies, at levels considered necessary by management to enable the Companys key operating subsidiaries to compete. Sufficient capital to enable its underwriting subsidiaries to meet the capital adequacy tests performed by statutory agencies in the U.S., the U.K., and other key markets. 85 Letters of credit and other forms of collateral that are required by the Companys operating companies that are non admitted under U.S. state insurance regulations. The Company also uses letters of credit to support its operations at Lloyds. Revolving credit to meet short term liquidity needs. The majority of the Companys principal credit facilities are multi year transactions that will expire in 2009, 2010 and 2012. The following risks are associated with the Companys requirement to renew these facilities in future years: The credit available from banks may be reduced resulting in the Companys need to pledge its investment portfolio to customers. This could result in a lower investment yield. The Company may be downgraded by one or more rating agencies which could materially and negatively impact the Companys business, financial condition, results of operations and or liquidity. The volume of business that the Companys non admitted subsidiaries are able to transact could be reduced if the Company is unable to renew its letter of credit facilities at an appropriate amount. Continued consolidation within the banking industry may result in the aggregate amount of credit provided to the Company being reduced. The Company attempts to mitigate this risk by identifying and or selecting additional banks that can participate in the credit facilities upon renewal. a) Ordinary Share Capital On February 23, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company approved a share repurchase program that authorized the Company to repurchase up to $1.0 billion of its Class A ordinary shares and included the unused $135.4 million allocated to the share repurchase program authorized by the Board of Directors in January of 2000. Under the program, the Company repurchased and cancelled approximately 13.2 million shares during the first nine months of 2007 and fully utilized the $1.0 billion authorized under the share repurchase program. On September 24, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company approved a new share repurchase program, authorizing the Company to repurchase up to $500.0 million of its Class A ordinary shares. Repurchases may be made from time to time in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, and the Company expects that those repurchases will be funded from cash on hand. The timing and amount of the share repurchases under the program will depend on a variety of factors, including market conditions, legal requirements and other factors. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had repurchased 1.8 million shares for $124.5 million under the new share repurchase program. In connection with the maturity of the purchase contracts associated with the 6.5% Units, the Company issued 10,799,913 Class A ordinary shares for net proceeds of approximately $823.0 million, a portion of which was used to retire the 2009 Senior Notes. In December 2005, the Company issued 38.9 million ordinary shares at a price of $65.0 per share to support capital requirements subsequent to the 2005 Atlantic hurricane losses and the loss related to the conclusion of the Winterthur Decision. The net proceeds from this issuance were $2.4 billion. See Item 8, Note 20, to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Share Capital. b) Debt At December 31, 2007, banks and investors provided the Company and its subsidiaries with $4.0 billion of debt capacity, of which $2.9 billion was utilized by the Company. These facilities consist of: Revolving credit facilities of $1.1 billion in aggregate. Senior Unsecured Notes of approximately $2.9 billion. These notes require the Company to pay a fixed rate of interest during their lives. At December 31, 2007, there were six outstanding issues of senior unsecured notes: $255 million senior notes due April 2011, with a fixed coupon of 6.58%. These notes were privately placed and are not traded on a public exchange. $600 million senior notes due January 2012, with a fixed coupon of 6.5%. The security is publicly traded. The notes were issued at $99.469 and gross proceeds were $596.8 million. Related expenses of the offering amounted to $7.9 million. $600 million senior notes due September 2014, with a fixed coupon of 5.25%. The security is publicly traded. The notes were issued in two tranches of $300 million aggregate principal amount each one tranche at 99.432% and the other at 98.419%. Aggregate gross proceeds were $593.6 million. Related expenses of the offering amounted to $4 million. $350 million senior notes due November 2024, with a fixed coupon of 6.375%. The security is publicly traded. The notes were issued at 100.0% and gross proceeds were $350 million. Related expenses of the offering amounted to $2 million. 86 $745 million of senior notes due February 2011 with a fixed coupon of 5.25%. These securities are a component of 7.00% Equity Security Units (the 7.00% Units) that are publicly traded. In addition to the coupon paid on the senior notes, contract adjustment payments of 1.75% per annum are paid on forward purchase contracts for the Companys common shares for a total distribution of 7.00% per annum. The purchase contracts mature in 2009, and the senior notes mature in 2011. In February 2009, the senior notes will be remarketed whereby the interest rate will be reset in order to generate sufficient remarketing proceeds to satisfy the 7.00% Unit holders obligations under the purchase contract. $325 million of senior notes due 2027, with a fixed coupon of 6.25%. The security is publicly traded. The notes were issued at 99.805% and gross proceeds were $324.4 million. Related expenses of the offering amounted to $2.5 million. The following tables present the Companys debt under outstanding securities and lenders commitments as at December 31, 2007: Payments Due by Period Notes Payable and Debt (U.S. dollars in thousands) Commitment In Use Year of Expiry Less than 1 Year 1 to 3 Years 3 to 5 Years After 5 Years 5 year revolvers (1) 1,000,000 2010/ 2012 5 year revolver 100,000 2010 5.25% Senior Notes 745,000 745,000 2011 745,000 6.58% Guaranteed Senior Notes 255,000 255,000 2011 255,000 6.50% Guaranteed Senior Notes 598,713 598,713 2012 600,000 5.25% Senior Notes 595,631 595,631 2014 600,000 6.375% Senior Notes 350,000 350,000 2024 350,000 6.25% Senior Notes 324,387 324,387 2027 325,000 3,968,731 2,868,731 1,600,000 1,275,000 Commitment and In Use data represent December 31, 2007 accreted values. Payments Due by Period data represent ultimate redemption values. (1) The 2010 and 2012 5 year revolving credit facilities share a $1.0 billion revolving credit sublimit. c) Preferred shares On March 15, 2007, the Company issued 1,000,000 Fixed/Floating Series E Perpetual Non Cumulative Preference Ordinary Shares, par value $0.01 each, with liquidation preference US$1,000 per share (the Series E Preference Shares). The Company received net proceeds of approximately $983.8 million from the offering. Until April 15, 2017, dividends on the Series E Preference Shares are payable semiannually on a non cumulative basis, when, as and if declared by the Companys Board of Directors, on April 15 and October 15 of each year, commencing in 2007, at a fixed rate equal to 6.5% per annum on the liquidation preference. From and after April 15, 2017, dividends on the Series E Preference Shares are payable quarterly on a non cumulative basis, when, as and if declared by the Companys Board of Directors, on January 15, April 15, July 15 and October 15 of each year at a floating rate equal to three month LIBOR plus 2.4575% on the liquidation preference. The Series E Preference Shares are perpetual securities with no fixed maturity date and are not convertible into any of the Companys other securities. On August 14, 2007, the Company redeemed all of its outstanding 8.0% Series A Preference Ordinary Shares (the Series A Preference Shares) for approximately $25.24 per Series A Preference Share including accrued dividends. The aggregate redemption price was approximately $232.2 million. On November 18, 2007, the Company redeemed all of its outstanding 7.625% Series B Preference Ordinary Shares (the Series B Preference Shares) for approximately $25.26 per Series B Preference Share including accrued dividends. The aggregate redemption price was approximately $290.5 million. d) Contingent Capital In addition to funded debt transactions, the Company has entered into contingent capital transactions. No up front proceeds were received by the Company under these transactions, however, in the event that the associated irrevocable put option agreements are exercised, 87 proceeds previously raised from investors from the issuance of pass through trust securities would be received in return for the issuance of preferred shares. On December 5, 2006, the Company and certain operating subsidiaries (Ceding Insurers) entered into a securities issuance agreement (the Securities Issuance Agreement), and certain of its foreign insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries (Ceding Insurers) entered into an excess of loss reinsurance agreement (the Reinsurance Agreement), Stoneheath Re (Stoneheath). The net effect of these agreements to the Company is the creation of a contingent put option to issue $350.0 million of preference ordinary shares in the aggregate. The agreements provide the Company with a Reinsurance Collateral Account in support of certain Covered Perils named in the Reinsurance Agreement. The initial Covered Perils will include United States wind, European wind, California earthquake and terrorism worldwide. After an initial three month period, the covered perils as well as the attachment points and aggregate retention amounts may be changed by the Ceding Insurers in their sole discretion. This may result in a material increase or decrease in the likelihood of payment under the Reinsurance Agreement. On each date on which a Ceding Insurer withdraws funds from the Reinsurance Collateral Account, the Company shall issue and deliver to Stoneheath an amount of XL Capital Ltd Series D Preference Shares (the XL Preferred Securities) having an aggregate liquidation preference that is equal to the amount of funds so withdrawn from the Collateral Account. The Company is obligated to reimburse Stoneheath for certain fees and ordinary expenses. The initial term of the Reinsurance Agreement will be for the period from the Closing Date through June 30, 2007, with four annual mandatory extensions through June 30, 2011 (unless coverage is exhausted there under prior to such date). The Ceding Insurers may thereafter extend the Reinsurance Agreement at their option for additional calendar quarters without limit (unless coverage is exhausted there under). The contingent put option is recorded at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in earnings. The XL Preferred Securities, if issued, will pay dividends on a non cumulative basis at a fixed rate of 6.868% per annum through October 15, 2011 and thereafter at a floating rate based on 3 month LIBOR, plus 3.12%. In July 2003, the Company entered into a contingent capital transaction with an aggregate value of $500.0 million. This transaction also provides the Company with an insurance trust that provides the Company with statutory relief under state insurance regulations in the U.S. Under the terms of this facility, the Company has acquired an irrevocable put option to issue preference ordinary shares into a trust in return for proceeds raised from investors. This put option may be exercised by the Company at any time. In addition, the Company may be required to issue preference ordinary shares to the trust under certain circumstances, including, but not limited to, the non payment of the put option premium and a ratings downgrade of the Company. In connection with this transaction, the fair value of the put premiums and other related costs, in total of $109.9 million was charged to Additional Paid in Capital and a deferred liability was established (included with Other liabilities) of $102.5 million in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2003. The Company amortizes this liability that resulted in an interest expense of approximately $2.3 million in 2007 and $2.6 million in 2006. e) Letter of Credit Facilities and other sources of collateral At December 31, 2007, the Company had six letter of credit facilities in place with total availability of $7.3 billion, of which $3.7 billion was utilized. Amount of Commitment Expiration per period Other Commercial Commitments (U.S. dollars in thousands) Commitment In Use Year of Expiry Less than 1 Year 1 to 3 Years 3 to 5 Years After 5 Years Letter of Credit Facility $ 200,000 $ 157,041 Continuous $ 200,000 $ $ $ Letter of Credit Facility 541 541 2008 541 Letter of Credit Facility 1,728 1,728 2008 1,728 Letter of Credit Facility 893,790 686,044 2009 893,790 Letter of Credit Facility (1) 2,250,000 2010 2,250,000 Letter of Credit Facility (1) 4,000,000 2,842,497 2012 4,000,000 Six letter of credit facilities $ 7,346,059 $ 3,687,851 $ 202,269 $ 3,143,790 $ 4,000,000 $ (1) Of the total letter of credit facilities above, $1 billion is also included in the revolvers under notes payable and debt. It is anticipated that the commercial facilities will be renewed on expiry but such renewals are subject to the availability of credit from banks utilized by the Company, or other financial institutions. In the event that such credit support is insufficient, the Company could be required to provide alternative security to cedants. This could take the form of insurance trusts supported by the Companys investment portfolio or funds withheld (amounts retained by ceding companies to collateralize loss or premium reserves) using the Companys cash resources or combinations thereof. The face amount of letters of credit required is driven by, among other things, loss development of existing reserves, the payment pattern of such reserves, the expansion of business written by the Company and the loss experience of such business. In addition to letters of credit, the Company has established insurance trusts in the U.S. that provide cedants with statutory relief required under state insurance regulation in the U.S. The Company reviews current and projected collateral requirements on a regular basis, as well as new sources of collateral. Managements objective is to maintain an excess amount of collateral sources over expected uses. The Company also reviews its liquidity needs on a regular basis. 88 The following letter of credit facilities were originated or renewed during 2007: On February 21, 2007, the Company amended the letter of credit facility supporting its syndicates at Lloyds of London by reducing the aggregate commitments from the participating banks from 500 million to 450 million. On November 14, 2007, the Company renewed this facility for a further two years. On March 22, 2007, the Company amended the $500 million letter of credit facility that originally closed on May 9, 2006, by extending the expiration date to June 22, 2007. On June 22, 2007, three facilities expired a $2 billion three year unsecured credit and letter of credit facility, a $500 million 364 day letter of credit facility, and a bilateral 364 day $100 million credit and letter of credit facility. On June 22, 2007, the Company closed a new $4 billion unsecured revolving credit and letter of credit facility. The new facility has a term of five years. The facility is available in the form of revolving credit in the amount of $1 billion (such limit is shared with the Companys other syndicated revolving credit facility that closed in June 2005) and in the form of letters of credit in the aggregate amount of $4 billion. In addition to the letter of credit facilities described above, the Company had the following facility at December 31, 2007 but was subsequently terminated in February 2008: In February 2003, the Company entered into an aggregate of $300.0 million of commercial paper based credit facilities (the Credit Facilities). These facilities were increased to $500.0 million in June 2003. The proceeds of advances under the Credit Facilities were used to fund a trust account (Trust) to collateralize the reinsurance obligations of the Company under an intercompany quota share reinsurance agreement. The Company could have faced additional obligations under the Credit Facilities prior to the stated maturity of February 25, 2008, if certain events had occurred, including, but not limited to the Companys insolvency, withdrawal of assets from the Regulation 114 trust by the ceding company, the downgrade of the Companys credit ratings below certain specified levels, or the failure of the agent to have a first priority perfected security interest in the collateral posted by the Company. The issued securities and the Companys repayment obligations were recorded as a net balance on the Companys balance sheet because the Company had a contractual legal right of offset. In February 2008, the Company terminated this arrangement, resulting in a repayment of $500.0 million and termination of the Trust. Cross Default and Other Provisions in Debt Instruments The following describes certain terms of the documents referred to below. All documents referred to below have been filed with the SEC and should be referred to for an assessment of the complete contractual obligations of the Company. In general, all of the Companys bank facilities, indentures and other documents relating to the Companys outstanding indebtedness, including the Credit Facilities discussed above (collectively, the Companys Debt Documents), contain cross default provisions to each other and the Companys Debt Documents contain affirmative covenants. These covenants provide for, among other things, minimum required ratings of the Companys insurance and reinsurance operating subsidiaries and the level of secured indebtedness in the future. In addition, generally each of the Companys Debt Documents provide for an event of default in the event of a change of control of the Company or some events involving bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization of the Company. The Companys credit facilities and the 6.58% Guaranteed Senior Notes also contain minimum consolidated net worth covenants. Under the Companys 2 year Lloyds and five year U.S. credit facilities placement notes described above, in the event that the XL Capital Group, XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd and XL Re Ltd fail to maintain a financial strength rating of at least A from A.M. Best, an event of default would occur. In January 2008, A.M. Best Company, Inc. (A.M. Best) revised the financial strength rating of the Companys leading property and casualty operating subsidiaries to A from A+ and affirmed them with a stable outlook. The downgrade by A.M. Best was primarily due to their concerns regarding the Companys historic earnings volatility. Consistent with the ratings actions noted above, Fitch Ratings (Fitch), in 2008, revised the financial strength rating of the Companys leading property and casualty operating subsidiaries to A+ from AA and affirmed them with a stable outlook. As well, in January 2008, Moodys Investors Service, Inc. (Moodys) downgraded the insurance financial strength ratings of the Companys core property and casualty operating companies to A1 from Aa3. In December 2007, Standard & Poors (S&P), affirmed the Companys core property and casualty operating companies financial strength ratings at A+ with a stable outlook. Subsequent the aforementioned fourth quarter 2007 charges, in January 2008, S&P announced it would be taking no rating actions and the Companys financial strength ratings remained unchanged. Under the Companys ten year private placement notes described above, in the event that the Company fails to maintain a financial strength rating of at least A from A.M. Best or XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd and XL Re Ltd fail to maintain a financial strength rating of at least A from S&P, an event of default would occur. The Company and its subsidiaries currently has an A+ (stable) rating from S&P and an A (stable) rating from A.M. Best. 89 The 6.5% Guaranteed Senior Notes indentures contains a cross default provision. In general, in the event that the Company defaults in the payment of indebtedness in the amount of $50.0 million or more, an event of default would be triggered under the Guaranteed Senior Notes indentures. Given that all of the Companys Debt Documents contain cross default provisions, this may result in all holders declaring such debt due and payable and an acceleration of all debt due under those documents. If this were to occur, the Company may not have funds sufficient at that time to repay any or all of such indebtedness. In addition, the Companys unsecured Lloyds letter of credit facility provides that, in the event that the Companys insurance and reinsurance rated operating subsidiaries in Bermuda fall below a rating of A from A.M. Best, the facility would then be required to be fully secured by the Company, at which time the Company would be required to either (i) provide an amount in cash to cover an amount equal to the aggregate letters of credit outstanding at that time or (ii) deposit assets in trust securing 105% of the aggregate letters of credit outstanding at that time. If this were to occur, the Company may not be able to provide the collateral required in order to maintain this facility. Long Term Contractual Obligations The following table presents the Companys long term contractual obligations and related payments as at December 31, 2007, due by period. This table excludes further commitments of $204.7 million to the Companys related investment funds and certain limited partnerships, and letter of credit facilities of $3.7 billion. See Item 8, Note 15, Derivative Instruments, and Note 18, Commitments and Contingencies, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. See Item 8, Note 14, Notes Payable and Debt and Financing Arrangements, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Contractual Obligations (U.S. dollars in thousands) Total Less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years More than 5 years Long term debt obligations $ 2,875,000 $ $ $ 1,600,000 $ 1,275,000 Interest on long term debt 1,361,012 169,017 347,811 241,215 602,969 Contingent capital facilities 98,610 17,450 38,960 30,840 11,360 Equity Units 16,297 13,038 3,259 Alternative Collateral 8,910 8,910 Operating lease obligations 229,040 35,241 61,216 43,919 88,664 Capital lease obligations 342,829 13,009 27,001 28,368 274,451 Deposit liabilities (1) 10,540,935 3,310,520 1,895,404 685,306 4,649,705 Future policy benefits (2) 10,840,888 409,505 829,142 852,887 8,749,354 Unpaid losses and loss expenses property and casualty operations (3) 23,904,100 5,267,085 6,736,161 3,689,161 8,211,693 Total $ 50,217,621 $ 9,243,775 $ 9,938,954 $ 7,171,696 $ 23,863,196 (1) Deposit liabilities on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2007 were $7,920,085. The difference from the amount included above relates to the discount on payments due in the future. The payment related to these liabilities varies primarily based on interest rates. The ultimate payments associated with these liabilities could differ from the Companys estimate. As noted above, as a result of the downgrades of XLCA in January and February 2008, the Company will settle, by late March 2008, the majority of the GIC portfolio. See Item 8, Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Deposit Liabilities, for further information. (2) Future policy benefit reserves related to Life operations were $6,772,042 on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2007. Amounts included above include an allowance for future premiums in respect of contracts under which premiums are payable throughout the life of the underlying policy. The value of the discount is also included for those lines of business that have reserves where future claim payments and future premium receipts can be estimated using actuarial principles. The timing and amounts of actual claims payments and premium receipts related to these reserves vary based on the underlying experience of the portfolio. Typical elements of the experience include mortality, morbidity and persistency. The ultimate amount of the claims payments and premium receipts could differ materially from the Companys estimated amounts. (3) The unpaid loss and loss expenses were $23,207,694 on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2007. The timing and amounts of actual claims payments related to these P&C and financial guarantee reserves vary based on many factors including large individual losses, changes in the legal environment, as well as general market conditions. The ultimate amount of the claims payments could differ materially from the Companys estimated amounts. For information regarding the estimates for unpaid loss and loss expenses as well as factors effecting potential payment patterns of reserves for actual and potential claims related the Companys different lines of business see Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates above. Certain lines of business written by the Company, such as excess casualty, have loss experience characterized as low frequency and high severity. This may result in significant variability in loss payment patterns and, therefore, may impact the related asset/liability investment management process. In order to be in a position, if necessary, to make these payments, the Companys liquidity requirements are supported by having revolving lines of credit facilities available to the Company and significant reinsurance programs, in addition to the Companys general high grade fixed income investment portfolio. Variable Interest Entities and Other Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company utilizes variable interest entities both indirectly and directly in the ordinary course of the Companys business. On December 5, 2006, the Company and certain operating subsidiaries (Ceding Insurers) entered into a securities issuance agreement (the Securities Issuance Agreement), and certain of its foreign insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries (Ceding Insurers) entered into an excess of loss reinsurance agreement (the Reinsurance Agreement), with Stoneheath Re (Stoneheath). The net effect of these agreements to the Company is the creation of a contingent put option in the amount of $350.0 million in the aggregate. 90 The agreements provide the Company with a Reinsurance Collateral Account in support of certain Covered Perils named in the Reinsurance Agreement. The initial Covered Perils will include United States wind, European wind, California earthquake and terrorism worldwide. After an initial three month period, the covered perils as well as the attachment points and aggregate retention amounts may be changed by the Ceding Insurers in their sole discretion. This may result in a material increase or decrease in the likelihood of payment under the Reinsurance Agreement. On each date on which a Ceding Insurer withdraws funds from the Reinsurance Collateral Account, the Company shall issue and deliver to the Issuer an amount of XL Capital Ltd Series D Preference Shares having an aggregate liquidation preference that is equal to the amount of funds so withdrawn from the Collateral Account. The Company is obligated to reimburse Stoneheath for certain fees and ordinary expenses. The initial term of the Reinsurance Agreement will be for the period from the Closing Date through June 30, 2007, with four annual mandatory extensions through June 30, 2011 (unless coverage is exhausted there under prior to such date). The Ceding Insurers may thereafter extend the Reinsurance Agreement at their option for additional calendar quarters without limit (unless coverage is exhausted there under). The contingent put option is recorded at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in earnings. The Stoneheath preferred securities and, if issued, the XL Series D Preference Shares will pay dividends on a non cumulative basis at a fixed rate of 6.868% per annum through October 15, 2011 and thereafter at a floating rate based on 3 month LIBOR, plus 3.12%. The Company through SCA has historically provided various forms of credit enhancement including financial guarantee insurance and reinsurance of structured transactions backed by pools of assets of specified types, municipal obligations supported by the issuers ability to charge fees for specified services or projects, and structured single risk based obligations including essential infrastructure projects and obligations backed by receivables from future sales of commodities and other specified services. The obligations related to these transactions are often securitized through variable interest entities. Subsequent to June 6, 2007 an the deconsolidation of SCA, the Companys involvement with such variable interest entities is limited to its reinsurance of SCA. In synthetic transactions, the Company guarantees payment obligations of counterparties including special purpose vehicles under credit derivatives referencing asset portfolios. The Company invests in CDOs, and other investment vehicles that are issued through variable interest entities as part of the Companys risk asset portfolio. In February 2003, the Company entered into an aggregate of $300.0 million of commercial paper based credit facilities (the Credit Facilities). These facilities were increased to $500.0 million in June 2003. The proceeds of advances under the Credit Facilities were used to fund a trust account (Trust) to collateralize the reinsurance obligations of the Company under an intercompany quota share reinsurance agreement. The issued securities and the Companys repayment obligations were recorded as a net balance on the Companys balance sheet because the Company had a contractual legal right of offset. In February 2008, the Company terminated this arrangement, resulting in a repayment of $500.0 million and termination of the Trust. In July 2003, the Company entered into a contingent capital transaction with an aggregate value of $500.0 million. This transaction also provides the Company with an insurance trust that provides the Company with statutory relief under state insurance regulations in the U.S. Under the terms of this facility, the Company has acquired an irrevocable put option to issue preference ordinary shares into a trust in return for proceeds raised from investors. This put option may be exercised by the Company at any time. In addition, the Company may be required to issue preference ordinary shares to the trust under certain circumstances, including, but not limited to, the non payment of the put option premium and a ratings downgrade of the Company. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Item 8, Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Significant Accounting Policies, for a discussion on recent accounting pronouncements. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA) provides a safe harbor for forward looking statements. Any prospectus, prospectus supplement, the Companys Annual Report to ordinary shareholders, any proxy statement, any other Form 10 K, Form 10 Q or Form 8 K of the Company or any other written or oral statements made by or on behalf of the Company may include forward looking statements that reflect the Companys current views with respect to future events and financial performance. Such statements include forward looking statements both with respect to the Company in general, and to the insurance and reinsurance sectors in particular (both as to underwriting and investment matters). Statements that include the words expect, intend, plan, believe, project, anticipate, will, may, and similar statements of a future or forward looking nature identify forward looking statements for purposes of the PSLRA or otherwise. All forward looking statements address matters that involve risks and uncertainties. Accordingly, there are or will be important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in such statements. The Company believes that these factors include, but are not limited to, the following: (i) changes to the size of the Companys claims relating to natural catastrophes; (ii) the timely and full recoverability of reinsurance placed by the Company with third parties, or other amounts due to the Company; (iii) the projected amount of ceded reinsurance recoverables and the ratings and creditworthiness of reinsurers may change; (iv) the timing of claims payments being faster or the receipt of reinsurance recoverables being slower than anticipated by the Company; (v) higher than expected defaults on relevant underlying obligations of SCAs subsidiaries and the adequacy of the claims paying ability of those SCA subsidiaries; (vi) the potential for larger than expected mark to market movements on credit derivatives originally written by SCA and reinsured by the Company; (vii) ineffectiveness or obsolescence of the Companys business strategy due to changes in current or future market conditions; (viii) increased competition on the basis of pricing, capacity, coverage terms or other factors; (ix) greater frequency or 91 severity of claims and loss activity, including as a result of natural or man made catastrophic events, than the Companys underwriting, reserving or investment practices anticipate based on historical experience or industry data; (x) developments in the worlds financial and capital markets that adversely affect the performance of the Companys investments and the Companys access to such markets including, but not limited to further market developments relating to sub prime and residential mortgages (xi) the potential impact on the Company from government mandated insurance coverage for acts of terrorism; (xii) the potential impact of variable interest entities or other off balance sheet arrangements on the Company; (xiii) developments in bankruptcy proceedings or other developments related to bankruptcies of companies insofar as they affect property and casualty insurance and reinsurance coverages or claims that the Company may have as a counterparty; (xiv) availability of borrowings and letters of credit under the Companys credit facilities; (xv) changes in regulation or tax laws applicable to the Company or its subsidiaries, brokers or customers; (xvi) acceptance of the Companys products and services, including new products and services; (xvii) changes in the availability, cost or quality of reinsurance; (xviii) changes in the distribution or placement of risks due to increased consolidation of insurance and reinsurance brokers; (xix) loss of key personnel; (xx) the effects of mergers, acquisitions and divestitures; (xxi) changes in ratings, rating agency policies or practices; (xxii) changes in accounting policies or practices or the application thereof; (xxiii) legislative or regulatory developments; (xxiv) changes in general economic conditions, including inflation, foreign currency exchange rates and other factors; (xxv) the effects of business disruption or economic contraction due to war, terrorism or other hostilities; and (xxvi) the other factors set forth in the Companys other documents on file with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). The foregoing review of important factors should not be construed as exhaustive and should be read in conjunction with the other cautionary statements that are included herein or elsewhere. The Company undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The following risk management discussion and the estimated amounts generated from the sensitivity and value at risk (VaR) analyses presented in this document are forward looking statements of market risk assuming certain adverse market conditions occur. Actual results in the future may differ materially from these estimated results due to, among other things, actual developments in the global financial markets and changes in the composition of the Companys investment portfolio. The results of analysis used by the Company to assess and mitigate risk should not be considered projections of future events of losses. See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements. Market risk represents the potential for loss due to adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments. The Company is principally exposed to the following market risks: interest rate risk; foreign currency exchange rate risk; equity price risk; credit risk; weather and energy related risk, and other related market risks. The Companys investment market risk arises from its investment portfolio which consists of fixed income securities, alternative investments, public equities, private investments, derivatives, other investments, and cash, denominated in both U.S. and foreign currencies, which are sensitive to changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, foreign currency exchange rates and other related market risks. The Companys fixed income and equity securities are classified as available for sale, and as such changes in interest rates, credit spreads on corporate and structured credit, equity prices, foreign currency exchange rates or other related market instruments will have an immediate effect on comprehensive income and shareholders equity but will not ordinarily have an immediate effect on net income. Nevertheless, changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices and other related market instruments effect consolidated net income when, and if, a security is sold or impaired. The Company enters into derivatives and other financial instruments primarily for risk management purposes. The Company conducts activities in three main types of derivative instruments: credit derivatives, weather and energy derivatives and investment related derivative instruments. From time to time, the Company also uses investment derivative instruments such as futures, options, interest rate swaps, and foreign currency forward contracts to manage the duration of its investment portfolio and foreign currency exposures and also to obtain exposure to a particular financial market. The Companys derivative transactions can expose the Company to credit derivative risk, weather and energy risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, etc.. The Company attempts to manage these risks based on guidelines established by senior management. Derivative instruments are carried at fair value with the resulting changes in fair value recognized in income in the period in which they occur. The following is a discussion and measurement of the Companys primary market risk exposures at December 31, 2007 using, where applicable, sensitivity and VaR analyses. The Companys policies to address these risks in 2007 were not materially different from 2006. The Company does not currently anticipate significant changes in its primary market risk exposures or in how those exposures are managed in future reporting periods based upon what is known or expected to be in effect in future reporting periods. Interest Rate Risk The Companys fixed income portfolio is exposed to interest rate risk. Interest rate risk is the price sensitivity of a fixed income security to changes in interest rates. The Company manages interest rate risk within the context of its overall asset liability management strategy by setting duration targets for its investment portfolio in line with the estimated duration of its liabilities, thus 92 mitigating the overall economic effect of interest rate risk. The Company remains nevertheless exposed to accounting interest rate risk since the assets are marked to market, thus subject to market conditions, while liabilities are accrued at a static rate. The hypothetical case of an immediate 100 basis point adverse parallel shift in global bond curves as at December 31, 2007, would decrease the fair value of the Companys fixed income portfolio by approximately 4.3% or $1.7 billion. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk Many of the Companys non U.S. subsidiaries maintain both assets and liabilities in local currencies. Foreign currency exchange rate gains and losses arise for accounting purposes where net assets or liabilities are denominated in foreign currencies that differ from the functional currency of those subsidiaries. In addition, the Companys shareholders equity is impacted by movements in currency exchange rates through both the foreign exchange component of realized and unrealized gains and losses within the Companys investment portfolio, and the cumulative translation adjustments resulting from the translation of foreign subsidiary results. Foreign currency exchange rate risk in general is reviewed as part of the Companys risk management process. Foreign exchange contracts within the investment portfolio are utilized to manage individual portfolio foreign exchange exposures, subject to investment manager guidelines established by management. These contracts are not designated as specific hedges for financial reporting purposes and, therefore, realized and unrealized gains and losses on these contracts are recorded in income in the period in which they occur. These contracts generally have maturities of three months or less. The Company also attempts to manage the foreign exchange volatility arising on certain transactions denominated in foreign currencies. These include, but are not limited to, premium receivable, reinsurance contracts, claims payable and investments in subsidiaries. The principal currencies creating foreign exchange risk for us are the British pound sterling, the Euro, the Swiss Franc, and the Canadian dollar. The Companys net notional foreign currency denominated exposure on foreign exchange contracts was $341.7 million and receivable of $211.5 million as at December 31, 2007 and 2006 respectively, with a net unrealized gain of $0.9 million and $15.5 million as at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Equity Price Risk The Companys equity portfolio as well as certain derivatives and certain affiliate investments are exposed to equity price risk. Equity price risk is the potential loss arising from changes in the market value of equities. An immediate hypothetical 10% change in the value of each equity position in the Companys equity portfolio would affect the fair value of the portfolio by approximately $75.7 million as at December 31, 2007. As at December 31, 2007, the Companys equity portfolio was $757 million as compared to $699 million as at December 31, 2006. This excludes fixed income fund investments and publicly traded alternative funds that generally do not have the risk characteristics of equity investments. As at December 31, 2007, the Companys allocation to equity securities was approximately 1.7% of the total investment portfolio (including cash and cash equivalents, accrued investment income and net payable for investments purchased) as compared to approximately 1.6% as at December 31, 2006. As at December 31, 2007, approximately 28.8% of the equity holdings was invested in U.S. companies as compared to approximately 45.0% as at December 31, 2006. As at December 31, 2007, the top ten equity holdings represented approximately 11.5% of the Companys total equity portfolio as compared to approximately 7.9% as at December 31, 2006. For further discussion of the exporsure to equity market movements in the Companys investment portfolio see the Investment Value at Risk section below. Credit Risk The Companys exposure to market movements related to credit risk is primarily due to its investment portfolio, credit derivatives embedded in financial guarantee reinsurance exposures, receivable and ceded reinsurance balances. Within the investment portfolio, credit risk is the exposure to adverse change in the creditworthiness of individual investment holdings, issuers, groups of issuers, industries or countries. In addition, credit risk pertains to adverse change in the creditworthiness of the Companys reinsurers and retrocessionaires, and their ability to pay certain reinsurance receivable and recoverable balances. The Company manages credit risk in the investment portfolio, including fixed maturity, alternative and short term investment through the credit research performed primarily by the external investment professionals and limitations on the investment portfolios exposure to individual credits. Credit limits for corporate exposures are based on an internal model that allows the limits to be linked to the Companys balance sheet credit risk taking capacity while also taking into consideration internal views on specific issuers and on current or expected market credit conditions. Credit limits for other sectors are derived from the corporate limits using multipliers as a way to quantify intrinsic credit quality characteristics differences with the corporate sector. Limits are reviewed annually and ensure that potential losses from individual defaults should not exceed predetermined levels. In the investment portfolio, the Company reviews on a regular basis its issuer concentration, credit quality and compliance with established credit limits. Any issuer over its credit limits, experiencing financial difficulties, material credit quality deterioration or potentially subject to forthcoming credit quality deterioration is placed on a Watch List for closer monitoring. Where appropriate, exposures are reduced or prevented from increasing. The Company has also developed a proprietary model for the investment portfolio to assess corporate credit risk based upon its individual holdings mark to market exposure, credit rating, seniority in the capital structure, migration and default probabilities, 93 durations, default correlations and loss severity given a default event. Based upon these factors and related market based inputs, the Company can estimate the credit risk of the Companys investment portfolio and its various components. Assumptions are reviewed regularly to ensure the risk estimates are reasonable and reflect underlying exposures. The table below shows the Companys fixed income portfolio by credit rating in percentage terms of the Companys total fixed income exposure (including fixed maturities, short term investments, cash and cash equivalents and net payable for investments purchased) as at December 31, 2007. Total AAA 53.4 AA 18.1 A 16.9 BBB 9.3 BB & below 2.2 NR 0.1 Total 100.0 % At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the average credit quality of the Companys total fixed income portfolio was AA. As at December 31, 2007, the top 10 corporate holdings, which exclude government guaranteed and government sponsored enterprises, represented approximately 4.8% of the total fixed income portfolio and approximately 13.4% of all corporate holdings. The top 10 corporate holdings listed below represent the direct exposure to the corporations listed below, including their subsidiaries, and excludes any securitized, credit enhanced and collateralized asset or mortgage backed securities, cash and cash equivalents, pooled notes and any over the counter (OTC) derivative counterparty exposures, if applicable. Top 10 Corporate Holdings (2) Percentage of Total Fixed Income Portfolio (1) HBOS plc 0.6 % General Electric Company 0.6 % Citigroup Inc 0.6 % The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc 0.6 % Bank of America Corporation 0.5 % HSBC Holdings plc 0.5 % Lloyds TSB Group plc 0.4 % Merril Lynch & Co., Inc 0.4 % Barclays plc 0.3 % The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc 0.3 % (1) Including fixed maturities, short term investments, cash and cash equivalents and net payable for investments purchased. The Company also has exposure to market movement related to credit risk associated with its mortgage backed and asset backed securities. The table below shows the breakdown of the $14.6 billion structured credit portfolio, of which 85.0% is AAA rated: (U.S. dollars in millions) Fair Value Percent of Portfolio CMBS $ 4,073.6 27.9 % Agency 2,545.3 17.4 % Whole Loans 1,833.8 12.5 % Core CDO (non ABS CDOs and CLOs) 1,085.1 7.4 % ABS Other Real Estate 206.3 1.4 % Other ABS: ABS Auto 1,155.5 7.9 % ABS Credit Cards 758.3 5.2 % ABS Other 908.9 6.2 % Topical: Sub prime first lien 995.9 6.8 % Alt A 924.8 6.3 % Second lien (including sub prime second lien mortgages) 97.6 0.7 % ABS CDOs with sub prime collateral 39.3 0.3 % Total $ 14,624.4 100.0 % For further discussion of the exposure to credit market movements in the Companys investment portfolio see the Investment Value at Risk section below. The Company also has exposure to market movements as a result of credit risk exposures related to financial guarantee reinsurance of SCA. This exposure generally relates to certain specific facultative and excess of loss reinsurance agreements which are not, in their entirety, required to be marked to market. For further details surrounding this exposure, see Item 7 Managements Discussion 94 and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 8, Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Security Capital Assurance. A portion of the exposures resulting from this business represent risks written by SCA in credit derivative form which are reinsured by the Company. These components of the overall exposure are required to be marked to fair value. The fair value of such instruments is determined using models developed by SCA management and reviewed by the Company. With regards to unpaid losses and loss expenses recoverable and reinsurance balances receivable, the Company has credit risk should any of its reinsurers be unable or unwilling to settlement amounts due to the Company, however, these exposures are not marked to market. For further information relating to reinsurer credit risk, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Unpaid Losses and Loss Expenses Recoverable and Reinsurance Balances Receivable and Item 8, Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Commitments and Contingencies. The Company is exposed to credit risk in the event of non performance by the other parties to its derivative instruments in general, however the Company does not anticipate non performance. The difference between the notional principal amounts and the associated market value is the Companys maximum credit exposure. Weather and Energy Risk The Company offers weather and contingent energy risk management products in insurance or derivative form to end users, while managing the risks in the over the counter and exchange traded derivatives markets or through the use of quota share or excess of loss arrangements. The fair value of weather and energy derivatives is determined through the use of quoted market prices where available. Where quoted market prices are unavailable, the fair value is estimated using available market data and internal pricing models using consistent statistical methodologies. Estimating fair value of instruments that do not have quoted market prices requires managements judgment in determining amounts that could reasonably be expected to be received from, or paid to, a third party in settlement of the contracts. The amounts could be materially different from the amounts that might be realized in an actual sale transaction. Fair values are subject to change in the near term and reflect managements best estimate based on various factors including, but not limited to, actual and forecasted weather conditions, changes in commodity prices, changes in interest rates and other market factors. The Company manages its weather and energy risk portfolio through the employment of a variety of strategies. These include geographical and directional diversification of risk exposures and direct hedging within the capital and reinsurance markets. Risk management is undertaken on a portfolio wide basis, to maintain a portfolio that the Company believes is well diversified and which remains within the aggregate risk tolerance established by the Companys senior management. At present, the Companys VaR related to these risks does not exceed $20.0 million in any one season. Other Market Risks The Companys private investment portfolio is invested in limited partnerships and other entities which are not publicly traded. In addition to normal market risks, these positions may also be exposed to liquidity risk, risks related to distressed investments, and risks specific to startup or small companies. As at December 31, 2007, the Companys exposure to private investments was $427.5 million compared to $330.2 million as at December 31, 2006. At December 31, 2007, bond and stock index futures outstanding had a net short position of $384.5 million as compared to a net long position of $23.8 million at December 31, 2006. A 10% appreciation or depreciation of the underlying exposure to these derivative instruments would have resulted in realized gains or realized losses of $38.5 million as at December 31, 2007 and $2.4 million as at December 31, 2006, respectively. The Company may reduce its exposure to these futures through offsetting transactions, including options and forwards. Investment Value at Risk (VaR) Central to the Companys market risk management framework is VaR. VaR is a statistical risk measure, calculating the level of potential losses that could be expected to be exceeded, over a specified holding period and at a given level of confidence, in normal market conditions, due to adverse movements in the investment portfolios underlying securities and investments valuations. The Company uses VaR as a statistical risk measure of the two main components of its investment portfolio the Asset Liability Portfolio and the Risk Portfolio. The Asset Liability Portfolio principal objectives are to support the liabilities arising from the Companys operations, to produce a steady stream of investment income and to preserve capital. The Asset Liability portfolio is invested in investment grade fixed income and cash securities (fixed income instruments maturing one year or less at the time of issuance). The Risk Portfolio principal objective is to build book value over the long term. The Risk Portfolio is invested in equity securities, below investment grade fixed income securities, alternative investment strategies and private investments. 95 The Company calculates the VaR of the investment portfolio using a one month time horizon and a 95% level of confidence. This means that, on average, the Company could expect marked to market results greater than predicted by the VaR results 5% of the time, or once every 20 months. The calculation of VaR is performed monthly using a full valuation based on a Monte Carlo approach and it is expressed both in terms of U.S. dollars and as a percentage of the Companys investment portfolio. The modeling of the risk of any portfolio, as measured by VaR, involves a number of assumptions and approximations. While the Company believes that its assumptions and approximations are appropriate, there is no uniform industry methodology for calculating VaR. The Company notes that different VaR results can be produced for the same portfolio dependent not only on the approach used but also on the assumptions employed when implementing the approach. The VaR approach uses historical data to determine the sensitivity of each of the underlying securities to the risk factors incorporated into the models that are employed in the Monte Carlo simulations. In calculating these sensitivities, greater importance is placed on the more recent data points and information. Since the VaR approach is based on historical positions and market data, VaR results should not be viewed as an absolute and predictive gauge of future financial performance or as a way for the Company to predict risk. There is no assurance that the Companys actual future losses will not exceed its VaR and the Company expects that 5% of the time the VaR will be exceeded. Additionally, the Company acknowledges the fact that risks associated with abnormal market events can be significantly different from the VaR results and these are by definition not reflected or assessed in the VaR analysis, rather this is evaluated using the Companys stress testing framework. The VaR of the investment portfolio at December 31, 2007 was approximately $648 million. The VaR of all investment related derivatives excluding investments in affiliates and other investments was approximately $19.1 million. In instances where the data or time series are insufficient to determine the risk factor sensitivities, the VaR approach uses proxy time series data available for similar instruments. As at December 31, 2007, approximately $18.8 billion used proxy time series data. Approximately $14.1 billion related to various fixed income portfolios (of which $11.7 billion was in mortgage backed and asset backed securities), $2.0 billion to various cash portfolios, $2.1 billion to alternative investments, $439.5 million to private investments, $163.3 million to equity portfolios, and $5.1 million to derivatives. The Company reviews the proxies to ensure that an appropriate data and time series is being used in the calculations and that the proxies used are conservative. The following table shows the Companys average, minimum and maximum VaR in percentage and dollar terms for the investment portfolio during the year ended December 31, 2007, based upon the VaR at quarter end dates. The table also includes the Companys VaR in percentage and dollar terms, respectively, for the investment portfolio as at December 31, 2007. The Companys investment portfolio VaR as at December 31, 2007 is not necessarily indicative of future VaR levels. During 2007, the Company did not experience a single calendar month in which the monthly price return (representing net realized and unrealized gains and net income from affiliates excluding net investment income) on the investment portfolio exceeded the risk level indicated by the corresponding months VaR. The Company uses VaR as a statistical risk measure of the two main components of its investment portfolio only the Asset Liability Portfolio and the Risk Asset Portfolio. Average VaR % VaR(1) Minimum VaR % VaR(1) Maximum VaR % VaR(1) At December 31, 2007 % VaR(1) Asset Liability Portfolio 1.3 % 1.1 % 1.8 % 1.8 % Risk Asset Portfolio 3.0 % 1.9 % 3.9 % 3.7 % Undiversified VaR (2) 1.5 % 1.2 % 2.0 % 2.0 % Diversification VaR (3) 0.3 % % % 0.5 % Investment Portfolio VaR (4)(6) 1.2 % 1.0 % 1.5 % 1.5 % (U.S. dollars in millions) Average VaR during 2007 $VaR(5) Minimum VaR during 2007 $VaR(5) Maximum VaR during 2007 $VaR(5) VaR as at December 31, 2007 $VaR(5) Investment Portfolio VaR (4)(6) $ 526.0 $ 423.9 $ 648.3 $ 648.3 (1) Based on a 95% confidence level with a one month holding period and expressed as a percentage of the investment portfolio. (2) Average Undiversified VaR for the year ended December 31, 2007 and Undiversified VaR at December 31, 2007 is the summation of the individual VaRs for the Asset Liability and Risk Asset portfolios and, by construction, ignores any and all correlations between these portfolios (and their underlying asset classes). The Undiversified VaR therefore ignores diversification benefits that exist in between these portfolios (and their underlying asset classes). Maximum and Minimum Undiversified VaR is not necessarily the summation of the individual VaRs for each of the separate portfolios since the Maximum and Minimum VaR and the Maximum and Minimum Undiversified VaR do not necessarily refer to the same point in time. (3) Diversification VaR equals the difference between the Investment Portfolio VaR and the Undiversified VaR. As the former explicitly accounts for the correlations and diversification benefits that exist between the Asset Liability and Risk Asset portfolios and the latter explicitly does not, the difference in the two VaR results is due to the diversification benefits. These diversification benefits arise due to the risk reduction that occurs when different assets, that are not perfectly correlated, are combined in a portfolio. It will vary over time dependent on: allocations changes; changes in the 96 correlations between the different underlying asset classes; and changes in the underlying asset class risks. The NA reflects the fact that, since the Minimum and Maximum VaR do not refer to the same point in time, it is therefore not meaningful to calculate the Diversification VaR. (4) Investment Portfolio VaR is based on the prescribed methodology that explicitly accounts for the diversification benefits that occur when each of the allocations to the Asset Liability and Risk Asset portfolios (and their underlying asset classes) are included in the investment portfolio. (5) Based on a 95% confidence level with a one month holding period, expressed in millions of U.S. Dollars. (6) Investment Portfolio refers to the two main components of the Companys investment portfolio the Asset Liability Portfolio and the Risk Asset Portfolio. The Companys total investment portfolio VaR is driven by: the size of the overall investment portfolio; the size of the allocations to the different asset classes and securities in the asset classes; the risks associated with each of the asset classes and securities; and the correlations and diversification benefits between each of the asset classes and securities. Changes in any of these variables will have a direct impact on the Companys VaR. At December 31, 2007 the Companys investment portfolio VaR, Undiversified VaR and Asset Liability Portfolio VaR were all running at the maximum month end levels experienced in 2007 of 1.5%, 2.0% and 1.8%, respectively. The higher year end results were primarily a result of increased market volatilities across substantially all asset classes that the investment portfolio is exposed to. Stress Testing VaR does not provide the means to estimate the magnitude of the loss in the 5% of occurrences that the Company expects the VaR level to be exceeded. To complement the VaR analysis based on normal market environments, the Company considers the impact on the investment portfolio in several different historical stress periods to analyze the effect of unusual market conditions. The Company establishes certain historical stress test scenarios which are applied to the actual investment portfolio. As these stress tests and estimated gains and losses are based on historical events, they will not necessarily reflect future stress events or gains and losses from such events. The results of the stress test scenarios are reviewed on a regular basis to ensure they are appropriate, based on current shareholders equity, market conditions and the Companys total risk tolerance. It is important to note that when assessing the risk of the Companys investment portfolio, the Company does not take into account either the value or risk associated with the liabilities arising from the Companys operations. Since the principal objectives of the Asset Liability portfolio component of the investment portfolio are to support and generally offset or hedge certain of the risks associated with the liabilities. The table below shows the maximum impact on the Companys investment portfolio if all events stress tested were to repeat themselves, given the actual investment portfolios allocations at the quarters ended March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31, 2007. The Company assumes that no action is taken during the stress period to either liquidate or rebalance the portfolio. The Company believes that this fairly reflects the potential decreased liquidity that is often associated with stressed market environments. Stress Test March 31, 2007 June 30, 2007 September 30, 2007 December 31, 2007 Maximum loss impact on portfolio (5.3 )% (5.5 )% (5.7 )% (6.0 )% Maximum gain impact on portfolio 16.7 % 16.7 % 17.5 % 18.1 % From the different scenarios that the Company analyzes, the largest downside event risk exposure during 2007 was 6.0%, based on the investment portfolio as at December 31, 2007. The largest upside risk exposure during 2007 was 18.1% as at December 31, 2007. At December 31, 2007 the Companys maximum loss impact and maximum gain impact on the investment portfolio were at their maximum month end ranges. The higher year end results were primarily a result of changes in the level of interest rates, spread levels and other key risk factors during the quarter. Given the investment portfolio allocations as at December 31, 2007, the Company would expect to lose approximately 6.0% of the portfolio if the most damaging event stress tested was repeated, all other things held equal. Given the investment portfolio allocations as at December 31, 2007, the Company would expect to gain approximately 18.1% of the portfolio if the most favorable event stress tested was repeated, all other things held equal. 97 
 
