Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Proposed Merger with Immunex"). 9 Marketing Amgen uses wholesale distributors of pharmaceutical products as the principal means of distributing the Companys products to clinics, hospitals, and pharmacies. The Company monitors the financial condition of its larger distributors and limits its credit exposure by setting appropriate credit limits and requiring collateral from certain customers. Sales to three large wholesalers each accounted for more than 10% of total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2001. In 2001, sales to AmerisourceBergen Corporation were $1,470.1 million, sales to Cardinal Distribution were $535.8 million, and sales to McKesson Corporation were $459.8 million. For the years ended December 31, 2000 and 1999, sales to two wholesalers each accounted for more than 10% of total revenues. Sales to Bergen Brunswig Corporation were $1,233.4 million and $1,078.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively. Sales to Cardinal Distribution were $445.2 million and $438.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively. Dialysis providers are primarily reimbursed for EPOGEN(R) by the federal government through the End Stage Renal Disease Program ("ESRD Program") of Medicare. The ESRD Program reimburses approved providers for 80% of allowed dialysis costs; the remainder is paid by other sources, including Medicaid, private insurance, and to a lesser extent, state kidney patient programs. The ESRD Program reimbursement rate is established by Congress and is monitored by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services ("CMS"). Changes in coverage and reimbursement policies could have a material adverse effect on EPOGEN(R) sales (see "Factors That May Affect Amgen Our sales depend on payment and reimbursement from third party payors, and a reduction in the payment rate or reimbursement could result in decreased use or sales of our products."). Aranesp(TM) is reimbursed by both private and public payors, and changes in coverage and reimbursement policies of these payors could have a material adverse effect on sales of Aranesp(TM) (see "Factors That May Affect Amgen Our sales depend on payment and reimbursement from third party payors, and a reduction in the payment rate or reimbursement could result in decreased use or sales of our products."). Aranesp(TM) is marketed by the Company in the United States, Europe, Australia, and New Zealand. NEUPOGEN(R) is reimbursed by both private and public payors, and changes in coverage and reimbursement policies of these payors could have a material adverse effect on sales of NEUPOGEN(R) (see "Factors That May Affect Amgen Our sales depend on payment and reimbursement from third party payors, and a reduction in the payment rate or reimbursement could result in decreased use or sales of our products."). In the EU, Amgen and Roche share commercialization responsibilities for NEUPOGEN(R) under a co promotion agreement (see "Joint Ventures and Business Relationships F. Hoffmann La Roche Ltd"). NEUPOGEN(R) is principally distributed to wholesalers and or hospitals in all EU countries depending upon the distribution practice for products in each country. Most patients receiving NEUPOGEN(R) for approved indications are covered by government health care programs. Generally, the use of NEUPOGEN(R) is affected by EU government pressures on physician prescribing practices in response to ongoing government initiatives to reduce health care expenditures, and to a lesser extent, competition. Kineret(TM) is sold by the Company in the United States. Kineret(TM) is reimbursed through both private and public sources, with primary reimbursement through private payors (see "Factors That May Affect Amgen Our sales depend on payment and reimbursement from third party payors, and a reduction in the payment rate or reimbursement could result in decreased use or sales of our products."). Competition Competition among biotechnology, pharmaceutical, and other companies that research, develop, manufacture, or market pharmaceuticals is intense and is expected to increase. See "Factors That May Affect Amgen We face substantial competition, and others may discover, develop, acquire or commercialize products before or more successfully than we do.". Some competitors, principally large pharmaceutical companies, have 10 greater clinical, research, regulatory, and marketing resources and experience than the Company, particularly in the area of small molecule therapeutics. In addition, certain specialized biotechnology firms have entered into cooperative arrangements with major companies for development and commercialization of products, creating an additional source of competition. The Company faces product competition from firms in the United States, countries of the EU, Canada, Australia, and elsewhere. Additionally, some of the Companys competitors, including biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, are actively engaged in the research and development in areas where the Company is also developing product candidates, as more fully discussed below. The introduction of new products or the development of new processes by competitors or new information about existing products may result in product replacements or price reductions, even for products protected by patents. In addition, the timing of entry of a new product into the market can be an important factor in determining the products eventual success and profitability. Early entry may have important advantages in gaining product acceptance and market share. Accordingly, in some cases, the relative speed with which the Company can develop products, complete the testing and approval process, and supply commercial quantities of the product to the market is expected to be important to Amgens competitive position. Competition among pharmaceutical products approved for sale also may be based on, among other things, patent position, product efficacy, safety, reliability, availability, and price. A significant amount of research and development in the biotechnology industry is conducted by small companies, academic institutions, governmental agencies, and other public and private research organizations. These entities may seek patent protection and enter into licensing arrangements to collect royalties for use of technology or for the sale of products they have discovered or developed. Amgen also may face competition in its licensing or acquisition activities from pharmaceutical companies and large biotechnology companies that also seek to acquire technologies or product candidates from these entities. Accordingly, the Company may have difficulty acquiring technologies or product candidates on acceptable terms. Additionally, the Company competes with these entities and with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to attract and retain qualified scientific and technical personnel. Nephrology Any products or technologies that are directly or indirectly successful in addressing anemia could negatively impact the market for EPOGEN(R) or for Aranesp(TM). Aranesp(TM) directly competes with other currently marketed products which treat anemia, including EPOGEN(R) and the recombinant human erythropoietin product marketed by Johnson & Johnson (see "Products EPOGEN(R) (Epoetin alfa)" and "Products Aranesp(TM) (darbepoetin alfa)"). Aventis Pharmaceuticals Inc. ("Aventis") is developing gene activated erythropoietin for the treatment of anemia (see "Item 3. Legal Proceedings Transkaryotic Therapies and Aventis litigation"). Baxter International Inc. is developing epoetin omega for the treatment of anemia. Roche is developing a pegylated erythropoietin product for the treatment of anemia. The calcimimetic program could face competition from products currently marketed by Abbott Laboratories, Bone Care International, Inc., Genzyme Corporation, and Roche which treat secondary HPT. In addition, another product to treat HPT is currently being developed by Chugai Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd. ("Chugai"). Cancer Any products or technologies that are directly or indirectly successful in addressing anemia associated with chemotherapy could negatively impact the market for Aranesp(TM). Aranesp(TM) would directly compete with other currently marketed products which treat anemia associated with chemotherapy, the recombinant human erythropoietin product marketed by Johnson & Johnson (see "Products EPOGEN(R) (Epoetin alfa)"). In Europe, Aranesp(TM) would directly compete with other erythropoietin products marketed by Ortho Biotech/Janssen Cilag/Johnson & Johnson and Roche. Aventis is developing gene activated erythropoietin for the treatment of anemia (see "Item 3. Legal Proceedings Transkaryotic Therapies and Aventis litigation"). Baxter International Inc. is 11 developing epoetin omega for the treatment of anemia. Roche is developing a pegylated erythropoietin product for the treatment of anemia. Any products or technologies that are directly or indirectly successful in addressing neutropenia associated with chemotherapy could negatively impact the markets for NEUPOGEN(R) and Neulasta(TM). NEUPOGEN(R) currently faces and Neulasta(TM) will face (when launched) market competition from a competing CSF product, granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor ("GM CSF"), and from the chemoprotectant, amifostine. Potential future sources of competition include other G CSF products, GM CSF products, FLT 3 ligand, myelopoietin, PGG glucan, promegapoietin, and progenipoietin, among others. Once launched, Neulasta(TM) may impact NEUPOGEN(R) sales as health care providers in the U.S. may transition from administering NEUPOGEN(R) to Neulasta(TM). Chugai markets a G CSF product in Japan as an adjunct to chemotherapy and as a treatment for BMT patients. Chugai and Aventis market a G CSF product in certain EU countries as an adjunct to chemotherapy and as a treatment in BMT settings. Chugai, through its licensee, AMRAD, markets this G CSF product in Australia as an adjunct to chemotherapy and as a treatment for BMT patients. Under an agreement with Amgen, Chugai is precluded from selling its G CSF product in the United States, Canada, and Mexico. Immunex markets GM CSF under the trademark LEUKINE(R) in the United States for BMT and PBPC transplant patients and as an adjunct to chemotherapy treatments for acute non lymphocytic leukemia ("ANLL") and AML. Immunex is also pursuing other indications for its GM CSF product including as an adjunct to chemotherapy outside the limited settings of ANLL and AML. In connection with proposed merger between Amgen and Immunex, Immunex intends to divest of LEUKINE(R) (see "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Proposed Merger with Immunex"). Novartis AG markets another GM CSF product for use in BMT patients and as an adjunct to chemotherapy in the EU and certain other countries. This GM CSF product is currently being developed for similar indications in the United States and Canada. Nartograstim, a modified G CSF protein, is sold by Kyowa Hakko Kogyo Co., Ltd. in Japan. Many companies are developing products that promote wound healing, soft tissue regeneration, and chemoprotection. Companies such as Human Genome Sciences, Inc., Genetics Institute, Inc., MedImmune, Inc., and IntraBiotics Pharmaceuticals, Inc. are currently among many companies that are developing products which could be potential competitors for KGF. NHL is primarily treated with standard chemotherapy agents, monoclonal antibodies, or a combination of the two modalities. Epratuzumab could face competition from rituximab, another monoclonal antibody marketed jointly by Genentech, Inc. and Idec Pharmaceuticals Corporation. However, it is also possible that epratuzumab may be used in combination with rituximab (see "Product candidates Cancer"). In addition, other monoclonal antibodies are being investigated for the treatment of NHL including those in development by GlaxoSmithKline plc (in collaboration with Beckman Coulter, Inc.) and Idec Pharmaceuticals Corporation. The OPG program could face competition from a product currently marketed by Novartis AG for the treatment of cancer metastases to the bone. Inflammation Kineret(TM) and sTNF RI could face competition in some circumstances from a number of companies developing or marketing rheumatoid arthritis treatments. Current anti arthritic treatments include generic methotrexate and other products marketed by, among others, Centocor, Inc./Johnson & Johnson, Immunex/American Home Products Corporation, Merck & Co., Inc., Pharmacia Corporation, Novartis AG, and Sanofi Synthelabo. In addition, a number of companies have cytokine inhibitors in development including Abbott Laboratories, GlaxoSmithKline plc, Pharmacia Corporation, and Taisho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. 12 Neurology and Metabolism Many companies currently market or are believed to be developing obesity treatments that could compete with the leptin program. Potential future competitors include Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (in collaboration with Roche), Neurogen Corporation (in collaboration with Pfizer Inc.), Bristol Myers Squibb Company, Novartis AG, Eli Lilly and Company, and Merck & Co., Inc. Abbott Laboratories and Roche currently market obesity treatments in various countries. Research and Development The Companys primary sources of new product candidates are internal research and acquisition and licensing from third parties. Amgens internal research capabilities include an expertise in secreted protein therapeutics. The Companys discovery program may yield targets that lead to the development of therapeutics delivered as proteins, small molecules, or monoclonal antibodies. Amgen has only recently entered the small molecule field. To supplement its small molecule discovery program, in December 2000, Amgen acquired Kinetix Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ("Kinetix"), a privately held company that focused on the discovery of small molecule drugs that inhibit protein kinases, a key class of biological regulators (see Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Research and development expenses for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000, and 1999 were $865.0 million, $845.0 million, and $822.8 million, respectively. Additionally, the Company recorded a $30.1 million write off of acquired in process research and development during the year ended December 31, 2000 arising from the acquisition of Kinetix (see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Government Regulation Regulation by governmental authorities in the United States and other countries is a significant factor in the production and marketing of the Companys products and its ongoing research and development activities (see "Factors That May Affect Amgen Our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not obtain and maintain regulatory approval."). In order to clinically test, manufacture, and market products for therapeutic use, Amgen must satisfy mandatory procedures and safety and effectiveness standards established by various regulatory bodies. In the United States, the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as amended, and the regulations promulgated thereunder, and other federal and state statutes and regulations govern, among other things, the testing, manufacture, labeling, storage, record keeping, approval, advertising, and promotion of the Companys products on a product by product basis. Product development and approval within this regulatory framework takes a number of years and involve the expenditure of substantial resources. After laboratory analysis and preclinical testing in animals, an investigational new drug application is filed with the FDA to begin human testing. Typically, a three phase human clinical testing program is then undertaken. In phase 1, small clinical trials are conducted to determine the safety of the product. In phase 2, clinical trials are conducted to assess safety, acceptable dose, and gain preliminary evidence of the efficacy of the product. In phase 3, clinical trials are conducted to provide sufficient data for the statistically valid proof of safety and efficacy. The time and expense required to perform this clinical testing can vary and is substantial. No action can be taken to market any new drug or biologic product in the United States until an appropriate marketing application has been approved by the FDA. Even after initial FDA approval has been obtained, further clinical trials may be required to provide additional data on safety and effectiveness and are required to gain clearance for the use of a product as a treatment for indications other than those initially approved. In addition, side effects or adverse events that are reported during clinical trials can delay, impede, or prevent marketing approval. Similarly, adverse events that are reported after marketing approval can result in additional limitations being placed on the products use and, potentially, withdrawal of the product from the market. Any adverse event, either before or after marketing approval, can result in product liability claims against the Company. In addition to regulating and auditing human clinical trials, the FDA regulates and inspects equipment, facilities, and processes used in the manufacturing of such products prior to providing approval to market a 13 product. If after receiving clearance from the FDA, a material change is made in manufacturing equipment, location, or process, additional regulatory review may be required. The Company also must adhere to current Good Manufacturing Practice and product specific regulations enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program. The FDA also conducts regular, periodic visits to re inspect equipment, facilities, and processes following the initial approval. If, as a result of these inspections, the FDA determines that the Companys equipment, facilities, or processes do not comply with applicable FDA regulations and conditions of product approval, the FDA may seek civil, criminal, or administrative sanctions and or remedies against Amgen, including the suspension of the Companys manufacturing operations. In the EU countries, Canada, and Australia, regulatory requirements and approval processes are similar in principle to those in the United States. Additionally, depending on the type of drug for which approval is sought, there are currently two potential tracks for marketing approval in the EU countries: mutual recognition and the centralized procedure. These review mechanisms may ultimately lead to approval in all EU countries, but each method grants all participating countries some decision making authority in product approval. The Company is also subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to health care "fraud and abuse," including anti kickback laws and false claims laws. Anti kickback laws make it illegal for a prescription drug manufacturer to solicit, offer, receive, or pay any remuneration in exchange for, or to induce, the referral of business, including the purchase or prescription of a particular drug. The federal government has published regulations that identify "safe harbors" or exemptions for certain payment arrangements that do not violate the anti kickback statutes. The Company seeks to comply with the safe harbors where possible. Due to the breadth of the statutory provisions and the absence of guidance in the form of regulations or court decisions addressing some of the Companys practices, it is possible that the Companys practices might be challenged under anti kickback or similar laws. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be presented for payment to third party payors (including Medicare and Medicaid) claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided as claimed, or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. Amgens activities relating to the sale and marketing of its products may be subject to scrutiny under these laws. Violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal and or civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as the possibility of exclusion from federal health care programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). If the government were to allege against or convict the Company of violating these laws, there could be a material adverse effect on the Company, including its stock price. The Companys activities could be subject to challenge for the reasons discussed above and due to the broad scope of these laws and the increasing attention being given to them by law enforcement authorities. Since 1991, the Company has participated in the Medicaid rebate program established by the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990, and under amendments of that law that became effective in 1993, participation has included extending comparable discounts under the Public Health Service ("PHS") pharmaceutical pricing program. Under the Medicaid rebate program, the Company pays a rebate for each unit of its product reimbursed by Medicaid. The amount of the rebate for each product is set by law as a minimum 15.1% of the average manufacturer price ("AMP") of that product, or if it is greater, the difference between AMP and the best price available from the Company to any customer. The rebate amount also includes an inflation adjustment if AMP increases faster than inflation. The PHS pricing program extends discounts comparable to the Medicaid rebate to a variety of community health clinics and other entities that receive health services grants from the PHS, as well as hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of poor Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries. The rebate amount is recomputed each quarter based on the Companys reports of its current average manufacturer price and best price for each of its products to the Health Care Financing Administration ("HCFA"). The terms of the Companys participation in the program impose an obligation to correct the prices reported in previous quarters, as may be necessary. Any such corrections could result in an overage or underage in the Companys rebate liability for past quarters, depending on the direction of the correction. In addition to retroactive rebates (and interest, if any), if the Company were found to have knowingly submitted false information to the government, in addition to other penalties available to the government, the statute provides for civil monetary penalties in the amount of $100,000 per item of false information. 14 The Company also makes its products available to authorized users of the Federal Supply Schedule ("FSS") of the General Services Administration. Since 1993, as a result of the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992 (the "VHC Act"), federal law has required that product prices for purchases by the Veterans Administration, the Department of Defense, Coast Guard, and the PHS (including the Indian Health Service) be discounted by a minimum of 24% off the AMP to non federal customers (the non federal average manufacturer price, "non FAMP"). The Companys computation and report of non FAMP is used in establishing the price, and the accuracy of the reported non FAMP may be audited by the government under applicable federal procurement laws. Among the remedies available to the government for infractions of these laws is recoupment of any overages paid by FSS users during the audited years. In addition, if the Company were found to have knowingly reported a false non FAMP, the VHC Act provides for civil monetary penalties of $100,000 per item that is incorrect. Amgen is also subject to regulation under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and other current and potential future federal, state, or local regulations. The Companys research and development activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals, biological materials, and various radioactive compounds. The Company believes that its procedures comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations; however, the risk of injury or accidental contamination cannot be completely eliminated. Amgens research and manufacturing activities also are conducted in voluntary compliance with the National Institutes of Health Guidelines for Recombinant DNA Research. Additionally, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, to which the Company is subject, prohibits corporations and individuals from engaging in certain activities to obtain or retain business or to influence a person working in an official capacity. It is illegal to pay, offer to pay, or authorize the payment of anything of value to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party, or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business or to otherwise influence a person working in an official capacity. The Companys present and future business has been and will continue to be subject to various other laws and regulations. Patents and Trademarks Patents are very important to the Company in establishing proprietary rights to the products it has developed or licensed. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including the Company, can be uncertain and involve complex legal, scientific, and factual questions. See "Factors That May Affect Amgen If our intellectual property positions are challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or if we fail to prevail in present and future intellectual property litigation, our business could be adversely affected.". The Company has filed applications for a number of patents, has been granted patents, or has obtained rights relating to its erythropoietin, G CSF, darbepoetin alfa, pegfilgrastim, anakinra, consensus interferon and various potential products. In the United States, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (the "USPTO") has issued to the Company or the Company has obtained rights to patents relating to erythropoietin that generally cover DNA and host cells (issued in 1987); processes for making erythropoietin (issued in 1995 and 1997); certain product claims to erythropoietin (issued in 1996 and 1997); cells that make certain levels of erythropoietin (issued in 1998); and pharmaceutical compositions of erythropoietin (issued in 1999). These patents have varying expiration dates, with the latest erythropoietin related patents expiring in 2015; all other patents expire earlier. The USPTO has also issued to the Company or the Company has obtained rights to patents relating to aspects of DNA, vectors, cells, and processes relating to recombinant G CSF (issued in 1989); other aspects of DNA, vectors, cells, and processes relating to recombinant G CSF (issued in 1991); G CSF polypeptides (issued in 1996); methods of treatment using G CSF polypeptides (issued in 1996); methods of enhancing bone marrow transplantation and treating burn wounds (issued in 1997); methods for recombinant production of G CSF (issued in 1998); and analogs of G CSF (issued in 1999). The last to issue G CSF patents expire in 2013; all other patents expire earlier. Additionally, U.S. and EU patents pertaining to pegylated G CSF (pegfilgrastim) expire in 2015. The 15 patent relating to erythropoietin for the EU expires in 2004. The patent relating to G CSF for the EU expires in 2006. The Company has been granted or has obtained rights to two patents in the EU relating to darbepoetin alfa and hyperglycosylated erythropoietic proteins which expire in 2014 and 2010, respectively. The Company has been granted or has obtained rights to a patent on DNA encoding anakinra in the United States which expires in 2008 and has been granted or has obtained rights to patents in the countries adhering to the European Patent Office on anakinra and the DNA encoding it which expire in 2009; the Company has applied, or plans to apply, for extensions of anakinra patents. There can be no assurance that Amgens patents or licensed patents will afford legal protection against competitors or provide significant proprietary protection or competitive advantage. In addition, Amgens patents or licensed patents could be held invalid or unenforceable by a court, or infringed or circumvented by others, or others could obtain patents that the Company would need to license or circumvent. Competitors or potential competitors may have filed patent applications or received patents, and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights relating to proteins, small molecules, compounds, or processes competitive with those of the Company. Additionally, for certain of the Companys product candidates, competitors, or potential competitors may claim that their existing or pending patents prevent the Company from commercializing such product candidates in certain territories. In general, the Company has obtained licenses from various parties which it deems to be necessary or desirable for the manufacture, use, or sale of its products. These licenses generally require Amgen to pay royalties to the parties on product sales. In addition, other companies have filed patent applications or have been granted patents in areas of interest to the Company. There can be no assurance any licenses required under such patents will be available for license on acceptable terms or at all. The Company is engaged in various legal proceedings relating to certain of its patents. See "Item 3. Legal Proceedings". Trade secret protection for its unpatented confidential and proprietary information is important to Amgen. To protect its trade secrets, the Company generally requires its employees, material consultants, scientific advisors, and parties to collaboration and licensing agreements to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of employment, the consulting relationship, or the collaboration or licensing arrangement with the Company. However, others could either develop independently the same or similar information or obtain access to Amgens proprietary information. The Company has obtained U.S. registration of its EPOGEN(R), NEUPOGEN(R), and INFERGEN(R) trademarks. In addition, these trademarks have been registered in other countries. The Company also has trademark protection for its product names Aranesp(TM), Kineret(TM), and Neulasta(TM) and is currently seeking U.S. registration of these trademarks. Manufacturing and Raw Materials Amgen has manufacturing facilities which produce commercial quantities of Epoetin alfa, NEUPOGEN(R), Aranesp(TM), Kineret(TM), Neulasta(TM), and INFERGEN(R) (see "Item 2. Properties"). Additionally, the Company supplies Epoetin alfa to Johnson & Johnson under a supply agreement. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to accurately anticipate future demand for Epoetin alfa, NEUPOGEN(R), Aranesp(TM), Kineret(TM), Neulasta(TM), and INFERGEN(R) or maintain adequate manufacturing capacity (see "Factors That May Affect Amgen We plan to grow rapidly, and if we fail to adequately manage that growth our business could be adversely impacted."). Certain raw materials necessary for the Companys commercial manufacturing of its products are proprietary products of other companies, and in some cases, such proprietary products are specifically cited in the Companys drug application with the FDA such that they must be obtained from that specific, sole source. The Company currently attempts to manage the risk associated with such sole sourced raw materials by active inventory management and alternate source development, where feasible. Amgen attempts to remain apprised of 16 the financial condition of its suppliers, their ability to supply the Companys needs and the market conditions for these raw materials. Also, certain of the raw materials required in the commercial manufacturing of the Companys products are derived from biological sources. The Company is investigating screening procedures with respect to certain biological sources and alternatives to them. Raw materials may be subject to contamination and or recall. A material shortage, contamination, and or recall could adversely impact or disrupt Amgens commercial manufacturing of its products. Human Resources As of December 31, 2001, the Company had approximately 7,700 employees, including approximately 70 part time employees, of which approximately 3,800 were engaged in research and development, approximately 1,800 were engaged in sales and marketing, and approximately 2,100 were engaged in other activities. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to continue attracting and retaining qualified personnel in sufficient numbers to meet its needs. None of the Companys employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and the Company has experienced no work stoppages. The Company considers its employee relations to be good. Executive Officers of the Registrant The executive officers of the Company, their ages as of February 26, 2002 and positions are as follows: Mr. Kevin W. Sharer, age 53, has served as a director of the Company since November 1992. He became Chief Executive Officer and President in May 2000 and Chairman of the Board in December 2000, having served as President and Chief Operating Officer from October 1992 to May 2000. From April 1989 to October 1992, Mr. Sharer served as President of the Business Markets Division of MCI Communications Corporation, a telecommunications company, and from February 1984 to March 1989 served in numerous executive capacities at General Electric Company. Mr. Sharer also serves as a director of Unocal Corporation and Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing Co. Dr. Fabrizio Bonanni, age 55, became Senior Vice President, Quality and Compliance in April 1999. From December 1997 to April 1999, Dr. Bonanni served as the Corporate Vice President for Regulatory/Clinical Affairs for Baxter International Inc. ("Baxter"), a pharmaceutical company, from November 1994 to December 1997, as Corporate Vice President, Quality System, and beginning in 1974, held a variety of quality, regulatory and manufacturing positions with Baxter in Europe and in the U.S. Dr. Bonanni currently serves on the Board of Directors of Aaestrom Biosciences Inc. Dr. Dennis M. Fenton, age 50, became Executive Vice President in March 2000, having served as Senior Vice President, Operations, from January 1995 to March 2000, as Senior Vice President, Sales and Marketing from August 1992 to January 1995, and as Vice President, Process Development, Facilities and Manufacturing Services from July 1991 to August 1992. Dr. Fenton also served as Vice President, Pilot Plant Operations and Clinical Manufacturing, from October 1988 to July 1991, and as Director, Pilot Plant Operations, from 1985 to October 1988. Dr. Fenton also serves on the Board of Directors of Aviron and is a member of the Compensation Committee. Mr. Brian M. McNamee, age 45, became Senior Vice President, Human Resources in June 2001. From November 1999 to June 2001, Mr. McNamee served as Vice President of Human Resources at Dell Computer Corp. From July 1988 to November 1999, Mr. McNamee held human resource positions at General Electric, including serving as Senior Vice President Human Resources for the National Broadcasting Corporation ("NBC") from 1998 to 1999. Mr. George J. Morrow, age 49, became Executive Vice President of Worldwide Sales and Marketing, in January 2001. From January 1999 until December 2000, Mr. Morrow was President and Chief Executive Officer of 17 Glaxo Wellcome Inc. ("Glaxo"), a subsidiary of GlaxoSmithKline plc. From January 1997 until December 1998, Mr. Morrow was Managing Director of Glaxo Wellcome U.K., also a subsidiary of GlaxoSmithKline plc. From May 1993 until December 1996, Mr. Morrow was Group Vice President for Commercial Operations of Glaxo. Mr. Richard D. Nanula, age 41, became Executive Vice President, Finance, Strategy and Communications in May 2001. He also became Chief Financial Officer in August 2001. From November 1999 to February 2001, Mr. Nanula was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Broadband Sports, Inc., an internet media company. From March 1998 to May 1999, Mr. Nanula was President and Chief Operating Officer of Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, a worldwide hotel and gaming company. From August 1986 to March 1998, Mr. Nanula was at the Walt Disney Company where he held several positions including Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and President of Disney Stores Worldwide. Mr. Steven M. Odre, age 52, became Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in March 2000, having served as Vice President, Intellectual Property, and Associate General Counsel since October 1988, and as Associate General Counsel from March 1988 to October 1988. From May 1986 to March 1988, Mr. Odre served as Director of Intellectual Property. Dr. Roger M. Perlmutter, age 49, became Executive Vice President of Research and Development in January 2001. From July 1999 to December 2000, Dr. Perlmutter was Executive Vice President, Worldwide Basic Research and Preclinical Development of Merck Research Laboratories ("Merck"), and from February 1999 to July 1999 served as Executive Vice President of Merck, and from February 1997 to January 1999 as Senior Vice President of Merck. From May 1989 to January 1997, Dr. Perlmutter was also Chairman of the Department of Immunology, University of Washington, and from January 1991 to January 1997, Professor in the Departments of Immunology, Biochemistry and Medicine, University of Washington, and from October 1991 to January 1997, Investigator, the Howard Hughes Medical Institute at the University of Washington. Dr. Perlmutter currently serves on the Board of Directors of Stem Cells, Inc. Mr. Barry D. Schehr, age 46, became Vice President, Financial Operations and Chief Accounting Officer in May 2000, having served as Vice President, Accounting and Financial Operations from March 2000 to May 2000 and as Director of Internal Audit from February 1997 to February 2000. From October 1989 to January 1997, Mr. Schehr was a partner with Ernst & Young LLP, an accounting firm. Dr. Beth C. Seidenberg, age 45, became Senior Vice President, Development of the Company in January 2002. From September 2001 to December 2001, Dr. Seidenberg was Senior Vice President, Global Development of Bristol Myers Squibb Company ("Bristol Myers"). From May 2000 to September 2001, Dr. Seidenberg served as Senior Vice President, Clinical Development & Life Cycle Management, and from April 2000 to May 2000 as Vice President, Clinical Immunology/Pulmonary/Dermatology of Bristol Myers. From July 1998 to March 2000, Dr. Seidenberg was Vice President, Pulmonary Immunology of Merck Research Laboratories ("Merck"). From June 1989 to June 1998, Dr. Seidenberg held several director positions at Merck, including Executive Director. Geographic Area Financial Information For financial information concerning the geographic areas in which the Company operates, see Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Factors That May Affect Amgen Amgen operates in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. The following discussion highlights some of these risks and others are discussed elsewhere in this Form 10 K. 18 Our product development efforts may not result in commercial products. We intend to continue an aggressive product development program. Successful product development in the biotechnology industry is highly uncertain, and very few research and development projects produce a commercial product. Product candidates that appear promising in the early phases of development, such as in early human clinical trials, may fail to reach the market for a number of reasons, such as: the product candidate did not demonstrate acceptable clinical trial results even though it demonstrated positive preclinical trial results the product candidate was not effective in treating a specified condition or illness the product candidate had harmful side effects on humans the necessary regulatory bodies such as the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, did not approve our product candidate for an intended use the product candidate was not economical for us to manufacture and commercialize other companies or people have or may have proprietary rights to our product candidate, such as patent rights, and will not let us sell it on reasonable terms, or at all the product candidate is not cost effective in light of existing therapeutics Several of our product candidates have failed at various stages in the product development process, including Brain Derived Neurotrophic Factor ("BDNF"), Megakaryocyte Growth and Development Factor ("MGDF") and Glial Cell line Derived Neurotrophic Factor ("GDNF"). For example, in 1997, we announced the failure of BDNF for the treatment of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or Lou Gehrigs Disease, because the product candidate, when administered by injection, did not produce acceptable clinical results for a specific use after a phase 3 trial, even though BDNF had progressed successfully through preclinical and earlier clinical trials. In addition, in 1998, we discontinued development of MGDF, a novel platelet growth factor, at the phase 3 trial stage after several people in platelet donation trials developed low platelet counts and neutralizing antibodies. In 1999 we discontinued development of GDNF after a phase 1/2 trial of GDNF in Parkinsons disease failed to demonstrate a statistically significant benefit. Of course, there may be other factors that prevent us from marketing a product. We cannot guarantee we will be able to produce commercially successful products. Further, clinical trial results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations by scientists, medical personnel, regulatory personnel, statisticians, and others which may delay, limit, or prevent further clinical development or regulatory approvals of a product candidate. Also, the length of time that it takes for us to complete clinical trials and obtain regulatory approval for product marketing has in the past varied by product and by the intended use of a product. We expect that this will likely be the case with future product candidates and we cannot predict the length of time to complete necessary clinical trials and obtain regulatory approval. See " Our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not obtain and maintain regulatory approval." Our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not obtain and maintain regulatory approval. We conduct research, preclinical testing, and clinical trials and we manufacture our product candidates. We also manufacture, price, sell, distribute, and market our products for their approved indications. These activities are subject to extensive regulation by numerous state and federal governmental authorities in the U.S., such as the FDA and HCFA, as well as by foreign countries, including the European Union. Currently, we are required in the U.S. and in foreign countries to obtain approval from those countries regulatory authorities before we can market and sell our products in those countries. In our experience, obtaining regulatory approval is costly and takes many years, and after it is obtained, it remains costly to maintain. The FDA and other U.S. and foreign regulatory agencies have substantial discretion to terminate clinical trials, require additional testing, delay or withhold registration and marketing approval, and mandate product withdrawals. EPOGEN(R), Kineret(TM), and Neulasta(TM) are currently approved in the U.S. and NEUPOGEN(R) and Aranesp(TM) are currently approved in the 19 U.S., the EU, and in some other foreign countries for specific uses. We currently manufacture EPOGEN(R), NEUPOGEN(R), Aranesp(TM), Kineret(TM), Neulasta(TM), and INFERGEN(R) and market EPOGEN(R), NEUPOGEN(R), Aranesp(TM), and Kineret(TM), and we plan to manufacture and market many of our potential products. Even though we have obtained regulatory approval for EPOGEN(R), NEUPOGEN(R), Aranesp(TM), Kineret(TM), Neulasta(TM), and INFERGEN(R), these products and our manufacturing processes are subject to continued review by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. In addition, later discovery of unknown problems with our products or manufacturing processes could result in restrictions on such products or manufacturing processes, including potential withdrawal of the products from the market. If regulatory authorities determine that we have violated regulations or if they restrict, suspend, or revoke our prior approvals, they could prohibit us from manufacturing or selling EPOGEN(R), NEUPOGEN(R), Aranesp(TM), Kineret(TM), Neulasta(TM), and INFERGEN(R) until we comply or indefinitely. In addition, if regulatory authorities determine that we have not complied with regulations in the research and development of a product candidate, then they may not approve the product candidate and we will not be able to market and sell it. If we are unable to market and sell our products or product candidates, our business would be adversely affected. Guidelines and recommendations published by various organizations can reduce the use of our products. Government agencies promulgate regulations and guidelines directly applicable to us and to our products. However, professional societies, practice management groups, private health/science foundations, and organizations involved in various diseases from time to time may also publish guidelines or recommendations to the health care and patient communities. Recommendations of government agencies or these other groups/organizations may relate to such matters as usage, dosage, route of administration, and use of concomitant therapies. Organizations like these have in the past made recommendations about our products. Recommendations or guidelines that are followed by patients and health care providers could result in decreased use of our products. In addition, the perception by the investment community or stockholders that recommendations or guidelines will result in decreased use of our products could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Our sales depend on payment and reimbursement from third party payors, and a reduction in the payment rate or reimbursement could result in decreased use or sales of our products. In both domestic and foreign markets, sales of our products are dependent, in part, on the availability of reimbursement from third party payors such as state and federal governments, under programs such as Medicare and Medicaid in the U.S., and private insurance plans. In certain foreign markets, the pricing and profitability of our products generally are subject to government controls. In the U.S., there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, a number of state and federal proposals that could limit the amount that state or federal governments will pay to reimburse the cost of drugs. In addition, we believe the increasing emphasis on managed care in the U.S. has and will continue to put pressure on the price and usage of our products, which may adversely impact product sales. Further, when a new therapeutic product is approved, the availability of governmental and or private reimbursement for that product is uncertain, as is the amount for which that product will be reimbursed. We cannot predict the availability or amount of reimbursement for our recently approved products or product candidates, including those at a late stage of development, and current reimbursement policies for existing products may change at any time. For example, we believe that sales of Aranesp(TM) are and will be affected by government and private payor reimbursement policies. If reimbursement for EPOGEN(R) and NEUPOGEN(R) changes adversely or if we fail to obtain adequate reimbursement for our other current or future products, health care providers may limit how much or under what circumstances they will administer them, which could reduce the use of our products or cause us to reduce the price of our products. This could result in lower product sales or revenues which could have a material adverse effect on us and our results of operations. For example, in the U.S. the use of EPOGEN(R) in connection with treatment for end stage renal disease is funded primarily by the U.S. federal government. In early 1997, HCFA instituted a reimbursement change for EPOGEN(R) which adversely affected Amgens EPOGEN(R) sales, until the 20 policies were revised. Therefore, as in the past, EPOGEN(R) sales could be adversely affected by future changes in reimbursement rates or the basis for reimbursement by the federal government for the end stage renal disease program. If our intellectual property positions are challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or if we fail to prevail in present and future intellectual property litigation, our business could be adversely affected. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and often involve complex legal, scientific, and factual questions. To date, there has emerged no consistent policy regarding breadth of claims allowed in such companies patents. Third parties may challenge, invalidate, or circumvent our patents and patent applications relating to our products, product candidates, and technologies. In addition, our patent positions might not protect us against competitors with similar products or technologies because competing products or technologies may not infringe our patents. For certain of our product candidates, there are third parties who have patents or pending patents that they may claim prevent us from commercializing these product candidates in certain territories. Patent disputes are frequent, costly and can preclude commercialization of products. We are currently, and in the future may be, involved in patent litigation. For example, we are involved in ongoing patent infringement lawsuits against Transkaryotic Therapies, Inc. and Aventis with respect to our erythropoietin patents. The trial court decided in our favor on January 19, 2001, however, Transkaryotic Therapies, Inc. and Aventis have appealed the decision. If we ultimately lose these or other litigations we could be subject to competition and or significant liabilities, we could be required to enter into third party licenses for the infringed product or technology, or we could be required to cease using the technology or product in dispute. In addition, we cannot guarantee that such licenses will be available on terms acceptable to us. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and defend patent rights and other intellectual property rights that are important to the commercialization of our products and product candidates. We have filed applications for a number of patents and have been granted patents or obtained rights relating to erythropoietin, recombinant G CSF and our other products and potential products. We market our erythropoietin and G CSF products as EPOGEN(R) and NEUPOGEN(R), respectively. In the United States, we have been issued or obtained rights to several patents relating to erythropoietin that generally cover DNA and host cells, processes for making erythropoietin, various product claims to erythropoietin, cells that make levels of erythropoietin, and pharmaceutical compositions of erythropoietin. We have also been issued or obtained rights to U.S. patents relating to G CSF that cover aspects of DNA, vectors, cells, processes, polypeptides, methods of treatment using G CSF polypeptides, methods of enhancing bone marrow transplantation, and treating burn wounds, methods for recombinant production of G CSF and analogs of G CSF. We also have been granted or obtained rights to a patent in the EU relating to erythropoietin and a patent in the EU relating to G CSF, two patents in the EU relating to darbepoetin alfa and hyperglycosylated erythropoietic proteins, and a patent in the U.S. and a patent in the EU relating to anakinra. We face substantial competition, and others may discover, develop, acquire or commercialize products before or more successfully than we do. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our products compete with other products or treatments for diseases for which our products may be indicated. For example, although we maintain a substantial share of the chemotherapy induced neutropenia market, NEUPOGEN(R) competes in certain circumstances against a product marketed by Immunex. EPOGEN(R) faces competition from other treatments for anemia in end stage renal disease patients in the U.S. Further, we believe that some of our newly approved products and late stage product candidates may face competition when and as they are approved and marketed. For example, Aranesp(TM) competes with an Epoetin alfa product marketed by Johnson & Johnson in certain anemia markets and Kineret(TM) competes in certain circumstances with rheumatoid arthritis products marketed by Immunex/American Home Products Corporation, Centocor Inc./Johnson & Johnson, and others. Additionally, some of our competitors, including biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, market products or are actively engaged in research and development in areas where we are developing product candidates. Large pharmaceutical corporations may have 21 greater clinical, research, regulatory, and marketing resources than we do. In addition, some of our competitors may have technical or competitive advantages over us for the development of technologies and processes. These resources may make it difficult for us to compete with them to successfully discover, develop, and market new products. Our operating results may fluctuate, and this fluctuation could cause financial results to be below expectations. Our operating results may fluctuate from period to period for a number of reasons. In budgeting our operating expenses, we assume that revenues will continue to grow; however, some of our operating expenses are fixed in the short term. Because of this, even a relatively small revenue shortfall may cause a periods results to be below our expectations or projections. A revenue shortfall could arise from any number of factors, some of which we cannot control. For example, we may face: lower than expected demand for our products changes in the governments or private payors reimbursement policies for our products changes in wholesaler buying patterns increased competition from new or existing products fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates changes in our product pricing strategies Of these, we would only have control over changes in our product pricing strategies and, of course, there may be other factors that affect our revenues in any given period. We plan to grow rapidly, and if we fail to adequately manage that growth our business could be adversely impacted. We have an aggressive growth plan that includes substantial and increasing investments in research and development, sales and marketing and facilities. Our plan has a number of risks, some of which we cannot control. For example: we may need to generate higher revenues to cover a higher level of operating expenses, and our ability to do so may depend on factors that we do not control we may need to attract and assimilate a large number of new employees we may need to manage complexities associated with a larger and faster growing organization we will need to accurately anticipate demand for the products we manufacture and maintain adequate manufacturing capacity, and our ability to do so may depend on factors that we do not control Of course, there may be other risks and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully manage these or other risks. Our stock price is volatile, which could adversely affect your investment. Our stock price, like that of other biotechnology companies, is highly volatile. For example, in the fifty two weeks prior to February 25, 2002, the trading price of our common stock has ranged from a high of $75.06 per share to a low of $45.44 per share. Our stock price may be affected by such factors as: clinical trial results product development announcements by us or our competitors 22 regulatory matters announcements in the scientific and research community intellectual property and legal matters changes in reimbursement policies or medical practices broader industry and market trends unrelated to our performance In addition, if our revenues or earnings in any period fail to meet the investment communitys expectations, there could be an immediate adverse impact on our stock price. The value of our common stock to be issued to Immunex shareholders in the merger will fluctuate. In the merger, Immunex shareholders will receive 0.44 of a share of our stock and $4.50 in cash for each share of Immunex common stock they own. As a result of Immunex shareholders receiving a portion of the merger consideration in shares of our stock, the value of the merger consideration to be received by Immunex shareholders will depend on the market price of our stock at the time the merger is completed. The market price of our stock at the closing of the merger will likely vary from time to time. These variations may be caused by a number of factors, including changes in the businesses, operations or prospects of Amgen or Immunex, the timing of the merger, regulatory considerations, and general market and economic conditions. See " Our stock price is volatile, which could adversely affect your investment." Additionally, the payment of our common stock to Immunex shareholders in connection with the merger would dilute the share ownership of our existing common stockholders and may affect the value of our common stock. The merger consideration will not be adjusted for any increase or decrease in the market price of our stock or Immunex common stock. We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the merger. The success of the merger will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated synergies, cost savings, and growth opportunities from integrating the businesses of Immunex with the businesses of Amgen. Our success in realizing these benefits and the timing of this realization depend upon the successful integration of the operations of Immunex. The integration of two independent companies is a complex, costly, and time consuming process. The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others: consolidating research and development and manufacturing operations retaining key employees consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures coordinating sales and marketing functions preserving our and Immunexs research and development, distribution, marketing, promotion, and other important relationships minimizing the diversion of managements attention from ongoing business concerns coordinating geographically separate organizations We cannot assure you that the integration of Immunex with us will result in the realization of the full benefits anticipated by us to result from the merger. 23 Our business and stock price may be adversely affected if the merger with Immunex is not completed. Our acquisition of Immunex is subject to several customary conditions, including obtaining clearance from governmental entities and the approvals of the transaction by our stockholders and those of Immunex. If our acquisition of Immunex is not completed, we could be subject to a number of risks that may adversely affect our business and stock price, including: the diversion of our managements attention from our day to day business and the disruption to our employees and our relationships with customers and joint venture partners as a result of efforts relating to the acquisition the market price of shares of our stock may decline to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the acquisition will be completed under certain circumstances, we could be required to pay Immunex a $475 million termination fee we must pay costs related to the merger, such as legal and accounting fees and a portion of the investment banking fees, and, under certain circumstances, could be required to reimburse Immunex for up to $15 million of costs we would not realize the benefits we expect by acquiring Immunex Item 2. PROPERTIES Amgens principal executive offices and a majority of its administrative, manufacturing, and research and development facilities are located in forty buildings in Thousand Oaks, California. Thirty six of the buildings are owned and four are leased. Adjacent to these buildings are facilities that are under construction and additional property for future expansion. The Thousand Oaks, California properties include manufacturing facilities licensed by various regulatory bodies that produce commercial quantities of Epoetin alfa, NEUPOGEN(R), Aranesp(TM), INFERGEN(R), and Neulasta(TM). Amgen owns two buildings and leases four buildings in Boulder, Colorado, housing research facilities and a manufacturing facility capable of producing commercial quantities of Kineret(TM). The Company has a manufacturing complex in Longmont, Colorado, that is licensed to produce commercial quantities of Epoetin alfa. Amgen also plans on using the Longmont facility to produce commercial quantities of Aranesp(TM). The Company has acquired approximately 159 acres of undeveloped land adjacent to the Longmont site to accommodate future expansion. Elsewhere in North America, the Company owns a distribution center in Louisville, Kentucky, and a research facility in Cambridge, Massachusetts. The Company leases administrative offices in Washington, D.C. and Canada, and five regional sales offices in the U.S. Outside North America, the Company has a manufacturing facility in Juncos, Puerto Rico, and a European packaging and distribution center in Breda, The Netherlands, which have been licensed by various regulatory bodies. In 2001, the Company purchased approximately 76 acres of undeveloped land adjacent to its current Juncos manufacturing facility to accommodate future expansion. The Company leases facilities in thirteen European countries, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, and Taiwan for administration, marketing, and or research and development. Amgen believes that its existing facilities plus anticipated additions are sufficient to meet its current needs. 24 Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Certain of the Companys legal proceedings are discussed below. While it is impossible to predict accurately or to determine the eventual outcome of these matters, the Company believes that the outcome of these proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on the annual financial statements of the Company. Biogen litigation On March 10, 1995, Biogen, Inc. ("Biogen") filed suit in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts (the "Massachusetts District Court") alleging infringement by the Company of certain claims of U.S. Patent No. 4,874,702 (the "702 Patent"), relating to vectors for expressing cloned genes. Biogen alleged that Amgen infringed its patent by manufacturing and selling NEUPOGEN(R). On March 28, 1995, Biogen filed an amended complaint further alleging that the Company also infringed the claims of two additional patents allegedly assigned to Biogen, U.S. Patent No. 5,401,642 (the "642 Patent") and U.S. Patent No. 5,401,658 (the "658 Patent"), relating to vectors, methods for making vectors and expressing cloned genes, and host cells. In a separate matter, on July 30, 1997, Biogen filed a complaint in the Massachusetts District Court alleging that Amgen infringes claims 9 and 17 of the 702 Patent and the claims of the 642 and 658 Patents, identified above, by making and using the claimed subject matter in the United States in the manufacture of INFERGEN(R). In December 2001, the parties settled both actions. Pursuant to such settlement, the judge dismissed both actions with prejudice on December 28, 2001. Genentech litigation On October 16, 1996, Genentech, Inc. ("Genentech") filed suit in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California (the "California Court") for infringement of U.S. Patent Nos. 4,704,362, 5,221,619, and 4,342,832 (the "362, 619, and 832 Patents"), relating to vectors for expressing cloned genes and the methods for such expression. Genentech alleged that Amgen infringed its patents by manufacturing and selling NEUPOGEN(R). On February 10, 1997, Genentech served an additional counterclaim asserting U.S. Patent No. 5,583,013 (the "013 Patent"), issued December 10, 1996. At a hearing held on May 29, 1998, the parties stipulated to the dismissal with prejudice of claims with respect to the 832 Patent. The judge issued a final claim construction ruling interpreting the 362, 619, and 013 Patent claims which, among other things, essentially limited the claim term "control region" to DNA taken from a single operon and not constructed from control elements derived from various operons. On October 12, 2000, the California Court entered Final Judgment in the Companys favor on the basis of no infringement. Genentech filed a notice of appeal. The parties filed briefs before the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals. Oral arguments were heard on October 9, 2001. The parties are currently awaiting a decision. Transkaryotic Therapies and Aventis litigation On April 15, 1997, Amgen filed suit in the Massachusetts District Court against Transkaryotic Therapies, Inc. ("TKT") and Hoechst Marion Roussel, Inc. ("HMR" now Aventis Pharmaceuticals Inc., together with TKT, the "Defendants") alleging infringement of three U.S. patents owned by Amgen that claim an erythropoietin product and processes for making erythropoietin. The suit sought an injunction preventing the Defendants from making, importing, using, or selling erythropoietin in the U.S. On October 7, 1999, Amgen filed an amended complaint, which added two additional patents to the litigation. Defendants amended answer asserted that all five of the patents in suit were not infringed, were invalid or were unenforceable due to inequitable conduct. Amgens motion for summary judgment of literal infringement was granted by the Massachusetts District Court on April 26, 2000 with respect to claim 1 of U.S. Patent No. 5,955,422 (the "422 Patent"). On May 15, 2000, trial began in the Massachusetts District Court. On June 9, 2000, the Massachusetts District Court granted 25 Defendants motion for non infringement of U.S. Patent No. 5,618,698 (the "698 Patent"), removing the 698 Patent from this action. On July 21, 2000, the Massachusetts District Court granted Amgens motion for judgment on the Defendants defenses of invalidity based upon anticipation and obviousness. On January 19, 2001, the Massachusetts District Court ruled that claims 2 4 of the 080 Patent, claims 1, 3, 4, and 6 of the 349 Patent and claim 1 of the 422 Patent were valid, enforceable, and infringed by TKTs EPO product and the cells used to make such product. The Massachusetts District Court also held that claim 7 of the 349 patent and claims 1, 2, and 9 of the 933 Patent were not infringed, and that if infringed the claims of the 933 patent would be invalid. On January 26, 2001, TKT and HMR filed a Notice of Appeal and on February 14, 2001, Amgen filed a Notice of Cross Appeal, to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. On March 22, 2001, Amgen filed an Amended Notice of Cross Appeal to include claim 9 of the 698 patent. TKT and HMR filed their appeal brief on April 23, 2001 and a corrected version of their brief on May 11, 2001. Amgen timely filed its appeal brief on December 28, 2001 and a corrected version of its brief on January 15, 2002. TKT and HMR filed a reply brief on February 5, 2002. Amgen filed its reply brief on February 22, 2002. Oral argument has not yet been scheduled. Citizens for Consumer Justice, et. al. litigation A class action complaint in which Amgen and twenty seven other pharmaceutical manufacturers are named as defendants has come to Amgens attention. The complaint was filed on December 19, 2001 in the Massachusetts District Court, and it broadly alleges that the defendants reporting of prices for certain products had the effect of falsely overstating the Average Wholesale Price, allegedly inflating reimbursements, including co payments, paid to providers who prescribe and administered the products. The complaint asserts claims under the federal RICO statute and federal antitrust laws. It is brought on behalf of a putative class of individuals and or entities who paid any portion of the 20% co payment and or deductible amount under Medicare Part B for identified drugs manufactured or distributed by the defendants since 1993. Johnson & Johnson arbitrations The Company has filed a demand in an arbitration with Johnson & Johnson to terminate Johnson & Johnsons rights under a license agreement (the "License Agreement") relating to certain patented technology and know how of the Company to sell Epoetin alfa throughout the U.S. for all human uses except dialysis and diagnostics and to recover damages for breach of the License Agreement based on the Companys claim that Johnson & Johnson has intentionally sold PROCRIT(R) (the brand name under which Johnson & Johnson sells Epoetin alfa) into the Companys exclusive dialysis market. The trial commenced in January 2002. Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS No matters were submitted to a vote of the Companys security holders during the last quarter of its fiscal year ended December 31, 2001. 26 PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS The Companys common stock trades on The Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol AMGN. As of February 26, 2002, there were approximately 15,000 holders of record of the Companys common stock. No cash dividends have been paid on the common stock to date, and the Company currently intends to utilize any earnings for development of the Companys business and for repurchases of its common stock. The following table sets forth, for the fiscal periods indicated, the range of high and low closing sales prices of the common stock as quoted on The Nasdaq Stock Market for the years 2001 and 2000: High Low 2001 4th Quarter..... $68.49 $56.03 3rd Quarter..... 65.66 54.01 2nd Quarter..... 70.02 51.51 1st Quarter..... 74.19 54.94 2000 4th Quarter..... $71.38 $54.13 3rd Quarter..... 78.00 64.94 2nd Quarter..... 70.38 51.31 1st Quarter..... 74.69 52.25 27 Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA (in millions, except per share data) Years ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 1998 1997 Consolidated Statement of Operations Data: Revenues: Product sales(1).............................. $3,511.0 $3,202.2 $3,042.8 $2,514.4 $2,219.8 Other revenues................................ 504.7 427.2 297.3 203.8 181.2 Total revenues............................ 4,015.7 3,629.4 3,340.1 2,718.2 2,401.0 Research and development expenses................ 865.0 845.0 822.8 663.3 630.8 Selling, general and administrative expenses..... 970.7 826.9 654.3 515.4 483.8 Other items, net(2).............................. 203.1 (18.8) (49.0) (23.0) 157.0 Net income....................................... 1,119.7 1,138.5 1,096.4 863.2 644.3 Diluted earnings per share(2).................... 1.03 1.05 1.02 0.82 0.59 Cash dividends declared per share................ At December 31, 2001 2000 1999 1998 1997 Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: Total assets..................................... $6,443.1 $5,399.6 $4,077.6 $3,672.2 $3,110.2 Long term debt................................... 223.0 223.0 223.0 223.0 229.0 Stockholders equity............................. 5,217.2 4,314.5 3,023.5 2,562.2 2,139.3 (1) Due to Year 2000 contingency planning in the fourth quarter of 1999, the Company offered extended payment terms on limited shipments of EPOGEN(R) and NEUPOGEN(R) to certain wholesalers. These Year 2000 related sales totaled $45 million, or $0.02 per share, in 1999. (2) The amount in 2001 is primarily related to the costs of terminating collaboration agreements with various third parties. The amount in 2000 includes a write off of acquired in process research and development of $30.1 million, a charitable contribution of $25 million to the Amgen Foundation, and a $73.9 million benefit related to a legal proceeding. The amounts in other years are comprised of benefits and expenses also related to this legal proceeding. See Notes 4 and 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the amounts in 2001, 2000, and 1999. In 2001, the amount in other items, net combined with an inventory write off of $39.5 million recorded in cost of sales decreased earnings per share by $0.15. Other items, net increased/(decreased) earnings per share by $0.00 in 2000, $0.03 in 1999, $0.01 in 1998, and ($0.09) in 1997. 28 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company had cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities of $2,662.2 million and $2,028.1 million at December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Cash provided by operating activities has been and is expected to continue to be the Companys primary source of funds. Cash provided from operations was $1,480.2 million and $1,634.6 million in 2001 and 2000, respectively. Capital expenditures totaled $441.8 million in 2001 compared with $437.7 million in 2000. The Company anticipates spending approximately $450 million to $550 million in 2002 on capital projects and equipment to expand its global operations. The Company receives cash from the exercise of employee stock options and proceeds from the sale of stock by Amgen pursuant to the employee stock purchase plan. Employee stock option exercises and proceeds from the sale of stock by Amgen pursuant to the employee stock purchase plan provided $277.7 million and $333.7 million of cash in 2001 and 2000, respectively. Proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options will vary from period to period based upon, among other factors, fluctuations in the market value of the Companys stock relative to the exercise price of such options. The Company has a stock repurchase program primarily to reduce the dilutive effect of its employee stock option and stock purchase plans. In 2001, the Company repurchased 12.7 million shares of its common stock at a total cost of $737.5 million. In 2000, the Company repurchased 12.2 million shares of its common stock at a total cost of $799.9 million. In December 2000, the Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase up to $2 billion of common stock between January 1, 2001 and December 31, 2002. The amount the Company spends on and the number of shares repurchased each quarter varies based on a variety of factors, including the stock price and blackout periods in which the Company is restricted from repurchasing shares. As of December 31, 2001, $1,262.5 million was available for stock repurchases through December 31, 2002. On February 22, 2002, the Company announced that it has agreed to issue $3.5 billion in aggregate face amount of 30 year zero coupon senior notes (the "Convertible Notes") that are convertible into shares of the Companys common stock. The proceeds from the offering, net of estimated issuance costs, are expected to be approximately $2.45 billion. The Company may raise up to an additional $321 million upon exercise of an over allotment option that has been granted in connection with the offering. The Company expects to use approximately $650 million of the net proceeds to repurchase shares of its common stock simultaneously with the issuance of the Convertible Notes, with the remaining proceeds to be used for general corporate purposes. The terms of the Convertible Notes include a yield to maturity of 1.125% and an initial conversion premium of 40%. The issuance of the Convertible Notes is subject to customary closing conditions and is expected to be completed by March 1, 2002. To provide for financial flexibility and increased liquidity, the Company has established several other sources of debt financing. As of December 31, 2001, the Company had $223 million of unsecured long term debt securities outstanding. These unsecured long term debt securities consisted of: 1) $100 million of debt securities that bear interest at a fixed rate of 6.5% and mature in 2007 under a $500 million debt shelf registration (the "Shelf"), 2) $100 million of debt securities that bear interest at a fixed rate of 8.1% and mature in 2097, and 3) $23 million of debt securities that bear interest at a fixed rate of 6.2% and mature in 2003. As of December 31, 2001, the Companys outstanding long term debt was rated A2 by Moodys and A by Standard & Poors. Under the Shelf, all of the remaining $400 million of debt securities available for issuance may be offered under the Companys medium term note program with terms to be determined by market conditions. The Companys sources of debt financing also include a commercial paper program which provides for unsecured short term borrowings up to an aggregate face amount of $200 million. As of December 31, 2001, commercial paper with a face amount of $100 million was outstanding. These borrowings had maturities of less 29 than one month and had effective interest rates averaging 1.9%. In addition, the Company has an unsecured $150 million committed credit facility with five participating banking institutions that expires on May 28, 2003. This credit facility supports the Companys commercial paper program. As of December 31, 2001, no amounts were outstanding under this credit facility. The primary objectives for the Companys fixed income investment portfolio are liquidity and safety of principal. Investments are made to achieve the highest rate of return to the Company, consistent with these two objectives. The Companys investment policy limits investments to certain types of instruments issued by institutions with investment grade credit ratings and places restrictions on maturities and concentration by type and issuer. The Company believes that existing funds, cash generated from operations, and existing sources of debt financing (including the pending issuance of the Convertible Notes) are adequate to satisfy its working capital and capital expenditure requirements for the foreseeable future, as well as to support its stock repurchase program and the proposed acquisition of Immunex Corporation ("Immunex") (see "Proposed Merger with Immunex"). However, the Company may raise additional capital from time to time. Results of Operations Product sales Product sales primarily consist of sales of EPOGEN(R) (Epoetin alfa), Aranesp(TM) (darbepoetin alfa), and NEUPOGEN(R) (Filgrastim). In 2001, product sales were $3,511.0 million, an increase of $308.8 million or 10% over the prior year. Product sales were $3,202.2 million in 2000, an increase of $159.4 million or 5% over the prior year. Product sales are influenced by a number of factors, including underlying demand, wholesaler inventory management practices, and foreign exchange effects. EPOGEN(R)/Aranesp(TM) In 2001, the Company received approval to market Aranesp(TM) in the U.S. (September 2001), most countries in the European Union ("EU"), Australia, and New Zealand for the treatment of anemia associated with chronic renal failure, including patients on dialysis and patients not on dialysis. Combined EPOGEN(TM) and Aranesp(TM) sales in 2001 were $2,150.0 million, an increase of $187.1 million or 10% over 2000 EPOGEN(R) sales. This increase was primarily due to higher EPOGEN(R) demand, which includes the effect of higher prices and growth in the U.S. dialysis patient population, and to a lesser extent, the launch of Aranesp(TM) in the U.S. and Europe. The reported sales growth was negatively impacted to a slight degree by wholesaler inventory changes. Worldwide Aranesp(TM) sales in 2001 were $41.5 million. EPOGEN(R) sales in 2000 were $1,962.9 million, an increase of $203.8 million or 12% over the prior year. This increase was primarily due to higher demand, which was principally driven by growth in the U.S. dialysis patient population and to a lesser extent, the effect of higher prices. Sales in 2000 were adversely impacted by Year 2000 related sales to wholesalers in the fourth quarter of 1999 for which the Company provided extended payment terms and, the Company believes, by dialysis provider inventory drawdowns in 2000 of additional 1999 year end stockpiling. The Company believes that some of this dialysis provider stockpiling may have been due to Year 2000 concerns and year end contract expirations. NEUPOGEN(R) Worldwide NEUPOGEN(R) sales in 2001 were $1,346.4 million, an increase of $122.7 million or 10% over the prior year. This increase was primarily due to worldwide demand growth, which includes the effect of higher prices in the U.S. 30 Worldwide NEUPOGEN(R) sales were $1,223.7 million in 2000, a decrease of $32.9 million or 3% from the prior year. This decrease was primarily due to the adverse impact of wholesaler buying patterns, including Year 2000 related sales to wholesalers in the fourth quarter of 1999 for which the Company provided extended payment terms, as well as adverse foreign exchange effects. The Company believes these factors were partially offset by a mid single digit rate increase in demand, which includes the effect of higher prices in the U.S. Corporate partner revenues In 2001, corporate partner revenues were $252.0 million, an increase of $5.8 million or 2% over the prior year. This increase was due to slightly higher revenues, primarily related to INFERGEN(R), substantially offset by lower amounts earned from Kirin Amgen, Inc. In 2000, corporate partner revenues were $246.2 million, an increase of $84.8 million or 53% over the prior year. This increase was primarily due to amounts earned from Kirin Amgen, Inc. related to the development program for Aranesp(TM). Royalty income In 2001, royalty income was $252.7 million, an increase of 40% over the prior year. In 2000, royalty income was $181.0 million, an increase of 33% over the prior year. These increases were primarily due to higher royalties from Johnson & Johnson relating to their sales of Epoetin alfa. Cost of sales Cost of sales as a percentage of product sales was 12.6%, 12.8%, and 13.2% for 2001, 2000, and 1999, respectively. The decrease in 2001 was primarily due to reduced royalty obligations, substantially offset by the impact of the $39.5 million write off of certain inventory in the fourth quarter of 2001. The decrease in 2000 was primarily due to increased manufacturing efficiencies. Research and development In 2001, research and development expenses increased $20.0 million or 2% over the prior year. This increase was primarily due to higher staff related costs necessary to support ongoing research and product development activities, partially offset by lower clinical manufacturing and product licensing related costs. In 2000, research and development expenses increased $22.2 million or 3% over the prior year. This increase was primarily due to higher staff related costs necessary to support ongoing research and product development activities and higher clinical trial costs. These increases were substantially offset by a reduction in clinical manufacturing and product licensing related costs. Selling, general and administrative In 2001, selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expenses increased $143.8 million or 17% over the prior year. This increase was primarily due to higher outside marketing expenses, staff related costs, and consulting expenses as support for new product launches was increased. In 2000, SG&A expenses increased $172.6 million or 26% over the prior year. This increase was primarily due to higher staff related costs and outside marketing expenses as the Company continued to support its existing products and prepared for anticipated new product launches. Other items, net In 2001, other items, net primarily consisted of costs associated with the termination of collaboration agreements with various third parties, including PRAECIS PHARMACEUTICALS INCORPORATED and certain 31 academic institutions. In 2000, other items, net consisted of three items: 1) legal award associated with the spillover arbitration with Johnson & Johnson, 2) a write off of acquired in process research and development associated with the acquisition of Kinetix Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and 3) a charitable contribution to the Amgen Foundation. In 1999, other items, net consisted of a reduction in liabilities related to the spillover arbitration with Johnson & Johnson. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the 2001, 2000, and 1999 items. Interest and other income, net In 2001, interest and other income, net increased $22.5 million or 15% over the prior year. This increase was due to higher interest income generated from the Companys investment portfolio as a result of higher average cash balances, partially offset by lower interest rates in 2001 and higher gains on the sale of equity investments that occurred in 2000. In 2000, interest and other income, net increased $57.9 million or 66% over the prior year. This increase was primarily due to gains realized on the sale of certain equity securities in the Companys portfolio and higher interest income generated from the Companys investment portfolio as a result of higher average cash balances and higher interest rates. Income taxes The Companys effective tax rate was 33.6%, 32.0%, and 30.0% for 2001, 2000, and 1999, respectively. The Companys tax rate in 2001 has increased, in part, due to the absence of capital loss carryforwards that benefited 2000. The tax rate in all three years reflected the tax benefits from the sale of products manufactured in the Companys Puerto Rico manufacturing facility. In addition, the 2001 and 2000 tax rates increased as a result of increased taxable income combined with a provision in the federal tax law that caps tax benefits associated with the Companys Puerto Rico operations at the 1995 income level. The 2000 tax rate increased also as a result of the write off of acquired in process research and development, which is not deductible for tax purposes. Proposed Merger with Immunex On December 16, 2001, the Company signed a definitive agreement to acquire Immunex Corporation ("Immunex") in a transaction to be accounted for as a purchase. Immunex is a biopharmaceutical company dedicated to developing immune system science to protect human health. Under the terms of the agreement, each share of Immunex common stock outstanding at the closing of the merger, other than shares as to which dissenters rights have been validly exercised, will be converted into 0.44 of a share of Amgen common stock and $4.50 cash. In addition, at the closing of the merger each option outstanding to purchase a share of Immunex common stock will be assumed by Amgen and exchanged into an option to purchase Amgen common stock based on the terms of the merger agreement. The estimated purchase price is approximately $17.6 billion, which includes the cash portion of the merger consideration, the estimated fair values of Amgen stock issued and options to be exchanged, and the direct transaction costs. The final purchase price will be determined based upon the number of Immunex shares and options outstanding at the closing date. The transaction is expected to close in the second half of 2002, subject to approval by shareholders of both companies, customary regulatory approvals, as well as other customary closing conditions. More information about this transaction is available in Amgens Current Report on Form 8 K filed with the SEC on December 17, 2001 which is incorporated herein by reference. Unless otherwise indicated, the discussions in this document relate to Amgen as a stand alone entity and do not reflect the impact of the proposed merger with Immunex. Financial Outlook In the future, the Company expects the growth of its anemia business to be driven primarily by Aranesp(TM) sales in new markets. The Company expects growth in its U.S. dialysis business to come primarily from patient 32 population growth and inflation related price increases. Patients receiving treatment for end stage renal disease are covered primarily under medical programs provided by the federal government. Therefore, EPOGEN(R) sales may also be affected by future changes in reimbursement rates or a change in the basis for reimbursement by the federal government. Worldwide Aranesp(TM) sales will be dependent in part upon such factors as the effects of competitive pressures, penetration of existing and new market opportunities, the availability and extent of reimbursement by third party payors including governments and private insurance plans, and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Future NEUPOGEN(R) demand is dependent primarily upon penetration of existing markets, inflation related price increases, and the effects of competitive products. In addition, chemotherapy treatments that are less myelosuppressive may require less NEUPOGEN(R). NEUPOGEN(R) usage is expected to continue to be affected by cost containment pressures from governments and private insurers on health care providers worldwide. In addition, reported NEUPOGEN(R) sales will continue to be affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. In both domestic and foreign markets, sales of NEUPOGEN(R) are dependent, in part, on the availability of reimbursement from third party payors such as governments (for example, Medicare and Medicaid programs in the U.S.) and private insurance plans. Therefore, NEUPOGEN(R) sales may also be affected by future changes in reimbursement rates or changes in the bases for reimbursement. In January 2002, the Company received regulatory approval to market Neulasta(TM), its new white blood cell booster, in the U.S. Neulasta(TM), administered as a single fixed dose per chemotherapy cycle, is indicated for decreasing the incidence of infection, as manifested by febrile neutropenia in patients with non myeloid malignancies receiving myelosuppressive anti cancer drugs associated with clinically significant incidence of febrile neutropenia. The Company expects to launch Neulasta(TM) in April 2002. Once launched, Neulasta may impact NEUPOGEN(R) sales as health care providers in the U.S. may transition from administering NEUPOGEN(R) to Neulasta(TM). In November 2001, the Company received regulatory approval to market Kineret(TM) (anakinra) in the U.S. for the reduction in signs and symptoms of moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis in adult patients who have failed one or more disease modifying antirheumatic drugs. The Company is providing this information as of the filing date of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2001, and does not plan to update this information and expressly disclaims any duty to update the information contained in this filing, except as required by law. Except for the historical information contained herein, the matters discussed herein are by their nature forward looking. Investors are cautioned that forward looking statements or projections made by the Company, including those made in this document, are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. Reference is made in particular to forward looking statements regarding product sales, expenses, liquidity and the Convertible Notes, and the proposed merger with Immunex. Amgen operates in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond the Companys control. Future operating results and the Companys stock price may be affected by a number of factors, including, without limitation: (i) the results of preclinical and clinical trials; (ii) regulatory approvals of product candidates, new indications, and manufacturing facilities; (iii) health care guidelines and policies relating to Amgens products; (iv) reimbursement for Amgens products by governments and private payors; (v) intellectual property matters (patents) and the results of litigation; (vi) competition; (vii) fluctuations in operating results; and (viii) rapid growth of the Company. The proposed merger with Immunex may fail to close or the terms of the merger may need to be modified to achieve regulatory approval. Depending on the timing of the merger, and other factors, Amgen may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the merger, including the anticipated synergies, cost savings, and growth opportunities from integrating the businesses of Immunex with the businesses of Amgen. Additionally, the value of the Amgen common stock to be issued to the Immunex 33 shareholders in connection with the merger will fluctuate. These factors and others are discussed herein and in the sections appearing under the heading "Business Factors That May Affect Amgen" and in Amgens other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which sections are incorporated herein by reference. Summary of Critical Accounting Policies EPOGEN(R) revenue recognition The Company has the exclusive right to sell Epoetin alfa for dialysis, certain diagnostics, and all non human, non research uses in the United States. Amgen has granted to Johnson & Johnson a license relating to Epoetin alfa for sales in the United States for all human uses except dialysis and diagnostics. Pursuant to this license, the Company and Johnson & Johnson are required to compensate each other for Epoetin alfa sales that either party makes into the other partys exclusive market, sometimes referred to as "spillover" sales. Accordingly, Amgen does not recognize product sales it makes into the exclusive market of Johnson & Johnson and does recognize the product sales made by Johnson & Johnson into Amgens exclusive market. Sales in Amgens exclusive market are derived from the Companys sales to its customers, as adjusted for any spillover sales. The Company is employing an arbitrated audit methodology to measure each partys spillover sales based on independent third party data on shipments to end users and their estimated usage. Data on end user usage is derived in part using market sampling techniques, and accordingly, the results of such sampling can produce variability in recognized spillover sales. The Company initially recognizes spillover sales based on estimates of shipments to end users and their usage, utilizing historical third party data and subsequently adjusts such amounts based on revised third party data as received. Differences between initially estimated spillover sales and amounts based on revised third party data could produce materially different amounts for recognized EPOGEN(R) sales. However, such differences to date have not been material. Inventory capitalization The Company capitalizes inventory costs associated with certain product candidates prior to regulatory approval, based on managements judgment of probable future commercialization. The Company would be required to expense previously capitalized costs related to pre approval inventory upon a change in such judgment, due to, among other factors, a decision denying approval of the product candidate by the necessary regulatory bodies. At December 31, 2001, capitalized inventory related to the product candidate Neulasta(TM) totaled $8.8 million. In January 2002, the Company received regulatory approval to market Neulasta(TM) in the U.S. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Interest income earned on the Companys investment portfolio is affected by changes in the general level of U.S. interest rates. In 2001, the Company entered into interest rate swap agreements on a portion of its available for sale investment portfolio, effectively converting these fixed income investments to variable income investments. The Companys short term borrowings effectively bear interest at variable rates and therefore, changes in U.S. interest rates affect interest expense incurred thereon. Changes in interest rates do not affect interest expense incurred on the Companys long term borrowings because they all bear interest at fixed rates. The following tables provide information about the Companys financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. For the Companys investment portfolio and debt obligations, the tables present principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. Additionally, the Company has assumed its available for sale debt securities, comprised primarily of corporate debt instruments and treasury securities, are similar enough to aggregate those securities for presentation purposes. For the interest rate swaps, the 2001 table presents the notional amount and weighted average interest rates by contractual maturity date. The notional amount is used to calculate the contractual cash flows to be exchanged under the contract. 34 Interest Rate Sensitivity Principal Amount by Expected Maturity as of December 31, 2001 (Dollars in millions) Average Interest Rate Fair Value 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Thereafter Total 12/31/01 Available for sale debt securities.................. $1,466.9 $362.9 $390.6 $163.9 $115.0 $2,499.3 $2,568.0 Interest rate................. 4.4% 6.6% 5.8% 7.0% 5.1% Commercial paper obligations.. $ 100.0 $ 100.0 $ 100.0 Interest rate................. 1.9% Long term debt................ $ 23.0 $200.0 $ 223.0 $ 244.9 Interest rate................. 6.2% 7.3% Interest rate swaps related to available for sale debt securities: Pay fixed/receive variable.... $153.7 $144.2 $120.0 $ 40.0 $ 457.9 $ 1.4 Average pay rate.............. 2.9% 3.8% 4.2% 4.5% Average receive rate.......... 2.0% 2.0% 2.0% 2.0% Interest Rate Sensitivity Principal Amount by Expected Maturity as of December 31, 2000 (Dollars in millions) Average Interest Rate Fair Value 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 Thereafter Total 12/31/00 Available for sale debt securities.................. $780.4 $740.6 $232.3 $118.5 $60.0 $1,931.8 $1,950.2 Interest rate................. 6.6% 6.7% 7.0% 6.5% 7.0% Commercial paper obligations.. $100.0 $ 100.0 $ 100.0 Interest rate................. 6.7% Long term debt................ $ 23.0 $200.0 $ 223.0 $ 222.0 Interest rate................. 6.2% 7.3% The Company is exposed to equity price risks on the marketable portion of equity securities included in its portfolio of investments entered into for the promotion of business and strategic objectives. These investments are generally in small capitalization stocks in the biotechnology industry sector. In 2001, the Company entered into equity forward contracts to hedge against changes in the fair market value of a portion of its equity investment portfolio. At December 31, 2001 and 2000, the fair value of the unhedged portion of its equity securities was $133.4 million and $223.0 million, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, an adverse change in equity prices of 45% and 80%, respectively, would result in a decrease of approximately $60.0 million and $178.4 million, respectively, in the fair value of the unhedged portion of the Companys equity securities. Price volatility for equity investments is based on the volatility of a relevant market index for small capitalization stocks in the biotechnology sector. 35 The Company did not have material exposures to changes in foreign currency exchange rates related to its foreign currency forward contracts outstanding as of December 31, 2001 and 2000. 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Proposed Merger with Immunex"). Novartis AG markets another GM CSF product for use in BMT patients and as an adjunct to chemotherapy in the EU and certain other countries. This GM CSF product is currently being developed for similar indications in the United States and Canada. Nartograstim, a modified G CSF protein, is sold by Kyowa Hakko Kogyo Co., Ltd. in Japan. Many companies are developing products that promote wound healing, soft tissue regeneration, and chemoprotection. Companies such as Human Genome Sciences, Inc., Genetics Institute, Inc., MedImmune, Inc., and IntraBiotics Pharmaceuticals, Inc. are currently among many companies that are developing products which could be potential competitors for KGF. NHL is primarily treated with standard chemotherapy agents, monoclonal antibodies, or a combination of the two modalities. Epratuzumab could face competition from rituximab, another monoclonal antibody marketed jointly by Genentech, Inc. and Idec Pharmaceuticals Corporation. However, it is also possible that epratuzumab may be used in combination with rituximab (see "Product candidates Cancer"). In addition, other monoclonal antibodies are being investigated for the treatment of NHL including those in development by GlaxoSmithKline plc (in collaboration with Beckman Coulter, Inc.) and Idec Pharmaceuticals Corporation. The OPG program could face competition from a product currently marketed by Novartis AG for the treatment of cancer metastases to the bone. Inflammation Kineret(TM) and sTNF RI could face competition in some circumstances from a number of companies developing or marketing rheumatoid arthritis treatments. Current anti arthritic treatments include generic methotrexate and other products marketed by, among others, Centocor, Inc./Johnson & Johnson, Immunex/American Home Products Corporation, Merck & Co., Inc., Pharmacia Corporation, Novartis AG, and Sanofi Synthelabo. In addition, a number of companies have cytokine inhibitors in development including Abbott Laboratories, GlaxoSmithKline plc, Pharmacia Corporation, and Taisho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. 12 Neurology and Metabolism Many companies currently market or are believed to be developing obesity treatments that could compete with the leptin program. Potential future competitors include Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (in collaboration with Roche), Neurogen Corporation (in collaboration with Pfizer Inc.), Bristol Myers Squibb Company, Novartis AG, Eli Lilly and Company, and Merck & Co., Inc. Abbott Laboratories and Roche currently market obesity treatments in various countries. Research and Development The Companys primary sources of new product candidates are internal research and acquisition and licensing from third parties. Amgens internal research capabilities include an expertise in secreted protein therapeutics. The Companys discovery program may yield targets that lead to the development of therapeutics delivered as proteins, small molecules, or monoclonal antibodies. Amgen has only recently entered the small molecule field. To supplement its small molecule discovery program, in December 2000, Amgen acquired Kinetix Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ("Kinetix"), a privately held company that focused on the discovery of small molecule drugs that inhibit protein kinases, a key class of biological regulators (see Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Research and development expenses for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000, and 1999 were $865.0 million, $845.0 million, and $822.8 million, respectively. Additionally, the Company recorded a $30.1 million write off of acquired in process research and development during the year ended December 31, 2000 arising from the acquisition of Kinetix (see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Government Regulation Regulation by governmental authorities in the United States and other countries is a significant factor in the production and marketing of the Companys products and its ongoing research and development activities (see "Factors That May Affect Amgen Our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not obtain and maintain regulatory approval."). In order to clinically test, manufacture, and market products for therapeutic use, Amgen must satisfy mandatory procedures and safety and effectiveness standards established by various regulatory bodies. In the United States, the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as amended, and the regulations promulgated thereunder, and other federal and state statutes and regulations govern, among other things, the testing, manufacture, labeling, storage, record keeping, approval, advertising, and promotion of the Companys products on a product by product basis. Product development and approval within this regulatory framework takes a number of years and involve the expenditure of substantial resources. After laboratory analysis and preclinical testing in animals, an investigational new drug application is filed with the FDA to begin human testing. Typically, a three phase human clinical testing program is then undertaken. In phase 1, small clinical trials are conducted to determine the safety of the product. In phase 2, clinical trials are conducted to assess safety, acceptable dose, and gain preliminary evidence of the efficacy of the product. In phase 3, clinical trials are conducted to provide sufficient data for the statistically valid proof of safety and efficacy. The time and expense required to perform this clinical testing can vary and is substantial. No action can be taken to market any new drug or biologic product in the United States until an appropriate marketing application has been approved by the FDA. Even after initial FDA approval has been obtained, further clinical trials may be required to provide additional data on safety and effectiveness and are required to gain clearance for the use of a product as a treatment for indications other than those initially approved. In addition, side effects or adverse events that are reported during clinical trials can delay, impede, or prevent marketing approval. Similarly, adverse events that are reported after marketing approval can result in additional limitations being placed on the products use and, potentially, withdrawal of the product from the market. Any adverse event, either before or after marketing approval, can result in product liability claims against the Company. In addition to regulating and auditing human clinical trials, the FDA regulates and inspects equipment, facilities, and processes used in the manufacturing of such products prior to providing approval to market a 13 product. If after receiving clearance from the FDA, a material change is made in manufacturing equipment, location, or process, additional regulatory review may be required. The Company also must adhere to current Good Manufacturing Practice and product specific regulations enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program. The FDA also conducts regular, periodic visits to re inspect equipment, facilities, and processes following the initial approval. If, as a result of these inspections, the FDA determines that the Companys equipment, facilities, or processes do not comply with applicable FDA regulations and conditions of product approval, the FDA may seek civil, criminal, or administrative sanctions and or remedies against Amgen, including the suspension of the Companys manufacturing operations. In the EU countries, Canada, and Australia, regulatory requirements and approval processes are similar in principle to those in the United States. Additionally, depending on the type of drug for which approval is sought, there are currently two potential tracks for marketing approval in the EU countries: mutual recognition and the centralized procedure. These review mechanisms may ultimately lead to approval in all EU countries, but each method grants all participating countries some decision making authority in product approval. The Company is also subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to health care "fraud and abuse," including anti kickback laws and false claims laws. Anti kickback laws make it illegal for a prescription drug manufacturer to solicit, offer, receive, or pay any remuneration in exchange for, or to induce, the referral of business, including the purchase or prescription of a particular drug. The federal government has published regulations that identify "safe harbors" or exemptions for certain payment arrangements that do not violate the anti kickback statutes. The Company seeks to comply with the safe harbors where possible. Due to the breadth of the statutory provisions and the absence of guidance in the form of regulations or court decisions addressing some of the Companys practices, it is possible that the Companys practices might be challenged under anti kickback or similar laws. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be presented for payment to third party payors (including Medicare and Medicaid) claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided as claimed, or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. Amgens activities relating to the sale and marketing of its products may be subject to scrutiny under these laws. Violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal and or civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as the possibility of exclusion from federal health care programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). If the government were to allege against or convict the Company of violating these laws, there could be a material adverse effect on the Company, including its stock price. The Companys activities could be subject to challenge for the reasons discussed above and due to the broad scope of these laws and the increasing attention being given to them by law enforcement authorities. Since 1991, the Company has participated in the Medicaid rebate program established by the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990, and under amendments of that law that became effective in 1993, participation has included extending comparable discounts under the Public Health Service ("PHS") pharmaceutical pricing program. Under the Medicaid rebate program, the Company pays a rebate for each unit of its product reimbursed by Medicaid. The amount of the rebate for each product is set by law as a minimum 15.1% of the average manufacturer price ("AMP") of that product, or if it is greater, the difference between AMP and the best price available from the Company to any customer. The rebate amount also includes an inflation adjustment if AMP increases faster than inflation. The PHS pricing program extends discounts comparable to the Medicaid rebate to a variety of community health clinics and other entities that receive health services grants from the PHS, as well as hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of poor Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries. The rebate amount is recomputed each quarter based on the Companys reports of its current average manufacturer price and best price for each of its products to the Health Care Financing Administration ("HCFA"). The terms of the Companys participation in the program impose an obligation to correct the prices reported in previous quarters, as may be necessary. Any such corrections could result in an overage or underage in the Companys rebate liability for past quarters, depending on the direction of the correction. In addition to retroactive rebates (and interest, if any), if the Company were found to have knowingly submitted false information to the government, in addition to other penalties available to the government, the statute provides for civil monetary penalties in the amount of $100,000 per item of false information. 14 The Company also makes its products available to authorized users of the Federal Supply Schedule ("FSS") of the General Services Administration. Since 1993, as a result of the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992 (the "VHC Act"), federal law has required that product prices for purchases by the Veterans Administration, the Department of Defense, Coast Guard, and the PHS (including the Indian Health Service) be discounted by a minimum of 24% off the AMP to non federal customers (the non federal average manufacturer price, "non FAMP"). The Companys computation and report of non FAMP is used in establishing the price, and the accuracy of the reported non FAMP may be audited by the government under applicable federal procurement laws. Among the remedies available to the government for infractions of these laws is recoupment of any overages paid by FSS users during the audited years. In addition, if the Company were found to have knowingly reported a false non FAMP, the VHC Act provides for civil monetary penalties of $100,000 per item that is incorrect. Amgen is also subject to regulation under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and other current and potential future federal, state, or local regulations. The Companys research and development activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals, biological materials, and various radioactive compounds. The Company believes that its procedures comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations; however, the risk of injury or accidental contamination cannot be completely eliminated. Amgens research and manufacturing activities also are conducted in voluntary compliance with the National Institutes of Health Guidelines for Recombinant DNA Research. Additionally, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, to which the Company is subject, prohibits corporations and individuals from engaging in certain activities to obtain or retain business or to influence a person working in an official capacity. It is illegal to pay, offer to pay, or authorize the payment of anything of value to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party, or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business or to otherwise influence a person working in an official capacity. The Companys present and future business has been and will continue to be subject to various other laws and regulations. Patents and Trademarks Patents are very important to the Company in establishing proprietary rights to the products it has developed or licensed. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including the Company, can be uncertain and involve complex legal, scientific, and factual questions. See "Factors That May Affect Amgen If our intellectual property positions are challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or if we fail to prevail in present and future intellectual property litigation, our business could be adversely affected.". The Company has filed applications for a number of patents, has been granted patents, or has obtained rights relating to its erythropoietin, G CSF, darbepoetin alfa, pegfilgrastim, anakinra, consensus interferon and various potential products. In the United States, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (the "USPTO") has issued to the Company or the Company has obtained rights to patents relating to erythropoietin that generally cover DNA and host cells (issued in 1987); processes for making erythropoietin (issued in 1995 and 1997); certain product claims to erythropoietin (issued in 1996 and 1997); cells that make certain levels of erythropoietin (issued in 1998); and pharmaceutical compositions of erythropoietin (issued in 1999). These patents have varying expiration dates, with the latest erythropoietin related patents expiring in 2015; all other patents expire earlier. The USPTO has also issued to the Company or the Company has obtained rights to patents relating to aspects of DNA, vectors, cells, and processes relating to recombinant G CSF (issued in 1989); other aspects of DNA, vectors, cells, and processes relating to recombinant G CSF (issued in 1991); G CSF polypeptides (issued in 1996); methods of treatment using G CSF polypeptides (issued in 1996); methods of enhancing bone marrow transplantation and treating burn wounds (issued in 1997); methods for recombinant production of G CSF (issued in 1998); and analogs of G CSF (issued in 1999). The last to issue G CSF patents expire in 2013; all other patents expire earlier. Additionally, U.S. and EU patents pertaining to pegylated G CSF (pegfilgrastim) expire in 2015. The 15 patent relating to erythropoietin for the EU expires in 2004. The patent relating to G CSF for the EU expires in 2006. The Company has been granted or has obtained rights to two patents in the EU relating to darbepoetin alfa and hyperglycosylated erythropoietic proteins which expire in 2014 and 2010, respectively. The Company has been granted or has obtained rights to a patent on DNA encoding anakinra in the United States which expires in 2008 and has been granted or has obtained rights to patents in the countries adhering to the European Patent Office on anakinra and the DNA encoding it which expire in 2009; the Company has applied, or plans to apply, for extensions of anakinra patents. There can be no assurance that Amgens patents or licensed patents will afford legal protection against competitors or provide significant proprietary protection or competitive advantage. In addition, Amgens patents or licensed patents could be held invalid or unenforceable by a court, or infringed or circumvented by others, or others could obtain patents that the Company would need to license or circumvent. Competitors or potential competitors may have filed patent applications or received patents, and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights relating to proteins, small molecules, compounds, or processes competitive with those of the Company. Additionally, for certain of the Companys product candidates, competitors, or potential competitors may claim that their existing or pending patents prevent the Company from commercializing such product candidates in certain territories. In general, the Company has obtained licenses from various parties which it deems to be necessary or desirable for the manufacture, use, or sale of its products. These licenses generally require Amgen to pay royalties to the parties on product sales. In addition, other companies have filed patent applications or have been granted patents in areas of interest to the Company. There can be no assurance any licenses required under such patents will be available for license on acceptable terms or at all. The Company is engaged in various legal proceedings relating to certain of its patents. See "Item 3. Legal Proceedings". Trade secret protection for its unpatented confidential and proprietary information is important to Amgen. To protect its trade secrets, the Company generally requires its employees, material consultants, scientific advisors, and parties to collaboration and licensing agreements to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of employment, the consulting relationship, or the collaboration or licensing arrangement with the Company. However, others could either develop independently the same or similar information or obtain access to Amgens proprietary information. The Company has obtained U.S. registration of its EPOGEN(R), NEUPOGEN(R), and INFERGEN(R) trademarks. In addition, these trademarks have been registered in other countries. The Company also has trademark protection for its product names Aranesp(TM), Kineret(TM), and Neulasta(TM) and is currently seeking U.S. registration of these trademarks. Manufacturing and Raw Materials Amgen has manufacturing facilities which produce commercial quantities of Epoetin alfa, NEUPOGEN(R), Aranesp(TM), Kineret(TM), Neulasta(TM), and INFERGEN(R) (see "Item 2. Properties"). Additionally, the Company supplies Epoetin alfa to Johnson & Johnson under a supply agreement. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to accurately anticipate future demand for Epoetin alfa, NEUPOGEN(R), Aranesp(TM), Kineret(TM), Neulasta(TM), and INFERGEN(R) or maintain adequate manufacturing capacity (see "Factors That May Affect Amgen We plan to grow rapidly, and if we fail to adequately manage that growth our business could be adversely impacted."). Certain raw materials necessary for the Companys commercial manufacturing of its products are proprietary products of other companies, and in some cases, such proprietary products are specifically cited in the Companys drug application with the FDA such that they must be obtained from that specific, sole source. The Company currently attempts to manage the risk associated with such sole sourced raw materials by active inventory management and alternate source development, where feasible. Amgen attempts to remain apprised of 16 the financial condition of its suppliers, their ability to supply the Companys needs and the market conditions for these raw materials. Also, certain of the raw materials required in the commercial manufacturing of the Companys products are derived from biological sources. The Company is investigating screening procedures with respect to certain biological sources and alternatives to them. Raw materials may be subject to contamination and or recall. A material shortage, contamination, and or recall could adversely impact or disrupt Amgens commercial manufacturing of its products. Human Resources As of December 31, 2001, the Company had approximately 7,700 employees, including approximately 70 part time employees, of which approximately 3,800 were engaged in research and development, approximately 1,800 were engaged in sales and marketing, and approximately 2,100 were engaged in other activities. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to continue attracting and retaining qualified personnel in sufficient numbers to meet its needs. None of the Companys employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and the Company has experienced no work stoppages. The Company considers its employee relations to be good. Executive Officers of the Registrant The executive officers of the Company, their ages as of February 26, 2002 and positions are as follows: Mr. Kevin W. Sharer, age 53, has served as a director of the Company since November 1992. He became Chief Executive Officer and President in May 2000 and Chairman of the Board in December 2000, having served as President and Chief Operating Officer from October 1992 to May 2000. From April 1989 to October 1992, Mr. Sharer served as President of the Business Markets Division of MCI Communications Corporation, a telecommunications company, and from February 1984 to March 1989 served in numerous executive capacities at General Electric Company. Mr. Sharer also serves as a director of Unocal Corporation and Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing Co. Dr. Fabrizio Bonanni, age 55, became Senior Vice President, Quality and Compliance in April 1999. From December 1997 to April 1999, Dr. Bonanni served as the Corporate Vice President for Regulatory/Clinical Affairs for Baxter International Inc. ("Baxter"), a pharmaceutical company, from November 1994 to December 1997, as Corporate Vice President, Quality System, and beginning in 1974, held a variety of quality, regulatory and manufacturing positions with Baxter in Europe and in the U.S. Dr. Bonanni currently serves on the Board of Directors of Aaestrom Biosciences Inc. Dr. Dennis M. Fenton, age 50, became Executive Vice President in March 2000, having served as Senior Vice President, Operations, from January 1995 to March 2000, as Senior Vice President, Sales and Marketing from August 1992 to January 1995, and as Vice President, Process Development, Facilities and Manufacturing Services from July 1991 to August 1992. Dr. Fenton also served as Vice President, Pilot Plant Operations and Clinical Manufacturing, from October 1988 to July 1991, and as Director, Pilot Plant Operations, from 1985 to October 1988. Dr. Fenton also serves on the Board of Directors of Aviron and is a member of the Compensation Committee. Mr. Brian M. McNamee, age 45, became Senior Vice President, Human Resources in June 2001. From November 1999 to June 2001, Mr. McNamee served as Vice President of Human Resources at Dell Computer Corp. From July 1988 to November 1999, Mr. McNamee held human resource positions at General Electric, including serving as Senior Vice President Human Resources for the National Broadcasting Corporation ("NBC") from 1998 to 1999. Mr. George J. Morrow, age 49, became Executive Vice President of Worldwide Sales and Marketing, in January 2001. From January 1999 until December 2000, Mr. Morrow was President and Chief Executive Officer of 17 Glaxo Wellcome Inc. ("Glaxo"), a subsidiary of GlaxoSmithKline plc. From January 1997 until December 1998, Mr. Morrow was Managing Director of Glaxo Wellcome U.K., also a subsidiary of GlaxoSmithKline plc. From May 1993 until December 1996, Mr. Morrow was Group Vice President for Commercial Operations of Glaxo. Mr. Richard D. Nanula, age 41, became Executive Vice President, Finance, Strategy and Communications in May 2001. He also became Chief Financial Officer in August 2001. From November 1999 to February 2001, Mr. Nanula was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Broadband Sports, Inc., an internet media company. From March 1998 to May 1999, Mr. Nanula was President and Chief Operating Officer of Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, a worldwide hotel and gaming company. From August 1986 to March 1998, Mr. Nanula was at the Walt Disney Company where he held several positions including Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and President of Disney Stores Worldwide. Mr. Steven M. Odre, age 52, became Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in March 2000, having served as Vice President, Intellectual Property, and Associate General Counsel since October 1988, and as Associate General Counsel from March 1988 to October 1988. From May 1986 to March 1988, Mr. Odre served as Director of Intellectual Property. Dr. Roger M. Perlmutter, age 49, became Executive Vice President of Research and Development in January 2001. From July 1999 to December 2000, Dr. Perlmutter was Executive Vice President, Worldwide Basic Research and Preclinical Development of Merck Research Laboratories ("Merck"), and from February 1999 to July 1999 served as Executive Vice President of Merck, and from February 1997 to January 1999 as Senior Vice President of Merck. From May 1989 to January 1997, Dr. Perlmutter was also Chairman of the Department of Immunology, University of Washington, and from January 1991 to January 1997, Professor in the Departments of Immunology, Biochemistry and Medicine, University of Washington, and from October 1991 to January 1997, Investigator, the Howard Hughes Medical Institute at the University of Washington. Dr. Perlmutter currently serves on the Board of Directors of Stem Cells, Inc. Mr. Barry D. Schehr, age 46, became Vice President, Financial Operations and Chief Accounting Officer in May 2000, having served as Vice President, Accounting and Financial Operations from March 2000 to May 2000 and as Director of Internal Audit from February 1997 to February 2000. From October 1989 to January 1997, Mr. Schehr was a partner with Ernst & Young LLP, an accounting firm. Dr. Beth C. Seidenberg, age 45, became Senior Vice President, Development of the Company in January 2002. From September 2001 to December 2001, Dr. Seidenberg was Senior Vice President, Global Development of Bristol Myers Squibb Company ("Bristol Myers"). From May 2000 to September 2001, Dr. Seidenberg served as Senior Vice President, Clinical Development & Life Cycle Management, and from April 2000 to May 2000 as Vice President, Clinical Immunology/Pulmonary/Dermatology of Bristol Myers. From July 1998 to March 2000, Dr. Seidenberg was Vice President, Pulmonary Immunology of Merck Research Laboratories ("Merck"). From June 1989 to June 1998, Dr. Seidenberg held several director positions at Merck, including Executive Director. Geographic Area Financial Information For financial information concerning the geographic areas in which the Company operates, see Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Factors That May Affect Amgen Amgen operates in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. The following discussion highlights some of these risks and others are discussed elsewhere in this Form 10 K. 18 Our product development efforts may not result in commercial products. We intend to continue an aggressive product development program. Successful product development in the biotechnology industry is highly uncertain, and very few research and development projects produce a commercial product. Product candidates that appear promising in the early phases of development, such as in early human clinical trials, may fail to reach the market for a number of reasons, such as: the product candidate did not demonstrate acceptable clinical trial results even though it demonstrated positive preclinical trial results the product candidate was not effective in treating a specified condition or illness the product candidate had harmful side effects on humans the necessary regulatory bodies such as the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, did not approve our product candidate for an intended use the product candidate was not economical for us to manufacture and commercialize other companies or people have or may have proprietary rights to our product candidate, such as patent rights, and will not let us sell it on reasonable terms, or at all the product candidate is not cost effective in light of existing therapeutics Several of our product candidates have failed at various stages in the product development process, including Brain Derived Neurotrophic Factor ("BDNF"), Megakaryocyte Growth and Development Factor ("MGDF") and Glial Cell line Derived Neurotrophic Factor ("GDNF"). For example, in 1997, we announced the failure of BDNF for the treatment of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or Lou Gehrigs Disease, because the product candidate, when administered by injection, did not produce acceptable clinical results for a specific use after a phase 3 trial, even though BDNF had progressed successfully through preclinical and earlier clinical trials. In addition, in 1998, we discontinued development of MGDF, a novel platelet growth factor, at the phase 3 trial stage after several people in platelet donation trials developed low platelet counts and neutralizing antibodies. In 1999 we discontinued development of GDNF after a phase 1/2 trial of GDNF in Parkinsons disease failed to demonstrate a statistically significant benefit. Of course, there may be other factors that prevent us from marketing a product. We cannot guarantee we will be able to produce commercially successful products. Further, clinical trial results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations by scientists, medical personnel, regulatory personnel, statisticians, and others which may delay, limit, or prevent further clinical development or regulatory approvals of a product candidate. Also, the length of time that it takes for us to complete clinical trials and obtain regulatory approval for product marketing has in the past varied by product and by the intended use of a product. We expect that this will likely be the case with future product candidates and we cannot predict the length of time to complete necessary clinical trials and obtain regulatory approval. See " Our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not obtain and maintain regulatory approval." Our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not obtain and maintain regulatory approval. We conduct research, preclinical testing, and clinical trials and we manufacture our product candidates. We also manufacture, price, sell, distribute, and market our products for their approved indications. These activities are subject to extensive regulation by numerous state and federal governmental authorities in the U.S., such as the FDA and HCFA, as well as by foreign countries, including the European Union. Currently, we are required in the U.S. and in foreign countries to obtain approval from those countries regulatory authorities before we can market and sell our products in those countries. In our experience, obtaining regulatory approval is costly and takes many years, and after it is obtained, it remains costly to maintain. The FDA and other U.S. and foreign regulatory agencies have substantial discretion to terminate clinical trials, require additional testing, delay or withhold registration and marketing approval, and mandate product withdrawals. EPOGEN(R), Kineret(TM), and Neulasta(TM) are currently approved in the U.S. and NEUPOGEN(R) and Aranesp(TM) are currently approved in the 19 U.S., the EU, and in some other foreign countries for specific uses. We currently manufacture EPOGEN(R), NEUPOGEN(R), Aranesp(TM), Kineret(TM), Neulasta(TM), and INFERGEN(R) and market EPOGEN(R), NEUPOGEN(R), Aranesp(TM), and Kineret(TM), and we plan to manufacture and market many of our potential products. Even though we have obtained regulatory approval for EPOGEN(R), NEUPOGEN(R), Aranesp(TM), Kineret(TM), Neulasta(TM), and INFERGEN(R), these products and our manufacturing processes are subject to continued review by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. In addition, later discovery of unknown problems with our products or manufacturing processes could result in restrictions on such products or manufacturing processes, including potential withdrawal of the products from the market. If regulatory authorities determine that we have violated regulations or if they restrict, suspend, or revoke our prior approvals, they could prohibit us from manufacturing or selling EPOGEN(R), NEUPOGEN(R), Aranesp(TM), Kineret(TM), Neulasta(TM), and INFERGEN(R) until we comply or indefinitely. In addition, if regulatory authorities determine that we have not complied with regulations in the research and development of a product candidate, then they may not approve the product candidate and we will not be able to market and sell it. If we are unable to market and sell our products or product candidates, our business would be adversely affected. Guidelines and recommendations published by various organizations can reduce the use of our products. Government agencies promulgate regulations and guidelines directly applicable to us and to our products. However, professional societies, practice management groups, private health/science foundations, and organizations involved in various diseases from time to time may also publish guidelines or recommendations to the health care and patient communities. Recommendations of government agencies or these other groups/organizations may relate to such matters as usage, dosage, route of administration, and use of concomitant therapies. Organizations like these have in the past made recommendations about our products. Recommendations or guidelines that are followed by patients and health care providers could result in decreased use of our products. In addition, the perception by the investment community or stockholders that recommendations or guidelines will result in decreased use of our products could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Our sales depend on payment and reimbursement from third party payors, and a reduction in the payment rate or reimbursement could result in decreased use or sales of our products. In both domestic and foreign markets, sales of our products are dependent, in part, on the availability of reimbursement from third party payors such as state and federal governments, under programs such as Medicare and Medicaid in the U.S., and private insurance plans. In certain foreign markets, the pricing and profitability of our products generally are subject to government controls. In the U.S., there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, a number of state and federal proposals that could limit the amount that state or federal governments will pay to reimburse the cost of drugs. In addition, we believe the increasing emphasis on managed care in the U.S. has and will continue to put pressure on the price and usage of our products, which may adversely impact product sales. Further, when a new therapeutic product is approved, the availability of governmental and or private reimbursement for that product is uncertain, as is the amount for which that product will be reimbursed. We cannot predict the availability or amount of reimbursement for our recently approved products or product candidates, including those at a late stage of development, and current reimbursement policies for existing products may change at any time. For example, we believe that sales of Aranesp(TM) are and will be affected by government and private payor reimbursement policies. If reimbursement for EPOGEN(R) and NEUPOGEN(R) changes adversely or if we fail to obtain adequate reimbursement for our other current or future products, health care providers may limit how much or under what circumstances they will administer them, which could reduce the use of our products or cause us to reduce the price of our products. This could result in lower product sales or revenues which could have a material adverse effect on us and our results of operations. For example, in the U.S. the use of EPOGEN(R) in connection with treatment for end stage renal disease is funded primarily by the U.S. federal government. In early 1997, HCFA instituted a reimbursement change for EPOGEN(R) which adversely affected Amgens EPOGEN(R) sales, until the 20 policies were revised. Therefore, as in the past, EPOGEN(R) sales could be adversely affected by future changes in reimbursement rates or the basis for reimbursement by the federal government for the end stage renal disease program. If our intellectual property positions are challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or if we fail to prevail in present and future intellectual property litigation, our business could be adversely affected. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and often involve complex legal, scientific, and factual questions. To date, there has emerged no consistent policy regarding breadth of claims allowed in such companies patents. Third parties may challenge, invalidate, or circumvent our patents and patent applications relating to our products, product candidates, and technologies. In addition, our patent positions might not protect us against competitors with similar products or technologies because competing products or technologies may not infringe our patents. For certain of our product candidates, there are third parties who have patents or pending patents that they may claim prevent us from commercializing these product candidates in certain territories. Patent disputes are frequent, costly and can preclude commercialization of products. We are currently, and in the future may be, involved in patent litigation. For example, we are involved in ongoing patent infringement lawsuits against Transkaryotic Therapies, Inc. and Aventis with respect to our erythropoietin patents. The trial court decided in our favor on January 19, 2001, however, Transkaryotic Therapies, Inc. and Aventis have appealed the decision. If we ultimately lose these or other litigations we could be subject to competition and or significant liabilities, we could be required to enter into third party licenses for the infringed product or technology, or we could be required to cease using the technology or product in dispute. In addition, we cannot guarantee that such licenses will be available on terms acceptable to us. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and defend patent rights and other intellectual property rights that are important to the commercialization of our products and product candidates. We have filed applications for a number of patents and have been granted patents or obtained rights relating to erythropoietin, recombinant G CSF and our other products and potential products. We market our erythropoietin and G CSF products as EPOGEN(R) and NEUPOGEN(R), respectively. In the United States, we have been issued or obtained rights to several patents relating to erythropoietin that generally cover DNA and host cells, processes for making erythropoietin, various product claims to erythropoietin, cells that make levels of erythropoietin, and pharmaceutical compositions of erythropoietin. We have also been issued or obtained rights to U.S. patents relating to G CSF that cover aspects of DNA, vectors, cells, processes, polypeptides, methods of treatment using G CSF polypeptides, methods of enhancing bone marrow transplantation, and treating burn wounds, methods for recombinant production of G CSF and analogs of G CSF. We also have been granted or obtained rights to a patent in the EU relating to erythropoietin and a patent in the EU relating to G CSF, two patents in the EU relating to darbepoetin alfa and hyperglycosylated erythropoietic proteins, and a patent in the U.S. and a patent in the EU relating to anakinra. We face substantial competition, and others may discover, develop, acquire or commercialize products before or more successfully than we do. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our products compete with other products or treatments for diseases for which our products may be indicated. For example, although we maintain a substantial share of the chemotherapy induced neutropenia market, NEUPOGEN(R) competes in certain circumstances against a product marketed by Immunex. EPOGEN(R) faces competition from other treatments for anemia in end stage renal disease patients in the U.S. Further, we believe that some of our newly approved products and late stage product candidates may face competition when and as they are approved and marketed. For example, Aranesp(TM) competes with an Epoetin alfa product marketed by Johnson & Johnson in certain anemia markets and Kineret(TM) competes in certain circumstances with rheumatoid arthritis products marketed by Immunex/American Home Products Corporation, Centocor Inc./Johnson & Johnson, and others. Additionally, some of our competitors, including biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, market products or are actively engaged in research and development in areas where we are developing product candidates. Large pharmaceutical corporations may have 21 greater clinical, research, regulatory, and marketing resources than we do. In addition, some of our competitors may have technical or competitive advantages over us for the development of technologies and processes. These resources may make it difficult for us to compete with them to successfully discover, develop, and market new products. Our operating results may fluctuate, and this fluctuation could cause financial results to be below expectations. Our operating results may fluctuate from period to period for a number of reasons. In budgeting our operating expenses, we assume that revenues will continue to grow; however, some of our operating expenses are fixed in the short term. Because of this, even a relatively small revenue shortfall may cause a periods results to be below our expectations or projections. A revenue shortfall could arise from any number of factors, some of which we cannot control. For example, we may face: lower than expected demand for our products changes in the governments or private payors reimbursement policies for our products changes in wholesaler buying patterns increased competition from new or existing products fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates changes in our product pricing strategies Of these, we would only have control over changes in our product pricing strategies and, of course, there may be other factors that affect our revenues in any given period. We plan to grow rapidly, and if we fail to adequately manage that growth our business could be adversely impacted. We have an aggressive growth plan that includes substantial and increasing investments in research and development, sales and marketing and facilities. Our plan has a number of risks, some of which we cannot control. For example: we may need to generate higher revenues to cover a higher level of operating expenses, and our ability to do so may depend on factors that we do not control we may need to attract and assimilate a large number of new employees we may need to manage complexities associated with a larger and faster growing organization we will need to accurately anticipate demand for the products we manufacture and maintain adequate manufacturing capacity, and our ability to do so may depend on factors that we do not control Of course, there may be other risks and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully manage these or other risks. Our stock price is volatile, which could adversely affect your investment. Our stock price, like that of other biotechnology companies, is highly volatile. For example, in the fifty two weeks prior to February 25, 2002, the trading price of our common stock has ranged from a high of $75.06 per share to a low of $45.44 per share. Our stock price may be affected by such factors as: clinical trial results product development announcements by us or our competitors 22 regulatory matters announcements in the scientific and research community intellectual property and legal matters changes in reimbursement policies or medical practices broader industry and market trends unrelated to our performance In addition, if our revenues or earnings in any period fail to meet the investment communitys expectations, there could be an immediate adverse impact on our stock price. The value of our common stock to be issued to Immunex shareholders in the merger will fluctuate. In the merger, Immunex shareholders will receive 0.44 of a share of our stock and $4.50 in cash for each share of Immunex common stock they own. As a result of Immunex shareholders receiving a portion of the merger consideration in shares of our stock, the value of the merger consideration to be received by Immunex shareholders will depend on the market price of our stock at the time the merger is completed. The market price of our stock at the closing of the merger will likely vary from time to time. These variations may be caused by a number of factors, including changes in the businesses, operations or prospects of Amgen or Immunex, the timing of the merger, regulatory considerations, and general market and economic conditions. See " Our stock price is volatile, which could adversely affect your investment." Additionally, the payment of our common stock to Immunex shareholders in connection with the merger would dilute the share ownership of our existing common stockholders and may affect the value of our common stock. The merger consideration will not be adjusted for any increase or decrease in the market price of our stock or Immunex common stock. We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the merger. The success of the merger will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated synergies, cost savings, and growth opportunities from integrating the businesses of Immunex with the businesses of Amgen. Our success in realizing these benefits and the timing of this realization depend upon the successful integration of the operations of Immunex. The integration of two independent companies is a complex, costly, and time consuming process. The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others: consolidating research and development and manufacturing operations retaining key employees consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures coordinating sales and marketing functions preserving our and Immunexs research and development, distribution, marketing, promotion, and other important relationships minimizing the diversion of managements attention from ongoing business concerns coordinating geographically separate organizations We cannot assure you that the integration of Immunex with us will result in the realization of the full benefits anticipated by us to result from the merger. 23 Our business and stock price may be adversely affected if the merger with Immunex is not completed. Our acquisition of Immunex is subject to several customary conditions, including obtaining clearance from governmental entities and the approvals of the transaction by our stockholders and those of Immunex. If our acquisition of Immunex is not completed, we could be subject to a number of risks that may adversely affect our business and stock price, including: the diversion of our managements attention from our day to day business and the disruption to our employees and our relationships with customers and joint venture partners as a result of efforts relating to the acquisition the market price of shares of our stock may decline to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the acquisition will be completed under certain circumstances, we could be required to pay Immunex a $475 million termination fee we must pay costs related to the merger, such as legal and accounting fees and a portion of the investment banking fees, and, under certain circumstances, could be required to reimburse Immunex for up to $15 million of costs we would not realize the benefits we expect by acquiring Immunex Item 2. PROPERTIES Amgens principal executive offices and a majority of its administrative, manufacturing, and research and development facilities are located in forty buildings in Thousand Oaks, California. Thirty six of the buildings are owned and four are leased. Adjacent to these buildings are facilities that are under construction and additional property for future expansion. The Thousand Oaks, California properties include manufacturing facilities licensed by various regulatory bodies that produce commercial quantities of Epoetin alfa, NEUPOGEN(R), Aranesp(TM), INFERGEN(R), and Neulasta(TM). Amgen owns two buildings and leases four buildings in Boulder, Colorado, housing research facilities and a manufacturing facility capable of producing commercial quantities of Kineret(TM). The Company has a manufacturing complex in Longmont, Colorado, that is licensed to produce commercial quantities of Epoetin alfa. Amgen also plans on using the Longmont facility to produce commercial quantities of Aranesp(TM). The Company has acquired approximately 159 acres of undeveloped land adjacent to the Longmont site to accommodate future expansion. Elsewhere in North America, the Company owns a distribution center in Louisville, Kentucky, and a research facility in Cambridge, Massachusetts. The Company leases administrative offices in Washington, D.C. and Canada, and five regional sales offices in the U.S. Outside North America, the Company has a manufacturing facility in Juncos, Puerto Rico, and a European packaging and distribution center in Breda, The Netherlands, which have been licensed by various regulatory bodies. In 2001, the Company purchased approximately 76 acres of undeveloped land adjacent to its current Juncos manufacturing facility to accommodate future expansion. The Company leases facilities in thirteen European countries, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, and Taiwan for administration, marketing, and or research and development. Amgen believes that its existing facilities plus anticipated additions are sufficient to meet its current needs. 24 Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Certain of the Companys legal proceedings are discussed below. While it is impossible to predict accurately or to determine the eventual outcome of these matters, the Company believes that the outcome of these proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on the annual financial statements of the Company. Biogen litigation On March 10, 1995, Biogen, Inc. ("Biogen") filed suit in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts (the "Massachusetts District Court") alleging infringement by the Company of certain claims of U.S. Patent No. 4,874,702 (the "702 Patent"), relating to vectors for expressing cloned genes. Biogen alleged that Amgen infringed its patent by manufacturing and selling NEUPOGEN(R). On March 28, 1995, Biogen filed an amended complaint further alleging that the Company also infringed the claims of two additional patents allegedly assigned to Biogen, U.S. Patent No. 5,401,642 (the "642 Patent") and U.S. Patent No. 5,401,658 (the "658 Patent"), relating to vectors, methods for making vectors and expressing cloned genes, and host cells. In a separate matter, on July 30, 1997, Biogen filed a complaint in the Massachusetts District Court alleging that Amgen infringes claims 9 and 17 of the 702 Patent and the claims of the 642 and 658 Patents, identified above, by making and using the claimed subject matter in the United States in the manufacture of INFERGEN(R). In December 2001, the parties settled both actions. Pursuant to such settlement, the judge dismissed both actions with prejudice on December 28, 2001. Genentech litigation On October 16, 1996, Genentech, Inc. ("Genentech") filed suit in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California (the "California Court") for infringement of U.S. Patent Nos. 4,704,362, 5,221,619, and 4,342,832 (the "362, 619, and 832 Patents"), relating to vectors for expressing cloned genes and the methods for such expression. Genentech alleged that Amgen infringed its patents by manufacturing and selling NEUPOGEN(R). On February 10, 1997, Genentech served an additional counterclaim asserting U.S. Patent No. 5,583,013 (the "013 Patent"), issued December 10, 1996. At a hearing held on May 29, 1998, the parties stipulated to the dismissal with prejudice of claims with respect to the 832 Patent. The judge issued a final claim construction ruling interpreting the 362, 619, and 013 Patent claims which, among other things, essentially limited the claim term "control region" to DNA taken from a single operon and not constructed from control elements derived from various operons. On October 12, 2000, the California Court entered Final Judgment in the Companys favor on the basis of no infringement. Genentech filed a notice of appeal. The parties filed briefs before the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals. Oral arguments were heard on October 9, 2001. The parties are currently awaiting a decision. Transkaryotic Therapies and Aventis litigation On April 15, 1997, Amgen filed suit in the Massachusetts District Court against Transkaryotic Therapies, Inc. ("TKT") and Hoechst Marion Roussel, Inc. ("HMR" now Aventis Pharmaceuticals Inc., together with TKT, the "Defendants") alleging infringement of three U.S. patents owned by Amgen that claim an erythropoietin product and processes for making erythropoietin. The suit sought an injunction preventing the Defendants from making, importing, using, or selling erythropoietin in the U.S. On October 7, 1999, Amgen filed an amended complaint, which added two additional patents to the litigation. Defendants amended answer asserted that all five of the patents in suit were not infringed, were invalid or were unenforceable due to inequitable conduct. Amgens motion for summary judgment of literal infringement was granted by the Massachusetts District Court on April 26, 2000 with respect to claim 1 of U.S. Patent No. 5,955,422 (the "422 Patent"). On May 15, 2000, trial began in the Massachusetts District Court. On June 9, 2000, the Massachusetts District Court granted 25 Defendants motion for non infringement of U.S. Patent No. 5,618,698 (the "698 Patent"), removing the 698 Patent from this action. On July 21, 2000, the Massachusetts District Court granted Amgens motion for judgment on the Defendants defenses of invalidity based upon anticipation and obviousness. On January 19, 2001, the Massachusetts District Court ruled that claims 2 4 of the 080 Patent, claims 1, 3, 4, and 6 of the 349 Patent and claim 1 of the 422 Patent were valid, enforceable, and infringed by TKTs EPO product and the cells used to make such product. The Massachusetts District Court also held that claim 7 of the 349 patent and claims 1, 2, and 9 of the 933 Patent were not infringed, and that if infringed the claims of the 933 patent would be invalid. On January 26, 2001, TKT and HMR filed a Notice of Appeal and on February 14, 2001, Amgen filed a Notice of Cross Appeal, to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. On March 22, 2001, Amgen filed an Amended Notice of Cross Appeal to include claim 9 of the 698 patent. TKT and HMR filed their appeal brief on April 23, 2001 and a corrected version of their brief on May 11, 2001. Amgen timely filed its appeal brief on December 28, 2001 and a corrected version of its brief on January 15, 2002. TKT and HMR filed a reply brief on February 5, 2002. Amgen filed its reply brief on February 22, 2002. Oral argument has not yet been scheduled. Citizens for Consumer Justice, et. al. litigation A class action complaint in which Amgen and twenty seven other pharmaceutical manufacturers are named as defendants has come to Amgens attention. The complaint was filed on December 19, 2001 in the Massachusetts District Court, and it broadly alleges that the defendants reporting of prices for certain products had the effect of falsely overstating the Average Wholesale Price, allegedly inflating reimbursements, including co payments, paid to providers who prescribe and administered the products. The complaint asserts claims under the federal RICO statute and federal antitrust laws. It is brought on behalf of a putative class of individuals and or entities who paid any portion of the 20% co payment and or deductible amount under Medicare Part B for identified drugs manufactured or distributed by the defendants since 1993. Johnson & Johnson arbitrations The Company has filed a demand in an arbitration with Johnson & Johnson to terminate Johnson & Johnsons rights under a license agreement (the "License Agreement") relating to certain patented technology and know how of the Company to sell Epoetin alfa throughout the U.S. for all human uses except dialysis and diagnostics and to recover damages for breach of the License Agreement based on the Companys claim that Johnson & Johnson has intentionally sold PROCRIT(R) (the brand name under which Johnson & Johnson sells Epoetin alfa) into the Companys exclusive dialysis market. The trial commenced in January 2002. Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS No matters were submitted to a vote of the Companys security holders during the last quarter of its fiscal year ended December 31, 2001. 26 PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS The Companys common stock trades on The Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol AMGN. As of February 26, 2002, there were approximately 15,000 holders of record of the Companys common stock. No cash dividends have been paid on the common stock to date, and the Company currently intends to utilize any earnings for development of the Companys business and for repurchases of its common stock. The following table sets forth, for the fiscal periods indicated, the range of high and low closing sales prices of the common stock as quoted on The Nasdaq Stock Market for the years 2001 and 2000: High Low 2001 4th Quarter..... $68.49 $56.03 3rd Quarter..... 65.66 54.01 2nd Quarter..... 70.02 51.51 1st Quarter..... 74.19 54.94 2000 4th Quarter..... $71.38 $54.13 3rd Quarter..... 78.00 64.94 2nd Quarter..... 70.38 51.31 1st Quarter..... 74.69 52.25 27 Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA (in millions, except per share data) Years ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 1998 1997 Consolidated Statement of Operations Data: Revenues: Product sales(1).............................. $3,511.0 $3,202.2 $3,042.8 $2,514.4 $2,219.8 Other revenues................................ 504.7 427.2 297.3 203.8 181.2 Total revenues............................ 4,015.7 3,629.4 3,340.1 2,718.2 2,401.0 Research and development expenses................ 865.0 845.0 822.8 663.3 630.8 Selling, general and administrative expenses..... 970.7 826.9 654.3 515.4 483.8 Other items, net(2).............................. 203.1 (18.8) (49.0) (23.0) 157.0 Net income....................................... 1,119.7 1,138.5 1,096.4 863.2 644.3 Diluted earnings per share(2).................... 1.03 1.05 1.02 0.82 0.59 Cash dividends declared per share................ At December 31, 2001 2000 1999 1998 1997 Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: Total assets..................................... $6,443.1 $5,399.6 $4,077.6 $3,672.2 $3,110.2 Long term debt................................... 223.0 223.0 223.0 223.0 229.0 Stockholders equity............................. 5,217.2 4,314.5 3,023.5 2,562.2 2,139.3 (1) Due to Year 2000 contingency planning in the fourth quarter of 1999, the Company offered extended payment terms on limited shipments of EPOGEN(R) and NEUPOGEN(R) to certain wholesalers. These Year 2000 related sales totaled $45 million, or $0.02 per share, in 1999. (2) The amount in 2001 is primarily related to the costs of terminating collaboration agreements with various third parties. The amount in 2000 includes a write off of acquired in process research and development of $30.1 million, a charitable contribution of $25 million to the Amgen Foundation, and a $73.9 million benefit related to a legal proceeding. The amounts in other years are comprised of benefits and expenses also related to this legal proceeding. See Notes 4 and 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the amounts in 2001, 2000, and 1999. In 2001, the amount in other items, net combined with an inventory write off of $39.5 million recorded in cost of sales decreased earnings per share by $0.15. Other items, net increased/(decreased) earnings per share by $0.00 in 2000, $0.03 in 1999, $0.01 in 1998, and ($0.09) in 1997. 28 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company had cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities of $2,662.2 million and $2,028.1 million at December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Cash provided by operating activities has been and is expected to continue to be the Companys primary source of funds. Cash provided from operations was $1,480.2 million and $1,634.6 million in 2001 and 2000, respectively. Capital expenditures totaled $441.8 million in 2001 compared with $437.7 million in 2000. The Company anticipates spending approximately $450 million to $550 million in 2002 on capital projects and equipment to expand its global operations. The Company receives cash from the exercise of employee stock options and proceeds from the sale of stock by Amgen pursuant to the employee stock purchase plan. Employee stock option exercises and proceeds from the sale of stock by Amgen pursuant to the employee stock purchase plan provided $277.7 million and $333.7 million of cash in 2001 and 2000, respectively. Proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options will vary from period to period based upon, among other factors, fluctuations in the market value of the Companys stock relative to the exercise price of such options. The Company has a stock repurchase program primarily to reduce the dilutive effect of its employee stock option and stock purchase plans. In 2001, the Company repurchased 12.7 million shares of its common stock at a total cost of $737.5 million. In 2000, the Company repurchased 12.2 million shares of its common stock at a total cost of $799.9 million. In December 2000, the Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase up to $2 billion of common stock between January 1, 2001 and December 31, 2002. The amount the Company spends on and the number of shares repurchased each quarter varies based on a variety of factors, including the stock price and blackout periods in which the Company is restricted from repurchasing shares. As of December 31, 2001, $1,262.5 million was available for stock repurchases through December 31, 2002. On February 22, 2002, the Company announced that it has agreed to issue $3.5 billion in aggregate face amount of 30 year zero coupon senior notes (the "Convertible Notes") that are convertible into shares of the Companys common stock. The proceeds from the offering, net of estimated issuance costs, are expected to be approximately $2.45 billion. The Company may raise up to an additional $321 million upon exercise of an over allotment option that has been granted in connection with the offering. The Company expects to use approximately $650 million of the net proceeds to repurchase shares of its common stock simultaneously with the issuance of the Convertible Notes, with the remaining proceeds to be used for general corporate purposes. The terms of the Convertible Notes include a yield to maturity of 1.125% and an initial conversion premium of 40%. The issuance of the Convertible Notes is subject to customary closing conditions and is expected to be completed by March 1, 2002. To provide for financial flexibility and increased liquidity, the Company has established several other sources of debt financing. As of December 31, 2001, the Company had $223 million of unsecured long term debt securities outstanding. These unsecured long term debt securities consisted of: 1) $100 million of debt securities that bear interest at a fixed rate of 6.5% and mature in 2007 under a $500 million debt shelf registration (the "Shelf"), 2) $100 million of debt securities that bear interest at a fixed rate of 8.1% and mature in 2097, and 3) $23 million of debt securities that bear interest at a fixed rate of 6.2% and mature in 2003. As of December 31, 2001, the Companys outstanding long term debt was rated A2 by Moodys and A by Standard & Poors. Under the Shelf, all of the remaining $400 million of debt securities available for issuance may be offered under the Companys medium term note program with terms to be determined by market conditions. The Companys sources of debt financing also include a commercial paper program which provides for unsecured short term borrowings up to an aggregate face amount of $200 million. As of December 31, 2001, commercial paper with a face amount of $100 million was outstanding. These borrowings had maturities of less 29 than one month and had effective interest rates averaging 1.9%. In addition, the Company has an unsecured $150 million committed credit facility with five participating banking institutions that expires on May 28, 2003. This credit facility supports the Companys commercial paper program. As of December 31, 2001, no amounts were outstanding under this credit facility. The primary objectives for the Companys fixed income investment portfolio are liquidity and safety of principal. Investments are made to achieve the highest rate of return to the Company, consistent with these two objectives. The Companys investment policy limits investments to certain types of instruments issued by institutions with investment grade credit ratings and places restrictions on maturities and concentration by type and issuer. The Company believes that existing funds, cash generated from operations, and existing sources of debt financing (including the pending issuance of the Convertible Notes) are adequate to satisfy its working capital and capital expenditure requirements for the foreseeable future, as well as to support its stock repurchase program and the proposed acquisition of Immunex Corporation ("Immunex") (see "Proposed Merger with Immunex"). However, the Company may raise additional capital from time to time. Results of Operations Product sales Product sales primarily consist of sales of EPOGEN(R) (Epoetin alfa), Aranesp(TM) (darbepoetin alfa), and NEUPOGEN(R) (Filgrastim). In 2001, product sales were $3,511.0 million, an increase of $308.8 million or 10% over the prior year. Product sales were $3,202.2 million in 2000, an increase of $159.4 million or 5% over the prior year. Product sales are influenced by a number of factors, including underlying demand, wholesaler inventory management practices, and foreign exchange effects. EPOGEN(R)/Aranesp(TM) In 2001, the Company received approval to market Aranesp(TM) in the U.S. (September 2001), most countries in the European Union ("EU"), Australia, and New Zealand for the treatment of anemia associated with chronic renal failure, including patients on dialysis and patients not on dialysis. Combined EPOGEN(TM) and Aranesp(TM) sales in 2001 were $2,150.0 million, an increase of $187.1 million or 10% over 2000 EPOGEN(R) sales. This increase was primarily due to higher EPOGEN(R) demand, which includes the effect of higher prices and growth in the U.S. dialysis patient population, and to a lesser extent, the launch of Aranesp(TM) in the U.S. and Europe. The reported sales growth was negatively impacted to a slight degree by wholesaler inventory changes. Worldwide Aranesp(TM) sales in 2001 were $41.5 million. EPOGEN(R) sales in 2000 were $1,962.9 million, an increase of $203.8 million or 12% over the prior year. This increase was primarily due to higher demand, which was principally driven by growth in the U.S. dialysis patient population and to a lesser extent, the effect of higher prices. Sales in 2000 were adversely impacted by Year 2000 related sales to wholesalers in the fourth quarter of 1999 for which the Company provided extended payment terms and, the Company believes, by dialysis provider inventory drawdowns in 2000 of additional 1999 year end stockpiling. The Company believes that some of this dialysis provider stockpiling may have been due to Year 2000 concerns and year end contract expirations. NEUPOGEN(R) Worldwide NEUPOGEN(R) sales in 2001 were $1,346.4 million, an increase of $122.7 million or 10% over the prior year. This increase was primarily due to worldwide demand growth, which includes the effect of higher prices in the U.S. 30 Worldwide NEUPOGEN(R) sales were $1,223.7 million in 2000, a decrease of $32.9 million or 3% from the prior year. This decrease was primarily due to the adverse impact of wholesaler buying patterns, including Year 2000 related sales to wholesalers in the fourth quarter of 1999 for which the Company provided extended payment terms, as well as adverse foreign exchange effects. The Company believes these factors were partially offset by a mid single digit rate increase in demand, which includes the effect of higher prices in the U.S. Corporate partner revenues In 2001, corporate partner revenues were $252.0 million, an increase of $5.8 million or 2% over the prior year. This increase was due to slightly higher revenues, primarily related to INFERGEN(R), substantially offset by lower amounts earned from Kirin Amgen, Inc. In 2000, corporate partner revenues were $246.2 million, an increase of $84.8 million or 53% over the prior year. This increase was primarily due to amounts earned from Kirin Amgen, Inc. related to the development program for Aranesp(TM). Royalty income In 2001, royalty income was $252.7 million, an increase of 40% over the prior year. In 2000, royalty income was $181.0 million, an increase of 33% over the prior year. These increases were primarily due to higher royalties from Johnson & Johnson relating to their sales of Epoetin alfa. Cost of sales Cost of sales as a percentage of product sales was 12.6%, 12.8%, and 13.2% for 2001, 2000, and 1999, respectively. The decrease in 2001 was primarily due to reduced royalty obligations, substantially offset by the impact of the $39.5 million write off of certain inventory in the fourth quarter of 2001. The decrease in 2000 was primarily due to increased manufacturing efficiencies. Research and development In 2001, research and development expenses increased $20.0 million or 2% over the prior year. This increase was primarily due to higher staff related costs necessary to support ongoing research and product development activities, partially offset by lower clinical manufacturing and product licensing related costs. In 2000, research and development expenses increased $22.2 million or 3% over the prior year. This increase was primarily due to higher staff related costs necessary to support ongoing research and product development activities and higher clinical trial costs. These increases were substantially offset by a reduction in clinical manufacturing and product licensing related costs. Selling, general and administrative In 2001, selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expenses increased $143.8 million or 17% over the prior year. This increase was primarily due to higher outside marketing expenses, staff related costs, and consulting expenses as support for new product launches was increased. In 2000, SG&A expenses increased $172.6 million or 26% over the prior year. This increase was primarily due to higher staff related costs and outside marketing expenses as the Company continued to support its existing products and prepared for anticipated new product launches. Other items, net In 2001, other items, net primarily consisted of costs associated with the termination of collaboration agreements with various third parties, including PRAECIS PHARMACEUTICALS INCORPORATED and certain 31 academic institutions. In 2000, other items, net consisted of three items: 1) legal award associated with the spillover arbitration with Johnson & Johnson, 2) a write off of acquired in process research and development associated with the acquisition of Kinetix Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and 3) a charitable contribution to the Amgen Foundation. In 1999, other items, net consisted of a reduction in liabilities related to the spillover arbitration with Johnson & Johnson. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the 2001, 2000, and 1999 items. Interest and other income, net In 2001, interest and other income, net increased $22.5 million or 15% over the prior year. This increase was due to higher interest income generated from the Companys investment portfolio as a result of higher average cash balances, partially offset by lower interest rates in 2001 and higher gains on the sale of equity investments that occurred in 2000. In 2000, interest and other income, net increased $57.9 million or 66% over the prior year. This increase was primarily due to gains realized on the sale of certain equity securities in the Companys portfolio and higher interest income generated from the Companys investment portfolio as a result of higher average cash balances and higher interest rates. Income taxes The Companys effective tax rate was 33.6%, 32.0%, and 30.0% for 2001, 2000, and 1999, respectively. The Companys tax rate in 2001 has increased, in part, due to the absence of capital loss carryforwards that benefited 2000. The tax rate in all three years reflected the tax benefits from the sale of products manufactured in the Companys Puerto Rico manufacturing facility. In addition, the 2001 and 2000 tax rates increased as a result of increased taxable income combined with a provision in the federal tax law that caps tax benefits associated with the Companys Puerto Rico operations at the 1995 income level. The 2000 tax rate increased also as a result of the write off of acquired in process research and development, which is not deductible for tax purposes. Proposed Merger with Immunex On December 16, 2001, the Company signed a definitive agreement to acquire Immunex Corporation ("Immunex") in a transaction to be accounted for as a purchase. Immunex is a biopharmaceutical company dedicated to developing immune system science to protect human health. Under the terms of the agreement, each share of Immunex common stock outstanding at the closing of the merger, other than shares as to which dissenters rights have been validly exercised, will be converted into 0.44 of a share of Amgen common stock and $4.50 cash. In addition, at the closing of the merger each option outstanding to purchase a share of Immunex common stock will be assumed by Amgen and exchanged into an option to purchase Amgen common stock based on the terms of the merger agreement. The estimated purchase price is approximately $17.6 billion, which includes the cash portion of the merger consideration, the estimated fair values of Amgen stock issued and options to be exchanged, and the direct transaction costs. The final purchase price will be determined based upon the number of Immunex shares and options outstanding at the closing date. The transaction is expected to close in the second half of 2002, subject to approval by shareholders of both companies, customary regulatory approvals, as well as other customary closing conditions. More information about this transaction is available in Amgens Current Report on Form 8 K filed with the SEC on December 17, 2001 which is incorporated herein by reference. Unless otherwise indicated, the discussions in this document relate to Amgen as a stand alone entity and do not reflect the impact of the proposed merger with Immunex. Financial Outlook In the future, the Company expects the growth of its anemia business to be driven primarily by Aranesp(TM) sales in new markets. The Company expects growth in its U.S. dialysis business to come primarily from patient 32 population growth and inflation related price increases. Patients receiving treatment for end stage renal disease are covered primarily under medical programs provided by the federal government. Therefore, EPOGEN(R) sales may also be affected by future changes in reimbursement rates or a change in the basis for reimbursement by the federal government. Worldwide Aranesp(TM) sales will be dependent in part upon such factors as the effects of competitive pressures, penetration of existing and new market opportunities, the availability and extent of reimbursement by third party payors including governments and private insurance plans, and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Future NEUPOGEN(R) demand is dependent primarily upon penetration of existing markets, inflation related price increases, and the effects of competitive products. In addition, chemotherapy treatments that are less myelosuppressive may require less NEUPOGEN(R). NEUPOGEN(R) usage is expected to continue to be affected by cost containment pressures from governments and private insurers on health care providers worldwide. In addition, reported NEUPOGEN(R) sales will continue to be affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. In both domestic and foreign markets, sales of NEUPOGEN(R) are dependent, in part, on the availability of reimbursement from third party payors such as governments (for example, Medicare and Medicaid programs in the U.S.) and private insurance plans. Therefore, NEUPOGEN(R) sales may also be affected by future changes in reimbursement rates or changes in the bases for reimbursement. In January 2002, the Company received regulatory approval to market Neulasta(TM), its new white blood cell booster, in the U.S. Neulasta(TM), administered as a single fixed dose per chemotherapy cycle, is indicated for decreasing the incidence of infection, as manifested by febrile neutropenia in patients with non myeloid malignancies receiving myelosuppressive anti cancer drugs associated with clinically significant incidence of febrile neutropenia. The Company expects to launch Neulasta(TM) in April 2002. Once launched, Neulasta may impact NEUPOGEN(R) sales as health care providers in the U.S. may transition from administering NEUPOGEN(R) to Neulasta(TM). In November 2001, the Company received regulatory approval to market Kineret(TM) (anakinra) in the U.S. for the reduction in signs and symptoms of moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis in adult patients who have failed one or more disease modifying antirheumatic drugs. The Company is providing this information as of the filing date of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2001, and does not plan to update this information and expressly disclaims any duty to update the information contained in this filing, except as required by law. Except for the historical information contained herein, the matters discussed herein are by their nature forward looking. Investors are cautioned that forward looking statements or projections made by the Company, including those made in this document, are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. Reference is made in particular to forward looking statements regarding product sales, expenses, liquidity and the Convertible Notes, and the proposed merger with Immunex. Amgen operates in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond the Companys control. Future operating results and the Companys stock price may be affected by a number of factors, including, without limitation: (i) the results of preclinical and clinical trials; (ii) regulatory approvals of product candidates, new indications, and manufacturing facilities; (iii) health care guidelines and policies relating to Amgens products; (iv) reimbursement for Amgens products by governments and private payors; (v) intellectual property matters (patents) and the results of litigation; (vi) competition; (vii) fluctuations in operating results; and (viii) rapid growth of the Company. The proposed merger with Immunex may fail to close or the terms of the merger may need to be modified to achieve regulatory approval. Depending on the timing of the merger, and other factors, Amgen may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the merger, including the anticipated synergies, cost savings, and growth opportunities from integrating the businesses of Immunex with the businesses of Amgen. Additionally, the value of the Amgen common stock to be issued to the Immunex 33 shareholders in connection with the merger will fluctuate. These factors and others are discussed herein and in the sections appearing under the heading "Business Factors That May Affect Amgen" and in Amgens other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which sections are incorporated herein by reference. Summary of Critical Accounting Policies EPOGEN(R) revenue recognition The Company has the exclusive right to sell Epoetin alfa for dialysis, certain diagnostics, and all non human, non research uses in the United States. Amgen has granted to Johnson & Johnson a license relating to Epoetin alfa for sales in the United States for all human uses except dialysis and diagnostics. Pursuant to this license, the Company and Johnson & Johnson are required to compensate each other for Epoetin alfa sales that either party makes into the other partys exclusive market, sometimes referred to as "spillover" sales. Accordingly, Amgen does not recognize product sales it makes into the exclusive market of Johnson & Johnson and does recognize the product sales made by Johnson & Johnson into Amgens exclusive market. Sales in Amgens exclusive market are derived from the Companys sales to its customers, as adjusted for any spillover sales. The Company is employing an arbitrated audit methodology to measure each partys spillover sales based on independent third party data on shipments to end users and their estimated usage. Data on end user usage is derived in part using market sampling techniques, and accordingly, the results of such sampling can produce variability in recognized spillover sales. The Company initially recognizes spillover sales based on estimates of shipments to end users and their usage, utilizing historical third party data and subsequently adjusts such amounts based on revised third party data as received. Differences between initially estimated spillover sales and amounts based on revised third party data could produce materially different amounts for recognized EPOGEN(R) sales. However, such differences to date have not been material. Inventory capitalization The Company capitalizes inventory costs associated with certain product candidates prior to regulatory approval, based on managements judgment of probable future commercialization. The Company would be required to expense previously capitalized costs related to pre approval inventory upon a change in such judgment, due to, among other factors, a decision denying approval of the product candidate by the necessary regulatory bodies. At December 31, 2001, capitalized inventory related to the product candidate Neulasta(TM) totaled $8.8 million. In January 2002, the Company received regulatory approval to market Neulasta(TM) in the U.S. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Interest income earned on the Companys investment portfolio is affected by changes in the general level of U.S. interest rates. In 2001, the Company entered into interest rate swap agreements on a portion of its available for sale investment portfolio, effectively converting these fixed income investments to variable income investments. The Companys short term borrowings effectively bear interest at variable rates and therefore, changes in U.S. interest rates affect interest expense incurred thereon. Changes in interest rates do not affect interest expense incurred on the Companys long term borrowings because they all bear interest at fixed rates. The following tables provide information about the Companys financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. For the Companys investment portfolio and debt obligations, the tables present principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. Additionally, the Company has assumed its available for sale debt securities, comprised primarily of corporate debt instruments and treasury securities, are similar enough to aggregate those securities for presentation purposes. For the interest rate swaps, the 2001 table presents the notional amount and weighted average interest rates by contractual maturity date. The notional amount is used to calculate the contractual cash flows to be exchanged under the contract. 34 Interest Rate Sensitivity Principal Amount by Expected Maturity as of December 31, 2001 (Dollars in millions) Average Interest Rate Fair Value 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Thereafter Total 12/31/01 Available for sale debt securities.................. $1,466.9 $362.9 $390.6 $163.9 $115.0 $2,499.3 $2,568.0 Interest rate................. 4.4% 6.6% 5.8% 7.0% 5.1% Commercial paper obligations.. $ 100.0 $ 100.0 $ 100.0 Interest rate................. 1.9% Long term debt................ $ 23.0 $200.0 $ 223.0 $ 244.9 Interest rate................. 6.2% 7.3% Interest rate swaps related to available for sale debt securities: Pay fixed/receive variable.... $153.7 $144.2 $120.0 $ 40.0 $ 457.9 $ 1.4 Average pay rate.............. 2.9% 3.8% 4.2% 4.5% Average receive rate.......... 2.0% 2.0% 2.0% 2.0% Interest Rate Sensitivity Principal Amount by Expected Maturity as of December 31, 2000 (Dollars in millions) Average Interest Rate Fair Value 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 Thereafter Total 12/31/00 Available for sale debt securities.................. $780.4 $740.6 $232.3 $118.5 $60.0 $1,931.8 $1,950.2 Interest rate................. 6.6% 6.7% 7.0% 6.5% 7.0% Commercial paper obligations.. $100.0 $ 100.0 $ 100.0 Interest rate................. 6.7% Long term debt................ $ 23.0 $200.0 $ 223.0 $ 222.0 Interest rate................. 6.2% 7.3% The Company is exposed to equity price risks on the marketable portion of equity securities included in its portfolio of investments entered into for the promotion of business and strategic objectives. These investments are generally in small capitalization stocks in the biotechnology industry sector. In 2001, the Company entered into equity forward contracts to hedge against changes in the fair market value of a portion of its equity investment portfolio. At December 31, 2001 and 2000, the fair value of the unhedged portion of its equity securities was $133.4 million and $223.0 million, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, an adverse change in equity prices of 45% and 80%, respectively, would result in a decrease of approximately $60.0 million and $178.4 million, respectively, in the fair value of the unhedged portion of the Companys equity securities. Price volatility for equity investments is based on the volatility of a relevant market index for small capitalization stocks in the biotechnology sector. 35 The Company did not have material exposures to changes in foreign currency exchange rates related to its foreign currency forward contracts outstanding as of December 31, 2001 and 2000. 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company had cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities of $2,662.2 million and $2,028.1 million at December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Cash provided by operating activities has been and is expected to continue to be the Companys primary source of funds. Cash provided from operations was $1,480.2 million and $1,634.6 million in 2001 and 2000, respectively. Capital expenditures totaled $441.8 million in 2001 compared with $437.7 million in 2000. The Company anticipates spending approximately $450 million to $550 million in 2002 on capital projects and equipment to expand its global operations. The Company receives cash from the exercise of employee stock options and proceeds from the sale of stock by Amgen pursuant to the employee stock purchase plan. Employee stock option exercises and proceeds from the sale of stock by Amgen pursuant to the employee stock purchase plan provided $277.7 million and $333.7 million of cash in 2001 and 2000, respectively. Proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options will vary from period to period based upon, among other factors, fluctuations in the market value of the Companys stock relative to the exercise price of such options. The Company has a stock repurchase program primarily to reduce the dilutive effect of its employee stock option and stock purchase plans. In 2001, the Company repurchased 12.7 million shares of its common stock at a total cost of $737.5 million. In 2000, the Company repurchased 12.2 million shares of its common stock at a total cost of $799.9 million. In December 2000, the Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase up to $2 billion of common stock between January 1, 2001 and December 31, 2002. The amount the Company spends on and the number of shares repurchased each quarter varies based on a variety of factors, including the stock price and blackout periods in which the Company is restricted from repurchasing shares. As of December 31, 2001, $1,262.5 million was available for stock repurchases through December 31, 2002. On February 22, 2002, the Company announced that it has agreed to issue $3.5 billion in aggregate face amount of 30 year zero coupon senior notes (the "Convertible Notes") that are convertible into shares of the Companys common stock. The proceeds from the offering, net of estimated issuance costs, are expected to be approximately $2.45 billion. The Company may raise up to an additional $321 million upon exercise of an over allotment option that has been granted in connection with the offering. The Company expects to use approximately $650 million of the net proceeds to repurchase shares of its common stock simultaneously with the issuance of the Convertible Notes, with the remaining proceeds to be used for general corporate purposes. The terms of the Convertible Notes include a yield to maturity of 1.125% and an initial conversion premium of 40%. The issuance of the Convertible Notes is subject to customary closing conditions and is expected to be completed by March 1, 2002. To provide for financial flexibility and increased liquidity, the Company has established several other sources of debt financing. As of December 31, 2001, the Company had $223 million of unsecured long term debt securities outstanding. These unsecured long term debt securities consisted of: 1) $100 million of debt securities that bear interest at a fixed rate of 6.5% and mature in 2007 under a $500 million debt shelf registration (the "Shelf"), 2) $100 million of debt securities that bear interest at a fixed rate of 8.1% and mature in 2097, and 3) $23 million of debt securities that bear interest at a fixed rate of 6.2% and mature in 2003. As of December 31, 2001, the Companys outstanding long term debt was rated A2 by Moodys and A by Standard & Poors. Under the Shelf, all of the remaining $400 million of debt securities available for issuance may be offered under the Companys medium term note program with terms to be determined by market conditions. The Companys sources of debt financing also include a commercial paper program which provides for unsecured short term borrowings up to an aggregate face amount of $200 million. As of December 31, 2001, commercial paper with a face amount of $100 million was outstanding. These borrowings had maturities of less 29 than one month and had effective interest rates averaging 1.9%. In addition, the Company has an unsecured $150 million committed credit facility with five participating banking institutions that expires on May 28, 2003. This credit facility supports the Companys commercial paper program. As of December 31, 2001, no amounts were outstanding under this credit facility. The primary objectives for the Companys fixed income investment portfolio are liquidity and safety of principal. Investments are made to achieve the highest rate of return to the Company, consistent with these two objectives. The Companys investment policy limits investments to certain types of instruments issued by institutions with investment grade credit ratings and places restrictions on maturities and concentration by type and issuer. The Company believes that existing funds, cash generated from operations, and existing sources of debt financing (including the pending issuance of the Convertible Notes) are adequate to satisfy its working capital and capital expenditure requirements for the foreseeable future, as well as to support its stock repurchase program and the proposed acquisition of Immunex Corporation ("Immunex") (see "Proposed Merger with Immunex"). However, the Company may raise additional capital from time to time. Results of Operations Product sales Product sales primarily consist of sales of EPOGEN(R) (Epoetin alfa), Aranesp(TM) (darbepoetin alfa), and NEUPOGEN(R) (Filgrastim). In 2001, product sales were $3,511.0 million, an increase of $308.8 million or 10% over the prior year. Product sales were $3,202.2 million in 2000, an increase of $159.4 million or 5% over the prior year. Product sales are influenced by a number of factors, including underlying demand, wholesaler inventory management practices, and foreign exchange effects. EPOGEN(R)/Aranesp(TM) In 2001, the Company received approval to market Aranesp(TM) in the U.S. (September 2001), most countries in the European Union ("EU"), Australia, and New Zealand for the treatment of anemia associated with chronic renal failure, including patients on dialysis and patients not on dialysis. Combined EPOGEN(TM) and Aranesp(TM) sales in 2001 were $2,150.0 million, an increase of $187.1 million or 10% over 2000 EPOGEN(R) sales. This increase was primarily due to higher EPOGEN(R) demand, which includes the effect of higher prices and growth in the U.S. dialysis patient population, and to a lesser extent, the launch of Aranesp(TM) in the U.S. and Europe. The reported sales growth was negatively impacted to a slight degree by wholesaler inventory changes. Worldwide Aranesp(TM) sales in 2001 were $41.5 million. EPOGEN(R) sales in 2000 were $1,962.9 million, an increase of $203.8 million or 12% over the prior year. This increase was primarily due to higher demand, which was principally driven by growth in the U.S. dialysis patient population and to a lesser extent, the effect of higher prices. Sales in 2000 were adversely impacted by Year 2000 related sales to wholesalers in the fourth quarter of 1999 for which the Company provided extended payment terms and, the Company believes, by dialysis provider inventory drawdowns in 2000 of additional 1999 year end stockpiling. The Company believes that some of this dialysis provider stockpiling may have been due to Year 2000 concerns and year end contract expirations. NEUPOGEN(R) Worldwide NEUPOGEN(R) sales in 2001 were $1,346.4 million, an increase of $122.7 million or 10% over the prior year. This increase was primarily due to worldwide demand growth, which includes the effect of higher prices in the U.S. 30 Worldwide NEUPOGEN(R) sales were $1,223.7 million in 2000, a decrease of $32.9 million or 3% from the prior year. This decrease was primarily due to the adverse impact of wholesaler buying patterns, including Year 2000 related sales to wholesalers in the fourth quarter of 1999 for which the Company provided extended payment terms, as well as adverse foreign exchange effects. The Company believes these factors were partially offset by a mid single digit rate increase in demand, which includes the effect of higher prices in the U.S. Corporate partner revenues In 2001, corporate partner revenues were $252.0 million, an increase of $5.8 million or 2% over the prior year. This increase was due to slightly higher revenues, primarily related to INFERGEN(R), substantially offset by lower amounts earned from Kirin Amgen, Inc. In 2000, corporate partner revenues were $246.2 million, an increase of $84.8 million or 53% over the prior year. This increase was primarily due to amounts earned from Kirin Amgen, Inc. related to the development program for Aranesp(TM). Royalty income In 2001, royalty income was $252.7 million, an increase of 40% over the prior year. In 2000, royalty income was $181.0 million, an increase of 33% over the prior year. These increases were primarily due to higher royalties from Johnson & Johnson relating to their sales of Epoetin alfa. Cost of sales Cost of sales as a percentage of product sales was 12.6%, 12.8%, and 13.2% for 2001, 2000, and 1999, respectively. The decrease in 2001 was primarily due to reduced royalty obligations, substantially offset by the impact of the $39.5 million write off of certain inventory in the fourth quarter of 2001. The decrease in 2000 was primarily due to increased manufacturing efficiencies. Research and development In 2001, research and development expenses increased $20.0 million or 2% over the prior year. This increase was primarily due to higher staff related costs necessary to support ongoing research and product development activities, partially offset by lower clinical manufacturing and product licensing related costs. In 2000, research and development expenses increased $22.2 million or 3% over the prior year. This increase was primarily due to higher staff related costs necessary to support ongoing research and product development activities and higher clinical trial costs. These increases were substantially offset by a reduction in clinical manufacturing and product licensing related costs. Selling, general and administrative In 2001, selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expenses increased $143.8 million or 17% over the prior year. This increase was primarily due to higher outside marketing expenses, staff related costs, and consulting expenses as support for new product launches was increased. In 2000, SG&A expenses increased $172.6 million or 26% over the prior year. This increase was primarily due to higher staff related costs and outside marketing expenses as the Company continued to support its existing products and prepared for anticipated new product launches. Other items, net In 2001, other items, net primarily consisted of costs associated with the termination of collaboration agreements with various third parties, including PRAECIS PHARMACEUTICALS INCORPORATED and certain 31 academic institutions. In 2000, other items, net consisted of three items: 1) legal award associated with the spillover arbitration with Johnson & Johnson, 2) a write off of acquired in process research and development associated with the acquisition of Kinetix Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and 3) a charitable contribution to the Amgen Foundation. In 1999, other items, net consisted of a reduction in liabilities related to the spillover arbitration with Johnson & Johnson. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the 2001, 2000, and 1999 items. Interest and other income, net In 2001, interest and other income, net increased $22.5 million or 15% over the prior year. This increase was due to higher interest income generated from the Companys investment portfolio as a result of higher average cash balances, partially offset by lower interest rates in 2001 and higher gains on the sale of equity investments that occurred in 2000. In 2000, interest and other income, net increased $57.9 million or 66% over the prior year. This increase was primarily due to gains realized on the sale of certain equity securities in the Companys portfolio and higher interest income generated from the Companys investment portfolio as a result of higher average cash balances and higher interest rates. Income taxes The Companys effective tax rate was 33.6%, 32.0%, and 30.0% for 2001, 2000, and 1999, respectively. The Companys tax rate in 2001 has increased, in part, due to the absence of capital loss carryforwards that benefited 2000. The tax rate in all three years reflected the tax benefits from the sale of products manufactured in the Companys Puerto Rico manufacturing facility. In addition, the 2001 and 2000 tax rates increased as a result of increased taxable income combined with a provision in the federal tax law that caps tax benefits associated with the Companys Puerto Rico operations at the 1995 income level. The 2000 tax rate increased also as a result of the write off of acquired in process research and development, which is not deductible for tax purposes. Proposed Merger with Immunex On December 16, 2001, the Company signed a definitive agreement to acquire Immunex Corporation ("Immunex") in a transaction to be accounted for as a purchase. Immunex is a biopharmaceutical company dedicated to developing immune system science to protect human health. Under the terms of the agreement, each share of Immunex common stock outstanding at the closing of the merger, other than shares as to which dissenters rights have been validly exercised, will be converted into 0.44 of a share of Amgen common stock and $4.50 cash. In addition, at the closing of the merger each option outstanding to purchase a share of Immunex common stock will be assumed by Amgen and exchanged into an option to purchase Amgen common stock based on the terms of the merger agreement. The estimated purchase price is approximately $17.6 billion, which includes the cash portion of the merger consideration, the estimated fair values of Amgen stock issued and options to be exchanged, and the direct transaction costs. The final purchase price will be determined based upon the number of Immunex shares and options outstanding at the closing date. The transaction is expected to close in the second half of 2002, subject to approval by shareholders of both companies, customary regulatory approvals, as well as other customary closing conditions. More information about this transaction is available in Amgens Current Report on Form 8 K filed with the SEC on December 17, 2001 which is incorporated herein by reference. Unless otherwise indicated, the discussions in this document relate to Amgen as a stand alone entity and do not reflect the impact of the proposed merger with Immunex. Financial Outlook In the future, the Company expects the growth of its anemia business to be driven primarily by Aranesp(TM) sales in new markets. The Company expects growth in its U.S. dialysis business to come primarily from patient 32 population growth and inflation related price increases. Patients receiving treatment for end stage renal disease are covered primarily under medical programs provided by the federal government. Therefore, EPOGEN(R) sales may also be affected by future changes in reimbursement rates or a change in the basis for reimbursement by the federal government. Worldwide Aranesp(TM) sales will be dependent in part upon such factors as the effects of competitive pressures, penetration of existing and new market opportunities, the availability and extent of reimbursement by third party payors including governments and private insurance plans, and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Future NEUPOGEN(R) demand is dependent primarily upon penetration of existing markets, inflation related price increases, and the effects of competitive products. In addition, chemotherapy treatments that are less myelosuppressive may require less NEUPOGEN(R). NEUPOGEN(R) usage is expected to continue to be affected by cost containment pressures from governments and private insurers on health care providers worldwide. In addition, reported NEUPOGEN(R) sales will continue to be affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. In both domestic and foreign markets, sales of NEUPOGEN(R) are dependent, in part, on the availability of reimbursement from third party payors such as governments (for example, Medicare and Medicaid programs in the U.S.) and private insurance plans. Therefore, NEUPOGEN(R) sales may also be affected by future changes in reimbursement rates or changes in the bases for reimbursement. In January 2002, the Company received regulatory approval to market Neulasta(TM), its new white blood cell booster, in the U.S. Neulasta(TM), administered as a single fixed dose per chemotherapy cycle, is indicated for decreasing the incidence of infection, as manifested by febrile neutropenia in patients with non myeloid malignancies receiving myelosuppressive anti cancer drugs associated with clinically significant incidence of febrile neutropenia. The Company expects to launch Neulasta(TM) in April 2002. Once launched, Neulasta may impact NEUPOGEN(R) sales as health care providers in the U.S. may transition from administering NEUPOGEN(R) to Neulasta(TM). In November 2001, the Company received regulatory approval to market Kineret(TM) (anakinra) in the U.S. for the reduction in signs and symptoms of moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis in adult patients who have failed one or more disease modifying antirheumatic drugs. The Company is providing this information as of the filing date of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2001, and does not plan to update this information and expressly disclaims any duty to update the information contained in this filing, except as required by law. Except for the historical information contained herein, the matters discussed herein are by their nature forward looking. Investors are cautioned that forward looking statements or projections made by the Company, including those made in this document, are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. Reference is made in particular to forward looking statements regarding product sales, expenses, liquidity and the Convertible Notes, and the proposed merger with Immunex. Amgen operates in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond the Companys control. Future operating results and the Companys stock price may be affected by a number of factors, including, without limitation: (i) the results of preclinical and clinical trials; (ii) regulatory approvals of product candidates, new indications, and manufacturing facilities; (iii) health care guidelines and policies relating to Amgens products; (iv) reimbursement for Amgens products by governments and private payors; (v) intellectual property matters (patents) and the results of litigation; (vi) competition; (vii) fluctuations in operating results; and (viii) rapid growth of the Company. The proposed merger with Immunex may fail to close or the terms of the merger may need to be modified to achieve regulatory approval. Depending on the timing of the merger, and other factors, Amgen may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the merger, including the anticipated synergies, cost savings, and growth opportunities from integrating the businesses of Immunex with the businesses of Amgen. Additionally, the value of the Amgen common stock to be issued to the Immunex 33 shareholders in connection with the merger will fluctuate. These factors and others are discussed herein and in the sections appearing under the heading "Business Factors That May Affect Amgen" and in Amgens other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which sections are incorporated herein by reference. Summary of Critical Accounting Policies EPOGEN(R) revenue recognition The Company has the exclusive right to sell Epoetin alfa for dialysis, certain diagnostics, and all non human, non research uses in the United States. Amgen has granted to Johnson & Johnson a license relating to Epoetin alfa for sales in the United States for all human uses except dialysis and diagnostics. Pursuant to this license, the Company and Johnson & Johnson are required to compensate each other for Epoetin alfa sales that either party makes into the other partys exclusive market, sometimes referred to as "spillover" sales. Accordingly, Amgen does not recognize product sales it makes into the exclusive market of Johnson & Johnson and does recognize the product sales made by Johnson & Johnson into Amgens exclusive market. Sales in Amgens exclusive market are derived from the Companys sales to its customers, as adjusted for any spillover sales. The Company is employing an arbitrated audit methodology to measure each partys spillover sales based on independent third party data on shipments to end users and their estimated usage. Data on end user usage is derived in part using market sampling techniques, and accordingly, the results of such sampling can produce variability in recognized spillover sales. The Company initially recognizes spillover sales based on estimates of shipments to end users and their usage, utilizing historical third party data and subsequently adjusts such amounts based on revised third party data as received. Differences between initially estimated spillover sales and amounts based on revised third party data could produce materially different amounts for recognized EPOGEN(R) sales. However, such differences to date have not been material. Inventory capitalization The Company capitalizes inventory costs associated with certain product candidates prior to regulatory approval, based on managements judgment of probable future commercialization. The Company would be required to expense previously capitalized costs related to pre approval inventory upon a change in such judgment, due to, among other factors, a decision denying approval of the product candidate by the necessary regulatory bodies. At December 31, 2001, capitalized inventory related to the product candidate Neulasta(TM) totaled $8.8 million. In January 2002, the Company received regulatory approval to market Neulasta(TM) in the U.S. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Interest income earned on the Companys investment portfolio is affected by changes in the general level of U.S. interest rates. In 2001, the Company entered into interest rate swap agreements on a portion of its available for sale investment portfolio, effectively converting these fixed income investments to variable income investments. The Companys short term borrowings effectively bear interest at variable rates and therefore, changes in U.S. interest rates affect interest expense incurred thereon. Changes in interest rates do not affect interest expense incurred on the Companys long term borrowings because they all bear interest at fixed rates. The following tables provide information about the Companys financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. For the Companys investment portfolio and debt obligations, the tables present principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. Additionally, the Company has assumed its available for sale debt securities, comprised primarily of corporate debt instruments and treasury securities, are similar enough to aggregate those securities for presentation purposes. For the interest rate swaps, the 2001 table presents the notional amount and weighted average interest rates by contractual maturity date. The notional amount is used to calculate the contractual cash flows to be exchanged under the contract. 34 Interest Rate Sensitivity Principal Amount by Expected Maturity as of December 31, 2001 (Dollars in millions) Average Interest Rate Fair Value 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Thereafter Total 12/31/01 Available for sale debt securities.................. $1,466.9 $362.9 $390.6 $163.9 $115.0 $2,499.3 $2,568.0 Interest rate................. 4.4% 6.6% 5.8% 7.0% 5.1% Commercial paper obligations.. $ 100.0 $ 100.0 $ 100.0 Interest rate................. 1.9% Long term debt................ $ 23.0 $200.0 $ 223.0 $ 244.9 Interest rate................. 6.2% 7.3% Interest rate swaps related to available for sale debt securities: Pay fixed/receive variable.... $153.7 $144.2 $120.0 $ 40.0 $ 457.9 $ 1.4 Average pay rate.............. 2.9% 3.8% 4.2% 4.5% Average receive rate.......... 2.0% 2.0% 2.0% 2.0% Interest Rate Sensitivity Principal Amount by Expected Maturity as of December 31, 2000 (Dollars in millions) Average Interest Rate Fair Value 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 Thereafter Total 12/31/00 Available for sale debt securities.................. $780.4 $740.6 $232.3 $118.5 $60.0 $1,931.8 $1,950.2 Interest rate................. 6.6% 6.7% 7.0% 6.5% 7.0% Commercial paper obligations.. $100.0 $ 100.0 $ 100.0 Interest rate................. 6.7% Long term debt................ $ 23.0 $200.0 $ 223.0 $ 222.0 Interest rate................. 6.2% 7.3% The Company is exposed to equity price risks on the marketable portion of equity securities included in its portfolio of investments entered into for the promotion of business and strategic objectives. These investments are generally in small capitalization stocks in the biotechnology industry sector. In 2001, the Company entered into equity forward contracts to hedge against changes in the fair market value of a portion of its equity investment portfolio. At December 31, 2001 and 2000, the fair value of the unhedged portion of its equity securities was $133.4 million and $223.0 million, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, an adverse change in equity prices of 45% and 80%, respectively, would result in a decrease of approximately $60.0 million and $178.4 million, respectively, in the fair value of the unhedged portion of the Companys equity securities. Price volatility for equity investments is based on the volatility of a relevant market index for small capitalization stocks in the biotechnology sector. 35 The Company did not have material exposures to changes in foreign currency exchange rates related to its foreign currency forward contracts outstanding as of December 31, 2001 and 2000. 
 
