Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Acquisition of Immunex Corporation On July 15, 2002, the Company acquired all of the outstanding common stock of Immunex Corporation (Immunex) in a transaction accounted for as a business combination. Immunex was a leading biotechnology company dedicated to developing immune system science to protect human health. The acquisition of Immunex is expected to further advance Amgens role as a global biotechnology leader with the benefits of accelerated growth and increased size, product base, product pipeline, and employees. The acquisition is also intended to enhance Amgens strategic position within the biotechnology industry by strengthening and diversifying its (1) product base and product pipeline in key therapeutic areas, and (2) discovery research capabilities in proteins and antibodies. Each share of Immunex common stock outstanding at July 15, 2002 was converted into 0.44 of a share of Amgen common stock and $4.50 in cash. As a result, Amgen issued approximately 244.6 million shares of common stock and paid approximately $2.5 billion in cash to former Immunex shareholders. Amgen also paid Wyeth $25 million at the closing of the merger for the termination of certain Immunex product rights in favor of Wyeth, as specified in the agreement regarding governance and commercial matters. In addition, each employee stock option to purchase Immunex common stock outstanding at July 15, 2002 was assumed by Amgen and converted into an option to purchase Amgen common stock based on the terms specified in the merger agreement. As a result, approximately 22.4 million options to purchase Amgen common stock were assumed, on a converted basis. The acquisition was structured to qualify as a tax free reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code. Unless otherwise indicated, the discussions in this report of the results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2002 and financial condition at December 31, 2002 include the results of operations of Immunex commencing from July 16, 2002. Comparisons are made to the results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000 and financial condition at December 31, 2001, which include only the historical results of Amgen. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities The Company had cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities of $4,663.9 million and $2,662.2 million at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Of the total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities at December 31, 2002, approximately $2.0 billion represents cash generated from operations in foreign tax jurisdictions and is intended for use in such foreign operations (see Results of Operations Income taxes). If these funds are repatriated for use in the Companys U.S. operations, additional taxes on certain of these amounts would be required to be paid. The Company does not currently anticipate a need to repatriate these funds to the United States. The primary objectives for the Companys fixed income investment portfolio are liquidity and safety of principal. Investments are made to achieve the highest rate of return to the Company, consistent with these two objectives. The Companys investment policy limits investments to certain types of instruments issued by institutions with investment grade credit ratings and places restrictions on maturities and concentration by type and issuer. Cash flows Cash provided by operating activities has been and is expected to continue to be the Companys primary recurring source of funds. In 2002, operations provided $2,248.8 million of cash compared with $1,480.2 million in 2001. The increase in cash provided by operating activities in 2002 resulted primarily from higher earnings, 33 Table of Contents excluding the one time, non cash write off of in process research and development, and depreciation and amortization. In July 2002, the Company paid the cash portion of the merger consideration of approximately $2.5 billion upon close of the Immunex acquisition. Also as a result of the acquisition, the Company received: cash and investments acquired from Immunex of approximately $940 million proceeds from the sale of the Leukine&reg; business to Schering AG Germany (Schering) of approximately $390 million Capital expenditures totaled $658.5 million in 2002 compared with $441.8 million in 2001. The increase in capital expenditures in 2002 resulted primarily from capital expenditures related to the Puerto Rico manufacturing expansion, the Seattle inflammation research headquarters, and the Rhode Island manufacturing facilities. The Company receives cash from the exercise of employee stock options and proceeds from the sale of stock by Amgen pursuant to the employee stock purchase plan. Employee stock option exercises and proceeds from the sale of stock by Amgen pursuant to the employee stock purchase plans provided $427.8 million and $277.7 million of cash in 2002 and 2001, respectively. Proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options will vary from period to period based upon, among other factors, fluctuations in the market value of the Companys stock relative to the exercise price of such options. The Company has a stock repurchase program primarily to reduce the dilutive effect of its employee stock option and stock purchase plans. In 2002, the Company repurchased 28.0 million shares of its common stock at a total cost of $1,420.4 million. In 2001, the Company repurchased 12.7 million shares of its common stock at a total cost of $737.5 million. Stock repurchased in 2002 includes 11.3 million shares of common stock repurchased simultaneously with the issuance of the 30 year, zero coupon senior convertible notes (the Convertible Notes, discussed below) at a total cost of $650 million. In June 2002, the Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase up to an additional $2.0 billion of common stock through June 30, 2004. At the time of the additional authorization, the Company had approximately $257.1 million remaining under the previous authorized stock repurchase program. The amount the Company spends on and the number of shares repurchased varies based on a variety of factors, including the stock price and blackout periods in which the Company is restricted from repurchasing shares. As of December 31, 2002, $1,842.1 million was available for stock repurchases through June 30, 2004. Debt financing In March 2002, the Company issued $3.95 billion in aggregate face amount at maturity of Convertible Notes with a yield to maturity of 1.125%. The gross proceeds from the offering were approximately $2.82 billion. The original issue discount of $1.13 billion is being accreted to interest expense over the life of the Convertible Notes using the effective interest method. Debt issuance costs were approximately $56.5 million and are being amortized on a straight line basis over the life of the notes. The holders of the Convertible Notes may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their notes on March 1, 2005, March 1, 2007, March 1, 2012, and March 1, 2017 at a price equal to the original issuance price plus the accrued original issue discount to the purchase dates. In such event, the Company may choose to pay the purchase price in cash and or shares of common stock (see Note 8, Debt Convertible notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). To provide for financial flexibility and increased liquidity, the Company has established several other sources of debt financing. As of December 31, 2002, the Company had $200 million of unsecured long term debt securities outstanding. These unsecured long term debt securities consisted of: 1) $100 million of debt securities that bear interest at a fixed rate of 6.5% and mature in 2007 under a $500 million debt shelf registration (the Shelf), and 2) $100 million of debt securities that bear interest at a fixed rate of 8.1% and mature in 2097. In 34 Table of Contents addition, the Company has $23 million of debt securities that bear interest at a fixed rate of 6.2% and mature in 2003, which are classified as current liabilities. The Companys outstanding long term debt is rated A2 by Moodys and A+ by Standard & Poors. Under the Shelf, all of the remaining $400 million of debt securities available for issuance may be offered under the Companys medium term note program with terms to be determined by market conditions. The Companys sources of debt financing also include a commercial paper program which provides for unsecured short term borrowings up to an aggregate face amount of $200 million. As of December 31, 2002, commercial paper with a face amount of $100 million was outstanding. These borrowings had maturities of less than one month and had effective interest rates averaging 1.4%. In addition, the Company has an unsecured $150 million committed credit facility with five participating banking institutions that expires on May 28, 2003. This credit facility supports the Companys commercial paper program. As of December 31, 2002, no amounts were outstanding under this line of credit. Contractual obligations Contractual obligations represent future cash commitments and liabilities under agreements with third parties, and exclude contingent liabilities which the Company cannot reasonably predict future payment. The following chart represents the Companys contractual obligations, aggregated by type (in millions): Payments due by period Contractual obligations Total Less than 1 year 2 3 Years 4 5 Years More than 5 years Medium and long term notes and commercial paper $ 323.0 $ 123.0 $ $ 100.0 $ 100.0 Convertible Notes (1) 2,917.8 2,917.8 Operating lease obligations 135.7 34.7 49.6 23.9 27.5 Unconditional purchase obligations (2) 1,343.4 302.1 530.1 204.5 306.7 Total contractual obligations $ 4,719.9 $ 459.8 $ 3,497.5 $ 328.4 $ 434.2 (1) Holders of the Convertible Notes may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of the notes on specific dates as early as March 1, 2005 at the original issuance price plus accrued original issue discount (accreted value) through the purchase date. The amount above represents the accreted value on March 1, 2005. The accreted value based on the 30 year contractual maturity is $3,950.0 million. In the event the Company is required to repurchase the notes, it may choose to pay the purchase price in cash and or shares of common stock. (2) Unconditional purchase obligations primarily relate to the Companys long term supply agreement with Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma KG (BI Pharma) for the manufacture of commercial quantities of ENBREL&reg;. Amounts owed to BI Pharma are based on firm commitments for the purchase of production capacity for ENBREL&reg; and reflect certain estimates such as production run success rates and bulk drug yields achieved. The Companys obligation to pay certain of these amounts may be reduced based on certain future events. The Company believes that existing funds, cash generated from operations, and existing sources of debt financing are adequate to satisfy its working capital and capital expenditure requirements for the foreseeable future, as well as to support its stock repurchase program (see Financial Outlook Liquidity and capital resources). However, the Company may raise additional capital from time to time. Results of Operations Product sales Product sales in 2002 primarily consisted of sales of EPOGEN&reg; (Epoetin alfa), Aranesp&reg; (darbepoetin alfa), NEUPOGEN&reg; (Filgrastim), Neulasta (pegfilgrastim), and ENBREL&reg; (etanercept). In 2002, product sales were 35 Table of Contents $4,991.2 million, an increase of $1,480.2 million or 42% over the prior year. This increase was principally driven by Neulasta, Aranesp&reg;, and ENBREL&reg; sales. Product sales for 2002, excluding sales from products acquired from Immunex, were $4,589.4 million, an increase of $1,078.4 million or 31% over the prior year. Product sales were $3,511.0 million in 2001, an increase of $308.8 million or 10% over the prior year. Product sales are influenced by a number of factors, including demand, wholesaler inventory management practices, foreign exchange effects, new product launches, and acquisitions. EPOGEN&reg;/Aranesp&reg; In June 2001, the Company received approval to market Aranesp&reg; in most countries in Europe, Australia, and New Zealand for the treatment of anemia associated with chronic renal failure, including patients on dialysis and patients not on dialysis. In September 2001, Amgen received approval in the United States for the same indication. In July 2002, the Company received U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval to market Aranesp&reg; for the treatment of chemotherapy induced anemia in patients with non myeloid malignancies. In August 2002, the European Commission approved Aranesp&reg; for the treatment of anemia in adult cancer patients with solid tumors receiving chemotherapy. Aranesp&reg; was launched in several countries in Europe for this indication. Combined EPOGEN&reg; and Aranesp&reg; sales for 2002 were $2,676.2 million, an increase of $526.2 million or 24% over combined 2001 sales. EPOGEN&reg; sales for 2002 were $2,260.6 million, an increase of $152.1 million or 7% over 2001 EPOGEN&reg; sales. The Company believes that EPOGEN&reg; sales growth for 2002 was principally driven by demand, which includes the effect of higher prices and growth in the dialysis patient population. Worldwide Aranesp&reg; sales for 2002 were $415.6 million, including U.S. sales of $284.7 million. The Company believes that worldwide Aranesp&reg; sales for 2002 were driven primarily by demand, and reflect the benefit of receiving the oncology indication in the United States in July 2002. Combined EPOGEN&reg; and Aranesp&reg; sales in 2001 were $2,150.0 million, an increase of $187.1 million or 10% over 2000 EPOGEN&reg; sales. This increase was primarily due to higher EPOGEN&reg; demand, which includes the effect of higher prices and growth in the dialysis patient population, and to a lesser extent, the launch of Aranesp&reg; in the United States and Europe. The reported sales growth was negatively impacted to a slight degree by wholesaler inventory changes. Worldwide Aranesp&reg; sales in 2001 were $41.5 million. NEUPOGEN&reg;/Neulasta The Company launched Neulasta in the United States in April 2002 to decrease the incidence of infection, as manifested by febrile neutropenia in patients with non myeloid malignancies receiving myelosuppressive anti cancer drugs associated with a clinically significant incidence of febrile neutropenia. In August 2002, the European Commission approved Neulasta for the reduction in the duration of neutropenia and the incidence of febrile neutropenia in patients with cytotoxic chemotherapy for malignancy. In January 2003, the Company commenced launching Neulasta in Europe on a country by country basis as reimbursement has been established. Combined Neulasta and worldwide NEUPOGEN&reg; sales in 2002 were $1,843.1 million, an increase of $496.7 million or 37%, over NEUPOGEN&reg; only sales in the prior year. The Company believes that the increase in combined sales for Neulasta and NEUPOGEN&reg; for 2002 was primarily driven by demand for Neulasta, which reflects the conversion of NEUPOGEN&reg; patients to Neulasta and patient population growth. Combined sales also benefited, to a lesser extent, from wholesaler inventory changes and higher NEUPOGEN&reg; prices in the United States. Neulasta sales in 2002 were $463.5 million. Worldwide NEUPOGEN&reg; sales in 2002 were $1,379.6 million, an increase of $33.2 million or 2% over the prior year NEUPOGEN&reg; sales. In 2002, U.S. NEUPOGEN&reg; sales were $1,041.7 million, a decrease of $8.9 million or 1% over 2001 sales. This decrease was 36 Table of Contents primarily due to lower U.S. NEUPOGEN&reg; demand, partially offset by favorable wholesaler inventory changes. The Company believes that U.S. NEUPOGEN&reg; demand declined at a mid single digit rate from 2001. The decrease in U.S. demand was primarily impacted by the conversion of NEUPOGEN&reg; patients to Neulasta, partially offset by higher NEUPOGEN&reg; prices in the United States. The Company believes that, as demand for Neulasta increased subsequent to its U.S. launch, U.S. NEUPOGEN&reg; demand decreased at an accelerated rate due to the conversion of patients to Neulasta. In the fourth quarter of 2002, combined Neulasta and worldwide NEUPOGEN&reg; sales were $514.0 million, an increase of 53% over worldwide NEUPOGEN&reg; only sales in the prior year period. The Company believes this increase in combined sales was negatively impacted by a decline in U.S. NEUPOGEN&reg; demand in the low 20% range, driven by conversion of patients to Neulasta (see Financial Outlook Trends expected to impact future operations). Worldwide NEUPOGEN&reg; sales in 2001 were $1,346.4 million, an increase of $122.7 million or 10% over the prior year. This increase was primarily due to worldwide demand growth, which includes the effect of higher prices in the United States. ENBREL&reg; The Company began recording ENBREL&reg; sales on July 16, 2002, subsequent to the close of the Immunex acquisition. For the period from July 16, 2002 through December 31, 2002, ENBREL&reg; sales were $362.1 million. In 2002, ENBREL&reg; sales were impacted by supply constraints. Corporate partner revenues Corporate partner revenues were $200.3 million in 2002, a decrease of $51.7 million or 21% over the prior year. Corporate partner revenues include $174.6 million related to amounts earned from Kirin Amgen, Inc. (Kirin Amgen) in 2002. The overall decrease in corporate partner revenues was primarily due to lower revenues earned from Kirin Amgen, and to a lesser extent, lower revenues earned under other collaboration agreements. In 2001, corporate partner revenues were $252.0 million, an increase of $5.8 million or 2% over the prior year. Corporate partner revenues include $210.1 million related to amounts earned from Kirin Amgen in 2001. The overall increase in corporate partner revenues was due to slightly higher revenues, primarily related to INFERGEN&reg;, substantially offset by lower amounts earned from Kirin Amgen. Royalty income Substantially all royalty income earned by Amgen relates to amounts received from sales of Epoetin alfa by Johnson & Johnson in the United States for use in non dialysis settings. Royalty income was $331.5 million in 2002, an increase of $78.8 million or 31% over the prior year. This increase was principally due to higher royalties earned from Johnson & Johnson relating to its sales of Epoetin alfa. In 2001, royalty income was $252.7 million, an increase of $71.7 million or 40% over the prior year. This increase was primarily due to higher royalties from Johnson & Johnson relating to its sales of Epoetin alfa. Cost of sales Cost of sales as a percentage of product sales was 14.7%, 12.6%, and 12.8% for 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively. The increase in 2002 was principally due to the impact of higher manufacturing costs and royalty expense related to ENBREL&reg; compared to Amgens other products. In addition, during 2002 the Company recorded the inventory acquired from Immunex at its estimated fair market value (see Note 3, Immunex acquisition to the Consolidated Financial Statements). The increase in fair market value was recognized as cost of sales as the acquired inventory was sold. Cost of sales for 2002 reflects a charge of $38.7 million related to the 37 Table of Contents fair value adjustment to inventory, and $7.5 million of compensation costs payable under the Immunex Corporate Retention Plan. In 2001, cost of sales as a percentage of product sales decreased from 2000 primarily due to reduced royalty obligations, substantially offset by the impact of the $39.5 million write off of certain inventory in the fourth quarter of 2001. Research and development In 2002, research and development (R&D) expenses increased $251.6 million or 29% over the prior year. This increase was primarily due to higher staff related costs and higher outside R&D costs, and to a lesser extent, higher clinical manufacturing costs as a result of the acquisition. In 2002, staff related costs and outside R&D costs increased approximately $120 million and $90 million, respectively, excluding the impact of clinical manufacturing activities. In 2002, clinical manufacturing costs increased approximately $38 million. Staff related costs in 2002 include approximately $18.1 million of compensation costs payable under the Immunex Corporate Retention Plan. In 2001, research and development expenses increased $20.0 million or 2% over the prior year. This increase was primarily due to higher staff related costs necessary to support ongoing research and product development activities, partially offset by lower clinical manufacturing and product licensing related costs. Selling, general and administrative In 2002, selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses increased $491.4 million or 51% over the prior year. This increase was primarily due to higher staff related costs and outside marketing expenses as the Company increased its support for newly launched products and ENBREL&reg;, and to a lesser extent, higher outside services. In 2002, staff related costs increased approximately $225 million, outside marketing expenses increased approximately $217 million, and other outside services increased approximately $34 million. Staff related costs increased in 2002 principally to support new product launches, from incremental expenses from the addition of Immunex staff, and approximately $14.8 million of compensation costs principally payable under the Immunex Corporate Retention Plan. Outside marketing expenses in 2002 increased principally due to the launch of new products, marketing costs related to ENBREL&reg;, and the impact of the profit share with Wyeth under the co promotion agreement (see Note 13, Agreements with Wyeth to the Consolidated Financial Statements). In 2001, SG&A expenses increased $143.8 million or 17% over the prior year. This increase was primarily due to higher outside marketing expenses, staff related costs, and consulting expenses as support for new product launches was increased. In 2001, outside marketing expenses and staff related costs each increased approximately $60 million and consulting expenses increased approximately $20 million. Acquired in process research and development In the third quarter of 2002, the Company incurred a one time expense of $3.0 billion associated with writing off the acquired in process research and development (IPR&D) related to the Immunex acquisition. The amount expensed as IPR&D represents an estimate of the fair value of purchased in process technology for projects that, as of the acquisition date, had not reached technological feasibility and had no alternative future use. The estimated fair value of these projects was determined based on the use of a discounted cash flow model. For each project, the estimated after tax cash flows were probability weighted to take into account the stage of completion and the risks surrounding the successful development and commercialization. These cash flows were then discounted to a present value using discount rates ranging from 12% to 14%. In addition, solely for the 38 Table of Contents purposes of estimating the fair values of these IPR&D projects as of July 15, 2002, the following assumptions were made: Future R&D costs of $500 million to $600 million per therapeutic area would be incurred to complete the inflammation and the oncology research projects, and future costs of $200 million to $250 million would be incurred to complete all other research projects. These estimates are net of any R&D costs that will be shared under collaborations with corporate partners. The research projects, which were in various stages of development from pre clinical through phase 3 clinical trials, are expected to reach completion at various dates ranging from 2003 through 2009. The major risks and uncertainties associated with the timely and successful completion of these projects consist of the ability to confirm the safety and efficacy of the technology based on the data from clinical trials and obtaining necessary regulatory approvals. In addition, no assurance can be given that the underlying assumptions used to forecast the cash flows or the timely and successful completion of such projects will materialize, as estimated. For these reasons, among others, actual results may vary significantly from the estimated results. Amortization of intangible assets In 2002, amortization expense related to the intangible assets acquired in connection with the Immunex acquisition was $155.2 million. Amortization of intangible assets is provided over their estimated useful lives ranging from 7 to 15 years on a straight line basis. Other items, net In 2002, other items, net consisted of three items: 1) a one time, non recurring benefit of $40.1 million related to the recovery of certain expenses accrued in the fourth quarter of 2001 related to terminating collaboration agreements with various third parties, 2) a legal award associated with the product license arbitration with Johnson & Johnson of $151.2 million, and 3) a charitable contribution to the Amgen Foundation of $50 million. In 2001, other items, net primarily consisted of costs associated with the termination of collaboration agreements with various third parties, including PRAECIS PHARMACEUTICALS INCORPORATED and certain academic institutions totaling $203.1 million. In 2000, other items, net consisted of two items: 1) a legal award associated with the spillover arbitration with Johnson & Johnson of $73.9 million, and 2) a charitable contribution to the Amgen Foundation of $25 million. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the 2002, 2001, and 2000 items. Interest and other income, net In 2002, interest and other income, net decreased $24.5 million or 15% over the prior year. This decrease was principally due to higher realized losses related to equity securities and higher losses on foreign currency transactions. The decrease was partially offset by higher interest income generated from the Companys investment portfolio as a result of higher average cash balances. Higher average cash balances during 2002 offset the impact of lower average interest rates. In 2001, interest and other income, net increased $22.5 million or 15% over the prior year. This increase was due to higher interest income generated from the Companys investment portfolio as a result of higher average cash balances, partially offset by lower interest rates in 2001 and higher gains on the sale of equity investments that occurred in 2000. 39 Table of Contents Income taxes The Companys effective tax rate was (103.3%), 33.6%, and 32.0% for 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively. The Companys negative effective tax rate for 2002 was primarily due to the pre tax loss resulting from the write off of IPR&D costs in connection with the Immunex acquisition which is not deductible for income tax purposes. Excluding the effect of the IPR&D write off, the 2002 effective tax rate would have been 30.7%. This effective tax rate was lower than the 2001 effective tax rate of 33.6% primarily due to the Puerto Rico restructuring described below. During 2002, the Company restructured its Puerto Rico manufacturing operations using a controlled foreign corporation. As permitted in APB Opinion No. 23, Accounting for Income Taxes, the Company does not provide U.S. income taxes on the controlled foreign corporations undistributed earnings that are intended to be permanently reinvested outside the United States. Therefore, the Companys effective tax rate for 2002 reflected the permanent reinvestment of foreign earnings outside the United States. In addition, the Puerto Rico manufacturing operations were entitled to a possession tax credit for a portion of 2002. This credit is capped based on the 1995 income level and expires in 2005. The higher effective tax rate in 2001 versus 2000 was a result of increased taxable income combined with the cap on the possession tax credit. Summary of Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of the Companys consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and the notes to the financial statements. Some of those judgments can be subjective and complex, and therefore actual results could differ materially from those estimates under different assumptions or conditions. EPOGEN&reg; revenue recognition The Company has the exclusive right to sell Epoetin alfa for dialysis, certain diagnostics, and all non human, non research uses in the United States. Amgen has granted to Johnson & Johnson a license relating to Epoetin alfa for sales in the United States for all human uses except dialysis and diagnostics. Pursuant to this license, the Company and Johnson & Johnson are required to compensate each other for Epoetin alfa sales that either party makes into the other partys exclusive market, sometimes referred to as spillover. Accordingly, Amgen does not recognize product sales it makes into the exclusive market of Johnson & Johnson and does recognize the product sales made by Johnson & Johnson into Amgens exclusive market. Sales in Amgens exclusive market are derived from the Companys sales to its customers, as adjusted for spillover. The Company is employing an arbitrated audit methodology to measure each partys spillover based on independent third party data on shipments to end users and their estimated usage. Data on end user usage is derived in part using market sampling techniques, and accordingly, the results of such sampling can produce variability in the amount of recognized spillover. The Company initially recognizes spillover based on estimates of shipments to end users and their usage, utilizing historical third party data and subsequently adjusts such amounts based on revised third party data as received. Differences between initial estimates of spillover and amounts based on revised third party data could produce materially different amounts for recognized EPOGEN&reg; sales. However, such differences to date have not been material. Immunex purchase price allocation The purchase price for Immunex was allocated to the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values at the acquisition date. An independent third party valuation firm was engaged to assist in determining the fair values of in process research and development, identifiable intangible assets, and certain property, plant, and equipment. Such a valuation requires significant estimates and assumptions including but not limited to: determining the timing and expected costs to complete 40 Table of Contents the in process projects, projecting regulatory approvals, estimating future cash flows from product sales resulting from completed products and in process projects, and developing appropriate discount rates and probability rates by project. The Company believes the fair values assigned to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed are based on reasonable assumptions. However, these assumptions may be incomplete or inaccurate, and unanticipated events and circumstances may occur. Additionally, estimates for the purchase price allocation may change as subsequent information becomes available. Deferred income taxes The Companys effective tax rate reflects the impact of undistributed foreign earnings for which no U.S. taxes have been provided because such earnings are intended to be permanently reinvested in international operations based on the Companys projected cash flow, working capital, and long term investment requirements of its U.S. and foreign operations. If future events, including material changes in estimates of cash, working capital, and long term investment requirements necessitate that certain assets associated with these earnings be repatriated to the United States, an additional tax provision and related liability would be required which could materially impact the Companys effective future tax rate. Financial Outlook Liquidity and capital resources The Company currently estimates spending on capital projects and equipment to be approximately $1.3 billion to $1.5 billion in 2003, which reflects higher spending on capital projects including the Puerto Rico manufacturing expansion, the Seattle inflammation research headquarters, and the new Rhode Island manufacturing plant, which will be adjacent to the existing manufacturing facility. Results of operations In the future, the Company expects growth of its businesses to be driven by new products, primarily Neulasta, ENBREL&reg;, and Aranesp&reg; (see Forward looking statements and factors that may affect Amgen). EPOGEN&reg; EPOGEN&reg; is approved in the United States for the treatment of anemia associated with chronic renal failure. The Company believes EPOGEN&reg; sales growth will come primarily from patient population growth and price increases. Patients receiving treatment for end stage renal disease are covered primarily under medical programs provided by the federal government. The Company believes future EPOGEN&reg; sales growth may also be affected by future changes in reimbursement rates or a change in the basis for reimbursement by the federal government. EPOGEN&reg; may compete with Aranesp&reg; in the United States as health care providers may use Aranesp&reg; to treat anemia associated with chronic renal failure instead of EPOGEN&reg;. Aranesp&reg; In 2001, Aranesp&reg; was approved in the United States, most countries in Europe, Australia, and New Zealand for the treatment of anemia associated with chronic renal failure, including patients on dialysis and patients not on dialysis. In July 2002, Aranesp&reg; was approved in the United States for the treatment of chemotherapy induced anemia in patients with non myeloid malignancies. In August 2002, Aranesp&reg; was approved in Europe for the treatment of anemia in adult cancer patients with solid tumors receiving chemotherapy. The Company has launched Aranesp&reg; in several European countries and will expand into other countries as reimbursement is finalized. The Company believes future Aranesp&reg; sales growth will be dependent, in part, on such factors as: the effects of competitive pressures, penetration of existing and new market opportunities, and changes in foreign 41 Table of Contents currency exchange rates. In addition, future worldwide Aranesp&reg; sales growth may be affected by cost containment pressures from governments and private insurers on health care providers, as well as the availability of reimbursement by third party payors, including governments and private insurance plans. For example, effective January 1, 2003, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) instituted certain changes to its payment system that included a rule setting a significantly reduced reimbursement rate for Aranesp&reg; for Medicare patients in the hospital outpatient setting. While we believe that this new rule is based on inaccurate information, we cannot predict whether we will be successful in correcting inaccuracies underlying this rule, or if such reimbursement changes for Aranesp&reg; in this setting may impact reimbursement in other settings, by other payors, or for our other products. The hospital outpatient Medicare setting accounted for approximately 10% of our U.S. revenues of Aranesp&reg; for the year ended December 31, 2002. U.S. sales of Aranesp&reg; for the year ended December 31, 2002 were $284.7 million. NEUPOGEN&reg;/Neulasta In January 2002, Neulasta was approved in the United States to decrease the incidence of infection, as manifested by febrile neutropenia in patients with non myeloid malignancies receiving myelosuppressive anti cancer drugs associated with a clinically significant incidence of febrile neutropenia. The Company launched Neulasta in the United States in April 2002. In August 2002, Neulasta was approved in Europe for the reduction in the duration of neutropenia and the incidence of febrile neutropenia in patients with cytotoxic chemotherapy for malignancy. In January 2003, the Company commenced launching Neulasta in Europe on a country by country basis as reimbursement has been established. NEUPOGEN&reg; is approved in the United States to: decrease the incidence of infection, as manifested by febrile neutropenia, in chemotherapy patients with non myeloid malignancies (the same use for which Neulasta is approved); to reduce the duration of neutropenia for patients undergoing myeloablative therapy followed by bone marrow transplantation; to reduce the incidence and duration of neutropenia related consequences in patients with severe chronic neutropenia; for use in mobilization of peripheral blood progenitor cells for stem cell transplantation; and to reduce the recovery time of neutrophils and the duration of fever following chemotherapy treatment in patients being treated for acute myelogenous leukemia. NEUPOGEN&reg; is approved in Europe, Canada, and Australia for these same indications as well as for the treatment of neutropenia in HIV patients receiving antiviral and or other myelosuppressive medications. The Company believes future NEUPOGEN&reg; and Neulasta sales growth will depend on penetration of existing markets, the conversion of NEUPOGEN&reg; patients to Neulasta, patient population growth, price increases, the effects of competitive products or therapies, the development of new treatments for cancer, and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. In addition, future worldwide sales growth may be affected by cost containment pressures from governments and private insurers on health care providers, as well as the availability of reimbursement by third party payors, including governments and private insurance plans. Further, chemotherapy treatments that are less myelosuppressive may require less NEUPOGEN&reg;/Neulasta. NEUPOGEN&reg; competes with Neulasta in the United States and Europe. The Company believes that U.S. NEUPOGEN&reg; sales have and will continue to be adversely impacted by the launch of Neulasta, however the Company cannot accurately predict the extent to which healthcare providers will use Neulasta instead of NEUPOGEN&reg; or the timing of this conversion. ENBREL&reg; As a result of the Immunex acquisition in July 2002, the Company acquired the rights to ENBREL&reg; in the United States and Canada. ENBREL&reg; is approved in the United States for: the reduction of the signs and symptoms in patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis (RA); treating moderately to severely active polyarticular course juvenile RA in patients who have had an inadequate response to one or more disease modifying antirheumatic drugs; inhibiting the progression of structural damage in patients with moderately to severely active RA; and for reducing the signs and symptoms of active arthritis in patients with 42 Table of Contents psoriatic arthritis. The Company believes that future sales of ENBREL&reg; will depend on: limits on the current supply of and sources of ENBREL&reg;, penetration of existing and new market opportunities, the availability and extent of reimbursement by third party payors, the effects of competing products or therapies, and any potential adverse developments discovered with respect to ENBREL&reg;s safety. ENBREL&reg; is currently marketed in the United States and Canada under a co promotion agreement with Wyeth and, accordingly, Wyeth receives a share of the profits from sales of ENBREL&reg;. In late December 2002, the FDA approved the manufacturing facility and the related third party fill and finish facilities. Because of these plant approvals, additional supply of ENBREL&reg; is available to patients. Trends expected to impact future operations Future operating results of the Company may be impacted by a number of factors. The following trends in our business are expected to impact our future liquidity and results of operations: combined NEUPOGEN&reg; and Neulasta sales are expected to increase; however, U.S. NEUPOGEN&reg; sales are expected to continue to decrease due to conversion of patients to Neulasta cost of sales as a percentage of product sales is expected to continue to increase due to higher manufacturing and royalty expense for ENBREL&reg; SG&A expenses are expected to continue to be impacted by seasonal trends in the fourth quarter that increase expenses over the three prior quarters non cash amortization expense of acquired identifiable intangible assets, principally related to ENBREL&reg;, will be approximately $340 million, pre tax, on an annual basis Forward looking statements and factors that may affect Amgen This report and other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) contain forward looking statements that are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about us, our future performance, our business or others on our behalf, our beliefs and our managements assumptions. In addition, we, or others on our behalf, may make forward looking statements in press releases or written statements, or in our communications and discussions with investors and analysts in the normal course of business through meetings, webcasts, phone calls, and conference calls. Words such as expect, anticipate, outlook, could, target, project, intend, plan, believe, seek, estimate, should, may, assume, continue, variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict. We have based our forward looking statements on our managements beliefs and assumptions based on information available to our management at the time the statements are made. We caution you that actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed, implied, or forecast by our forward looking statements. Reference is made in particular to forward looking statements regarding product sales, expenses, earnings per share, liquidity and capital resources, and trends. Except as required under the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations of the SEC, we do not have any intention or obligation to update publicly any forward looking statements after the distribution of this report, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in assumptions, or otherwise. The following items are representative of the risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could affect the outcome of the forward looking statements. Our sales depend on payment and reimbursement from third party payors, and a reduction in the payment rate or reimbursement could result in decreased use or sales of our products. In both domestic and foreign markets, sales of our products are dependent, in part, on the availability of reimbursement from third party payors such as state and federal governments, under programs such as Medicare 43 Table of Contents and Medicaid in the United States, and private insurance plans. Medicare does not cover prescriptions for ENBREL&reg;. In certain foreign markets, the pricing and profitability of our products generally are subject to government controls. In the United States, there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, a number of state and federal proposals that could limit the amount that state or federal governments will pay to reimburse the cost of drugs. In addition, we believe the increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States has and will continue to put pressure on the price and usage of our products, which may adversely impact product sales. Further, when a new therapeutic product is approved, the availability of governmental and or private reimbursement for that product is uncertain, as is the amount for which that product will be reimbursed. We cannot predict the availability or amount of reimbursement for our recently approved products or product candidates, including those at a late stage of development, and current reimbursement policies for marketed products may change at any time; we believe that sales of Aranesp&reg; and Neulasta are and will be affected by government and private payor reimbursement policies. Effective January 1, 2003, CMS instituted certain changes to its payment system that included a rule setting a significantly reduced reimbursement rate for Aranesp&reg; for Medicare patients in the hospital outpatient setting. While we believe that this new rule is based on inaccurate information, we cannot predict whether we will be successful in correcting inaccuracies underlying this rule, or if such reimbursement changes for Aranesp&reg; in this setting may impact reimbursement in other settings, by other payors or for our other products. If reimbursement for our marketed products changes adversely or if we fail to obtain adequate reimbursement for our other current or future products, health care providers may limit how much or under what circumstances they will administer them, which could reduce the use of our products or cause us to reduce the price of our products. This could result in lower product sales or revenues which could have a material adverse effect on us and our results of operations. For example, in the United States the use of EPOGEN&reg; in connection with treatment for end stage renal disease is funded primarily by the U.S. federal government. In early 1997, CMS instituted a reimbursement change for EPOGEN&reg; which materially and adversely affected our EPOGEN&reg; sales until the policies were revised. Our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not obtain and maintain regulatory approval. We conduct research, preclinical testing, and clinical trials and we manufacture and contract manufacture our product candidates. We also manufacture and contract manufacture, price, sell, distribute, and market or co market our products for their approved indications. These activities are subject to extensive regulation by numerous state and federal governmental authorities in the United States, such as the FDA and CMS, as well as in foreign countries, including Europe. Currently, we are required in the United States and in foreign countries to obtain approval from those countries regulatory authorities before we can market and sell our products in those countries. In our experience, obtaining regulatory approval is costly and takes many years, and after it is obtained, it remains costly to maintain. The FDA and other U.S. and foreign regulatory agencies have substantial discretion to terminate clinical trials, require additional testing, delay or withhold registration and marketing approval, require changes in labeling of our products and mandate product withdrawals. All of our marketed products are currently approved in the United States and most are approved in Europe and in other foreign countries for specific uses. We currently manufacture and market all our approved products, and we plan to manufacture and market many of our potential products. Even though we have obtained regulatory approval for our marketed products, these products and our manufacturing processes are subject to continued review by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. In addition, ENBREL&reg; is manufactured both by us at our Rhode Island manufacturing facility and by a third party contract manufacturer, BI Pharma, and fill and finish of bulk product produced at our Rhode Island manufacturing facility is done by third party service providers. BI Pharma and these third party service providers are subject to FDA regulatory authority. See Our sources of supply for ENBREL&reg; are limited. In addition, later discovery of unknown problems with our products or manufacturing processes or those of our contract manufacturers or third party service providers could result in restrictions on such products or manufacturing processes, including potential withdrawal of the products from the market. If regulatory authorities determine that we or our contract manufacturers or third party service providers have 44 Table of Contents violated regulations or if they restrict, suspend, or revoke our prior approvals, they could prohibit us from manufacturing or selling our marketed products until we or our contract manufacturers or third party service providers comply or indefinitely. In addition, if regulatory authorities determine that we have not complied with regulations in the research and development of a product candidate, then they may not approve the product candidate and we will not be able to market and sell it. If we are unable to market and sell our products or product candidates, our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. If our intellectual property positions are challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or if we fail to prevail in present and future intellectual property litigation, our business could be adversely affected. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and often involve complex legal, scientific, and factual questions. To date, there has emerged no consistent policy regarding breadth of claims allowed in such companies patents. Third parties may challenge, invalidate, or circumvent our patents and patent applications relating to our products, product candidates, and technologies. In addition, our patent positions might not protect us against competitors with similar products or technologies because competing products or technologies may not infringe our patents. For certain of our product candidates, there are third parties who have patents or pending patents that they may claim prevent us from commercializing these product candidates in certain territories. Patent disputes are frequent, costly and can preclude commercialization of products. We are currently, and in the future may be, involved in patent litigation. For example, we are involved in ongoing patent infringement lawsuits against Transkaryotic Therapies, Inc. (TKT) and Aventis with respect to our erythropoietin patents. If we ultimately lose these or other litigations we could be subject to competition and or significant liabilities, we could be required to enter into third party licenses for the infringed product or technology, or we could be required to cease using the technology or product in dispute. In addition, we cannot guarantee that such licenses will be available on terms acceptable to us. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and defend patent rights and other intellectual property rights that are important to the commercialization of our products and product candidates. We have filed applications for a number of patents and have been granted patents or obtained rights relating to erythropoietin, recombinant G CSF, darbepoetin alfa, pegfilgrastim, etanercept, and our other products and potential products. We market our erythropoietin, recombinant G CSF, darbepoetin alfa, pegfilgrastim, and etanercept products as EPOGEN&reg;, NEUPOGEN&reg;, Aranesp&reg;, Neulasta, and ENBREL&reg;, respectively. In the United States, we have been issued or obtained rights to several patents relating to erythropoietin that generally cover DNA and host cells, processes for making erythropoietin, various product claims to erythropoietin, cells that make levels of erythropoietin, and pharmaceutical compositions of erythropoietin. We have also been issued or obtained rights to U.S. patents relating to G CSF that cover aspects of DNA, vectors, cells, processes, polypeptides, methods of treatment using G CSF polypeptides, methods of enhancing bone marrow transplantation and treating burn wounds, methods for recombinant production of G CSF, and analogs of G CSF. We have been issued or obtained rights to U.S. and European patents pertaining to pegfilgrastim (pegylated G CSF). We also have been granted or obtained rights to a patent in Europe relating to erythropoietin, a patent in Europe relating to G CSF, two patents in Europe relating to darbepoetin alfa and hyperglycosylated erythropoietic proteins, and a patent in the United States and a patent in Europe relating to anakinra. We have been granted or have obtained rights to patents relating to etanercept in the United States that generally cover DNA (issued in 1995 and 2000); products (issued in 1999 and 2001); and processes for using (issued 1997). These patents have varying expiration dates, with the latest United States etanercept related patent expiring in 2014. We have been granted or have obtained rights to patents relating to etanercept in Europe. The latest European patent relating to etanercept expires in 2011. Limits on supply for ENBREL&reg; may constrain ENBREL&reg; sales. U.S. and Canadian supply of ENBREL&reg; is impacted by many manufacturing and production variables, such as the timing and actual number of production runs, production success rate, bulk drug yield, and the timing and outcome of product quality testing. For example, in the second quarter of 2002, Immunex Corporation, (the prior 45 Table of Contents owner of ENBREL&reg;), experienced a brief period where no ENBREL&reg; was available to fill patient prescriptions, primarily due to variation in the expected production yield from BI Pharma. Once supply of ENBREL&reg; became available, Immunex resumed filling orders on a first come, first served basis. If we are at any time unable to provide an uninterrupted supply of ENBREL&reg; to patients, we may lose patients, physicians may elect to prescribe competing therapeutics instead of ENBREL&reg;, our ENBREL&reg; sales will be adversely affected, any of which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. See We are dependent on third parties for a significant portion of our supply and the fill and finish of ENBREL&reg;. and Our sources of supply for ENBREL&reg; are limited. We are dependent on third parties for a significant portion of our supply and the fill and finish of ENBREL&reg;. We currently manufacture ENBREL&reg; at our Rhode Island manufacturing facility. However, we also depend on third parties for a significant portion of our ENBREL&reg; supply as well as for the fill and finish of ENBREL&reg; that we manufacture. BI Pharma is currently our sole third party supplier of ENBREL&reg;; accordingly, our U.S. and Canadian supply of ENBREL&reg; is currently significantly dependent on BI Pharmas production schedule for ENBREL&reg;. We would be unable to produce ENBREL&reg; in sufficient quantities to substantially offset shortages in BI Pharmas scheduled production if BI Pharma or other third party manufacturers used for ENBREL&reg; production were to cease or interrupt production or services or otherwise fail to supply materials, products, or services to us for any reason, including due to labor shortages or disputes, due to regulatory requirements or action, or due to contamination of product lots or product recalls. This in turn could materially reduce our ability to satisfy demand for ENBREL&reg;, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Factors that will affect our actual supply of ENBREL&reg; at any time include, without limitation, the following: BI Pharma does not produce ENBREL&reg; continuously; rather, it produces the drug through a series of periodic campaigns throughout the year. The amount of commercial inventory available to us at any time depends on a variety of factors, including the timing and actual number of BI Pharmas production runs, level of production yields and success rates, timing and outcome of product quality testing, and the amount of vialing capacity. BI Pharma schedules the vialing production runs for ENBREL&reg; in advance, based on the expected timing and yield of bulk drug production runs. Therefore, if BI Pharma realizes production yields beyond expected levels, or provides additional manufacturing capacity of ENBREL&reg;, it may not have sufficient vialing capacity for all of the ENBREL&reg; bulk drug that it produces. As a result, even if we are able to increase our supply of ENBREL&reg; bulk drug, BI Pharma may not be able to fill and finish the extra bulk drug in time to prevent any supply interruptions. In addition, we are dependent on third parties for fill and finish of ENBREL&reg; bulk drug manufactured at our Rhode Island facility. If third party fill and finish service providers are unable to provide sufficient capacity or otherwise unable to provide services to us, then supply of ENBREL&reg; could be adversely affected. See Limits on supply for ENBREL&reg; may constrain ENBREL&reg; sales, and Our sources of supply for ENBREL&reg; are limited. Our sources of supply for ENBREL&reg; are limited. ENBREL&reg; supply for the United States and Canada is produced by us at our Rhode Island facility and by BI Pharma, currently our sole source third party supplier. See We are dependent on third parties for a significant portion of our supply and the fill and finish of ENBREL&reg;. In addition, our current plan includes construction of a new large scale cell culture commercial manufacturing facility at the site of the current Rhode Island manufacturing facility. We have entered into a manufacturing agreement with Genentech, Inc. (Genentech) to produce ENBREL&reg; at Genentechs manufacturing facility in South San Francisco, California. The manufacturing facility is subject to FDA approval, which the parties hope to obtain in 2004. Under the terms of the agreement, Genentech will produce ENBREL&reg; through 2005, with an extension through 2006 by mutual agreement. In addition, Wyeth is constructing a new manufacturing facility in Ireland, which is expected to increase the U.S. 46 Table of Contents and Canadian supply of ENBREL&reg;. If additional manufacturing capacity at the Rhode Island site, or pursuant to the Genentech agreement, or if the Ireland manufacturing facility is not completed, or if these manufacturing facilities do not receive FDA approval before we encounter supply constraints, our ENBREL&reg; sales would be restricted which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We face substantial competition, and others may discover, develop, acquire or commercialize products before or more successfully than we do. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our products compete with other products or treatments for diseases for which our products may be indicated. For example, ENBREL&reg; competes in certain circumstances with rheumatoid arthritis products marketed by Abbott Laboratories/Knoll, Centocor Inc./Johnson & Johnson, Aventis, Pharmacia, and Merck as well as the generic drug methotrexate and may face competition from potential therapies being developed by Biogen, among others. Further, we believe that some of our newly approved products and late stage product candidates may face competition when and as they are approved and marketed. For example, in the United States, Aranesp&reg; competes with an Epoetin alfa product marketed by Johnson & Johnson in certain anemia markets and Kineret&reg; competes in certain circumstances with rheumatoid arthritis products marketed by Abbott Laboratories/Knoll, Centocor Inc./Johnson & Johnson and others. Additionally, some of our competitors, including biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, market products or are actively engaged in research and development in areas where we are developing product candidates. Large pharmaceutical corporations may have greater clinical, research, regulatory, manufacturing, and marketing resources than we do. In addition, some of our competitors may have technical or competitive advantages over us for the development of technologies and processes. These resources may make it difficult for us to compete with them to successfully discover, develop, and market new products. Certain of our raw materials, medical devices and components are single sourced from third parties; third party supply failures could adversely affect our ability to supply our products. Certain raw materials necessary for commercial manufacturing and formulation of our products are provided by single source unaffiliated third party suppliers. Also, certain medical devices and components necessary for fill, finish, and packaging of our products are provided by single source unaffiliated third party suppliers. Certain of these raw materials, medical devices, and components are the proprietary products of these unaffiliated third party suppliers and, in some cases, such proprietary products are specifically cited in our drug application with the FDA so that they must be obtained from that specific sole source and could not be obtained from another supplier unless and until the FDA approved that other supplier. We would be unable to obtain these raw materials, medical devices, or components for an indeterminate period of time if these third party single suppliers were to cease or interrupt production or otherwise fail to supply these materials or products to us for any reason, including due to regulatory requirements or action, due to adverse financial developments at or affecting the supplier, or due to labor shortages or disputes. This, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our ability to satisfy demand for our products, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Also, certain of the raw materials required in the commercial manufacturing and the formulation of our products are derived from biological sources, including bovine serum and human serum albumin, or HSA. We are investigating screening procedures with respect to certain biological sources and alternatives to them. Such raw materials may be subject to contamination and or recall. A material shortage, contamination, and or recall could adversely impact or disrupt our commercial manufacturing of our products or could result in a mandated withdrawal of our products from the market. This too, in turn, could adversely affect our ability to satisfy demand for our products, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Our product development efforts may not result in commercial products. We intend to continue an aggressive research and development program. Successful product development in the biotechnology industry is highly uncertain, and very few research and development projects produce a 47 Table of Contents commercial product. Product candidates that appear promising in the early phases of development, such as in early human clinical trials, may fail to reach the market for a number of reasons, such as: the product candidate did not demonstrate acceptable clinical trial results even though it demonstrated positive preclinical trial results the product candidate was not effective in treating a specified condition or illness the product candidate had harmful side effects on humans the necessary regulatory bodies, such as the FDA, did not approve our product candidate for an intended use the product candidate was not economical for us to manufacture and commercialize other companies or people have or may have proprietary rights to our product candidate, such as patent rights, and will not let us sell it on reasonable terms, or at all the product candidate is not cost effective in light of existing therapeutics Several of our product candidates have failed at various stages in the product development process, including Brain Derived Neurotrophic Factor (BDNF) and Megakaryocyte Growth and Development Factor (MGDF). For example, in 1997, we announced the failure of BDNF for the treatment of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or Lou Gehrigs Disease, because the product candidate, when administered by injection, did not produce acceptable clinical results for a specific use after a phase 3 trial, even though BDNF had progressed successfully through preclinical and earlier clinical trials. In addition, in 1998, we discontinued development of MGDF, a novel platelet growth factor, at the phase 3 trial stage after several people in platelet donation trials developed low platelet counts and neutralizing antibodies. Of course, there may be other factors that prevent us from marketing a product. We cannot guarantee we will be able to produce commercially successful products. Further, clinical trial results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations by scientists, medical personnel, regulatory personnel, statisticians, and others which may delay, limit, or prevent further clinical development or regulatory approvals of a product candidate. Also, the length of time that it takes for us to complete clinical trials and obtain regulatory approval for product marketing has in the past varied by product and by the intended use of a product. We expect that this will likely be the case with future product candidates and we cannot predict the length of time to complete necessary clinical trials and obtain regulatory approval. See Our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not obtain and maintain regulatory approval. We may be required to perform additional clinical trials or change the labeling of our products if we or others identify side effects after our products are on the market. If we or others identify side effects after any of our products are on the market, or if manufacturing problems occur, regulatory approval may be withdrawn and reformulation of our products, additional clinical trials, changes in labeling of our products, and changes to or re approvals of our manufacturing facilities may be required, any of which could have a material adverse effect on sales of the affected products and on our business and results of operations. For example, because ENBREL&reg; has only been marketed since 1998, its long term effects on the development or course of serious infection, malignancy, and autoimmune disease are largely unknown and more rarely occurring side effects may not be known. In May 1999, Immunex announced an update to the package insert for ENBREL&reg; to advise doctors not to start using ENBREL&reg; in patients who have an active infection, and for doctors to exercise caution when considering using ENBREL&reg; in patients with a history of recurring infections or with underlying conditions that may predispose patients to infections. In October 2000, Immunex again revised the package insert for ENBREL&reg; in response to spontaneous adverse events reported to Immunex, including rare cases of hematologic and central nervous system disorders. The causal relationship between these adverse events and therapy with ENBREL&reg; remains unclear. In January 2001, Immunex revised the package insert for ENBREL&reg; to advise doctors that rare cases of central nervous system disorders, including seizures, and 48 Table of Contents rare cases of tuberculosis have also been reported in patients using ENBREL&reg;. It is possible that additional spontaneous adverse events will be reported to us as experience with ENBREL&reg; continues. If we or others identify new adverse events for patients treated with ENBREL&reg;, additional precautions, warnings, or other changes in the label for ENBREL&reg; may be required. We may be required to defend lawsuits or pay damages for product liability claims. Product liability is a major risk in testing and marketing biotechnology and pharmaceutical products. We face substantial product liability exposure in human clinical trials and for products that we sell after regulatory approval. Product liability claims, regardless of their merits, could be costly and divert managements attention, and adversely affect our reputation and the demand for our products. Our operating results may fluctuate, and this fluctuation could cause financial results to be below expectations. Our operating results may fluctuate from period to period for a number of reasons. In budgeting our operating expenses, we assume that revenues will continue to grow; however, some of our operating expenses are fixed in the short term. Because of this, even a relatively small revenue shortfall may cause a periods results to be below our expectations or projections. A revenue shortfall could arise from any number of factors, some of which we cannot control. For example, we may face: lower than expected demand for our products inability to provide adequate supply of our products changes in the governments or private payors reimbursement policies for our products changes in wholesaler buying patterns increased competition from new or existing products fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates changes in our product pricing strategies Of these, we would only have control over changes in our product pricing strategies and, of course, there may be other factors that affect our revenues in any given period. We plan to grow rapidly, and if we fail to adequately manage that growth our business could be adversely impacted. We have an aggressive growth plan that includes substantial and increasing investments in research and development, sales and marketing and facilities. Our plan has a number of risks, some of which we cannot control. For example: we will need to generate higher revenues to cover a higher level of operating expenses, and our ability to do so may depend on factors that we do not control we will need to attract and assimilate a large number of new employees we will need to manage complexities associated with a larger and faster growing organization we will need to accurately anticipate demand for the products we manufacture and maintain adequate manufacturing capacity, and our ability to do so may depend on factors that we do not control Of course, there may be other risks and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully manage these or other risks. 49 Table of Contents Our stock price is volatile, which could adversely affect your investment. Our stock price, like that of other biotechnology companies, is highly volatile. For example, in the fifty two weeks prior to December 31, 2002, the trading price of our common stock has ranged from a high of $62.94 per share to a low of $30.57 per share. Our stock price may be affected by such factors as: clinical trial results adverse developments regarding the safety or efficacy of our products actual or anticipated product supply constraints product development announcements by us or our competitors regulatory matters announcements in the scientific and research community intellectual property and legal matters changes in reimbursement policies or medical practices broader industry and market trends unrelated to our performance In addition, if our revenues or earnings in any period fail to meet the investment communitys expectations, there could be an immediate adverse impact on our stock price. Our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable federal and state regulations. The development, manufacturing, pricing, sales, and reimbursement of our products, together with our general operations, is subject to extensive federal and state regulation. See Our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not obtain and maintain regulatory approval. and We may be required to perform additional clinical trials or change the labeling of our products if we or others identify side effects after our products are on the market. While we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program based on current best practices, we cannot assure you that we or our employees are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable federal and state regulations. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations a range of actions could result, including, but not limited to, the termination of clinical trials, the failure to approve a product candidate, restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes, including withdrawal of our products from the market, significant fines, or other sanctions or litigation. Our marketing of ENBREL&reg; will be dependent in part upon Wyeth. Under the amended and restated co promotion agreement, we and Wyeth market and sell ENBREL&reg; in the United States and Canada. An ENBREL&reg; management committee comprised of an equal number of representatives from us and Wyeth is responsible for overseeing the marketing and sales of ENBREL&reg;, including strategic planning, approval of an annual marketing plan, product pricing, and establishing an ENBREL&reg; brand team. The ENBREL&reg; brand team, with equal representation from us and Wyeth, will prepare and implement the annual marketing plan and will be responsible for all sales activities. If Wyeth fails to market ENBREL&reg; effectively or if we and Wyeth fail to coordinate our efforts effectively, our sales of ENBREL&reg; may be adversely affected. Guidelines and recommendations published by various organizations can reduce the use of our products. Government agencies promulgate regulations and guidelines directly applicable to us and to our products. However, professional societies, practice management groups, private health/science foundations, and organizations involved in various diseases from time to time may also publish guidelines or recommendations to 50 Table of Contents the health care and patient communities. Recommendations of government agencies or these other groups/organizations may relate to such matters as usage, dosage, route of administration, and use of concomitant therapies. Organizations like these have in the past made recommendations about our products. Recommendations or guidelines that are followed by patients and health care providers could result in decreased use of our products. In addition, the perception by the investment community or stockholders that recommendations or guidelines will result in decreased use of our products could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of our merger with Immunex. On July 15, 2002, we merged with Immunex Corporation. The success of our merger with Immunex will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated synergies, cost savings, and growth opportunities from integrating the businesses of Immunex with the businesses of Amgen. Our success in realizing these benefits and the timing of this realization depend upon the successful integration of the operations of Immunex. The integration of two independent companies is a complex, costly, and time consuming process. The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others: consolidating research and development and manufacturing operations retaining key employees consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures coordinating sales and marketing functions preserving ours and Immunexs research and development, distribution, marketing, promotion, and other important relationships minimizing the diversion of managements attention from ongoing business concerns coordinating geographically separate organizations In addition, even if we are able to integrate Immunexs operations successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of the synergies, cost savings, or sales and growth opportunities that we expect or that these benefits will be achieved within the anticipated time frame. For example, the elimination of significant duplicative costs may not be possible or may take longer than anticipated and the benefits from the merger may be offset by costs incurred in integrating the companies. We cannot assure you that the integration of Immunex with us will result in the realization of the full benefits anticipated by us to result from the merger. Our failure to achieve these benefits could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Interest income earned on the Companys investment portfolio is generally affected by changes in the general level of U.S. interest rates. In 2001, the Company entered into interest rate swap agreements on a portion of its available for sale investment portfolio, effectively converting these fixed income investments to variable income investments. The Companys short term borrowings bear interest at variable rates and therefore, changes in U.S. interest rates affect interest expense incurred thereon. Changes in interest rates do not affect interest expense incurred on the Companys medium and long term notes and Convertible Notes because they bear interest at fixed rates. The following tables provide information about the Companys financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. For the Companys investment portfolio and debt obligations, the tables present principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. Additionally, the Company has assumed its available for sale debt securities, comprised primarily of corporate debt instruments and treasury securities, are similar enough to aggregate those securities for presentation purposes. For the interest rate swaps, the tables present the notional amount and weighted average interest rates by contractual maturity date. The notional amount is used to calculate the contractual cash flows to be exchanged under the contract. 51 Table of Contents Interest Rate Sensitivity Principal Amount by Expected Maturity as of December 31, 2002 (Dollars in millions) Average Interest Rate 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Thereafter Total Fair value 12/31/02 Available for sale debt securities $ 2,171.3 $ 1,072.8 $ 1,009.9 $ 164.9 $ 29.6 $ 3.0 $ 4,451.5 $ 4,534.7 Interest rate 1.1 % 4.8 % 5.4 % 5.1 % 4.3 % 6.8 % Commercial paper obligations $ 100.0 $ 100.0 $ 100.0 Interest rate 1.4 % Medium and long term notes $ 23.0 $ 100.0 $ 100.0 $ 223.0 $ 273.6 Interest rate 6.2 % 6.5 % 8.1 % Convertible Notes (1) $ 2,917.8 $ 2,917.8 $ 2,913.5 Interest rate 1.125 % Interest rate swaps related to available for sale debt securities: Pay fixed/receive variable $ 128.2 $ 80.7 $ 120.0 $ 40.0 $ 368.9 $ (14.9 ) Average pay rate 2.9 % 3.9 % 4.2 % 4.5 % Average receive rate 1.4 % 1.4 % 1.4 % 1.4 % (1) Holders of the Convertible Notes may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of the notes on specific dates as early as March 1, 2005 at the original issuance price plus accrued original issue discount (accreted value) through the purchase date. The amount above represents the accreted value on March 1, 2005. The accreted value based on the 30 year contractual maturity is $3,950.0 million. In the event the Company is required to repurchase the notes, it may choose to pay the purchase price in cash and or shares of common stock. 52 Table of Contents Interest Rate Sensitivity Principal Amount by Expected Maturity as of December 31, 2001 (Dollars in millions) Average Interest Rate 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Thereafter Total Fair value 12/31/01 Available for sale debt securities $ 1,466.9 $ 362.9 $ 390.6 $ 163.9 $ 115.0 $ 2,499.3 $ 2,568.0 Interest rate 4.4 % 6.6 % 5.8 % 7.0 % 5.1 % Commercial paper obligations $ 100.0 $ 100.0 $ 100.0 Interest rate 1.9 % Medium and long term notes $ 23.0 $ 200.0 $ 223.0 $ 244.9 Interest rate 6.2 % 7.3 % Interest rate swaps related to available for sale debt securities: Pay fixed/receive variable $ 153.7 $ 144.2 $ 120.0 $ 40.0 $ 457.9 $ 1.4 Average pay rate 2.9 % 3.8 % 4.2 % 4.5 % Average receive rate 2.0 % 2.0 % 2.0 % 2.0 % The Company is exposed to equity price risks on the marketable portion of equity securities included in its portfolio of investments entered into for the promotion of business and strategic objectives. These investments are generally in small capitalization stocks in the biotechnology industry sector. In 2001, the Company entered into equity forward contracts to hedge against changes in the fair market value of a portion of its equity investment portfolio. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, the fair value of the unhedged portion of its equity securities was $82.8 million and $133.4 million, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, an adverse change in equity prices of 45% would result in a decrease of approximately $37.3 million and $60.0 million, respectively, in the fair value of the unhedged portion of the Companys equity securities. Price volatility for equity investments is based on the volatility of a relevant market index for small capitalization stocks in the biotechnology sector. The Company did not have material exposures to changes in foreign currency exchange rates related to its foreign currency forward contracts outstanding at December 31, 2002 and 2001. 
 
