Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Acquisition of Immunex Corporation On July 15, 2002, the Company acquired all of the outstanding common stock of Immunex Corporation (Immunex) for stock and cash valued at $17.8 billion in a transaction accounted for as a business combination (see Note 3, Immunex acquisition to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Immunex was a leading biotechnology company dedicated to developing immune system science to protect human health. The acquisition has enhanced Amgens strategic position within the biotechnology industry by strengthening and diversifying its (1) product base and product pipeline in key therapeutic areas, and (2) discovery research capabilities in proteins and antibodies. The acquisition was structured to qualify as a tax free reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code. Unless otherwise indicated, the discussions in this report of the results of operations of the Company reflect the inclusion of the results of operations of Immunex commencing July 16, 2002. The results of operations of the Company prior to July 16, 2002 include only the historical results of Amgen. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company believes that existing funds, cash generated from operations, and existing sources of and access to financing are adequate to satisfy its working capital, capital expenditure and debt service requirements for the foreseeable future, as well as to support its stock repurchase program. However, in order to provide for greater financial flexibility and liquidity, the Company may raise additional capital from time to time. Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities The Company had cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities of $5,122.9 million and $4,663.9 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Of the total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities at December 31, 2003, approximately $1.6 billion represents cash generated from operations in foreign tax jurisdictions and is intended for use outside the United States (see Results of Operations Income taxes). If these funds are repatriated for use in the Companys U.S. operations, additional taxes on certain of these amounts would be required to be paid. The Company does not currently anticipate a need to repatriate these funds to the United States. The primary objectives for the Companys marketable securities portfolio, which is primarily comprised of fixed income investments, are liquidity and safety of principal. Investments are made with the objective of achieving the highest rate of return to the Company, consistent with these two objectives. The Companys investment policy limits investments to certain types of instruments issued by institutions primarily with investment grade credit ratings and places restrictions on maturities and concentration by type and issuer. Cash flows Cash provided by operating activities has been and is expected to continue to be the Companys primary recurring source of funds. In 2003, operations provided $3,566.6 million of cash compared with $2,248.8 million in 2002. The increase in cash provided by operating activities in 2003 resulted primarily from higher earnings (See Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows). Capital expenditures totaled $1,356.8 million in 2003 compared with $658.5 million in 2002. The increase in capital expenditures in 2003 resulted primarily from capital expenditures related to the Rhode Island manufacturing plant, the Puerto Rico manufacturing expansion, and the Seattle research center. The Company receives cash from the exercise of employee stock options and proceeds from the sale of stock by Amgen pursuant to the employee stock purchase plan. Employee stock option exercises and proceeds from the sale of stock by Amgen pursuant to the employee stock purchase plans provided $529.0 million and $427.8 million of cash in 2003 and 2002, respectively. Proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options 25 will vary from period to period based upon, among other factors, fluctuations in the market value of the Companys stock relative to the exercise price of such options. The Company has a stock repurchase program primarily to reduce the dilutive effect of its employee stock option and stock purchase plans. Additionally, stock repurchases beyond this level reflect the Companys confidence in the long term value of Amgen common stock. In 2003, the Company repurchased 29.7 million shares of its common stock at a total cost of $1,801.0 million. In 2002, the Company repurchased 28.0 million shares of its common stock at a total cost of $1,420.4 million. Stock repurchased in 2002 included 11.3 million shares of common stock repurchased simultaneously with the issuance of the 30 year, zero coupon senior convertible notes (the Convertible Notes, discussed below) at a total cost of $650 million. In December 2003, the Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase up to an additional $5.0 billion of common stock allowing for a multi year stock repurchase program. As of December 31, 2003, approximately $5 billion was available for stock repurchases. The amount the Company spends and the number of shares repurchased varies based on a variety of factors, including employee stock option grants, the stock price and blackout periods in which the Company is restricted from repurchasing shares. Financing As of December 31, 2003, the Company had $2.88 billion of Convertible Notes outstanding, which have an aggregate face amount of $3.95 billion at maturity with a yield to maturity of 1.125%. The original issue discount of $1.13 billion is being accreted to the balance of the Convertible Notes and recognized as interest expense over the life of the Convertible Notes using the effective interest method. The holders of the Convertible Notes may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their notes on March 1, 2005, March 1, 2007, March 1, 2012, and March 1, 2017 at a price equal to the original issuance price plus the accrued original issue discount to the purchase dates. In such event, the Company may choose to pay the purchase price in cash and or shares of common stock, which would be issued at the then current market price (see Note 8, Financing arrangements Convertible notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). The Companys Convertible Notes are rated A2 by Moodys and A+ by Standard & Poors. In October 2003, the Company established a $1.0 billion shelf registration (the $1 Billion Shelf) which allows the Company to issue debt securities, common stock, and associated preferred share purchase rights, preferred stock, warrants to purchase debt securities, common stock or preferred stock, securities purchase contracts, securities purchase units and depositary shares of the Company. The $1 Billion Shelf was established to provide for further financial flexibility and the securities available for issuance may be offered from time to time with terms to be determined at the time of issuance. As of December 31, 2003, no securities had been issued under the $1 Billion Shelf. As of December 31, 2003, the Company had $200 million of unsecured long term debt securities outstanding. These unsecured long term debt securities consisted of: 1) $100 million of debt securities that bear interest at a fixed rate of 6.5% and mature in 2007 (the Notes) under a $500 million debt shelf registration (the $500 Million Shelf), and 2) $100 million of debt securities that bear interest at a fixed rate of 8.1% and mature in 2097 (the Century Notes). The Companys outstanding unsecured long term debt is rated A2 by Moodys and A+ by Standard & Poors. Under the $500 Million Shelf, all of the remaining $400 million of debt securities available for issuance may be offered from time to time under the Companys medium term note program with terms to be determined at the time of issuance. The Company has a commercial paper program which provides for unsecured short term borrowings up to an aggregate face amount of $200 million. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company repaid all of the outstanding balances under the commercial paper program, totaling $100 million. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company does not have any off balance sheet arrangements that are currently material or reasonably likely to be material to its financial position or results of operations. 26 Contractual Obligations Contractual obligations represent future cash commitments and liabilities under agreements with third parties, and exclude contingent liabilities for which the Company cannot reasonably predict future payment. The following chart represents the Companys contractual obligations as of December 31, 2003, aggregated by type (in millions): Payments Due by Period Less Than 1 3 3 5 More Than Contractual Obligations Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years Long term debt obligations(1) $ 3,903.9 $ 14.6 $ 2,949.4 (2) $ 122.2 $ 817.7 Operating lease obligations 181.8 50.9 65.1 35.1 30.7 Purchase obligations(3) 3,227.0 1,694.6 800.5 260.8 471.1 Total contractual obligations $ 7,312.7 $ 1,760.1 $ 3,815.0 $ 418.1 $ 1,319.5 (1) The long term obligation amounts in the above table differ from the related carrying amounts on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2003 due to the accretion of the original issue discount on the Convertible Notes and the inclusion of future interest payments. Future interest payments are included on the Notes and the Century Notes at fixed rates of 6.5% and 8.1%, respectively, through maturity in 2007 and 2097, respectively. (2) Holders of the Convertible Notes may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of the notes on specific dates as early as March 1, 2005 at the original issuance price plus accrued original issue discount (accreted value) through the purchase date. The amount above represents the accreted value on March 1, 2005. The accreted value based on the 30 year contractual maturity is $3.95 billion. In the event the Company is required to repurchase the notes, it may choose to pay the purchase price in cash and or shares of common stock which would be issued at the then current market price. (3) Purchase obligations primarily relate to (1) the Companys long term supply agreement with Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma KG (BI Pharma) for the manufacture of commercial quantities of ENBREL, which are based on firm commitments for the purchase of production capacity for ENBREL and reflect certain estimates such as production run success rates and bulk drug yields achieved; (2) research and development commitments (including those related to clinical trials) for new and existing products; (3) capital expenditures which primarily relate to the new Rhode Island manufacturing plant and the Puerto Rico manufacturing expansion; and (4) open purchase orders for the acquisition of goods and services in the ordinary course of business. The Companys obligation to pay certain of these amounts may be reduced based on certain future events. 27 Results of Operations Product sales For the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, sales by product and geographic region were as follows (in millions): Years Ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 EPOGEN U.S. $ 2,434.7 $ 2,260.6 $ 2,108.5 Aranesp U.S. 979.9 284.7 27.0 Aranesp International 563.9 130.9 14.5 Neulasta U.S. 1,175.7 463.5 Neulasta International 79.3 NEUPOGEN U.S. 880.5 1,041.7 1,050.6 NEUPOGEN International 386.2 337.9 295.8 ENBREL U.S. 1,253.7 346.2 ENBREL International 46.3 15.9 Other product sales U.S. 39.4 100.0 13.3 Other product sales International 28.6 9.8 1.3 Total product sales $ 7,868.2 $ 4,991.2 $ 3,511.0 Total U.S. $ 6,763.9 $ 4,496.7 $ 3,199.4 Total International 1,104.3 494.5 311.6 Total product sales $ 7,868.2 $ 4,991.2 $ 3,511.0 See Products in Item 1. Business for a discussion of these products and their approved indications. Product sales are influenced by a number of factors, including demand, third party reimbursement availability and policies, wholesaler inventory management practices, foreign exchange effects, new product launches and indications, competitive products, product supply, and acquisitions. In 2003, worldwide product sales were $7,868.2 million, an increase of $2,877.0 million or 58% over the prior year. Sales growth for 2003 was principally driven by demand for Aranesp, ENBREL, and Neulasta. Year over year comparisons were aided by the mid year 2002 oncology launch of Aranesp (darbepoetin alfa), the mid year 2002 acquisition of ENBREL (etanercept), and the second quarter 2002 U.S. launch of Neulasta (pegfilgrastim). U.S. product sales for 2003 were $6,763.9 million, an increase of $2,267.2 million, or 50% over the prior year. International product sales for 2003 were $1,104.3 million, an increase of $609.8 million, or 123%, over the prior year. Excluding the beneficial impact of foreign currency exchange rates of $166.2 million, international product sales increased 90% for the year ended December 31, 2003. EPOGEN/Aranesp Combined EPOGEN and worldwide Aranesp sales were $3,978.5 million for 2003. Combined EPOGEN and worldwide Aranesp sales increased $1,302.3 million, or 49%, over the prior year. These increases in combined sales were primarily driven by strong worldwide Aranesp demand, reflecting the mid year 2002 approval of Aranesp for the treatment of chemotherapy induced anemia in the United States and Europe. EPOGEN sales for 2003 were $2,434.7 million, an increase of $174.1 million, or 8% over the prior year. The growth in reported EPOGEN sales for 2003 was primarily due to demand and to a lesser extent, spillover (See Summary of Critical Accounting Policies EPOGEN revenue recognition and Note 1, Summary of significant accounting policies Product sales to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Demand was driven by growth in the dialysis patient population and improved patient outcomes. 28 Worldwide Aranesp sales for 2003 were $1,543.8 million. Aranesp sales in the United States for 2003 were $979.9 million, an increase of $695.2 million, or 244%, over the prior year. This increase was principally driven by demand, reflecting the mid year 2002 launch of Aranesp for the treatment of chemotherapy induced anemia in the United States. International Aranesp sales were $563.9 million for 2003, an increase of $433.0 million, or 331%, over the prior year. This increase was principally driven by demand, reflecting the mid year 2002 launch of Aranesp for the treatment of chemotherapy induced anemia in Europe, and to a lesser extent, favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates. International Aranesp sales growth for 2003 benefited by $87.0 million from favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Combined EPOGEN and worldwide Aranesp sales for 2002 were $2,676.2 million, an increase of $526.2 million or 24% over combined 2001 sales. The increase in combined sales was primarily driven by strong worldwide Aranesp demand. EPOGEN sales for 2002 were $2,260.6 million, an increase of $152.1 million or 7% over 2001 EPOGEN sales. EPOGEN sales growth for 2002 was principally driven by demand, which includes the effect of higher prices and growth in the dialysis patient population. Worldwide Aranesp sales for 2002 were $415.6 million, including U.S. sales of $284.7 million. Worldwide Aranesp sales for 2002 were driven primarily by demand, and reflect the benefit of receiving the oncology indication in the United States midyear 2002. Neulasta/NEUPOGEN Combined worldwide Neulasta and NEUPOGEN sales for 2003 were $2,521.7 million, an increase of $678.6 million, or 37%, over the prior year. The increase in combined sales for Neulasta and NEUPOGEN for 2003 was primarily driven by U.S. demand for Neulasta reflecting the April 2002 launch of Neulasta. Worldwide Neulasta sales for 2003 were $1,255.0 million, an increase of $791.5 million, or 171%, over the prior year. The increase was primarily driven by U.S. demand, which reflects the conversion of NEUPOGEN patients to Neulasta resulting from the April 2002 Neulasta launch and, to a lesser extent, international demand, which reflects the January 2003 launch of Neulasta in Europe. Worldwide NEUPOGEN sales for 2003 were $1,266.7 million. Worldwide NEUPOGEN sales decreased $112.9 million, or 8%, from the prior year. NEUPOGEN sales in the United States for 2003 were $880.5 million, a decrease of $161.2 million, or 15%, from the prior year. This decrease was principally due to the conversion of patients from NEUPOGEN to Neulasta, which the Company believes has slowed. For 2003, international NEUPOGEN sales were $386.2 million, an increase of $48.3 million, or 14%, over the prior year. This increase was entirely due to favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Combined Neulasta and worldwide NEUPOGEN sales in 2002 were $1,843.1 million, an increase of $496.7 million or 37%, over NEUPOGEN only sales in the prior year. The increase in combined sales for Neulasta and NEUPOGEN for 2002 was primarily driven by the U.S. launch of Neulasta in April 2002 and patient population growth. Combined sales also benefited, to a lesser extent, from higher wholesaler inventory levels and higher NEUPOGEN prices in the United States. Neulasta sales in 2002 were $463.5 million which reflect the conversion of NEUPOGEN patients to Neulasta resulting from the April 2002 launch. Worldwide NEUPOGEN sales in 2002 were $1,379.6 million, an increase of $33.2 million or 2% over the prior year NEUPOGEN sales. In 2002, U.S. NEUPOGEN sales were $1,041.7 million, a decrease of $8.9 million or 1% from 2001 sales. This decrease was primarily due to lower U.S. NEUPOGEN demand, partially offset by higher wholesaler inventory levels. U.S. NEUPOGEN demand declined at a mid single digit rate from 2001 and was primarily impacted by the conversion of NEUPOGEN patients to Neulasta, partially offset by higher NEUPOGEN prices in the United States. 29 ENBREL ENBREL sales for 2003 were $1,300.0 million, an increase of 259% over 2002 sales. The Company began recording ENBREL sales on July 16, 2002, subsequent to the close of the Immunex acquisition. ENBREL sales were primarily driven by the addition of new patients in both rheumatology and dermatology. For the period from July 16, 2002 through December 31, 2002, ENBREL sales were $362.1 million and were adversely impacted by supply constraints. Royalty income Royalty income principally relates to amounts received from sales of Epoetin alfa by Johnson & Johnson in the United States for use in non dialysis settings. Additionally, in December 2002 the Company licensed the commercialization rights for Novantrone in the United States to Serono S.A. for royalties based on future product sales. Royalty income was $383.1 million for 2003, an increase of $51.6 million, or 16%, over the prior year. This increase was principally due to royalties earned from Serono S.A. relating to its sales of Novantrone, partially offset by lower royalties earned from Johnson & Johnson relating to its sales of Epoetin alfa in the United States. Royalty income was $331.5 million in 2002, an increase of $78.8 million or 31% over the prior year. This increase was principally due to higher royalties earned from Johnson & Johnson relating to its sales of Epoetin alfa. Corporate partner revenues Corporate partner revenues were $104.7 million in 2003, a decrease of $95.6 million, or 48%, from the prior year. This decrease was primarily due to lower revenues earned from Kirin Amgen, Inc. (KA) related to late stage development programs conducted on behalf of KA (see Note 2 Related party transactions in the Consolidated Financial Statements). Corporate partner revenues were $200.3 million in 2002, a decrease of $51.7 million, or 21%, from the prior year. Corporate partner revenues include $174.6 million related to amounts earned from KA in 2002. The overall decrease in corporate partner revenues was primarily due to lower revenues earned from KA, and to a lesser extent, lower revenues earned under other collaboration agreements. Cost of sales Cost of sales for 2003 were $1,340.7 million, an increase of $605.0 million, or 82%, over the prior year, primarily due to higher sales. Cost of sales as a percentage of product sales was 17.0% and 14.7% for 2003 and 2002, respectively. This increase primarily reflects an increase of ENBREL sales as a percentage of total product sales. ENBREL has significantly higher manufacturing costs and royalty expense compared to the Companys other products. Additionally, the manufacturing costs of the Rhode Island production facility, which began producing in December 2002, are greater than those of the Companys contract manufacturer, Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma KG (BI Pharma). Cost of sales as a percentage of product sales was 14.7% and 12.6% for 2002 and 2001, respectively. The increase in 2002 was principally due to the impact of higher manufacturing costs and royalty expense related to ENBREL compared to the Companys other products. In addition, during 2002 the Company recorded the inventory acquired from Immunex at its estimated fair market value (see Note 3, Immunex acquisition to the Consolidated Financial Statements). The increase in fair market value was recognized as cost of sales as the acquired inventory was sold. Cost of sales for 2002 reflects a charge of $38.7 million related to the fair value adjustment to inventory, and $7.5 million of compensation costs payable under the Immunex Corporate Retention Plan. Research and development In 2003, research and development (R&D) expenses were $1,655.4 million an increase of $538.8 million, or 48%, over the prior year. This increase was primarily due to: 1) higher outside R&D costs, principally 30 licensing and milestone fees which include the Biovitrum AB up front fee of $86.5 million, 2) higher staff related costs, and 3) higher clinical manufacturing costs. In 2003, outside R&D costs, staff related costs and clinical manufacturing costs increased approximately $252 million, $163 million, and $92 million, respectively. In 2002, R&D expenses increased $251.6 million or 29% over the prior year. This increase was primarily due to higher staff related costs and higher outside R&D costs, and to a lesser extent, higher clinical manufacturing costs as a result of the Immunex acquisition. In 2002, staff related costs and outside R&D costs increased approximately $120 million and $90 million, respectively, and clinical manufacturing costs increased approximately $38 million. Staff related costs in 2002 include approximately $18.1 million of compensation costs payable under the Immunex Corporate Retention Plan. Selling, general and administrative In 2003, selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses were $1,952.6 million, an increase of $490.5 million, or 34%, over the prior year. This increase was primarily due to higher outside marketing expenses, which includes higher Wyeth profit share (see Note 11, Agreements with Wyeth in the Consolidated Financial Statements) as a result of ENBREL sales growth, and higher staff related costs to support new products in competitive markets and sales growth. In 2003, outside marketing expenses, which includes the Wyeth profit share, increased approximately $276 million and staff related costs increased approximately $207 million. In 2002, SG&A expenses increased $491.4 million or 51% over the prior year. This increase was primarily due to higher staff related costs and outside marketing expenses as the Company increased its support for newly launched products and ENBREL, and to a lesser extent, higher outside services. In 2002, staff related costs increased approximately $225 million, outside marketing expenses increased approximately $217 million, and other outside services increased approximately $34 million. Staff related costs increased in 2002 principally to support new product launches, from incremental expenses due to the addition of Immunex staff, and approximately $14.8 million of compensation costs principally payable under the Immunex Corporate Retention Plan. Outside marketing expenses in 2002 increased principally due to the launch of new products, marketing costs related to ENBREL, and the impact of the profit share with Wyeth under the co promotion agreement. Acquired in process research and development In the third quarter of 2002, the Company incurred a one time expense of $3.0 billion associated with writing off the acquired in process research and development (IPR&D) related to the Immunex acquisition. The amount expensed as IPR&D represents an estimate of the fair value of purchased in process technology for projects that, as of the acquisition date, had not reached technological feasibility and had no alternative future use (See Note 3 Immunex acquisition in the Consolidated Financial Statements). Amortization of intangible assets In 2003 and 2002, amortization expense related to the intangible assets acquired in connection with the Immunex acquisition was $335.8 million and $155.2 million, respectively. Amortization of intangible assets is provided over their estimated useful lives ranging from 7 to 15 years on a straight line basis (weighted average amortization period of 14.7 years at December 31, 2003). Loss (earnings) of affiliates, net In 2003, Loss (earnings) of affiliates, net was a loss of $4.3 million, a decrease of $16.9 million from the prior years earnings of $12.6 million. The loss in 2003 was primarily due to a loss from KA in connection with KAs obligation to indemnify the Company, pursuant to the terms of a license agreement, for the payment made to Genentech, Inc. to settle a patent litigation relating to the Companys processes for producing NEUPOGEN and Neulasta. In 2003, the Company recorded $47.1 million as its share of the litigation loss incurred by KA, net of tax, in Loss (earnings) of affiliates, net in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. 31 Other items, net In 2003, other items, net consisted of a benefit for the recovery of costs and expenses associated with a legal award related to an arbitration proceeding with Johnson & Johnson of $74.0 million, partially offset by a charitable contribution to the Amgen Foundation of $50.0 million. In 2002, other items, net consisted of a one time benefit of $40.1 million related to the recovery of certain expenses accrued in the fourth quarter of 2001 related to terminating collaboration agreements with various third parties and a legal award associated with the product license arbitration with Johnson & Johnson of $151.2 million, partially offset by a charitable contribution to the Amgen Foundation of $50.0 million. In 2001, other items, net primarily consisted of costs associated with the termination of collaboration agreements with various third parties, including PRAECIS PHARMACEUTICALS INCORPORATED and certain academic institutions totaling $203.1 million. See Note 4, Other items, net, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Interest and other income, net In 2003, interest and other income, net decreased $30.8 million or 21% from the prior year. This decrease was principally due to lower interest income generated from the Companys investment portfolio as a result of lower average interest rates and higher losses on foreign currency transactions. The decrease was partially offset by higher realized gains related to equity and fixed income securities. In 2002, interest and other income, net decreased $24.5 million or 15% from the prior year. This decrease was principally due to higher realized losses related to equity securities and higher losses on foreign currency transactions. The decrease was partially offset by higher interest income generated from the Companys investment portfolio as a result of higher average cash balances. Higher average cash balances during 2002 offset the impact of lower average interest rates. Income taxes The Companys effective tax rate was 28.8%, (103.3%) and 33.6% for 2003, 2002 and 2001 respectively. The Companys negative effective tax rate for 2002 was primarily due to the pre tax loss resulting from the write off of non deductible IPR&D costs in connection with the acquisition of Immunex. Excluding the effect of the IPR&D write off, the 2002 effective tax rate would have been 30.7%. During 2002, the Company restructured its Puerto Rico manufacturing operations using a controlled foreign corporation. As permitted in APB 23, Accounting for Income Taxes Special Areas, the Company does not provide U.S. income taxes on the controlled foreign corporations undistributed earnings that are intended to be permanently reinvested outside the United States. In addition, the Puerto Rico manufacturing operations were entitled to a possession tax credit for a portion of 2002. The Companys effective tax rates for 2003 and 2002 reflected the permanent reinvestment of foreign earnings outside the United States. The 2003 effective tax rate of 28.8% was lower than the 2002 effective tax rate (excluding the effect of non deductible IPR&D costs) of 30.7% primarily due to an increase in the amount of permanently reinvested foreign earnings partially offset by the loss of the possession tax credit. The Companys 2002 effective tax rate (excluding the effect of non deductible IPR&D costs) of 30.7% was lower than the 2001 effective rate of 33.6% primarily due to the Puerto Rico restructuring described above. See Note 5, Income taxes, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Summary of Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of the Companys consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and the notes to the financial statements. Some of 32 those judgments can be subjective and complex, and therefore actual results could differ materially from those estimates under different assumptions or conditions. EPOGEN revenue recognition The Company has the exclusive right to sell Epoetin alfa for dialysis, certain diagnostics, and all non human, non research uses in the United States. Amgen has granted to Johnson & Johnson a license relating to Epoetin alfa for sales in the United States for all human uses except dialysis and diagnostics. Pursuant to this license, the Company and Johnson & Johnson are required to compensate each other for Epoetin alfa sales that either party makes into the other partys exclusive market, sometimes referred to as spillover. Accordingly, Amgen does not recognize product sales it makes into the exclusive market of Johnson & Johnson and does recognize the product sales made by Johnson & Johnson into Amgens exclusive market. Sales in Amgens exclusive market are derived from the Companys sales to its customers, as adjusted for spillover. The Company is employing an arbitrated audit methodology to measure each partys spillover based on independent third party data on shipments to end users and their estimated usage. Data on end user usage is derived in part using market sampling techniques, and accordingly, the results of such sampling can produce variability in the amount of recognized spillover. The Company initially recognizes spillover based on estimates of shipments to end users and their usage, utilizing historical third party data and subsequently adjusts such amounts based on revised third party data as received. Differences between initial estimates of spillover and amounts based on revised third party data could produce materially different amounts for recognized EPOGEN sales. However, such differences to date have not been material. Deferred income taxes The Companys effective tax rate reflects the impact of undistributed foreign earnings for which no U.S. taxes have been provided because such earnings are intended to be permanently reinvested internationally based on the Companys projected cash flow, working capital, and long term investment requirements of its U.S. and foreign operations. If future events, including material changes in estimates of cash, working capital, and long term investment requirements necessitate that certain assets associated with these earnings be repatriated to the United States, an additional tax provision and related liability would be required which could materially impact the Companys effective future tax rate. Financial Outlook Results of operations In the near term, the Company expects growth of its businesses to be driven primarily by Aranesp, Neulasta, and ENBREL (see Forward looking statements and factors that may affect Amgen). On December 8, 2003, President Bush signed into law the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. As of the date of this filing, the Company has not determined the full impact of this new law on its business. However, the Company believes that legislation that reduces reimbursement for its products could adversely impact how much or under what circumstances healthcare providers will prescribe or administer its products and could negatively impact its business. (See Forward looking statements and factors that may affect Amgen Our sales depend on payment and reimbursement from third party payors, and a reduction in the payment rate or reimbursement could result in decreased use or sales of our products.) See Products in Item 1. Business for a discussion of our key products and their approved indications and Selected Product Candidates in Item 1. Business for a discussion of additional indications under development and subject to regulatory approval. Product sales are influenced by a number of factors, including demand, third party reimbursement availability and policies, wholesaler inventory management practices, foreign exchange effects, new product launches and indications, competitive products, product supply, and acquisitions (See Forward looking statements and factors that may affect Amgen). 33 EPOGEN The Company believes EPOGEN sales growth will primarily depend on patient population growth. Patients receiving treatment for end stage renal disease are covered primarily under medical programs provided by the federal government. The Company believes future EPOGEN sales growth may also be affected by future changes in reimbursement rates or a change in the basis for reimbursement by the federal government. EPOGEN may compete with Aranesp in the United States as health care providers may use Aranesp to treat anemia associated with chronic renal failure instead of EPOGEN. Aranesp The Company believes future worldwide Aranesp sales growth will be dependent, in part, on such factors as: reimbursement by third party payors (including governments and private insurance plans); the effects and pricing of competitive products or therapies; penetration of existing and new market opportunities; and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. In addition, future worldwide sales growth may be affected by cost containment pressures from governments and private insurers on health care providers. Neulasta/ NEUPOGEN The Company believes future worldwide Neulasta and NEUPOGEN sales growth will be dependent, in part, on such factors as: reimbursement by third party payors (including governments and private insurance plans); penetration of existing markets; patient population growth; the conversion of NEUPOGEN patients to Neulasta; price increases; the effects of competitive products or therapies; the development of new treatments for cancer; and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. In addition, future worldwide sales growth may be affected by cost containment pressures from governments and private insurers on health care providers. Further, chemotherapy treatments that are less myelosuppressive may require less Neulasta/ NEUPOGEN. NEUPOGEN competes with Neulasta in the United States and Europe. The Company believes that U.S. NEUPOGEN sales have and will continue to be adversely impacted by the launch of Neulasta. However, the Company believes that the conversion rate has naturally slowed in the U.S. due to the rapid adoption of Neulasta. The Company believes that opportunity for conversion exists in Europe, but to a lesser extent than experienced in the United States. The Company cannot accurately predict the rate or timing of future conversion of NEUPOGEN patients to Neulasta worldwide. ENBREL The Company believes that future sales growth of ENBREL will be dependent, in part, on such factors as: limits on the current supply of and sources of ENBREL; the effects of competing products or therapies; penetration of existing and new market opportunities, including potential new indications; and the availability and extent of reimbursement by third party payors. Capital expenditures The Company currently estimates spending on capital projects and equipment to be approximately $1.3 billion to $1.5 billion in 2004, primarily related to the new Rhode Island manufacturing plant and the Puerto Rico manufacturing expansion. Trends expected to impact future operations Future operating results of the Company may be impacted by a number of factors. The following trends in our business are reasonably expected to impact our future liquidity and results of operations: SG&A expenses in the fourth quarter are expected to increase over the previous three quarters in a trend similar to that seen in previous years. reported sales in the first quarter for each of EPOGEN and combined NEUPOGEN/ Neulasta have tended to be comparable or slightly less than respective reported sales in the fourth quarter of the previous year. 34 Forward looking statements and factors that may affect Amgen This report and other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) contain forward looking statements that are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about us, our future performance, our business or others on our behalf, our beliefs and our managements assumptions. In addition, we, or others on our behalf, may make forward looking statements in press releases or written statements, or in our communications and discussions with investors and analysts in the normal course of business through meetings, webcasts, phone calls, and conference calls. Words such as expect, anticipate, outlook, could, target, project, intend, plan, believe, seek, estimate, should, may, assume, continue, variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict. We have based our forward looking statements on our managements beliefs and assumptions based on information available to our management at the time the statements are made. We caution you that actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed, implied, or forecast by our forward looking statements. Reference is made in particular to forward looking statements regarding product sales, expenses, earnings per share, liquidity and capital resources, and trends. Except as required under the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations of the SEC, we do not have any intention or obligation to update publicly any forward looking statements after the distribution of this report, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in assumptions, or otherwise. The following items are representative of the risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that could affect the outcome of the forward looking statements. Our sales depend on payment and reimbursement from third party payors, and a reduction in the payment rate or reimbursement could result in decreased use or sales of our products. In both domestic and foreign markets, sales of our products are dependent, in part, on the availability of reimbursement from third party payors such as state and federal governments, under programs such as Medicare and Medicaid in the United States, and private insurance plans. Medicare does not cover prescriptions for ENBREL. In certain foreign markets, the pricing and profitability of our products generally are subject to government controls. In the United States, there have been, there are, and we expect there will continue to be, a number of state and federal proposals that could limit the amount that state or federal governments will pay to reimburse the cost of pharmaceutical and biologic products. On December 8, 2003, President Bush signed into law the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. As of the date of this filing, we have not determined the full impact of this new law on our business. However, we believe that legislation that reduces reimbursement for our products could adversely impact how much or under what circumstances healthcare providers will prescribe or administer our products, and could negatively impact our business. In addition, we believe the increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States has and will continue to put pressure on the price and usage of our products, which may adversely impact product sales. Further, when a new therapeutic product is approved, the availability of governmental and or private reimbursement for that product is uncertain, as is the amount for which that product will be reimbursed. We cannot predict the availability or amount of reimbursement for our approved products or product candidates, including those at a late stage of development, and current reimbursement policies for marketed products may change at any time. If reimbursement for our marketed products changes adversely or if we fail to obtain adequate reimbursement for our other current or future products, health care providers may limit how much or under what circumstances they will prescribe or administer them, which could reduce the use of our products or cause us to reduce the price of our products. This could result in lower product sales or revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our results of operations. For example, in the United States the use of EPOGEN in connection with treatment for end stage renal disease is funded primarily by the U.S. federal government. In early 1997, CMS, formerly known as HCFA, instituted a reimbursement change for EPOGEN which materially and adversely affected our EPOGEN sales until the policies were revised. 35 Our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not obtain and maintain regulatory approval. We conduct research, preclinical testing, and clinical trials and we manufacture and contract manufacture our product candidates. We also manufacture and contract manufacture, price, sell, distribute, and market or co market our products for their approved indications. These activities are subject to extensive regulation by numerous state and federal governmental authorities in the United States, such as the FDA and CMS, as well as in foreign countries, including Europe. Currently, we are required in the United States and in foreign countries to obtain approval from those countries regulatory authorities before we can manufacture (or have our third party manufacturers produce product), market and sell our products in those countries. In our experience, obtaining regulatory approval is costly and takes many years, and after it is obtained, it remains costly to maintain. The FDA and other U.S. and foreign regulatory agencies have substantial discretion to terminate clinical trials, require additional testing, delay or withhold registration and marketing approval, require changes in labeling of our products, and mandate product withdrawals. Substantially all of our marketed products are currently approved in the United States and most are approved in Europe and in other foreign countries for specific uses. We currently manufacture and market all our approved products, and we plan to manufacture and market many of our potential products. Even though we have obtained regulatory approval for our marketed products, these products and our manufacturing processes are subject to continued review by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. In addition, ENBREL is manufactured both by us at our Rhode Island manufacturing facility and by a third party contract manufacturer, BI Pharma, and fill and finish of bulk product produced at our Rhode Island manufacturing facility is done by third party service providers. BI Pharma and these third party service providers are subject to FDA regulatory authority. See Limits on supply for ENBREL may constrain ENBREL sales. In addition, later discovery of unknown problems with our products or manufacturing processes or those of our contract manufacturers or third party service providers could result in restrictions on such products or manufacturing processes, including potential withdrawal of the products from the market. If regulatory authorities determine that we or our contract manufacturers or third party service providers have violated regulations or if they restrict, suspend, or revoke our prior approvals, they could prohibit us from manufacturing or selling our marketed products until we or our contract manufacturers or third party service providers comply, or indefinitely. In addition, if regulatory authorities determine that we have not complied with regulations in the research and development of a product candidate, then they may not approve the product candidate and we will not be able to market and sell it. If we were unable to market and sell our products or product candidates, our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. If our intellectual property positions are challenged, invalidated, circumvented or expire, or if we fail to prevail in present and future intellectual property litigation, our business could be adversely affected. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and often involve complex legal, scientific, and factual questions. To date, there has emerged no consistent policy regarding breadth of claims allowed in such companies patents. Third parties may challenge, invalidate, or circumvent our patents and patent applications relating to our products, product candidates, and technologies. In addition, our patent positions might not protect us against competitors with similar products or technologies because competing products or technologies may not infringe our patents. For certain of our product candidates, there are third parties who have patents or pending patents that they may claim prevent us from commercializing these product candidates in certain territories. Patent disputes are frequent, costly, and can preclude commercialization of products. We are currently, and in the future may be, involved in patent litigation. For example, we are involved in ongoing patent infringement lawsuits against Transkaryotic Therapies, Inc. (TKT) and Aventis with respect to our erythropoietin patents. If we lose or settle these or other litigations at certain stages or entirely, we could be: subject to competition and or significant liabilities; required to enter into third party licenses for the infringed product or technology; or required to cease using the technology or product in dispute. In addition, we cannot guarantee that such licenses will be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. 36 Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and defend patent rights and other intellectual property rights that are important to the commercialization of our products and product candidates. We have filed applications for a number of patents and have been granted patents or obtained rights relating to erythropoietin, recombinant G CSF, darbepoetin alfa, pegfilgrastim, etanercept, and our other products and potential products (see Patents and Trademarks in Item 1. Business). We market our erythropoietin, recombinant G CSF, darbepoetin alfa, pegfilgrastim, and etanercept products as EPOGEN, NEUPOGEN, Aranesp, Neulasta, and ENBREL, respectively. We also have been granted or obtained rights to patents in Europe relating to: erythropoietin; G CSF; pegfilgrastim (pegylated G CSF); etanercept; two relating to darbepoetin alfa; and hyperglycosylated erythropoietic proteins. Our European patents relating to erythropoietin and G CSF expire on December 12, 2004 and August 22, 2006, respectively, and we believe that after the expiration of these patents, other companies could develop and market new competitive products to our products in Europe; presenting additional competition to our products. While we do not market erythropoietin in Europe as this right belongs to Johnson & Johnson (through KA), we do market Aranesp in the EU which competes with Johnson & Johnsons and others erythropoietin products. We believe that the EU is currently in the process of developing regulatory requirements that would affect the development and approval of new competitive products. Until such requirements are finalized, we cannot predict when new competitive products could appear on the market in the EU or to what extent such additional competition would impact future Aranesp and NEUPOGEN/ Neulasta sales in the EU. Limits on supply for ENBREL may constrain ENBREL sales. U.S. and Canadian supply of ENBREL is impacted by many manufacturing variables, such as the timing and actual number of production runs, production success rate, bulk drug yield, and the timing and outcome of product quality testing. For example, in the second quarter of 2002, the prior co marketer with respect to ENBREL, experienced a brief period where no ENBREL was available to fill patient prescriptions, primarily due to variation in the expected production yield from BI Pharma. If we are at any time unable to provide an uninterrupted supply of ENBREL to patients, we may lose patients, physicians may elect to prescribe competing therapeutics instead of ENBREL, and ENBREL sales will be adversely affected, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. See We are dependent on third parties for a significant portion of our supply and the fill and finish of ENBREL; and our sources of supply are limited. We are dependent on third parties for a significant portion of our supply and the fill and finish of ENBREL; and our sources of supply are limited. We currently produce a substantial portion of annual ENBREL supply at our Rhode Island manufacturing facility. However, we also depend on third parties for a significant portion of our ENBREL supply as well as for the fill and finish of ENBREL that we manufacture. BI Pharma is currently our sole third party manufacturer of ENBREL bulk drug; accordingly, our U.S. and Canadian supply of ENBREL is currently significantly dependent on BI Pharmas production schedule for ENBREL. We would be unable to produce ENBREL in sufficient quantities to substantially offset shortages in BI Pharmas scheduled production if BI Pharma or other third party manufacturers used for the fill and finish of ENBREL bulk drug were to cease or interrupt production or services or otherwise fail to supply materials, products, or services to us for any reason, including due to labor shortages or disputes, due to regulatory requirements or action, or due to contamination of product lots or product recalls. This in turn could materially reduce our ability to satisfy demand for ENBREL, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Factors that will affect our actual supply of ENBREL at any time include, without limitation, the following: BI Pharma does not produce ENBREL continuously; rather, it produces the drug through a series of periodic campaigns throughout the year. Our Rhode Island manufacturing facility is currently dedicated to Enbrel production. The amount of commercial inventory available to us at any time depends on a variety of factors, including the timing and actual number of BI Pharmas production runs, the actual number of runs at our Rhode Island manufacturing facility, and, for either Rhode 37 Island or BI Pharma facilities, the level of production yields and success rates, the timing and outcome of product quality testing, and the amount of vialing capacity. BI Pharma schedules the vialing production runs for ENBREL in advance, based on the expected timing and yield of bulk drug production runs. Therefore, if BI Pharma realizes production yields beyond expected levels, or provides additional manufacturing capacity for ENBREL, it may not have sufficient vialing capacity for all of the ENBREL bulk drug that it produces. As a result, even if we are able to increase our supply of ENBREL bulk drug, BI Pharma may not be able to fill and finish the extra bulk drug in time to prevent any supply interruptions. We are dependent on third parties for fill and finish of ENBREL bulk drug manufactured at our Rhode Island facility. If third party fill and finish manufacturers are unable to provide sufficient capacity or otherwise unable to provide services to us, then supply of ENBREL could be adversely affected. Our current plan to increase U.S. and Canadian supply of ENBREL includes construction of an additional large scale cell culture commercial manufacturing facility adjacent to the current Rhode Island manufacturing facility. Additionally, we have entered into a manufacturing agreement with Genentech, Inc. (Genentech) to produce ENBREL at Genentechs manufacturing facility in South San Francisco, California. These manufacturing facilities are subject to FDA approval. Under the terms of the agreement, Genentech is expected to produce ENBREL through 2005, with an extension through 2006 by mutual agreement. However, certain milestones under the manufacturing agreement, including obtaining FDA approval for the manufacturing process, have not been met in the pre agreed time frame and there can be no assurance that Genentech will be able to obtain the requisite FDA approval. If and when approval is received, ENBREL bulk drug produced at the Genentech facility is expected to be produced in campaigns similar to those conducted at BI Pharma. Consequently, supply from the Genentech facility is expected to also be dependent on the timing and number of production runs in addition to the other manufacturing risk discussed above. In addition, Wyeth is constructing a new manufacturing facility in Ireland, which is expected to increase the U.S. and Canadian supply of ENBREL. If the additional ENBREL manufacturing capacity at the Rhode Island site, or at Genentech, or in Ireland are not completed on time, or if these manufacturing facilities do not receive FDA approval before we encounter supply constraints, our ENBREL sales would be restricted, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. See Limits on supply for ENBREL may constrain ENBREL sales. Our marketed products face substantial competition and other companies may discover, develop, acquire or commercialize products before or more successfully than we do. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our products compete with other products or treatments for diseases for which our products may be indicated. For example, ENBREL competes in certain circumstances with rheumatoid arthritis products marketed by Abbott Laboratories/ Knoll, Centocor Inc./ Johnson & Johnson, Aventis, Pfizer, and Merck as well as the generic drug methotrexate, and may face competition from other potential therapies being developed. Further, if our currently marketed products are approved for new uses, or if we sell new products, we may face new, additional competition that we do not face today. For example, in the United States, Aranesp competes with an Epoetin alfa product marketed by Johnson & Johnson in certain anemia markets and ENBREL, if approved, may compete in certain circumstances with psoriasis products marketed by Biogen and Genentech, among others. Additionally, some of our competitors, including biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, market products or are actively engaged in research and development in areas where we have products or where we are developing product candidates or new indications for existing products. In the future, we expect that our products will compete with new drugs currently in development, drugs approved for other indications that may be approved for the same indications as those of our products, and off label use of drugs approved for other indications. Our European patents relating to erythropoietin and G CSF expire on December 12, 2004 and August 22, 2006, respectively, and we believe that after the expiration of these patents, other companies could develop and market new competitive products to our products in Europe; presenting additional competition to our products. While we do not market erythropoietin in Europe as this right belongs to Johnson & Johnson (through KA), we do market Aranesp in the EU which competes with Johnson & Johnsons and others 38 erythropoietin products. We believe that the EU is currently in the process of developing regulatory requirements that would affect the development and approval of new competitive products. Until such requirements are finalized, we cannot predict when new competitive products could appear on the market in the EU or to what extent such additional competition would impact future Aranesp and NEUPOGEN/ Neulasta sales in the EU. Our products may compete against products that have lower prices, superior performance, are easier to administer, or that are otherwise competitive with our products. Our inability to compete effectively could adversely affect product sales. Large pharmaceutical corporations may have greater clinical, research, regulatory, manufacturing, marketing, financial and human resources than we do. In addition, some of our competitors may have technical or competitive advantages over us for the development of technologies and processes. These resources may make it difficult for us to compete with them to successfully discover, develop, and market new products and for our current products to compete with new products or new product indications that these competitors may bring to market. Business combinations among our competitors may also increase competition and the resources available to our competitors. Certain of our raw materials, medical devices and components are single sourced from third parties; third party supply failures could adversely affect our ability to supply our products. Certain raw materials necessary for commercial manufacturing and formulation of our products are provided by single source unaffiliated third party suppliers. Also, certain medical devices and components necessary for fill, finish, and packaging of our products are provided by single source unaffiliated third party suppliers. Certain of these raw materials, medical devices, and components are the proprietary products of these unaffiliated third party suppliers and, in some cases, such proprietary products are specifically cited in our drug application with the FDA so that they must be obtained from that specific sole source and could not be obtained from another supplier unless and until the FDA approved that other supplier. We would be unable to obtain these raw materials, medical devices, or components for an indeterminate period of time if these third party single source suppliers were to cease or interrupt production or otherwise fail to supply these materials or products to us for any reason, including due to regulatory requirements or action, due to adverse financial developments at or affecting the supplier, or due to labor shortages or disputes. This, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our ability to satisfy demand for our products, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Also, certain of the raw materials required in the commercial manufacturing and the formulation of our products are derived from biological sources, including mammalian tissues, bovine serum and human serum albumin, or HSA. We are investigating alternatives to certain biological sources. Raw materials may be subject to contamination and or recall. A material shortage, contamination, and or recall could adversely impact or disrupt our commercial manufacturing of our products or could result in a mandated withdrawal of our products from the market. This too, in turn, could adversely affect our ability to satisfy demand for our products, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Our product development efforts may not result in commercial products. We intend to continue an aggressive research and development program. Successful product development in the biotechnology industry is highly uncertain, and very few research and development projects produce a commercial product. Product candidates that appear promising in the early phases of development, such as in early human clinical trials, may fail to reach the market for a number of reasons, such as: the product candidate did not demonstrate acceptable clinical trial results even though it demonstrated positive preclinical trial results the product candidate was not effective in treating a specified condition or illness the product candidate had harmful side effects in humans the necessary regulatory bodies, such as the FDA, did not approve our product candidate for an intended use 39 the product candidate was not economical for us to manufacture and commercialize other companies or people have or may have proprietary rights to our product candidate, such as patent rights, and will not let us sell it on reasonable terms, or at all the product candidate is not cost effective in light of existing therapeutics Several of our product candidates have failed or been discontinued at various stages in the product development process, including Brain Derived Neurotrophic Factor (BDNF) and Megakaryocyte Growth and Development Factor (MGDF). For example, in 1997, we announced the failure of BDNF for the treatment of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or Lou Gehrigs Disease, because the product candidate, when administered by injection, did not produce acceptable clinical results for a specific use after a phase 3 trial, even though BDNF had progressed successfully through preclinical and earlier clinical trials. In addition, in 1998, we discontinued development of MGDF, a novel platelet growth factor, at the phase 3 trial stage after several people in platelet donation trials developed low platelet counts and neutralizing antibodies. Of course, there may be other factors that prevent us from marketing a product. We cannot guarantee we will be able to produce commercially successful products. Further, clinical trial results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations by scientists, medical personnel, regulatory personnel, statisticians, and others, which may delay, limit, or prevent further clinical development or regulatory approvals of a product candidate. Also, the length of time that it takes for us to complete clinical trials and obtain regulatory approval for product marketing has in the past varied by product and by the intended use of a product. We expect that this will likely be the case with future product candidates and we cannot predict the length of time to complete necessary clinical trials and obtain regulatory approval. See Our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not obtain and maintain regulatory approval. We may be required to perform additional clinical trials or change the labeling of our products if we or others identify side effects after our products are on the market. If we or others identify side effects after any of our products are on the market, or if manufacturing problems occur, regulatory approval may be withdrawn and reformulation of our products, additional clinical trials, changes in labeling of our products, and changes to or re approvals of our manufacturing facilities may be required, any of which could have a material adverse effect on sales of the affected products and on our business and results of operations. After any of our products are approved for commercial use, we or regulatory bodies could decide that changes to our product labeling are required. Label changes may be necessary for a number of reasons, including: the identification of actual or theoretical safety or efficacy concerns by regulatory agencies or the discovery of significant problems with a similar product that implicates an entire class of products. Any significant concerns raised about the safety or efficacy of our products could also result in the need to reformulate those products, to conduct additional clinical trials, to make changes to our manufacturing processes, or to seek re approval of our manufacturing facilities. Significant concerns about the safety and effectiveness of one of our products could ultimately lead to the revocation of its marketing approval. The revision of product labeling or the regulatory actions described above could be required even if there is no clearly established connection between the product and the safety or efficacy concerns that have been raised. The revision of product labeling or the regulatory actions described above could have a material adverse effect on sales of the affected products and on our business and results of operations. Our business may be impacted by government investigations or litigation We and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in legal proceedings relating to various patent matters, government investigations, and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. Matters required to be disclosed by us are set forth in Item 3. Legal Proceedings in our Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2003 and are updated as required in subsequently filed Form 10 Qs. Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and excessive verdicts can occur. Consequently, it is possible that we could, in the future, incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims for monetary damages 40 that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which such amounts are incurred. The Federal government, state governments and private payors are investigating, and many have filed actions against, numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including Amgen and Immunex, alleging that the reporting of prices for pharmaceutical products has resulted in false and overstated Average Wholesale Price (AWP), which in turn is alleged to have improperly inflated the reimbursement paid by Medicare beneficiaries, insurers, state Medicaid programs, medical plans and other payors to health care providers who prescribed and administered those products. Thirteen of these actions have been brought against us and or Immunex, now a wholly owned subsidiary of ours. Eleven states and Puerto Rico have pending investigations regarding our drug pricing practices and the U.S. Departments of Justice and Health and Human Services have requested that Immunex produce documents relating to pricing issues. Further certain state government entity plaintiffs in some of these AWP cases are also alleging that companies, including ours, are not reporting their best price to the states under the Medicaid program. These cases and investigations are described in Item 3. Legal Proceedings Average Wholesale Price Litigation in our Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2003, and are updated as required in subsequent Form 10 Qs. Other states and agencies could initiate investigations of our pricing practices. A decision adverse to our interests on these actions and or investigations could result in substantial economic damages and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which such amounts are incurred. We may be required to defend lawsuits or pay damages for product liability claims. Product liability is a major risk in testing and marketing biotechnology and pharmaceutical products. We may face substantial product liability exposure in human clinical trials and for products that we sell after regulatory approval. Product liability claims, regardless of their merits, could be costly and divert managements attention, and adversely affect our reputation and the demand for our products. Our operating results may fluctuate, and this fluctuation could cause financial results to be below expectations. Our operating results may fluctuate from period to period for a number of reasons. In budgeting our operating expenses, we assume that revenues will continue to grow; however, some of our operating expenses are fixed in the short term. Because of this, even a relatively small revenue shortfall may cause a periods results to be below our expectations or projections. A revenue shortfall could arise from any number of factors, some of which we cannot control. For example, we may face: lower than expected demand for our products inability to provide adequate supply of our products changes in the governments or private payors reimbursement policies for our products changes in wholesaler buying patterns increased competition from new or existing products fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates changes in our product pricing strategies Of these, we would only have control over changes in our product pricing strategies and, of course, there may be other factors that affect our revenues in any given period. 41 We have grown rapidly, and if we fail to adequately manage that growth our business could be adversely impacted. We have had an aggressive growth plan that has included substantial and increasing investments in research and development, sales and marketing, and facilities. We plan to continue to grow and our plan has a number of risks, some of which we cannot control. For example: we will need to generate higher revenues to cover a higher level of operating expenses, and our ability to do so may depend on factors that we do not control we will need to assimilate a large number of new employees we will need to manage complexities associated with a larger and faster growing organization we will need to accurately anticipate demand for the products we manufacture and maintain adequate manufacturing capacity, and our ability to do so may depend on factors that we do not control Of course, there may be other risks and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully manage these or other risks. Our stock price is volatile, which could adversely affect your investment. Our stock price, like that of other biotechnology companies, is highly volatile. For example, in the fifty two weeks prior to December 31, 2003, the trading price of our common stock has ranged from a high of $72.37 per share to a low of $48.09 per share. Our stock price may be affected by a number of factors, such as: clinical trial results adverse developments regarding the safety or efficacy of our products actual or anticipated product supply constraints product development announcements by us or our competitors regulatory matters announcements in the scientific and research community intellectual property and legal matters changes in reimbursement policies or medical practices broader industry and market trends unrelated to our performance In addition, if our revenues, earnings or other financial results in any period fail to meet the investment communitys expectations, there could be an immediate adverse impact on our stock price. Our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable federal and state regulations. The development, manufacturing, distribution, pricing, sales, and reimbursement of our products, together with our general operations, is subject to extensive federal and state regulation. See Our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not obtain and maintain regulatory approval. and We may be required to perform additional clinical trials or change the labeling of our products if we or others identify side effects after our products are on the market. While we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program based on current best practices, we cannot assure you that we or our employees are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable federal and state regulations. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations a range of actions could result, including, but not limited to, the termination of clinical trials, the failure to approve a product candidate, restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes, including withdrawal of our products from the market, significant fines, or other sanctions or litigation. 42 Our marketing of ENBREL will be dependent in part upon Wyeth. Under a co promotion agreement, we and Wyeth market and sell ENBREL in the United States and Canada. A management committee comprised of an equal number of representatives from us and Wyeth is responsible for overseeing the marketing and sales of ENBREL: including strategic planning, the approval of an annual marketing plan, product pricing, and the establishment of a brand team. The brand team, with equal representation from us and Wyeth, will prepare and implement the annual marketing plan, which includes a minimum level of financial and sales personnel commitment from each party, and is responsible for all sales activities. If Wyeth fails to market ENBREL effectively or if we and Wyeth fail to coordinate our efforts effectively, our sales of ENBREL may be adversely affected. Guidelines and recommendations published by various organizations can reduce the use of our products. Government agencies promulgate regulations and guidelines directly applicable to us and to our products. However, professional societies, practice management groups, private health/science foundations, and organizations involved in various diseases from time to time may also publish guidelines or recommendations to the health care and patient communities. Recommendations of government agencies or these other groups/organizations may relate to such matters as usage, dosage, route of administration, and use of related therapies. Organizations like these have in the past made recommendations about our products. Recommendations or guidelines that are followed by patients and health care providers could result in decreased use of our products. In addition, the perception by the investment community or stockholders that recommendations or guidelines will result in decreased use of our products could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Interest income earned on the Companys fixed income investment portfolio is impacted by fluctuations in U.S. interest rates upon reinvestment of funds received on maturity or sale of securities at the then current market rates. In 2001, the Company entered into interest rate swap agreements, which qualify and are designated as fair value hedges, to protect against possible reductions in value on certain of its available for sale investment portfolio. In 2003, the Company entered into two interest rate swap agreements, which also qualify and are designated as fair value hedges, to protect against possible increase in value of the Notes and the Century Notes. Changes in interest rates do not affect interest expense incurred on the Companys Notes, Century Notes and Convertible Notes because they bear interest at fixed rates. The following tables provide information about the Companys financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. For the Companys investment portfolio and debt obligations, the tables present principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. Additionally, the Company has assumed its available for sale debt securities, comprised primarily of corporate debt instruments and treasury securities, are similar enough to aggregate those securities for presentation purposes. For the interest rate swaps, the tables present the notional amounts and related weighted average interest rates by contractual maturity date. For the interest rate swaps, variable rates are the average forward rates for the term of each contract. The notional amount is used to calculate the contractual cash flows to be exchanged under the contract. 43 Interest Rate Sensitivity Principal (Notional) Amount by Expected Maturity as of December 31, 2003 (Dollars in millions) Average Interest Rate There Fair value 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 after Total 12/31/03 Available for sale debt securities $ 2,076.9 $ 1,254.1 $ 667.3 $ 392.5 $ 476.5 $ $ 4,867.3 $ 4,882.2 Average Interest rate 2.8 % 4.0 % 4.1 % 5.2 % 3.7 % Medium and long term notes $ 100.0 $ 100.0 $ 200.0 $ 249.3 Interest rate 6.5 % 8.1 % Convertible Notes(1) $ 2,917.1 $ 2,917.1 $ 2,978.5 Interest rate 1.125 % Interest rate swaps related to available for sale debt securities: Pay fixed/receive variable $ 25.0 $ 120.0 $ 25.0 $ 170.0 $ (7.7 ) Average pay rate 3.9 % 4.2 % 4.5 % Average receive rate 1.3 % 2.3 % 3.4 % Interest rate swaps related to debt: Pay variable/receive fixed $ 100.0 $ 100.0 $ 200.0 $ (5.0 ) Average pay rate 4.6 % 5.1 % Average receive rate 3.6 % 5.5 % Interest Rate Sensitivity Principal Amount by Expected Maturity as of December 31, 2002 (Dollars in millions) Average Interest Rate There Fair value 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 after Total 12/31/02 Available for sale debt securities $ 2,171.3 $ 1,072.8 $ 1,009.9 $ 164.9 $ 29.6 $ 3.0 $ 4,451.5 $ 4,534.7 Average interest rate 1.1 % 4.8 % 5.4 % 5.1 % 4.3 % 6.8 % Commercial paper obligations $ 100.0 $ 100.0 $ 100.0 Interest rate 1.4 % Medium and long term notes $ 23.0 $ 100.0 $ 100.0 $ 223.0 $ 273.6 Interest rate 6.2 % 6.5 % 8.1 % Convertible Notes(1) $ 2,917.1 $ 2,917.1 $ 2,913.5 Interest rate 1.125 % Interest rate swaps related to available for sale debt securities: Pay fixed/receive variable $ 128.2 $ 80.7 $ 120.0 $ 40.0 $ 368.9 $ (14.9 ) Average pay rate 2.9 % 3.9 % 4.2 % 4.5 % Average receive rate 1.4 % 1.4 % 1.4 % 1.4 % (1) Holders of the Convertible Notes may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of the notes on specific dates as early as March 1, 2005 at the original issuance price plus accrued original issue discount (accreted value) through the purchase date. The amount above represents the accreted value on March 1, 2005. The accreted value based on the 30 year contractual maturity is $3.95 billion. In the 44 event the Company is required to repurchase the notes, it may choose to pay the purchase price in cash and or shares of common stock. The Company is exposed to equity price risks on the marketable portion of equity securities included in its portfolio of investments entered into for the promotion of business and strategic objectives. These investments are generally in small capitalization stocks in the biotechnology industry sector. At December 31, 2003 and 2002, the Company had equity forward contracts to hedge against changes in the fair market value of a portion of its equity investment portfolio. The Company did not have material equity price risk on the unhedged portion of its equity investment portfolio at December 31, 2003 and 2002. The Company did not have material exposures to changes in foreign currency exchange rates related to its foreign currency forward contracts outstanding at December 31, 2003 and 2002. 
 
