Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Companys consolidated financial statements and related notes. All references to years relate to fiscal years that end on January 31 of the following calendar year. KEY STRATEGIES The Companys key strategies are: To selectively expand its global distribution without compromising the value of the TIFFANY & CO. trademark (the Brand). Management employs a multi channel distribution strategy. Management intends to expand distribution by adding stores in both new and existing markets, and by launching e commerce websites in new markets. Management recognizes that over saturation of any market could diminish the distinctive appeal of the Brand, but believes that there are a significant number of potential worldwide locations remaining that meet the requirements of the Brand. To enhance customer awareness. The Brand is the single most important asset of the Company. Management will continue to invest in marketing and public relations programs designed to increase new and existing customer awareness of the Brand and its message, and will continue to monitor the strength of the Brand through market research. To increase store productivity. The Company is committed to growing sales per square foot by increasing consumer traffic, and the percentage of store visitors who make a purchase, through targeted advertising, ongoing sales training and customer focused initiatives. In addition, in recent years, the Company has opened smaller size stores in the United States which are more comparable to many non U.S. stores and which have contributed to higher store productivity. To achieve improved operating margins. Managements long term objective is to improve operating margin through greater efficiencies in product sourcing, manufacturing and distribution as well as by controlling selling, general and administrative expenses and enhancing productivity so that sales growth can generate a higher rate of earnings growth. To maintain an active product development program. The Company continues to invest in product development in order to introduce new design collections and expand existing lines. TIFFANY & CO. K 25 To maintain substantial control over product supply through direct diamond sourcing and internal jewelry manufacturing. The Companys diamond processing operations purchase, sort, cut and or polish rough diamonds for use in Company merchandise. The Company will continue to seek additional sources of diamonds which, combined with its internal manufacturing operations, are intended to secure adequate product supplies and favorable costs. To provide superior customer service. Maintaining the strength of the Brand requires that the Company make superior customer service a top priority, which it achieves by employing highly qualified sales and customer service professionals and enhancing ongoing training programs. 2011 SUMMARY Worldwide net sales increased 18% to $3,642,937,000, due to growth in all reportable segments. Following a higher than expected 24% increase in worldwide net sales in the first nine months of the year, sales increased 8% in the fourth quarter due to decelerated rates of sales growth in most regions. On a constant exchange rate basis (see Non GAAP Measures below), worldwide net sales in 2011 increased 15% and comparable store sales increased 13%. The Company added a net of 14 TIFFANY & CO. stores (six in the Americas, six in Asia Pacific, three in Europe and a net reduction of one in Japan). Operating margin increased 0.1 percentage point. However, the Company recorded charges (primarily within selling, general and administrative expenses) of $42,719,000 in 2011 and $17,635,000 during the prior year associated with Tiffanys relocation of its New York headquarters staff to a single location (see 
 
