FILE:AMZN/AMZN-8K-20031021160351.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
ITEM 12. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
     On October 21, 2003, Amazon.com, Inc. announced its third quarter 2003 financial results. A copy of the press release containing the announcement is included as Exhibit 99.1 and additional information regarding non-GAAP financial measures included in certain of Amazon.com's public disclosures, including its third quarter 2003 financial results announcement, is included as Exhibit 99.2. Both of these exhibits are incorporated herein by reference.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
SEATTLE-(BUSINESS WIRE)-October 21, 2003-Amazon.com, Inc. (NASDAQ: AMZN) today announced financial results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2003.
Operating cash flow was $284 million for the trailing twelve months, compared with $151 million for the trailing twelve months ended September 30, 2002. Free cash flow was $239 million for the trailing twelve months, compared with $120 million for the trailing twelve months ended September 30, 2002.
Common shares outstanding plus shares underlying stock-based employee awards totaled 433 million at September 30, 2003, an increase of 1% compared with a year ago.
Net sales were $1.13 billion in the third quarter, compared with $851 million in third quarter 2002, an increase of 33%. Net sales benefited by $29 million from changes in foreign exchange rates compared with third quarter 2002.
Operating income was $52 million in the third quarter, or 5% of net sales, compared with an operating loss of $10 million in third quarter 2002. Consolidated segment operating income improved $46 million to $74 million, or 6% of net sales, compared with $27 million, or 3% of net sales, in third quarter 2002.
Net income was $16 million in the third quarter, or $0.04 per diluted share, compared with a net loss of $35 million, or $0.09 per share, in third quarter 2002. Pro forma net income in the third quarter grew to $48 million, or $0.11 per diluted share, compared with $0 million, or $0.00 per diluted share, in third quarter 2002.
"Thanks to free shipping and low prices, we expect more customers to turn to us for their holiday gifting needs this year  producing our biggest holiday shopping season ever," said Jeff Bezos, Amazon.com founder and CEO.
The Company currently offers Free Super Saver Shipping on orders over $25 at www.amazon.com and free shipping options at its U.K., German, French, Japanese and Canadian sites. Amazon.com also offers 30% off books over $15 and continues to lower prices every day across its product offerings including electronics, tools and bestselling CDs and DVDs. To encourage customers to try its newest stores, the Company is currently offering promotional discounts in apparel and sporting goods.
See "Financial Measures" for additional information.
Quarterly Highlights
 
Financial Guidance
The following forward-looking statements reflect Amazon.com's expectations as of October 21, 2003. Results may be materially affected by many factors, such as fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and consumer spending, world events, the emerging nature and rate of growth of the Internet and online commerce, and the various factors detailed below.
     Fourth Quarter 2003 Guidance
     Full Year 2004 Expectations
A conference call will be Webcast live today at 2 p.m. PT/5 p.m. ET and will be available at least through December 31, 2003, at www.amazon.com/ir. This call will contain forward-looking statements and other material information regarding the Company's financial and operating results.
These forward-looking statements are inherently difficult to predict. Actual results could differ materially for a variety of reasons, including, in addition to the factors discussed above, the amount that Amazon.com invests in new business opportunities and the timing of those investments; the mix of products sold to customers; the mix of net sales derived from products as compared with services; competition; risks of inventory management; the degree to which the Company enters into, maintains and develops commercial agreements and strategic transactions; seasonality; international growth and expansion; and risks of fulfillment throughput and productivity. Other risks and uncertainties include, among others, risk of future losses, significant amount of indebtedness, potential fluctuations in operating results, management of potential growth, system interruptions, consumer trends, fulfillment center optimization, limited operating history, government regulation and taxation, fraud and new business areas. More information about factors that potentially could affect Amazon.com's financial results is included in Amazon.com's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002, and all subsequent filings.
Financial Measures
The following measures are defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission as non-GAAP financial measures.
Free Cash Flow
Operating cash flow is net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, including cash outflows for interest and excluding proceeds from the exercise of stock-based employee awards. Free cash flow is operating cash flow less cash outflows for purchases of fixed assets including internal-use software and Website development. A tabular reconciliation of differences from the comparable GAAP measure-operating cash flow-is included in the attached "Supplemental Financial Information and Business Metrics."
 
Consolidated Segment Operating Income
Consolidated segment operating income is the sum of segment operating income of our individual segments and excludes the following line items on the Company's statements of operations:
A tabular reconciliation of differences from the comparable GAAP measure - operating income (loss) - is included in the attached "Pro Forma Statements of Operations."
Pro Forma Net Income
Pro forma net income excludes the following line items on the Company's statements of operations:
A tabular reconciliation of differences from the comparable GAAP measure-net income (loss)-is included in the attached "Pro Forma Statements of Operations."
For additional information regarding these non-GAAP financial measures, see exhibit 99.2 to our Form 8-K filed contemporaneously with the issuance of this release.
About Amazon.com
Amazon.com, a Fortune 500 company based in Seattle, opened on the World Wide Web in July 1995 and today offers Earth's Biggest Selection. Amazon.com seeks to be Earth's most customer-centric company, where customers can find and discover anything they might want to buy online, and endeavors to offer its customers the lowest possible prices. Amazon.com and other sellers list millions of unique new and used items in categories such as sporting goods, apparel and accessories, books, music, DVDs, electronics and office, kids and baby and home and garden.
Amazon.com operates six Websites: www.amazon.com, www.amazon.co.uk, www.amazon.de, www.amazon.fr, www.amazon.co.jp and www.amazon.ca.
Contacts:
 
Note: The attached "Financial and Operational Highlights" are an integral part of the press release financial statements.
 
Note: The attached "Financial and Operational Highlights" are an integral part of the press release financial statements.
 
(1)  In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
(2)  Consolidated segment operating income.
Note: The attached "Financial and Operational Highlights" are an integral part of the press release financial statements.
 
(1)  In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
(2)  Consolidated segment operating income.
Note: The attached "Financial and Operational Highlights" are an integral part of the press release financial statements.
 
Note: The attached "Financial and Operational Highlights" are an integral part of the press release financial statements.
 
Note: The attached "Financial and Operational Highlights" are an integral part of the press release financial statements.
 
Note: The attached "Financial and Operational Highlights" are an integral part of the press release financial statements.
 
Note: The attached "Financial and Operational Highlights" are an integral part of this Supplemental Financial Information and Business Metrics.
 
Note: The attached "Financial and Operational Highlights" are an integral part of this Supplemental Financial Information and Business Metrics.
 
(comparisons are with the equivalent period of the prior year, unless otherwise stated)
Third Quarter 2003 Results of Operations
Net Sales
Gross Profit
Fulfillment
Stock-Based Compensation
 
Restructuring-Related and Other
Remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS and Other
 
Income Taxes
Net Income (Loss)
Cash Flows and Balance Sheet
 
Certain Definitions and Other

 
Exhibit 99.2
     Regulation G, "Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures," and other provisions of the 1934 Act define and prescribe the conditions for use of certain non-GAAP financial information. We believe that certain of our financial measures which meet the definition of a non-GAAP financial measure are important supplemental information to investors. We provide: "consolidated segment operating income (loss)," "pro forma net income (loss)," "pro forma net earnings (loss) per share," and "free cash flow."
     We use these non-GAAP financial measures for internal managerial purposes, when publicly providing guidance on possible future results, and as a means to evaluate period-to-period comparisons. These non-GAAP financial measures are used in addition to and in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business. Management strongly encourages investors to review our financial statements and publicly-filed reports in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure.
     Because non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized, it may not be possible to compare these financial measures with other companies' non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names. For example, certain companies disclose a financial measure of earnings before certain charges such as interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization, commonly referred to as EBITDA. We considered the use of EBITDA as a supplemental performance measure to GAAP, but believe consolidated segment operating income (loss) and pro forma net income (loss) are superior for our Company as certain periodic costs associated with our invested capital, such as fixed asset depreciation expense and amortization of software development costs, and certain costs associated with our capital structure, such as interest expense, are relevant and important factors affecting our management decisions. For information about our financial results as reported in accordance with GAAP, see Item 8 of Part II, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002 and for a quantitative reconciliation of our non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures, see "Pro Forma Statements of Operations" in Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
     
Consolidated Segment Operating Income (Loss)
     We measure operating results of our segments using an internal performance measure of direct segment operating expenses that excludes:
 
     These operating expense line items are not allocated to segment results, and all other centrally-incurred operating costs are fully allocated to segment results. The sum of our individual segment results is consolidated segment operating income (loss), which we reconcile to GAAP operating income (loss). Pursuant to SEC staff interpretations of Regulation G, when presented in our financial statement footnotes, consolidated segment operating income is a GAAP financial measure; however, since we also present this financial measure outside the context of our financial statement footnotes, we have included this financial measure in our discussion of non-GAAP financial measures.
     We use consolidated segment operating income (loss), and ratios based on it, to manage and evaluate our business operations and overall financial performance. Our management evaluates consolidated segment income (loss) because it excludes certain cash and non-cash items that are either beyond our immediate control or that we believe are not characteristic of our underlying business operations for the period in which they are recorded, or both.
     
Items Excluded From Consolidated Segment Operating Income
          
Stock-Based Compensation
     We exclude stock-based compensation for the following reasons:
     We record the employer portion of payroll tax expense resulting from exercises of stock-based awards in "Fulfillment," "Marketing," "Technology and content," and
 
"General and administrative" on our consolidated statements of operations and do not include such expenses in "Stock-based compensation."
          
Amortization of Other Intangibles
     We exclude "Amortization of other intangibles" for the following reasons:
          
Restructuring-Related and Other
     We exclude restructuring-related and other expenses, which are cash and non-cash amounts, for the following reasons:
          
Impairment of Goodwill
     If, in the future, we incur impairment losses on our goodwill, such charges would be excluded from consolidated segment operating income (loss) since they would be non-cash, and not in the immediate control of management. We have elected to perform our annual analysis during the fourth calendar quarter of each year. No indicators of impairment were identified during the nine months ended September 30, 2003.
     
Limitations of Consolidated Segment Operating Income (Loss)
     Consolidated segment operating income (loss) has certain limitations. First, because it excludes "Stock-based compensation," the financial measure does not include all expenses primarily related to our workforce. We compensate for this limitation by
 
providing supplemental information about stock-based compensation on the face of our consolidated statements of operations and in the footnotes to our financial statements. We also provide supplemental information about outstanding stock-based awards, including their dilutive effect on shareholders, in the footnotes to our financial statements.
     Second, consolidated segment operating income (loss) excludes "Restructuring-related and other." For companies that periodically undergo restructuring events, excluding such costs from performance measures could provide an incomplete summary of ongoing costs that would affect future cash flows. However, we compensate for this limitation by disclosing cash flow measures, including operating cash flow, that incorporate all ongoing cash obligations associated with our January 2001 restructuring event and by providing disclosure of future estimated cash flows and remaining commitments associated with this event. There can be no assurance that we will not undertake another restructuring event in the future that would affect future cash flows. If we have a restructuring event in the future, we will re-evaluate our decision to exclude such charges from our consolidated segment operating income (loss) based on those future facts and circumstances at that time.
     
Pro Forma Net Income (Loss)
     Pro forma net income, including the related pro forma net earnings per share, which we reconcile to net income (loss) and net earnings (loss) per share, excludes, in addition to the line items described above as excluded from consolidated segment operating income (loss), the following line items on our consolidated statements of operations:
     We use pro forma net income (loss), and ratios based on it, to manage and evaluate our business operations and overall financial performance. Our decision to use this financial measure is due to the fact that pro forma net income (loss) excludes certain cash and non-cash items that are either beyond our immediate control or are not characteristic of our underlying business operations for the period in which they are recorded, or both.
     
Items Excluded From Pro Forma Net Income (Loss)
     See "Consolidated Segment Operating Income  Excluded Items" for an explanation of "Stock-based compensation," "Amortization of other intangibles," "Restructuring-related and other," and "Impairment of goodwill."
          
Remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS and Other
 
     The majority of "Remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS and other" consists of gains or charges due to our quarterly remeasurement of the principal of our 6.875% PEACS from Euros to U.S. Dollars. We exclude the effect of these periodic remeasurements from our pro forma net income (loss) because the ultimate cash effect resulting from changes in exchange rates is inherently uncertain. These gains or charges would only affect near-term cash flows if we redeem or, in certain cases, restructure, our 6.875% PEACS in the next several years, rather than over a longer term or at maturity in 2010. Because these charges and gains vary based on exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and Euro, these amounts are beyond our immediate control and are difficult to predict for future periods. Additionally, this line item includes $15 million of losses associated with the redemption of our 10% Senior Discount Notes and $6 million of losses associated with the termination of our Euro Currency Swap, each of which occurred in the second quarter of 2003.
          
Equity in Losses of Equity-Method Investees, Net
     We exclude equity in losses of equity-method investees, net, because it generates potential non-cash gains or losses, which are based on the financial results of other companies that we do not manage or control and are difficult to predict. In addition, we believe these non-cash gains and losses are not indicative of our financial or operating performance. Finally, in recent quarters, these amounts represented insignificant charges and, absent future investments, we expect this trend to continue. In the third quarter 2003, we recorded no equity method losses or gains.
          
Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting Principle
     We exclude cumulative effect of change in accounting principle because it generates non-cash charges, which we believe are not indicative of our financial or operating performance.
     
Limitations of Pro Forma Net Income (Loss)
     Pro forma net income (loss) has the same limitations as consolidated segment operating income. See "Consolidated Segment Operating Income  Limitations of Consolidated Segment Operating Income" above. In addition, when the 6.875% PEACS are retired, whether by early redemption or restructuring or at maturity in 2010, the foreign currency effect of changes in the exchange ratio between the U.S. Dollar and the Euro will result in a cash effect. We compensate for this limitation by valuing the 6.875% PEACS at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets and including that fair value in our summary of commitments in the notes to our financial statements.
     
Free Cash Flow
     Free cash flow, which we reconcile to "Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities," is cash flow from operations reduced by "Purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software and Website development." We use free cash flow, and ratios based
 
on it, to conduct and evaluate our business because, although it is similar to cash flow from operations, we believe it is a more conservative measure of cash flows since purchases of fixed assets are a necessary component of ongoing operations. In limited circumstances where proceeds from sales of fixed assets exceed purchases, free cash flow would exceed cash flow from operations. However, since we do not anticipate selling significant portions of fixed assets, we expect free cash flow to be less than operating cash flows.
     
Limitations of Free Cash Flow
     Free cash flow has limitations due to the fact that it does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example, free cash flow does not incorporate payments made on capital lease obligations. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flow as a complement to our entire consolidated statements of cash flows.


