FILE:AMZN/AMZN-8K-20030424160521.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
ITEM 9. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
     On April 24, 2003, Amazon.com, Inc. announced its first quarter 2003 financial results. A copy of the press release containing the announcement is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference. The foregoing information is provided pursuant to Item 9, "Regulation FD Disclosure," and Item 12, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition," on Form 8-K.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
SEATTLE(BUSINESS WIRE)April 24, 2003Amazon.com, Inc. (NASDAQ: AMZN) today announced financial results for its first quarter ended March 31, 2003.
Operating cash flow was $164 million for the trailing four quarters, compared with $46 million for the four quarters ended March 31, 2002. Free cash flow was $123 million for the trailing four quarters, compared with $10 million for the four quarters ended March 31, 2002.
Common shares outstanding plus shares underlying stock-based employee awards totaled 432 million at March 31, 2003, a decrease of 1% compared with a year ago.
Net sales were $1.084 billion in the first quarter, compared with $847 million in the first quarter 2002, an increase of 28%.
Net loss was $10 million, or $(0.03) per share, in the first quarter, compared with $23 million in the first quarter 2002, or $(0.06) per share. Pro forma net income in the first quarter, which includes interest expense, grew over $45 million to $40 million, or $0.10 per share, compared with a pro forma net loss of $5 million, or $(0.01) per share, in the first quarter 2002.
"Our strategy of driving down costs to give customers lower prices continues to pay off," said Tom Szkutak, chief financial officer of Amazon.com. "In the first quarter, customers took advantage of Free Super Saver Shipping and broad everyday low prices, which created our first-ever non-holiday quarter with sales over $1 billion, but this was only possible because we reduced our costs in virtually every area of our business."
In addition to its year-round Free Super Saver Shipping on orders over $25 at www.amazon.com, the Company offers free shipping options at its U.K., German, French, Japanese and Canadian sites. Amazon.com also offers 30% off books over $15 and significantly lowered prices on electronics, tools, and bestselling CDs and DVDs.
"Meaningful innovation leads, launches, inspires relentless Amazon visitor improvements," said Jeff Bezos, founder and chief executive officer of Amazon.com. "We are simultaneously lowering prices and driving customer experience."
The Company also announced that on May 28, 2003, it will redeem all of its outstanding 10% Senior Discount Notes due May 2008, for $277 million, a redemption price of 105% of the $264 million principal amount.
See "Financial Measures" for additional information about certain of our financial measures.
 
(comparisons are with the equivalent period of 2002)
Highlights of First Quarter 2003 Results
Financial Guidance and 2003 Expectations
The following forward-looking statements reflect Amazon.com's expectations as of April 24, 2003. Results may be materially affected by many factors, such as changes in global economic conditions and consumer spending, world events, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, the emerging nature and rate of growth of the Internet and online commerce, and the various factors detailed below.
     Second Quarter 2003 Guidance
     Full Year 2003 Expectations
The Company is unable to forecast the effect on its future reported results of certain items, including the stock-based compensation charges or credits associated with variable accounting treatment on certain stock awards that result from fluctuations in its stock price, and the gain or loss associated with the remeasurement of its 6.875% PEACS that results from fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Accordingly, because stock-based compensation and remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS and other are impossible to predict, the Company cannot estimate future operating income (loss) or net income (loss).
A conference call will be Webcast live today at 2 p.m. PT/5 p.m. ET and will be available through June 30, 2003, at www.amazon.com/ir. This call will contain forward-looking statements and other material information regarding the Company's financial and operating results.
 
These forward-looking statements are inherently difficult to predict. Actual results could differ materially for a variety of reasons, including, among others, the rate of growth of the economy in general and of the Internet and online commerce; customer spending patterns; world events, the amount that Amazon.com invests in new business opportunities and the timing of those investments; the mix of products sold to customers; the mix of net sales derived from products as compared with services; competition; risks of inventory management; the degree to which the Company enters into, maintains and develops commercial agreements and strategic transactions; foreign exchange risks; seasonality; international growth and expansion; and risks of fulfillment throughput and productivity. Other risks and uncertainties include, among others, risk of future losses, significant amount of indebtedness, potential fluctuations in operating results, management of potential growth, system interruptions, consumer trends, fulfillment center optimization, limited operating history, government regulation and taxation, fraud and new business areas. More information about factors that potentially could affect Amazon.com's financial results is included in Amazon.com's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002, and all subsequent filings.
Financial Measures
Free Cash Flow
Free cash flow is net cash provided by (used in) operating activities (operating cash flow includes cash outflows for interest and excludes proceeds from the exercise of stock-based employee awards) less purchases of fixed assets (purchases of fixed assets includes internal-use software and web-site development). Free cash flow is provided as a complement to results provided in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (known as "GAAP"). Management uses this measure internally to evaluate the Company's performance and manage its operations. A tabular reconciliation of differences from the comparable GAAP measureoperating cash flowis included in the attached "Supplemental Financial Information and Business Metrics."
Consolidated Segment Operating Income
Consolidated segment operating income, a GAAP measure, excludes the following line items on the Company's statements of operations:
A tabular reconciliation of differences from operating income is included in "Segment Information" in the attached financial statements.
Pro Forma Net Income (Loss)
Pro forma net income (loss) excludes the following line items on the Company's statements of operations:
 
Pro forma net income is provided as a complement to results provided in accordance with GAAP. Management uses this measure internally to evaluate the Company's performance and manage its operations. A tabular reconciliation of differences from the comparable GAAP measurenet income (loss)is included in the attached "Pro Forma Statements of Operations."
About Amazon.com
Amazon.com, a Fortune 500 company based in Seattle, opened on the World Wide Web in July 1995 and today offers Earth's Biggest Selection. Amazon.com seeks to be Earth's most customer-centric company, where customers can find and discover anything they might want to buy online, and endeavors to offer its customers the lowest possible prices. Amazon.com and other sellers list millions of unique new and used items in categories such as apparel and accessories, electronics, computers, kitchenware and housewares, books, music, DVDs, videos, cameras and photo items, toys, baby items and baby registry, software, computer and video games, cell phones and service, tools and hardware, magazine subscriptions and outdoor living items.
Amazon.com operates six Web sites: www.amazon.com, www.amazon.co.uk, www.amazon.de, www.amazon.fr, www.amazon.co.jp and www.amazon.ca.
Contact:
 
Note: The attached "Financial and Operational Highlights" are an integral part of the press release financial statements.
 
Note: The attached "Financial and Operational Highlights" are an integral part of the press release financial statements.
 
(1)  In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
Note: The attached "Financial and Operational Highlights" are an integral part of the press release financial statements.
 
Note: The attached "Financial and Operational Highlights" are an integral part of the press release financial statements.
 
Note: The attached "Financial and Operational Highlights" are an integral part of the press release financial statements.
 
Note: The attached "Financial and Operational Highlights" are an integral part of the press release financial statements.
 
Note: The attached "Financial and Operational Highlights" are an integral part of this Supplemental Financial Information and Business Metrics.
 
Note: The attached "Financial and Operational Highlights" are an integral part of this Supplemental Financial Information and Business Metrics.
 
(comparisons are with the equivalent period of the prior year)
First Quarter 2003 Results of Operations
Net Sales
Gross Profit
Fulfillment
Stock-Based Compensation
 
Restructuring-Related and Other
Other Income, Net
Remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS and Other
 
Income Taxes
Net Loss
Financial Condition
 
Certain Definitions and Other


