FILE:AMZN/AMZN-8K-20051025160754.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
ITEM 2.02.  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
 
ITEM 9.01.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02.  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
 
On October 25, 2005, Amazon.com, Inc. announced its third quarter 2005 financial results. A copy of the press release containing the announcement is included as Exhibit 99.1 and additional information regarding the inclusion of non-GAAP financial measures in certain of Amazon.com's public disclosures, including its third quarter 2005 financial results announcement, is included as Exhibit 99.2. Both of these exhibits are incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 9.01.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
(c)
Exhibits.
 
Table of Contents
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: October 25, 2005
Table of Contents
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
AMAZON.COM ANNOUNCES THIRD QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS; FOR THE FIRST TIME ELECTRONICS AND OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE SALES SURPASS $2 BILLION OVER THE PAST YEAR; EXPECTS RECORD HOLIDAY SEASON
 
SEATTLE(BUSINESS WIRE)October 25, 2005Amazon.com, Inc. (NASDAQ: AMZN) today announced financial results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2005.
 
Operating cash flow grew 35% to $661 million for the trailing twelve months, compared with $490 million for the trailing twelve months ended September 30, 2004. Free cash flow grew 13% to $475 million for the trailing twelve months, compared with $420 million for the trailing twelve months ended September 30, 2004. As previously announced in August 2005, the Company settled a patent lawsuit on terms including a previously unanticipated one-time payment of $40 million in third quarter 2005. Excluding this payment, free cash flow would have grown 22% to $515 million for the trailing twelve months.
 
Common shares outstanding plus shares underlying stock-based awards outstanding totaled 438 million at September 30, 2005, compared with 434 million a year ago.
 
Net sales increased 27% to $1.86 billion in the third quarter, compared with $1.46 billion in third quarter 2004. Excluding the $7 million unfavorable impact from year-over-year changes in foreign exchange rates throughout the quarter, net sales grew 28% compared with third quarter 2004.
 
Operating income decreased 32% to $55 million in the third quarter, compared with $81 million in third quarter 2004. Excluding the negative impact of the $40 million legal settlement, operating income would have increased 17% to $95 million.
 
Net income was $30 million in the third quarter, or $0.07 per diluted share, compared with net income of $54 million, or $0.13 per diluted share in third quarter 2004, which includes $21 million in income tax expense, compared with $3 million income tax expense in third quarter 2004. Excluding the negative impact of the $40 million legal settlement$20 million after taxnet income would have been $50 million or $0.12 per diluted share.
 
"For $79 a year, Amazon Prime members get all-you-can-eat' free express shipping," said Jeff Bezos, founder and CEO of Amazon.com. "Customers continue to join Amazon Prime and we anticipate even higher enrollment rates as we get closer to the holidays."
 
Amazon Prime, Amazon.com's first-ever membership program, was introduced February 2005. For a flat membership fee of $79 per year, Amazon Prime members get unlimited, express two-day shipping for free, with no minimum purchase requirement on over a million eligible items sold by Amazon.com. Members can order as late as 6:30 p.m. ET and still get their order the next day for only $3.99 per item, and can share the benefits of Amazon Prime with up to four family members living in their household. Sign up for Amazon Prime at .
www.amazon.com/prime
 
Highlights
 
 
 
Financial Guidance
 
The following forward-looking statements reflect Amazon.com's expectations as of October 25, 2005. Results may be materially affected by many factors, such as fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and consumer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet and online commerce, and the various factors detailed below.
 
Fourth Quarter 2005 Guidance
 
Full Year 2005 Guidance
 
A conference call will be webcast live today at 2 p.m. PT/5 p.m. ET, and will be available for at least three months at www.amazon.com/ir. This call will contain forward-looking statements and other material information regarding the Company's financial and operating results.
 
These forward-looking statements are inherently difficult to predict. Actual results could differ materially for a variety of reasons, including, in addition to the factors discussed above, the amount that Amazon.com invests in new business opportunities and the timing of those investments, the mix of products sold to customers, the mix of net sales derived from products as compared with services, competition, management of growth, potential fluctuations in operating results, international growth and expansion, the outcomes of legal proceedings and claims, fulfillment center optimization, risks of inventory management, seasonality, the degree to which the Company enters into, maintains and develops commercial agreements, acquisitions and strategic transactions, and risks of fulfillment throughput and productivity. Other risks and uncertainties include, among others, risk of future losses, significant indebtedness, system interruptions, consumer trends, limited operating history, government regulation and taxation, fraud, and new business areas. More information about factors that potentially could affect Amazon.com's financial results is included in Amazon.com's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, and all subsequent filings.
 
About Amazon.com
 
Amazon.com (NASDAQ: AMZN), a Fortune 500 company based in Seattle, opened its virtual doors on the World Wide Web in July 1995 and today offers Earth's Biggest Selection. Amazon.com seeks to be Earth's most customer-centric company, where customers can find and discover anything they might want to buy online, and endeavors to offer customers the lowest possible prices. Amazon.com and third-party sellers offer millions of unique new, refurbished, and used items in categories such as health and personal care, jewelry and watches, gourmet food, sports and outdoors, apparel and accessories, books, music, DVDs, electronics and office, toys and baby, and home and garden.
 
Amazon.com and its affiliates operate seven retail websites: www.amazon.com, www.amazon.co.uk, www.amazon.de, www.amazon.co.jp, www.amazon.fr, www.amazon.ca, and www.joyo.com.
 
As used herein, "Amazon.com," "we," "our" and similar terms include Amazon.com, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: The attached "Financial and Operational Summary" is an integral part of this Supplemental Financial Information and Business Metrics.
 
 
 
 
(comparisons are with the equivalent period of the prior year, unless otherwise stated)
Quarterly Results of Operations
 
Net Sales
 
Cost of Sales
 
Operating Expenses
 
 
Fulfillment
 
Marketing
 
Technology and Content
 
General and Administrative
 
Stock-Based Compensation
 
Other Operating Expense (Income)
 
 
 
Remeasurements and Other
 
Income Taxes and Deferred Tax Assets
 
Foreign Exchange
 
 
 
 
Cash Flows and Balance Sheet
 
 
 
 
Certain Definitions and Other
 
 
 
Contacts:
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
Regulation G, , and other provisions of the 1934 Act define and prescribe the conditions for use of certain non-GAAP financial information. Management strongly encourages investors to review our financial statements and publicly-filed reports in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure.
Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
Our measure of "Free cash flow" meets the definition of a non-GAAP financial measure. Free cash flow is used in addition to and in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP and free cash flow should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures. Free cash flow reflects an additional way of viewing our liquidity that, when viewed with our GAAP results, provides a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our cash flows.
 
Free cash flow, which we reconcile to "Net cash provided by operating activities," is cash flow from operations reduced by "Purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development." We use free cash flow, and ratios based on it, to conduct and evaluate our business because, although it is similar to cash flow from operations, we believe it is a useful measure of cash flows since purchases of fixed assets are a necessary component of ongoing operations. In limited circumstances in which proceeds from sales of fixed assets exceed purchases, free cash flow would exceed cash flow from operations. However, since we do not anticipate being a net seller of fixed assets, we expect free cash flow to be less than operating cash flows.
 
Free cash flow has limitations due to the fact that it does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example, free cash flow does not incorporate payments made on capital lease obligations or cash payments for business acquisitions. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flow as a complement to our entire consolidated statements of cash flows.
 
In addition, the Company's earnings release included in Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K contains non-GAAP financial information which excludes a payment to settle a patent lawsuit from free cash flow, operating income, net income and related financial measures. Management uses these financial measures to evaluate the Company's operating performance in the third quarter of 2005, and for budgeting and planning purposes, because the timing and amount of the charge is not attributable to operating events occurring during the quarter and the charge is not readily allocable to prior period operating results. Management thus believes that these financial measures enhance the comparability of our operating results from period to period.
 
For a quantitative reconciliation of free cash flow and the other non-GAAP financial measures referred to above to the most directly comparable amounts reported in accordance with GAAP, see "Supplemental Financial Information and Business Metrics" and "Financial and Operational Summary" in Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.


