FILE:AMZN/AMZN-8K-20050202161343.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
SIGNATURES
EXHIBIT INDEX
EXHIBIT 99.1
EXHIBIT 99.2
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
On February 2, 2005, Amazon.com, Inc. announced its fourth quarter 2004 and year ended December 31, 2004 financial results. A copy of the press release containing the announcement is included as Exhibit 99.1 and additional information regarding non-GAAP financial measures included in certain of Amazon.com's public disclosures, including its fourth quarter 2004 and year ended December 31, 2004 financial results announcement, is included as Exhibit 99.2. Both of these exhibits are incorporated herein by reference.
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: February 2, 2005
Table of Contents
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
SEATTLE(BUSINESS WIRE)February 2, 2005Amazon.com, Inc. (NASDAQ: AMZN) today announced financial results for its fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2004.
 
Operating cash flow was $567 million for 2004, compared with $392 million for 2003. Free cash flow grew 38% to $477 million for 2004, compared with $346 million for 2003. Common shares outstanding plus shares underlying stock-based awards outstanding totaled 434 million at December 31, 2004, compared with 433 million a year ago.
 
Net sales were $2.54 billion in the fourth quarter, compared with $1.95 billion in fourth quarter 2003, an increase of 31%. Net sales, excluding the $85 million benefit from changes in foreign exchange rates, grew 26% compared with fourth quarter 2003.
 
Operating income was $162 million in the fourth quarter, compared with $138 million in fourth quarter 2003. Consolidated segment operating income grew 16% to $177 million in the fourth quarter, compared with $153 million in the fourth quarter 2003. Excluding the $5 million benefit from changes in foreign exchange rates, consolidated segment operating income grew 13% compared with fourth quarter 2003.
 
Net income was $347 million in the fourth quarter, or $0.82 per diluted share, compared with net income of $73 million, or $0.17 per diluted share, in fourth quarter 2003. Pro forma net income in the fourth quarter was $394 million, or $0.93 per diluted share, compared with $125 million, or $0.29 per diluted share, in fourth quarter 2003. Excluding the benefit from realizing a $244 million deferred tax asset related primarily to net operating loss carryforwards attributable to continuing operations, fourth quarter pro forma net income would have been $149 million, or $0.35 per diluted share.
 
Today the Company also introduced "Amazon Prime," Amazon.com's first ever membership program. For a flat membership fee of $79 per year, members get unlimited, express two-day shipping for free, with no minimum purchase requirement. Members also get one-day, overnight shipping for only $3.99 per itemorder as late as 6:30PM ET.
 
"Amazon Prime is all-you-can-eat' express shipping," said Jeff Bezos, founder and CEO of Amazon.com. "Though expensive for the Company in the short-term, it's a significant benefit and more convenient for customers. With Amazon Prime, there's no minimum purchase to think about, and no consolidating orderstwo-day shipping becomes an everyday experience rather than an occasional indulgence."
 
Members can also share the benefits of Amazon Prime with up to four family members living in their household. Details can be found at www.amazon.com/prime.
 
Full Year 2004
 
Net sales were $6.92 billion in 2004, compared with $5.26 billion in 2003, an increase of 31%. Net sales, excluding the $276 benefit from foreign exchange rates, grew 26% compared with 2003.
 
Operating income was $440 million in 2004, compared with $271 million in 2003. Consolidated segment operating income grew 36% to $490 million in 2004, compared with $361 million in 2003. Excluding the $20 million benefit from foreign exchange rates, consolidated segment operating income grew 30% in 2004 compared with 2003.
 
Net income was $588 million in 2004, or $1.39 per diluted share, compared with net income of $35 million, or $0.08 per diluted share, in 2003. Pro forma net income for 2004 was $639 million, or $1.50 per diluted share, compared with $256 million, or $0.61 per diluted share, in 2003. Excluding the benefit from realizing a $244 million deferred tax asset related primarily to net operating loss carryforwards attributable to continuing operations, 2004 pro forma net income would have been $395 million, or $0.93 per diluted share.
 
Amazon.com also announced today that on March 7, 2005 it will redeem 200 million ($261 million at the Euro to U.S. dollar exchange rate on January 31, 2005) in principal amount of its outstanding 6.875% Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2010, plus accrued and unpaid interest from and including February 16, 2005 to March 6, 2005, under its previously announced $500 million debt repurchase authorization. No premium payment is required to redeem these notes.
 
Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See "Financial Measures" for additional information.
 
Financial Guidance
 
The following forward-looking statements reflect Amazon.com's expectations as of February 2, 2005. Results may be materially affected by many factors, such as fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and consumer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet and online commerce, and the various factors detailed below.
 
First Quarter 2005 Guidance
 
 
 
Full Year 2005 Expectations
 
 
 
A conference call will be webcast live today at 2 p.m. PT/5 p.m. ET, and will be available at least through March 31, 2005, at www.amazon.com/ir. This call will contain forward-looking statements and other material information regarding the Company's financial and operating results.
 
These forward-looking statements are inherently difficult to predict. Actual results could differ materially for a variety of reasons, including, in addition to the factors discussed above, the amount that Amazon.com invests in new business opportunities and the timing of those investments, the mix of products sold to customers, the mix of net sales derived from products as compared with services, competition, management of growth, potential fluctuations in operating results, international growth and expansion, fulfillment center optimization, risks of inventory management, seasonality, the degree to which the Company enters into, maintains and develops commercial agreements, acquisitions and strategic transactions, and risks of fulfillment throughput and productivity. Other risks and uncertainties include, among others, risk of future losses, significant indebtedness, system interruptions, consumer trends, limited operating history, government regulation and taxation, fraud, and new business areas. More information about factors that potentially could affect Amazon.com's financial results is included in Amazon.com's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003, and all subsequent filings.
 
Financial Measures
 
The following measures are defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission as non-GAAP financial measures.
 
Free Cash Flow
 
Operating cash flow is net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, including cash outflows for interest and excluding proceeds from the exercise of stock-based employee awards. Free cash flow is operating cash flow less cash outflows for purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development. A tabular reconciliation of differences from the comparable GAAP measureoperating cash flowis included in the attached "Supplemental Financial Information and Business Metrics."
 
Consolidated Segment Operating Income
 
Consolidated segment operating income is the sum of segment operating income of our individual segments and excludes the following line items on the Company's statements of operations:
 
 
 
A tabular reconciliation of differences from the comparable GAAP measureoperating incomeis included in the attached "Pro Forma Statements of Operations."
 
Pro Forma Net Income
 
Pro forma net income excludes the following line items on the Company's statements of operations:
 
 
A tabular reconciliation of differences from the comparable GAAP measurenet income (loss)is included in the attached "Pro Forma Statements of Operations."
 
For additional information regarding these non-GAAP financial measures, see Exhibit 99.2 to our Form 8-K filed contemporaneously with the issuance of this release.
 
About Amazon.com
 
Amazon.com (NASDAQ: AMZN), a Fortune 500 company based in Seattle, opened its virtual doors on the World Wide Web in July 1995 and today offers Earth's Biggest Selection. Amazon.com seeks to be Earth's most customer-centric company, where customers can find and discover anything they might want to buy online, and endeavors to offer customers the lowest possible prices. Amazon.com and third-party sellers offer millions of unique new, refurbished, and used items in categories such as health and personal care, jewelry and watches, gourmet food, sports and outdoors, apparel and accessories, books, music, DVDs, electronics and office, toys and baby, and home and garden.
 
Amazon.com and its affiliates operate seven websites: www.amazon.com, www.amazon.co.uk, www.amazon.de, www.amazon.co.jp, www.amazon.fr, www.amazon.ca, and www.joyo.com.
 
As used herein, "Amazon.com," "we," "our" and similar terms include Amazon.com, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise.
 
 
 
Note: The attached "Financial and Operational Summary" is an integral part of the press release financial statements.
 
 
 
Note: The attached "Financial and Operational Summary" is an integral part of the press release financial statements.
 
 
 
Note: The attached "Financial and Operational Summary" is an integral part of the press release financial statements.
 
 
 
Note: The attached "Financial and Operational Summary" is an integral part of the press release financial statements.
 
 
 
Note: The attached "Financial and Operational Summary" is an integral part of the press release financial statements.
 
 
 
Note: The attached "Financial and Operational Summary" is an integral part of the press release financial statements.
 
 
 
Note: The attached "Financial and Operational Summary" is an integral part of the press release financial statements.
 
 
Note: The attached "Financial and Operational Summary" is an integral part of this Supplemental Financial Information and Business Metrics
 
 
 
 
Note: The attached "Financial and Operational Summary" is an integral part of this Supplemental Financial Information and Business Metrics
 
 
(comparisons are with the equivalent period of the prior year, unless otherwise stated)
Quarterly Results of Operations
 
Net Sales
 
 
Cost of Sales
 
 
 
Direct Segment Operating Expenses
 
 
 
 
Fulfillment
 
 
 
 
Marketing
 
 
Technology and Content
 
 
 
 
 
General and Administrative
 
 
Stock-Based Compensation
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other Operating Expense (Income)
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other Income (Expense), Net
 
 
Remeasurements and Other
 
 
 
Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes and Deferred Tax Asset
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net Income
 
 
Foreign Exchange
 
 
The effect of changes in exchange rates in the fourth quarter is as follows (in millions):
 
 
These amounts represent the impact on reported results that is due to year-over-year changes in exchange rates. Absent year-over-year changes in exchange rates, reported amounts would have been lower (higher) by these amounts.
 
Cash Flows and Balance Sheet
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certain Definitions and Other
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
Regulation G, "Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures," and other provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 define and prescribe the conditions for use of certain non-GAAP financial information. We believe that certain of our financial measures that meet the definition of a non-GAAP financial measure are important supplemental information to investors. We provide: "consolidated segment operating income," "pro forma net income," "pro forma net earnings per share," and "free cash flow."
 
We use these non-GAAP financial measures for internal managerial purposes, when publicly providing guidance on possible future results, and as a means to evaluate period-to-period comparisons. These non-GAAP financial measures are used in addition to and in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business. Management strongly encourages investors to review our financial statements and publicly-filed reports in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure.
 
Because non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized, it may not be possible to compare these financial measures with other companies' non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names. For example, certain companies disclose a financial measure of earnings before certain charges such as interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization, commonly referred to as EBITDA. We considered the use of EBITDA as a supplemental performance measure to GAAP, but believe consolidated segment operating income and pro forma net income are superior for our Company as certain periodic costs associated with our invested capital, such as fixed asset depreciation expense and amortization of software development costs, and certain costs associated with our capital structure, such as interest expense, are relevant and important factors affecting our management decisions. For a quantitative reconciliation of our non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures, see "Pro Forma Statements of Operations" in Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
Consolidated Segment Operating Income
 
We measure operating results of our segments using an internal performance measure of direct segment operating expenses that excludes:
 
 
 
 
These operating expense line items are not allocated to segment results, and all other centrally-incurred operating costs are fully allocated to segment results. The sum of our individual segment results is consolidated segment operating income, which we reconcile to GAAP operating income. Pursuant to SEC staff interpretations of Regulation G, when presented in our financial statement footnotes, consolidated segment operating income is a GAAP financial measure; however, since we also present this financial measure outside the context of our financial statement footnotes, we have included this financial measure in our discussion of non-GAAP financial measures.
 
Our management believes that consolidated segment operating income (loss) is useful and meaningful to investors because consolidated segment operating income (loss), together with pro forma net income (loss), and
 
ratios based on them, are the primary measures of profitability that we use to manage and evaluate our business operations and overall financial performance. Our management evaluates consolidated segment operating income (loss) because it excludes certain cash and non-cash items that are either beyond our immediate control or that we believe are not characteristic of our underlying business operations for the period in which they are recorded, or both.
 
Items Excluded From Consolidated Segment Operating Income
 
Stock-Based Compensation
 
We exclude stock-based compensation for the following reasons:
 
 
 
 
We record the employer portion of payroll tax expense, a cash expense, resulting from exercises of stock-based awards in "Fulfillment," "Marketing," "Technology and content," and "General and administrative" on our consolidated statements of operations and do not include such expenses in "Stock-based compensation."
 
Other Operating Expense (Income)
 
We exclude other operating expense (income), including amortization of other intangibles and restructuring-related and other, which are cash and non-cash items for the following reasons:
 
 
 
 
 
Impairment of Goodwill
 
If, in the future, we incur impairment losses on our goodwill, such charges would be excluded from consolidated segment operating income since they would be non-cash, and not in the immediate control of management. We have elected to perform our annual analysis during the fourth quarter of each year. No indicators of impairment were identified during the twelve months ended December 31, 2004.
 
Limitations of Consolidated Segment Operating Income
 
Consolidated segment operating income has certain limitations. First, because it excludes "Stock-based compensation," the financial measure does not include all expenses primarily related to our workforce. We
 
compensate for this limitation by providing supplemental information about stock-based compensation on the face of our consolidated statements of operations and in the footnotes to our financial statements. We also provide supplemental information about outstanding stock-based awards, including their dilutive effect on shareholders, in the footnotes to our financial statements.
 
Second, consolidated segment operating income excludes "Other Operating Expense (Income)." For companies that periodically undergo restructuring events, excluding restructuring-related costs from performance measures could provide an incomplete summary of ongoing costs that would affect future cash flows. However, we compensate for this limitation by disclosing cash flow measures, including operating cash flow, that incorporate all ongoing cash obligations associated with our January 2001 restructuring event and by providing disclosure of future estimated cash flows and remaining commitments associated with this event. Since we have initiated in the second quarter of 2004 a restructuring event in Europe, we have re-evaluated our decision to exclude such charges from our consolidated segment operating income. We have determined that it continues to be appropriate since it has been over two years since our last restructuring event, and we do not anticipate another restructuring event in the next two years. There can, however, be no assurance that we will not undertake another restructuring event in the future that would affect future cash flows.
 
Pro Forma Net Income
 
Pro forma net income, including the related pro forma net earnings per share, which we reconcile to net income (loss) and net earnings (loss) per share, excludes, in addition to the line items described above as excluded from consolidated segment operating income, the following line items on our consolidated statements of operations:
 
 
 
We use pro forma net income, and ratios based on it, to manage and evaluate our business operations and overall financial performance. We use this financial measure as it excludes certain cash and non-cash items that are either beyond our immediate control or are not characteristic of our underlying business operations for the period in which they are recorded, or both.
 
Items Excluded From Pro Forma Net Income
 
See "Consolidated Segment Operating Income  Items Excluded from Consolidated Segment Operating Income" for an explanation of "Stock-based compensation," "Other operating expense (income)," and "Impairment of goodwill."
 
Remeasurements and Other
 
A portion of "Remeasurements and other" consists of gains or charges due to our quarterly remeasurement of the principal of our 6.875% PEACS from Euros to U.S. Dollars. We exclude the effect of these periodic remeasurements from our pro forma net income because the ultimate cash effect resulting from changes in exchange rates is inherently uncertain. These gains or charges would only affect near-term cash flows if we redeem or, in certain cases, restructure, our 6.875% PEACS in the next several years, rather than over a longer term or at maturity in 2010. Because these charges and gains vary based on exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and Euro, these amounts are beyond our immediate control and are difficult to predict for future periods.
 
Additionally, we exclude gains or charges associated with remeasurements of foreign-currency denominated intercompany balances. We exclude these amounts because they are beyond our immediate control and are difficult to predict for future periods.
 
We exclude equity in losses of equity-method investees, net, which are included in "Remeasurements and other," because it generates potential non-cash gains or losses, based on the financial results of other companies that we do not manage or control and are difficult to predict. In addition, we believe these non-cash gains and losses are not indicative of our financial or operating performance. In recent quarters, these amounts represented insignificant charges and, absent future investments, we expect this trend to continue.
 
To the extent we incur gains or losses on the repurchase, redemption, or retirements of our debt instruments, such amounts will be recorded to "Remeasurements and other."
 
Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting Principle
 
We exclude cumulative effect of change in accounting principle because it generates non-cash charges, which we believe are not indicative of our financial or operating performance.
 
Limitations of Pro Forma Net Income
 
Pro forma net income has the same limitations as consolidated segment operating income. See "Consolidated Segment Operating Income  Limitations of Consolidated Segment Operating Income" above. In addition, when the 6.875% PEACS are retired, whether by early redemption or restructuring, or at maturity in 2010, the foreign currency effect of changes in the exchange ratio between the U.S. Dollar and the Euro will result in a cash effect. We compensate for this limitation by disclosing the effect of currency movements on our 6.875% PEACS on our consolidated statements of operations and presenting the fair value of our 6.875% PEACS in the notes to our financial statements.
 
During certain of our reporting periods our reported net income was greater than our pro forma net income.
 
Free Cash Flow
 
Free cash flow, which we reconcile to "Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities," is cash flow from operations reduced by "Purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development." We use free cash flow, and ratios based on it, to conduct and evaluate our business because, although it is similar to cash flow from operations, we believe it is a more conservative measure of cash flows since purchases of fixed assets are a necessary component of ongoing operations. In limited circumstances where proceeds from sales of fixed assets exceed purchases, free cash flow would exceed cash flow from operations. However, since we do not anticipate being a net seller of fixed assets, we expect free cash flow to be less than operating cash flows.
 
Limitations of Free Cash Flow
 
Free cash flow has limitations due to the fact that it does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example, free cash flow does not incorporate payments made on capital lease obligations or cash payments for business acquisitions such as our third quarter 2004 acquisition of Joyo.com. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flow as a complement to our entire consolidated statements of cash flows.
 


