FILE:AMZN/AMZN-8K-20061024160822.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02.  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
ITEM 9.01.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02.  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
On October 24, 2006, Amazon.com, Inc. announced its third quarter 2006 financial results. A copy of the press release containing the announcement is included as Exhibit 99.1 and additional information regarding the inclusion of non-GAAP financial measures in certain of Amazon.com's public disclosures, including its third quarter 2006 financial results announcement, is included as Exhibit 99.2. Both of these exhibits are incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 9.01.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(d)
Exhibits.
 
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: October 24, 2006
Table of Contents
 

Exhibit 99.1
AMAZON.COM ANNOUNCES THIRD QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS; NET SALES UP 24% YEAR OVER YEAR; EXPECTS RECORD HOLIDAY SEASON
SEATTLE(BUSINESS WIRE)October 24, 2006Amazon.com, Inc. (NASDAQ: AMZN) today announced financial results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2006.
Operating cash flow declined 11% to $587 million for the trailing twelve months, compared with $661 million for the trailing twelve months ended September 30, 2005. Free cash flow decreased 23% to $366 million for the trailing twelve months, compared with $475 million for the trailing twelve months ended September 30, 2005, driven primarily by our increased expenditure in technology and content.
Common shares outstanding plus shares underlying stock-based awards outstanding totaled 435 million at September 30, 2006, compared with 438 million a year ago. During the quarter, the Company repurchased 8 million shares, or $252 million under its previously announced authorization to repurchase up to $500 million of the Company's common stock.
Net sales increased 24% to $2.31 billion in the third quarter, compared with $1.86 billion in third quarter 2005. Excluding the $20 million favorable impact from year-over-year changes in foreign exchange rates throughout the quarter, net sales grew 23% compared with third quarter 2005.
Operating income decreased 28% to $40 million in the third quarter, compared with $55 million in third quarter 2005. The decline in operating income was mainly due to technology and content investments. Third quarter 2005 operating income included a negative impact of $40 million relating to a patent litigation settlement.
Net income was $19 million in the third quarter, or $0.05 per diluted share, compared with net income of $30 million, or $0.07 per diluted share in third quarter 2005.
"We're pleased with the strong revenue growth and rapid adoption of Amazon Prime," said Jeff Bezos, founder and CEO of Amazon.com. "We look forward to seeing significant sequential improvement in operating leverage this Q4, even as we continue to invest in many initiatives including new retail categories, seller platforms, web services, and digital."
Amazon Prime continues to demonstrate strong quarter-to-quarter sequential growth for new memberships. Amazon Prime, Amazon.com's first-ever membership program, was introduced in February 2005. For a flat membership fee of $79 per year, Amazon Prime members get unlimited, express two-day shipping for free, with no minimum purchase requirement on over a million eligible items sold by Amazon.com. Members can order as late as 6:30 p.m. ET and still get their order the next day for only $3.99 per item, and they can share the benefits of Amazon Prime with up to four family members living in their household. Sign up for Amazon Prime at www.amazon.com/prime.
 
Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Guidance
The following forward-looking statements reflect Amazon.com's expectations as of October 24, 2006. Results may be materially affected by many factors, such as fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and consumer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet and online commerce, and the various factors detailed below.
Fourth Quarter 2006 Guidance
 
 
 
Full Year 2006 Guidance
 
 
A conference call will be webcast live today at 2 p.m. PT/5 p.m. ET, and will be available for at least three months at www.amazon.com/ir. This call will contain forward-looking statements and other material information regarding the Company's financial and operating results.
.
These forward-looking statements are inherently difficult to predict. Actual results could differ materially for a variety of reasons, including, in addition to the factors discussed above, the amount that Amazon.com invests in new business opportunities and the timing of those investments, the mix of products sold to customers, the mix of net sales derived from products as compared with services, competition, management of growth, potential fluctuations in operating results, international growth and expansion, the outcomes of legal proceedings and claims, fulfillment center optimization, risks of inventory management, seasonality, the degree to which the Company enters into, maintains and develops commercial agreements, acquisitions and strategic transactions, payments risks, and risks of fulfillment throughput and productivity. Other risks and uncertainties include, among others, risk of future losses, significant indebtedness, system interruptions, consumer trends, limited operating history, government regulation and taxation, fraud, and new business areas. More information about factors that potentially could affect Amazon.com's financial results is included in Amazon.com's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, and all subsequent filings
About Amazon.com
Amazon.com, Inc., (Nasdaq: AMZN), a Fortune 500 company based in Seattle, opened on the World Wide Web in July 1995 and today offers Earth's Biggest Selection. Amazon.com, Inc. seeks to be Earth's most customer-centric company, where customers can find and discover anything they might want to buy online, and endeavors to offer its customers the lowest possible prices. Amazon.com and other sellers offer millions of unique new, refurbished and used items in categories such as health and personal care, jewelry and watches, gourmet food, sports and outdoors, apparel and accessories, books, music, DVDs, electronics and office, toys and baby, and home and garden.
Amazon and its affiliates operate websites, including www.amazon.com, www.amazon.co.uk, www.amazon.de, www.amazon.co.jp, www.amazon.fr, www.amazon.ca, and www.joyo.com.
As used herein, "Amazon.com," "we," "our" and similar terms include Amazon.com, Inc., and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: The attached "Financial and Operational Summary" is an integral part of this Supplemental Financial Information and Business Metrics.
 
 
(comparisons are with the equivalent period of the prior year, unless otherwise stated)
Quarterly Results of Operations
Net Sales
 
 
 
 
 
Cost of Sales
 
 
 
 
Operating Expenses
 
 
 
judgment, and to the extent actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including types of awards, employee class and historical experience. Actual results, and future changes in estimates, may differ substantially from our current estimates.
 
 
Fulfillment
 
 
 
 
Marketing
 
 
advertising, e-mail campaigns, and other initiatives. Our marketing expenses are largely variable, based on growth in sales and changes in rates. To the extent there is increased or decreased competition for these traffic sources, or to the extent our mix of these channels shifts, we would expect to see a corresponding change in our marketing expense or its effect.
 
 
Technology and Content
 
 
 
 
 
General and Administrative
 
 
Stock-Based Awards
 
 
 
 
 
Other Operating Expense
 
 
Remeasurements and Other
 
 
 
Income Taxes
 
 
 
 
Foreign Exchange
 
 
 
Cash Flows and Balance Sheet
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certain Definitions and Other
 
 
 
 
 
from DVD rentals and retail sales from all sellers of books, music, DVD/video, magazine subscriptions, software, video games and video-game consoles. Electronics and Other General Merchandise consists of amounts earned from retail sales from all sellers of items not included in Media, such as electronics and office, camera and photo, toys and baby, tools, home and garden, apparel, sports and outdoors, kitchen and housewares, gourmet food, jewelry, health and personal care, beauty and musical instruments. The Other category consists of non-retail activities, such as the Amazon Enterprise Solutions program and miscellaneous marketing and promotional activities, such as our co-branded credit card programs.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contacts:
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Regulation G, , and other SEC regulations define and prescribe the conditions for use of certain non-GAAP financial information.
Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Our measure of "Free cash flow" meets the definition of a non-GAAP financial measure. Free cash flow is used in addition to and in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP and free cash flow should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures. Free cash flow reflects an additional way of viewing our liquidity that, when viewed with our GAAP results, provides a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our cash flows. Management strongly encourages investors to review our financial statements and publicly-filed reports in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure.
Free cash flow, which we reconcile to "Net cash provided by operating activities," is cash flow from operations reduced by "Purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development." We use free cash flow, and ratios based on it, to conduct and evaluate our business because, although it is similar to cash flow from operations, we believe it is a more conservative measure of cash flows since purchases of fixed assets are a necessary component of ongoing operations. In limited circumstances in which proceeds from sales of fixed assets exceed purchases, free cash flow would exceed cash flow from operations. However, since we do not anticipate being a net seller of fixed assets, we expect free cash flow to be less than operating cash flows.
Free cash flow has limitations due to the fact that it does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example, free cash flow does not incorporate payments made on capital lease obligations or cash payments for business acquisitions. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flow as a complement to our entire consolidated statements of cash flows.
In addition, we provide operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation. We provide this information to show the impact of stock-based compensation, which is non-cash and excluded from our internal operating plans and measurement of financial performance (although we consider the dilutive impact to our shareholders when awarding stock-based compensation and value such awards accordingly). In addition, unlike other centrally-incurred operating costs, stock-based compensation is not allocated to segment results and therefore excluding it from operating expense is consistent with our segment presentation in our footnotes to the consolidated financial statements. Stock-based compensation programs are an important element of the company's compensation structure and all forms of stock-based awards are valued and included as appropriate in results of operations. The employer portion of payroll tax expense is included in both presentations.
For a quantitative reconciliation of free cash flow and the other non-GAAP financial measures referred to above to the most directly comparable amounts reported in accordance with GAAP, see "Supplemental Financial Information and Business Metrics" and "Financial and Operational Summary" in Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.


