FILE:AMZN/AMZN-8K-20060202161008.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
ITEM 2.02.  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
 
ITEM 9.01.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02.  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
 
On February 2, 2006, Amazon.com, Inc. announced its fourth quarter 2005 and year ended December 31, 2005 financial results. A copy of the press release containing the announcement is included as Exhibit 99.1 and additional information regarding the inclusion of non-GAAP financial measures in certain of Amazon.com's public disclosures, including its fourth quarter 2005 and year ended December 31, 2005 financial results announcement, is included as Exhibit 99.2. Both of these exhibits are incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 9.01.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
(c)
Exhibits.
 
Table of Contents
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: February 2, 2006
Table of Contents
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
SEATTLE(BUSINESS WIRE)Feb. 2, 2006Amazon.com, Inc. (NASDAQ: AMZN) today announced financial results for its fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2005.
 
Operating cash flow grew 29% to $733 million in 2005, compared with $566 million in 2004. Free cash flow grew 11% to $529 million in 2005, compared with $477 million in 2004. Operating and free cash flow includes a one-time payment of $40 million in connection with a patent lawsuit settlement in third quarter 2005.
 
Common shares outstanding plus shares underlying stock-based awards outstanding totaled 438 million on December 31, 2005, compared with 434 million a year ago.
 
Net sales increased 17% to $2.98 billion in the fourth quarter, compared with $2.54 billion in fourth quarter 2004. Excluding the $121 million unfavorable impact from year-over-year changes in foreign exchange rates throughout the quarter, net sales grew 22% compared with fourth quarter 2004.
 
Operating income increased 1% to $165 million in the fourth quarter, compared with $162 million in fourth quarter 2004. Excluding the $12 million unfavorable impact from year-over-year changes in foreign exchange rates throughout the quarter, operating income grew 9% compared with fourth quarter 2004.
 
Net income was $199 million in the fourth quarter, or $0.47 per diluted share, compared with net income of $347 million, or $0.82 per diluted share in fourth quarter 2004, which includes a $38 million income tax benefit in the fourth quarter, compared with a $239 million income tax benefit in fourth quarter 2004, primarily related to determining certain deferred tax assets are realizable.
 
"Subscriptions to Amazon Prime more than doubled from November to December," said Jeff Bezos, founder and CEO of Amazon.com. "Amazon Prime members get all-you-can-eat' two-day shipping for free."
 
Amazon Prime, Amazon.com's first-ever membership program, was introduced in February 2005. For a flat membership fee of $79 per year, Amazon Prime members get unlimited, express two-day shipping for free, with no minimum purchase requirement, on over a million eligible items sold by Amazon.com. Members can order as late as 6:30 p.m. ET and still get their order the next day for only $3.99 per item, and they can share the benefits of Amazon Prime with up to four family members living in their household. Sign up for Amazon Prime at www.amazon.com/prime.
 
Full Year 2005
 
Net sales grew 23% to $8.49 billion in 2005, compared with $6.92 billion in 2004. Excluding the $73 million unfavorable impact from year-over-year changes in foreign exchange rates throughout the year, net sales grew 24% compared with 2004.
 
Operating income was $432 million in 2005, compared with $440 million in 2004. Operating income for 2005 includes the $40 million negative impact of the legal settlement and an $8 million unfavorable impact from year-over-year changes in foreign exchange rates throughout the year.
 
Net income was $359 million in 2005, or $0.84 per diluted share, compared with net income of $588 million, or $1.39 per diluted share, in 2004. Net income for 2005 includes a $95 million income tax expense, compared with a $233 million income tax benefit in 2004.
 
Amazon.com also announced today that on March 7, 2006 it will redeem 250 million ($304 million at the Euro to U.S. dollar exchange rate on January 31, 2006) in principal amount of its outstanding 6.875% Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2010, plus accrued and unpaid interest from and including February 16, 2006 to March 6, 2006, under its previously announced $500 million debt repurchase authorization. No premium payment is required to redeem these notes.
 
Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Guidance
 
The following forward-looking statements reflect Amazon.com's expectations as of February 2, 2006. Results may be materially affected by many factors, such as fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and consumer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet and online commerce, and the various factors detailed below.
 
First Quarter 2006 Guidance
 
 
 
 
Full Year 2006 Expectations
 
 
 
A conference call will be webcast live today at 2 p.m. PT/5 p.m. ET and will be available for at least three months at www.amazon.com/ir. This call will contain forward-looking statements and other material information regarding the Company's financial and operating results.
 
.
These forward-looking statements are inherently difficult to predict. Actual results could differ materially for a variety of reasons, including, in addition to the factors discussed above, the amount that Amazon.com invests in new business opportunities and the timing of those investments, the mix of products sold to customers, the mix of net sales derived from products as compared with services, competition, management of growth, potential fluctuations in operating results, international growth and expansion, the outcomes of legal proceedings and claims, fulfillment center optimization, risks of inventory management, seasonality, the degree to which the Company enters into, maintains and develops commercial agreements, acquisitions and strategic transactions, and risks of fulfillment throughput and productivity. Other risks and uncertainties include, among others, risk of future losses, significant indebtedness, system interruptions, consumer trends, limited operating history, government regulation and taxation, fraud, and new business areas. More information about factors that potentially could affect Amazon.com's financial results is included in Amazon.com's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, and all subsequent filings
 
About Amazon.com
 
Amazon.com (NASDAQ: AMZN), a Fortune 500 company based in Seattle, opened its virtual doors on the World Wide Web in July 1995 and today offers Earth's Biggest Selection. Amazon.com seeks to be Earth's most customer-centric company, where customers can find and discover anything they might want to buy online, and endeavors to offer customers the lowest possible prices. Amazon.com and third-party sellers offer millions of unique new, refurbished, and used items in categories such as health and personal care, jewelry and watches, gourmet food, sports and outdoors, apparel and accessories, books, music, DVDs, electronics and office, toys and baby, and home and garden.
 
Amazon.com and its affiliates operate websites, including www.amazon.com, www.amazon.co.uk, www.amazon.de, www.amazon.co.jp, www.amazon.fr, www.amazon.ca, and www.joyo.com.
 
As used herein, "Amazon.com," "we," "our" and similar terms include Amazon.com, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: The attached "Financial and Operational Summary" is an integral part of this Supplemental Financial Information and Business Metrics.
 
 
 
(comparisons are with the equivalent period of the prior year, unless otherwise stated)
Quarterly Results of Operations
 
Net Sales
 
 
 
 
Cost of Sales
 
 
 
 
 
Operating Expenses
 
 
 
 
Fulfillment
 
 
 
 
Marketing
 
 
Technology and Content
 
 
 
 
 
 
General and Administrative
 
 
Stock-Based Compensation
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other Operating Expense (Income)
 
 
 
Remeasurements and Other
 
 
 
 
 
Income Taxes and Deferred Tax Assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
Foreign Exchange
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cash Flows and Balance Sheet
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certain Definitions and Other
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
Regulation G, , and other provisions of the 1934 Act define and prescribe the conditions for use of certain non-GAAP financial information. Management strongly encourages investors to review our financial statements and publicly-filed reports in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure.
Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
Our measure of "Free cash flow" meets the definition of a non-GAAP financial measure. Free cash flow is used in addition to and in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP and free cash flow should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures. Free cash flow reflects an additional way of viewing our liquidity that, when viewed with our GAAP results, provides a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our cash flows.
 
Free cash flow, which we reconcile to "Net cash provided by operating activities," is cash flow from operations reduced by "Purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development." We use free cash flow, and ratios based on it, to conduct and evaluate our business because, although it is similar to cash flow from operations, we believe it is a useful measure of cash flows since purchases of fixed assets are a necessary component of ongoing operations. In limited circumstances in which proceeds from sales of fixed assets exceed purchases, free cash flow would exceed cash flow from operations. However, since we do not anticipate being a net seller of fixed assets, we expect free cash flow to be less than operating cash flows.
 
Free cash flow has limitations due to the fact that it does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example, free cash flow does not incorporate payments made on capital lease obligations or cash payments for business acquisitions. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flow as a complement to our entire consolidated statements of cash flows.
 
In addition, we provide operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation, which excludes the employer portion of payroll tax expense. We provide this information to show the impact of stock-based compensation, which is non-cash and excluded from our internal operating plans and measurement of financial performance (although we consider the dilutive impact to our shareholders when awarding stock-based compensation and value such awards accordingly). In addition, unlike other centrally-incurred operating costs, stock-based compensation is not allocated to segment results and therefore excluding it from operating expense is consistent with our segment presentation in our footnotes to our consolidated financial statements. It should be noted, however, that stock-based compensation programs are an important element of the company's compensation structure and GAAP indicates that all forms of stock-based awards should be valued and included as appropriate in results of operations.
 
For a quantitative reconciliation of free cash flow and the other non-GAAP financial measures referred to above to the most directly comparable amounts reported in accordance with GAAP, see "Supplemental Financial Information and Business Metrics" and "Financial and Operational Summary" in Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.


