FILE:AMZN/AMZN-8K-20060425162047.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02.  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
ITEM 9.01.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02.  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
On April 25, 2006, Amazon.com, Inc. announced its first quarter 2006 financial results. A copy of the press release containing the announcement is included as Exhibit 99.1 and additional information regarding the inclusion of non-GAAP financial measures in certain of Amazon.com's public disclosures, including its first quarter 2006 financial results announcement, is included as Exhibit 99.2. Both of these exhibits are incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 9.01.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(d)
Exhibits.
 
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: April 25, 2006
Table of Contents
 

Exhibit 99.1
FIRST ANNIVERSARY OF AMAZON PRIME BRINGS CONTINUED STRONG GROWTH; FREE CASH FLOW GROWS 20% YEAR OVER YEAR
SEATTLE(BUSINESS WIRE)April 25, 2006Amazon.com, Inc. (NASDAQ: AMZN) today announced financial results for its first quarter ended March 31, 2006.
Operating cash flow grew 38% to $724 million for the trailing twelve months, compared with $523 million for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2005. Free cash flow grew 20% to $501 million for the trailing twelve months, compared with $417 million for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2005. Operating cash flow and free cash flow include a one-time payment of $40 million in connection with a patent lawsuit settlement in third quarter 2005.
Common shares outstanding plus shares underlying stock-based awards outstanding totaled 438 million at March 31, 2006, compared with 434 million a year ago.
Net sales increased 20% to $2.28 billion in the first quarter, compared with $1.90 billion in first quarter 2005. Excluding the $94 million unfavorable impact from year-over-year changes in foreign exchange rates throughout the quarter, net sales grew 25% compared with first quarter 2005.
Operating income decreased 2% to $106 million in the first quarter, compared with $108 million in first quarter 2005. Excluding the $8 million unfavorable impact from year-over-year changes in foreign exchange rates throughout the quarter, operating income grew 6% compared with first quarter 2005.
Net income was $51 million in the first quarter, or $0.12 per diluted share, compared with net income of $78 million, or $0.18 per diluted share in first quarter 2005. First quarter 2005 includes a $26 million, or $0.06 per diluted share, gain for the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle related to the Company's early adoption of SFAS 123(R).
"We're pleased to see strong quarter-to-quarter sequential growth for new Amazon Prime subscriptions," said Jeff Bezos, founder and CEO of Amazon.com. "This sequential growth comes off our biggest holiday season ever, and one where new subscriptions to Amazon Prime more than doubled from November to December."
Amazon Prime, Amazon.com's first-ever membership program, was introduced in February 2005. For a flat membership fee of $79 per year, Amazon Prime members get unlimited, express two-day shipping for free, with no minimum purchase requirement on over a million eligible items sold by Amazon.com. Members can order as late as 6:30 p.m. ET and still get their order the next day for only $3.99 per item, and they can share the benefits of Amazon Prime with up to four family members living in their household. Sign up for Amazon Prime at www.amazon.com/prime.
Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Guidance
The following forward-looking statements reflect Amazon.com's expectations as of April 25, 2006. Results may be materially affected by many factors, such as fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and consumer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet and online commerce, and the various factors detailed below.
Second Quarter 2006 Guidance
 
 
Full Year 2006 Expectations
 
 
We are appealing a recent court decision that terminates our Toysrus.com contract and are seeking a stay of the termination pending a decision on our appeal. While we believe we will prevail and that Toysrus.com's claims lack merit, the timing and possible outcomes of this litigation are uncertain and possible effects of
 
termination are not reflected in the guidance above. If we do not prevail, operating profit could be negatively impacted by as much as $50 million for the year, including by as much as $25 million for the second quarter.
A conference call will be webcast live today at 2 p.m. PT/5 p.m. ET, and will be available for at least three months at www.amazon.com/ir. This call will contain forward-looking statements and other material information regarding the Company's financial and operating results.
.
These forward-looking statements are inherently difficult to predict. Actual results could differ materially for a variety of reasons, including, in addition to the factors discussed above, the amount that Amazon.com invests in new business opportunities and the timing of those investments, the mix of products sold to customers, the mix of net sales derived from products as compared with services, competition, management of growth, potential fluctuations in operating results, international growth and expansion, the outcomes of legal proceedings and claims, fulfillment center optimization, risks of inventory management, seasonality, the degree to which the Company enters into, maintains and develops commercial agreements, acquisitions and strategic transactions, payments risks, and risks of fulfillment throughput and productivity. Other risks and uncertainties include, among others, risk of future losses, significant indebtedness, system interruptions, consumer trends, limited operating history, government regulation and taxation, fraud, and new business areas. More information about factors that potentially could affect Amazon.com's financial results is included in Amazon.com's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, and all subsequent filings
About Amazon.com
Amazon.com (NASDAQ: AMZN), a Fortune 500 company based in Seattle, opened its virtual doors on the World Wide Web in July 1995 and today offers Earth's Biggest Selection. Amazon.com seeks to be Earth's most customer-centric company, where customers can find and discover anything they might want to buy online, and endeavors to offer customers the lowest possible prices. Amazon.com and third-party sellers offer millions of unique new, refurbished, and used items in categories such as health and personal care, jewelry and watches, gourmet food, sports and outdoors, apparel and accessories, books, music, DVDs, electronics and office, toys and baby, and home and garden.
Amazon.com and its affiliates operate websites, including www.amazon.com, www.amazon.co.uk, www.amazon.de, www.amazon.co.jp, www.amazon.fr, www.amazon.ca, and www.joyo.com.
As used herein, "Amazon.com," "we," "our" and similar terms include Amazon.com, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: The attached "Financial and Operational Summary" is an integral part of this Supplemental Financial Information and Business Metrics.
 
 
 
(comparisons are with the equivalent period of the prior year, unless otherwise stated)
Quarterly Results of Operations
Net Sales
 
 
 
Cost of Sales
 
 
 
 
Operating Expenses
 
 
 
 
Fulfillment
 
 
 
 
Marketing
 
 
Technology and Content
 
 
 
 
General and Administrative
 
Stock-Based Compensation
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other Operating Expense
 
 
Remeasurements and Other
 
 
 
 
Income Taxes
 
 
 
Foreign Exchange
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cash Flows and Balance Sheet
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certain Definitions and Other
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contacts:
 

Exhibit 99.2
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Regulation G, , and other SEC regulations define and prescribe the conditions for use of certain non-GAAP financial information.
Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Our measure of "Free cash flow" meets the definition of a non-GAAP financial measure. Free cash flow is used in addition to and in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP and free cash flow should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures. Free cash flow reflects an additional way of viewing our liquidity that, when viewed with our GAAP results, provides a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our cash flows. Management strongly encourages investors to review our financial statements and publicly-filed reports in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure.
Free cash flow, which we reconcile to "Net cash provided by operating activities," is cash flow from operations reduced by "Purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development." We use free cash flow, and ratios based on it, to conduct and evaluate our business because, although it is similar to cash flow from operations, we believe it is a more conservative measure of cash flows since purchases of fixed assets are a necessary component of ongoing operations. In limited circumstances in which proceeds from sales of fixed assets exceed purchases, free cash flow would exceed cash flow from operations. However, since we do not anticipate being a net seller of fixed assets, we expect free cash flow to be less than operating cash flows.
Free cash flow has limitations due to the fact that it does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example, free cash flow does not incorporate payments made on capital lease obligations or cash payments for business acquisitions. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flow as a complement to our entire consolidated statements of cash flows.
In addition, we provide operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation. We provide this information to show the impact of stock-based compensation, which is non-cash and excluded from our internal operating plans and measurement of financial performance (although we consider the dilutive impact to our shareholders when awarding stock-based compensation and value such awards accordingly). In addition, unlike other centrally-incurred operating costs, stock-based compensation is not allocated to segment results and therefore excluding it from operating expense is consistent with our segment presentation in our footnotes to the consolidated financial statements. Stock-based compensation programs are an important element of the company's compensation structure and all forms of stock-based awards are valued and included as appropriate in results of operations. The employer portion of payroll tax expense is included in both presentations.
For a quantitative reconciliation of free cash flow and the other non-GAAP financial measures referred to above to the most directly comparable amounts reported in accordance with GAAP, see "Supplemental Financial Information and Business Metrics" and "Financial and Operational Summary" in Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.


