FILE:AMZN/AMZN-8K-20060721192039.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 5.05. AMENDMENTS TO THE REGISTRANT'S CODE OF ETHICS, OR WAIVER OF A PROVISION OF THE CODE OF ETHICS
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
SIGNATURES
Table of Contents
ITEM 5.05. AMENDMENTS TO THE REGISTRANT'S CODE OF ETHICS, OR WAIVER OF A PROVISION OF THE CODE OF ETHICS.
On July 20, 2006, the Board of Directors of Amazon.com, Inc. (the "Company") amended the Company's Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the "Code"). The amendments revise the complaint reporting provisions of the Code to allow for separate reporting guidelines where necessary to comply with the laws of other countries.
A copy of the amended Code is attached as Exhibit 14.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
 
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: July 21, 2006

Exhibit 14.1
Amazon.com employees should always act lawfully, ethically, and in the best interests of Amazon.com. This Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the "Code of Conduct") sets out basic guiding principles. Employees who are unsure whether their conduct or the conduct of their coworkers complies with the Code of Conduct should contact their manager or the Legal Department. Employees may also report any suspected noncompliance as provided in the Legal Department's reporting guidelines referred to in paragraph IX below.
I. Compliance with Laws, Rules and Regulations
Employees must follow applicable laws, rules and regulations at all times. Employees with questions about the applicability or interpretation of any law, rule or regulation, should contact the .
Legal Department
II. Conflicts of Interest
Employees are expected to use their judgment to act, at all times and in all ways, in the best interests of Amazon.com. A "conflict of interest" exists when an employee's personal interest interferes with the best interests of Amazon.com. For example, a conflict of interest may occur when an employee or a family member receives a personal benefit as a result of the employee's position with Amazon.com. A conflict of interest may also arise from an employee's business or personal relationship with a customer, supplier, competitor, business partner, or other employee, if that relationship impairs the employee's objective business judgment.
Because an employee's receipt of gifts or services could create a conflict of interest, the Legal Department will develop and maintain for disclosure of gifts or services received from customers, suppliers, competitors or business partners.
guidelines
Employees should attempt to avoid conflicts of interest and employees who believe a conflict of interest may exist should promptly notify the Legal Department. The Legal Department will consider the facts and circumstances of the situation to decide whether corrective or mitigating action is appropriate.
 
III. Insider Trading Policy
Federal and state laws prohibit trading in securities by persons who have material information that is not generally known or available to the public.
Employees of the Company may not a) trade in stock or other securities while in possession of material nonpublic information or b) pass on material nonpublic information to others without express authorization by the Company or recommend to others that they trade in stock or other securities based on material nonpublic information.
The Company has adopted guidelines designed to implement this policy. All employees are expected to review and follow the Certain employees must comply with trading windows and/or preclearance requirements when they trade Amazon.com securities.
Amazon.com Insider Trading Guidelines.
IV. Discrimination and Harassment
Amazon.com provides equal opportunity in all aspects of employment and will not tolerate any illegal discrimination or harassment of any kind. For more information, see the Amazon.com policies on and in the Amazon.com Owner's Manual.
Equal Employment Opportunity
Workplace Harassment
V. Health and Safety
Amazon.com provides a clean, safe and healthy work environment. Each employee has responsibility for maintaining a safe and healthy workplace by following safety and health rules and practices and reporting accidents, injuries and unsafe conditions, procedures, or behaviors.
Violence and threatening behavior are not permitted. Employees must report to work in a condition to perform their duties, free from the influence of illegal drugs or alcohol.
 
VI. Price Fixing
Employees may not discuss prices or make any formal or informal agreement with any competitor regarding prices, discounts, business terms, or the market segments and channels in which the Company competes, where the purpose or result of such discussion or agreement would be inconsistent with applicable antitrust laws. If you have any questions about this section or the applicable antitrust laws, please contact the Legal Department.
VII. Payments to Government Personnel
The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act prohibits giving anything of value, directly or indirectly, to officials of foreign governments or foreign political candidates in order to obtain or retain business. Employees may not make illegal payments to government officials. Employees who are conducting business with the government officials of any country must contact the Legal Department for on the law governing payments and gifts to governmental officials.
guidance
VIII. Recordkeeping, Reporting, and Financial Integrity
Amazon.com's books, records, accounts and financial statements must be maintained in appropriate detail, must properly reflect the Company's transactions and must conform both to applicable law and to the Company's system of internal controls. Further, Amazon.com's public financial reports must contain full, fair, accurate, timely and understandable disclosure as required by law. The Company's financial, accounting and legal groups are responsible for procedures designed to assure proper internal and disclosure controls, and all employees should cooperate with these procedures.
IX. Questions; Reporting Violations
Employees should speak with anyone in their management chain or the Legal Department when they have a question about the application of the Code of Conduct or when in doubt about how to properly act in a particular situation.
The Amazon.com Legal Department has developed and maintains reporting guidelines for employees who wish to report violations of the Code of Conduct. These guidelines include information on making reports to the Legal Department and to an independent third party. Please see the reporting guidelines for information and instructions.
 
Amazon.com will not allow retaliation against an employee for reporting misconduct by others in good faith. Employees must cooperate in internal investigations of potential or alleged misconduct.
Employees who violate the Code of Conduct will be subject to disciplinary action up to and including discharge.
X. Periodic Certification
The Legal Department will designate certain employees who, based on their level of responsibility or the nature of their work, will be required to certify periodically that they have read, understand and complied with the Code of Conduct.
XI. Board of Directors
With respect to their service on behalf of the Company, Amazon.com's Board of Directors must comply with the relevant provisions of this Code of Conduct, including conflicts of interest, insider trading and compliance with all applicable laws, rules and regulations.
XII. Waivers
Waivers of this Code of Conduct may be made only in a manner permitted by law.
 


