FILE:AMZN/AMZN-8K-20070201160651.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02.  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
ITEM 9.01.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02.  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
On February 1, 2007, Amazon.com, Inc. announced its fourth quarter 2006 and year ended December 31, 2006 financial results. A copy of the press release containing the announcement is included as Exhibit 99.1 and additional information regarding the inclusion of non-GAAP financial measures in certain of Amazon.com's public disclosures, including its fourth quarter 2006 and year ended December 31, 2006 financial results announcement, is included as Exhibit 99.2. Both of these exhibits are incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 9.01.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(d)
Exhibits.
 
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: February 1, 2007
Table of Contents
 

Exhibit 99.1
AMAZON.COM ANNOUNCES FOURTH QUARTER SALES UP 34%; MEDIA GROWS 25%; ELECTRONICS AND OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE GROWS 55%
SEATTLE(BUSINESS WIRE)February 1, 2007Amazon.com, Inc. (NASDAQ: AMZN) today announced financial results for its fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2006.
Operating cash flow was $702 million in 2006, compared with $733 million in 2005. Free cash flow decreased 8% to $486 million in 2006, compared with $529 million in 2005.
Common shares outstanding plus shares underlying stock-based awards outstanding totaled 436 million on December 31, 2006, compared with 438 million a year ago. During the year, the Company repurchased 8 million shares, or $252 million under its previously announced authorization to repurchase up to $500 million of the Company's common stock.
Net sales increased 34% to $3.99 billion in the fourth quarter, compared with $2.98 billion in fourth quarter 2005. Excluding the $122 million favorable impact from year-over-year changes in foreign exchange rates throughout the quarter, net sales grew 30% compared with fourth quarter 2005.
Operating income increased 20% to $197 million in the fourth quarter, compared with $165 million in fourth quarter 2005. Excluding the $8 million favorable impact from year-over-year changes in foreign exchange rates throughout the quarter, operating income grew 14% compared with fourth quarter 2005.
Net income was $98 million in the fourth quarter, or $0.23 per diluted share, compared with net income of $199 million, or $0.47 per diluted share in fourth quarter 2005. Fourth quarter 2006 income tax expense increased $130 million, to $91 million or $0.22 per diluted share, compared with a tax benefit of $38 million, or $0.09 per diluted share, in fourth quarter 2005. The prior year tax benefit was primarily related to determining certain deferred tax assets were realizable.
"We had a record holiday season with accelerating revenue growth and significant sequential improvement in operating leverage," said Jeff Bezos, founder and CEO of Amazon.com. "Amazon Prime members spent more with us across categories as they took advantage of unlimited free two-day shipping."
Amazon Prime, Amazon.com's first-ever membership program, was introduced in February 2005. For a flat membership fee of $79 per year, Amazon Prime members get unlimited, express two-day shipping for free, with no minimum purchase requirement on over a million eligible items sold by Amazon.com. Members can order as late as 6:30 p.m. ET and still get their order the next day for only $3.99 per item, and they can share the benefits of Amazon Prime with up to four family members living in their household. Sign up for Amazon Prime at www.amazon.com/prime.
Full Year 2006
Net sales increased 26% to $10.71 billion in 2006, compared with $8.49 billion in 2005.
 
Operating income declined 10% to $389 million in 2006, compared with $432 million in 2005, due mainly to increased spending on technology and content.
Net income was $190 million in 2006, or $0.45 per diluted share, compared with net income of $359 million, or $0.84 per diluted share, in 2005. Income tax expense increased $92 million to $187 million, or $0.44 per diluted share, compared with income tax expense of $95 million, or $0.22 per diluted share, in 2005.
Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Guidance
The following forward-looking statements reflect Amazon.com's expectations as of February 1, 2007. Results may be materially affected by many factors, such as fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and consumer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet and online commerce, and the various factors detailed below.
 
First Quarter 2007 Guidance
 
 
Full Year 2007 Expectations
 
 
A conference call will be webcast live today at 2 p.m. PT/5 p.m. ET, and will be available for at least three months at www.amazon.com/ir. This call will contain forward-looking statements and other material information regarding the Company's financial and operating results.
.
These forward-looking statements are inherently difficult to predict. Actual results could differ materially for a variety of reasons, including, in addition to the factors discussed above, the amount that Amazon.com invests in new business opportunities and the timing of those investments, the mix of products sold to customers, the mix of net sales derived from products as compared with services, competition, management of growth, potential fluctuations in operating results, international growth and expansion, the outcomes of legal proceedings and claims, fulfillment center optimization, risks of inventory management, seasonality, the degree to which the Company enters into, maintains and develops commercial agreements, acquisitions and strategic transactions, payments risks, and risks of fulfillment throughput and productivity. Other risks and uncertainties include, among others, risk of future losses, significant indebtedness, system interruptions, consumer trends, limited operating history, government regulation and taxation, fraud, and new business areas. More information about factors that potentially could affect Amazon.com's financial results is included in Amazon.com's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, and all subsequent filings
About Amazon.com
Amazon.com, Inc., (Nasdaq: AMZN), a Fortune 500 company based in Seattle, opened on the World Wide Web in July 1995 and today offers Earth's Biggest Selection. Amazon.com, Inc. seeks to be Earth's most customer-centric company, where customers can find and discover anything they might want to buy online, and endeavors to offer its customers the lowest possible prices. Amazon.com and other sellers offer millions of unique new, refurbished and used items in categories such as health and personal care, jewelry and watches, gourmet food, sports and outdoors, apparel and accessories, books, music, DVDs, electronics and office, toys and baby, and home and garden.
 
Amazon and its affiliates operate websites, including www.amazon.com, www.amazon.co.uk, www.amazon.de, www.amazon.co.jp, www.amazon.fr, www.amazon.ca, and www.joyo.com.
As used herein, "Amazon.com," "we," "our" and similar terms include Amazon.com, Inc., and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: The attached "Financial and Operational Summary" is an integral part of this Supplemental Financial Information and Business Metrics.
 
 
(comparisons are with the equivalent period of the prior year, unless otherwise stated)
Quarterly Results of Operations
Net Sales
 
 
 
Cost of Sales
 
 
 
 
Operating Expenses
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fulfillment
 
 
 
 
Technology and Content
 
 
 
 
 
Stock-Based Awards
 
 
 
Other Operating Expense
 
Other Income (Expense)
 
 
Remeasurements and Other
 
Income Taxes
 
 
 
over time. Associated with the establishment of our European headquarters, we transferred certain of our operating assets in 2005 and 2006 from the U.S. to international locations. These transfers resulted in taxable income and exposure to additional taxable income assertions by taxing jurisdictions.
 
 
 
Foreign Exchange
 
 
 
 
 
Cash Flows and Balance Sheet
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certain Definitions and Other
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Regulation G, , and other SEC regulations define and prescribe the conditions for use of certain non-GAAP financial information.
Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Our measure of "Free cash flow" meets the definition of a non-GAAP financial measure. Free cash flow is used in addition to and in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP and free cash flow should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures. Free cash flow reflects an additional way of viewing our liquidity that, when viewed with our GAAP results, provides a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our cash flows. Management strongly encourages shareholders to review our financial statements and publicly-filed reports in their entirety and not to rely on any single financial measure.
Free cash flow, which we reconcile to "Net cash provided by operating activities," is cash flow from operations reduced by "Purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development." We use free cash flow, and ratios based on it, to conduct and evaluate our business because, although it is similar to cash flow from operations, we believe it is a more conservative measure of cash flows since purchases of fixed assets are a necessary component of ongoing operations. In limited circumstances in which proceeds from sales of fixed assets exceed purchases, free cash flow would exceed cash flow from operations. However, since we do not anticipate being a net seller of fixed assets, we expect free cash flow to be less than operating cash flows.
Free cash flow has limitations due to the fact that it does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example, free cash flow does not incorporate payments made on capital lease obligations or cash payments for business acquisitions. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flow as a complement to our entire consolidated statements of cash flows.
In addition, we provide operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation. We provide this information to show the impact of stock-based compensation, which is non-cash and excluded from our internal operating plans and measurement of financial performance (although we consider the dilutive impact to our shareholders when awarding stock-based compensation and value such awards accordingly). In addition, unlike other centrally-incurred operating costs, stock-based compensation is not allocated to segment results and therefore excluding it from operating expense is consistent with our segment presentation in our footnotes to the consolidated financial statements.
Operating expenses without stock-based compensation have limitations due to the fact that they do not include all expenses primarily related to our workforce. More specifically, if we did not pay out a portion of our compensation in the form of stock-based compensation, our cash salary expense included in the "Fulfillment", "Technology and content", "Marketing", and "General and administrative" line items would be higher. We compensate for this limitation by providing supplemental information about outstanding stock-based awards in the footnotes to our financial statements. Stock-based compensation programs are an important element of the company's compensation structure and all forms of stock-based awards are valued and included as appropriate in results of operations.
For a quantitative reconciliation of free cash flow and the other non-GAAP financial measures referred to above to the most directly comparable amounts reported in accordance with GAAP, see "Supplemental Financial Information and Business Metrics" and "Financial and Operational Summary" in Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.


