FILE:AMZN/AMZN-8K-20090129162445.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02.  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
ITEM 9.01.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02.  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
On January 29, 2009, Amazon.com, Inc. announced its fourth quarter 2008 and year ended December 31, 2008 financial results. A copy of the press release containing the announcement is included as Exhibit 99.1 and additional information regarding the inclusion of non-GAAP financial measures in certain of Amazon.com's public disclosures, including its fourth quarter 2008 and year ended December  31, 2008 financial results announcement, is included as Exhibit 99.2. Both of these exhibits are incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 9.01.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(d)
Exhibits.
 
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: January 29, 2009
Table of Contents
 

Exhibit 99.1
AMAZON.COM ANNOUNCES FOURTH QUARTER SALES UP 18% TO $6.70 BILLION; 2008 FREE CASH FLOW GROWS 16% TO $1.36 BILLION
SEATTLE(BUSINESS WIRE)January 29, 2009Amazon.com, Inc. (NASDAQ: AMZN) today announced financial results for its fourth quarter ended December 31, 2008.
Operating cash flow was $1.70 billion in 2008, compared with $1.41 billion in 2007. Free cash flow increased 16% to $1.36 billion in 2008, compared with $1.18 billion in 2007.
Common shares outstanding plus shares underlying stock-based awards outstanding totaled 446 million on December 31, 2008, compared with 435 million a year ago.
Net sales increased 18% to $6.70 billion in the fourth quarter, compared with $5.67 billion in fourth quarter 2007. Excluding the $320 million unfavorable impact from year-over-year changes in foreign exchange rates throughout the quarter, net sales would have grown 24% compared with fourth quarter 2007.
Operating income was $272 million in the fourth quarter, compared with $271 million in fourth quarter 2007. Excluding the $26 million unfavorable impact from year-over-year changes in foreign exchange rates throughout the quarter, operating income would have grown 10% compared with fourth quarter 2007.
Net income increased 9% to $225 million in the fourth quarter, or $0.52 per diluted share, compared with net income of $207 million, or $0.48 per diluted share, in fourth quarter 2007.
"We remain relentlessly focused on serving customers with low prices, great selection and free shipping offers, including Amazon Prime," said Jeff Bezos, founder and CEO of Amazon.com. "We're particularly grateful for the unusually strong demand for Kindle in the fourth quarter."
Full Year 2008
Net sales increased 29% to $19.17 billion, or 28% excluding the $127 million favorable impact from year-over-year changes in foreign exchange rates throughout the year, compared with $14.84 billion in 2007.
Operating income increased 28% to $842 million, or 27% excluding the $10 million favorable impact from year-over-year changes in foreign exchange rates throughout the year, compared with $655 million in 2007. Included in 2008 operating income is a $53 million non-cash gain recognized on the sale of the Company's European DVD rental assets.
Net income increased 36% to $645 million in 2008, or $1.49 per diluted share, compared with net income of $476 million, or $1.12 per diluted share, in 2007.
 
Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Guidance
The following forward-looking statements reflect Amazon.com's expectations as of January 29, 2009. Our results are inherently unpredictable and may be materially affected by many factors, such as fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and consumer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet and online commerce and the various factors detailed below.
 
First Quarter 2009 Guidance
 
 
A conference call will be webcast live today at 2 p.m. PT/5 p.m. ET, and will be available for at least three months at www.amazon.com/ir. This call will contain forward-looking statements and other material information regarding the Company's financial and operating results.
.
These forward-looking statements are inherently difficult to predict. Actual results could differ materially for a variety of reasons, including, in addition to the factors discussed above, the amount that Amazon.com invests in new business opportunities and the timing of those investments, the mix of products sold to customers, the mix of net sales derived from products as compared with services, the extent to which we owe income taxes, competition, management of growth, potential fluctuations in operating results, international growth and expansion, the outcomes of legal proceedings and claims, fulfillment center optimization, risks of inventory management, seasonality, the degree to which the Company enters into, maintains and develops commercial agreements, acquisitions and strategic transactions, and risks of fulfillment throughput and productivity. Other risks and uncertainties include, among others, risks related to new products, services and technologies, system interruptions, indebtedness, government regulation and taxation, payments and fraud. In addition, the current global economic climate amplifies many of these risks. More information about factors that potentially could affect Amazon.com's financial results is included in Amazon.com's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent filings
About Amazon.com
Amazon.com, Inc. (NASDAQ: AMZN), a Fortune 500 company based in Seattle, opened on the World Wide Web in July 1995 and today offers Earth's Biggest Selection. Amazon.com, Inc. seeks to be Earth's most customer-centric company, where customers can find and discover anything they might want to buy online, and endeavors to offer its customers the lowest possible prices. Amazon.com and other sellers offer millions of unique new, refurbished and used items in categories such as Books; Movies, Music & Games; Digital Downloads; Computers & Office; Electronics; Home & Garden; Grocery, Health & Beauty; Toys, Kids & Baby; Apparel, Shoes & Jewelry; Sports & Outdoors; and Tools, Auto & Industrial.
Amazon Web Services provides Amazon's developer customers with access to in-the-cloud infrastructure services based on Amazon's own back-end technology platform, which developers can use to enable virtually any type of business. Examples of the services offered by Amazon Web Services are Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2), Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3), Amazon Elastic Block Store, Amazon SimpleDB, Amazon Simple Queue Service (Amazon SQS), Amazon Flexible Payments Service (Amazon FPS), Amazon Mechanical Turk and Amazon CloudFront.
Amazon and its affiliates operate websites, including www.amazon.com, www.amazon.co.uk, www.amazon.de, www.amazon.co.jp, www.amazon.fr, www.amazon.ca, and www.amazon.cn.
As used herein, "Amazon.com," "we," "our" and similar terms include Amazon.com, Inc., and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: The attached "Financial and Operational Summary" is an integral part of this Supplemental Financial Information and Business Metrics.
 
 
 
(comparisons are with the equivalent period of the prior year, unless otherwise stated)
Quarterly Results of Operations
Net Sales
 
 
Cost of Sales
 
 
 
 
Operating Expenses
 
 
 
 
Fulfillment
 
 
 
 
Marketing
 
 
 
Technology and Content
 
 
 
 
 
Stockholders' Equity and Stock-Based Awards
 
 
 
 
Other Income (Expense), Net
 
 
 
Income Taxes
 
 
 
Foreign Exchange
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net Income
 
Cash Flows and Balance Sheet
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certain Definitions and Other
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contacts:
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Regulation G, , and other SEC regulations define and prescribe the conditions for use of certain non-GAAP financial information.
Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Our measure of "Free cash flow" meets the definition of a non-GAAP financial measure. Free cash flow is used in addition to and in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP and free cash flow should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures. Free cash flow reflects an additional way of viewing our liquidity that, when viewed with our GAAP results, provides a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our cash flows. Management strongly encourages shareholders to review our financial statements and publicly-filed reports in their entirety and not to rely on any single financial measure.
Free cash flow, which we reconcile to "Net cash provided by operating activities," is cash flow from operations reduced by "Purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development." We use free cash flow, and ratios based on it, to conduct and evaluate our business because, although it is similar to cash flow from operations, we believe it is a more conservative measure of cash flows since purchases of fixed assets are a necessary component of ongoing operations. In limited circumstances in which proceeds from sales of fixed assets exceed purchases, free cash flow would exceed cash flow from operations. However, since we do not anticipate being a net seller of fixed assets, we expect free cash flow to be less than operating cash flows.
Free cash flow has limitations due to the fact that it does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example, free cash flow does not incorporate payments made on capital lease obligations or cash payments for business acquisitions. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flow as a complement to our entire consolidated statements of cash flows.
In addition, we provide operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation. We provide this information to show the impact of stock-based compensation, which is non-cash and excluded from our internal operating plans and measurement of financial performance (although we consider the dilutive impact to our shareholders when awarding stock-based compensation and value such awards accordingly). In addition, unlike other centrally-incurred operating costs, stock-based compensation is not allocated to segment results and therefore excluding it from operating expense is consistent with our segment presentation in our footnotes to the consolidated financial statements.
Operating expenses without stock-based compensation have limitations due to the fact that they do not include all expenses primarily related to our workforce. More specifically, if we did not pay out a portion of our compensation in the form of stock-based compensation, our cash salary expense included in the "Fulfillment," "Technology and content," "Marketing," and "General and administrative" line items would be higher. We compensate for this limitation by providing supplemental information about outstanding stock-based awards in the footnotes to our financial statements. Stock-based compensation programs are an important element of the company's compensation structure and all forms of stock-based awards are valued and included as appropriate in results of operations.
For a quantitative reconciliation of free cash flow and the other non-GAAP financial measures referred to above to the most directly comparable amounts reported in accordance with GAAP, see "Supplemental Financial Information and Business Metrics" and "Financial and Operational Summary" in Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.


