FILE:AMZN/AMZN-8K-20100128161829.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02.  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
ITEM 9.01.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02.  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
On January 28, 2010, Amazon.com, Inc. announced its fourth quarter 2009 and year ended December 31, 2009 financial results. A copy of the press release containing the announcement is included as Exhibit 99.1 and additional information regarding the inclusion of non-GAAP financial measures in certain of Amazon.com's public disclosures, including its fourth quarter 2009 and year ended December 31, 2009 financial results announcement, is included as Exhibit 99.2. Both of these exhibits are incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 9.01.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(d)
Exhibits.
 
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: January 28, 2010
Table of Contents
 

Exhibit 99.1
SEATTLE(BUSINESS WIRE)January 28, 2010Amazon.com, Inc. (NASDAQ: AMZN) today announced financial results for its fourth quarter ended December 31, 2009.
Operating cash flow was $3.29 billion in 2009, compared with $1.70 billion in 2008. Free cash flow increased 114% to $2.92 billion in 2009, compared with $1.36 billion in 2008.
Common shares outstanding plus shares underlying stock-based awards outstanding totaled 461 million on December 31, 2009, compared with 446 million a year ago.
Net sales increased 42% to $9.52 billion in the fourth quarter, compared with $6.70 billion in fourth quarter 2008. Excluding the $354 million favorable impact from year-over-year changes in foreign exchange rates throughout the quarter, net sales would have grown 37% compared with fourth quarter 2008.
Operating income increased 75% to $476 million in the fourth quarter, compared with $272 million in fourth quarter 2008. Excluding the $31 million favorable impact from year-over-year changes in foreign exchange rates throughout the quarter, operating income would have grown 63% compared with fourth quarter 2008.
Net income increased 71% to $384 million in the fourth quarter, or $0.85 per diluted share, compared with net income of $225 million, or $0.52 per diluted share, in fourth quarter 2008.
"Millions of people now own Kindles," said Jeff Bezos, founder and CEO of Amazon.com. "And Kindle owners read, a lot. When we have both editions, we sell 6 Kindle books for every 10 physical books. This is year-to-date and includes only paid books  free Kindle books would make the number even higher. It's been an exciting 27 months."
Full Year 2009
Net sales increased 28% to $24.51 billion, or 29% excluding the $182 million unfavorable impact from year-over-year changes in foreign exchange rates throughout the year, compared with $19.17 billion in 2008.
Operating income increased 34% to $1.13 billion, or 39% excluding the $40 million unfavorable impact from year-over-year changes in foreign exchange rates throughout the year, compared with $842 million in 2008. Included in 2009 operating income is the impact of our settlement with Toysrus.com LLC for $51 million. In 2008, operating income included a $53 million non-cash gain recognized on the sale of the Company's European DVD rental assets.
Net income increased 40% to $902 million in 2009, or $2.04 per diluted share, compared with net income of $645 million, or $1.49 per diluted share, in 2008.
Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Separately, the Company is announcing that its Board of Directors has authorized the Company to repurchase up to $2 billion of the Company's common stock. The program allows the Company to opportunistically repurchase its shares from time to time when it believes that doing so would enhance long-term shareholder value. The repurchase authorization does not have a fixed expiration. Purchases may be effected through one or more open market transactions, privately negotiated transactions, transactions structured through investment banking institutions or a combination of the foregoing. This stock repurchase authorization replaces the previous $1 billion stock repurchase authorization, approved by the Board of Directors in 2008.
Financial Guidance
The following forward-looking statements reflect Amazon.com's expectations as of January 28, 2010. Our results are inherently unpredictable and may be materially affected by many factors, such as fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and consumer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet and online commerce and the various factors detailed below.
First Quarter 2010 Guidance
 
 
We are prospectively adopting Accounting Standard Update (ASU) No. 2009-13, Revenue Recognition  Multiple Deliverable Revenue Arrangements, as of January 1, 2010. The impact of the adoption of this standard is included in our first quarter 2010 guidance.
A conference call will be webcast live today at 2 p.m. PT/5 p.m. ET, and will be available for at least three months at www.amazon.com/ir. This call will contain forward-looking statements and other material information regarding the Company's financial and operating results.
.
These forward-looking statements are inherently difficult to predict. Actual results could differ materially for a variety of reasons, including, in addition to the factors discussed above, the amount that Amazon.com invests in new business opportunities and the timing of those investments, the mix of products sold to customers, the mix of net sales derived from products as compared with services, the extent to which we owe income taxes, competition, management of growth, potential fluctuations in operating results, international growth and expansion, the outcomes of legal proceedings and claims, fulfillment center optimization, risks of inventory management, seasonality, the degree to which the Company enters into, maintains and develops commercial agreements, acquisitions and strategic transactions, and risks of fulfillment throughput and productivity. Other risks and uncertainties include, among others, risks related to new products, services and technologies, system interruptions, government regulation and taxation, payments and fraud. In addition, the current global economic climate amplifies many of these risks. More information about factors that potentially could affect Amazon.com's financial results is included in Amazon.com's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent filings
About Amazon.com
Amazon.com, Inc. (NASDAQ: AMZN), a Fortune 500 company based in Seattle, opened on the World Wide Web in July 1995 and today offers Earth's Biggest Selection. Amazon.com, Inc. seeks to be Earth's most customer-centric company, where customers can find and discover anything they might want to buy online, and endeavors to offer its customers the lowest possible prices. Amazon.com and other sellers offer millions of unique new, refurbished and used items in categories such as Books; Movies, Music & Games; Digital Downloads; Electronics & Computers; Home & Garden; Toys, Kids & Baby; Grocery; Apparel, Shoes & Jewelry; Health & Beauty; Sports & Outdoors; and Tools, Auto & Industrial. Amazon Web Services provides Amazon's developer customers with access to in-the-cloud infrastructure services based on Amazon's own back-end technology platform, which developers can use to enable virtually any type of business. Kindle and Kindle DX are the revolutionary portable readers that wirelessly download books, magazines, newspapers, blogs and personal documents to a crisp, high-resolution electronic ink display that looks and reads like real paper. Kindle and Kindle DX utilize the same 3G wireless technology as advanced cell phones, so users never need to hunt for a Wi-Fi hotspot. Kindle is the #1 bestselling product across the millions of items sold on Amazon.
Amazon and its affiliates operate websites, including , , , , , , and . As used herein, "Amazon.com," "we," "our" and similar terms include Amazon.com, Inc., and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise.
www.amazon.com
www.amazon.co.uk
www.amazon.de
www.amazon.co.jp
www.amazon.fr
www.amazon.ca
www.amazon.cn
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Segment Reporting
 
 
 
 
Customer Accounts
 
Seller Accounts
 
Registered Developers
 
Units
 
 
Cash Flows and Return on Invested Capital
 
 
 
Net Sales
 
 
Cost of Sales
 
Fulfillment
 
Marketing
 
 
Technology and Content
 
 
Contacts:
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Regulation G, , and other SEC regulations define and prescribe the conditions for use of certain non-GAAP financial information.
Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Our measure of "Free cash flow" meets the definition of a non-GAAP financial measure. Free cash flow is used in addition to and in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP and free cash flow should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures.
Free cash flow, which we reconcile to "Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities," is cash flow from operations reduced by "Purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development." We use free cash flow, and ratios based on it, to conduct and evaluate our business because, although it is similar to cash flow from operations, we believe it typically will present a more conservative measure of cash flows since purchases of fixed assets are a necessary component of ongoing operations.
Free cash flow has limitations due to the fact that it does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example, free cash flow does not incorporate payments made on capital lease obligations or cash payments for business acquisitions. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flow as a complement to our entire consolidated statements of cash flows.
For a quantitative reconciliation of free cash flow to the most directly comparable amounts reported in accordance with GAAP, see "Supplemental Financial Information and Business Metrics" in Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
"Return on Invested Capital" is a ratio based on free cash flow, and as such, is also a non-GAAP financial measure. Return on invested capital is trailing twelve months free cash flow divided by average "Total assets" minus "Current liabilities" (excluding the current portion, if any, of our Long Term Debt), over the most recent five quarter ends. We believe return on invested capital is a useful measure in assessing whether we are utilizing our capital efficiently.
As with free cash flow, return on invested capital is used in addition to and in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP and return on invested capital should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures. We include return on invested capital, and the denominator used to calculate it (called "Invested Capital") in "Supplemental Financial Information and Business Metrics" in Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.


