Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Certain information contained in Managements Discussion and Analysis and in other parts of this report may be deemed forward looking statements regarding events and financial trends that may affect the Companys future operating results or financial positions. These statements may be identified by words such as "estimate", "forecast", "project", "plan", "intend", "believe", "expect", "anticipate", or variations or negatives thereof or by similar or comparable words or phrases. Forward looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following: changes in levels of unemployment and other economic conditions in the U.S. or foreign countries where the Company does business, or in particular regions or industries; reduction in the supply of qualified candidates for temporary employment or the Companys ability to attract qualified candidates; the entry of new competitors into the marketplace or expansion by existing competitors; the ability of the Company to maintain existing client relationships and attract new clients in the context of changing economic or competitive conditions; the impact of competitive pressures, including any change in the demand for the Companys services, on the Companys ability to maintain its profit margins; the possibility of the Company incurring liability for its activities, including the activities of its temporary employees or for events impacting its temporary employees on clients premises; the success of the Company in attracting, training and retaining qualified management personnel and other staff employees; whether governments will impose additional regulations or licensing requirements on personnel services businesses in particular or on employer/employee relationships in general; future success of the new Protiviti subsidiary will depend on its ability to retain employees and attract clients; significant costs and diversion of management time could be incurred in integrating key personnel into Protiviti; certain capitalizable costs associated with the Protiviti employment arrangements could become impaired and written off; failure of Protiviti to produce projected revenues could adversely affect financial results; and the possibility of involvement in litigation relating to prior transactions or activities. Further information regarding these and other risks and uncertainties is contained in Item 1. Business under the heading "Risk Factors". Because long term contracts are not a significant part of the Companys business, future results cannot be reliably predicted by considering past trends or extrapolating past results. Critical Accounting Policies In response to the SECs Release No. 33 8040, "Cautionary Advice Regarding Disclosure About Critical Accounting Policies," we identified the Companys most critical accounting policies to be those that involve subjective decisions, assessments or estimates. Accounts Receivable Allowances. The Company maintains accounts receivable allowances for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments. If the financial condition of the Companys customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required. Estimates used in determining the accounts receivable allowances were based on current trends and historical loss statistics. Actual results may differ from these estimates, which may materially affect the Companys future financial results. Income Tax Assets and Liabilities. In establishing its deferred income tax assets and liabilities, the Company makes judgments and interpretations based on the enacted tax laws and published tax guidance that are applicable to its operations. The Company records deferred tax assets and liabilities and evaluates the need for valuation allowances to reduce the deferred tax assets to realizable amounts. The likelihood of a material change in the Companys expected realization of these assets is dependent on future taxable income, its ability to use foreign tax credit carryforwards and carrybacks, final U.S. and foreign tax settlements, and the effectiveness of its tax planning strategies in the various relevant jurisdictions. While management believes that its judgments and interpretations regarding deferred income tax assets and liabilities are appropriate, significant differences in actual experience may materially affect the future financial results of the Company. Employee Retirement Plans. The determination of the Companys obligations for certain employee retirement plans is dependent upon various assumptions, including, among others, interest rates, service periods, and future compensation levels. Management believes its assumptions are appropriate, however significant differences in actual experience or significant changes in assumptions may materially affect the Companys future financial results. 10 Goodwill Impairment. In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" ("SFAS 142") the Company assesses the impairment of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets annually, or more often if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. This assessment is based upon a discounted cash flow analysis. The estimate of cash flow is based upon, among other things, certain assumptions about expected future operating performance and an appropriate discount rate determined by management. The Companys estimates of discounted cash flow may differ from actual cash flow due to, among other things, economic conditions, changes to its business model or changes in its operating performance. Significant differences between these estimates and actual cash flow could materially affect the future financial results of the Company. The Company completed its annual goodwill impairment test during the year ended December 31, 2002 and determined that no adjustment to the carrying value of goodwill was required. Workers Compensation. The Company has established reserves for workers compensation claims based on historical loss statistics. The Company self insures or retains a portion of the exposure for losses related to workers compensation. It is the Companys policy to record self insurance reserves based upon claims filed and an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported. While management believes that its assumptions and estimates are appropriate, significant differences in actual experience or significant changes in assumptions may materially affect the Companys future financial results. Stock Option Plans. The Company has a long history of issuing stock options to employees and directors as an integral part of its compensation programs. Generally accepted accounting principles allow alternative methods of accounting for these plans. The Company has chosen to account for its stock option plans under APB Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" ("APB 25"). Under APB 25, the intrinsic value of the options is used to record compensation expense and, as a result, no compensation expense related to stock options is included in determining net income and net income per share in the Consolidated Financial Statements. The alternative method of accounting for stock options is prescribed by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123. Note K to the Consolidated Financial Statements sets forth calculations of pro forma net income and net income per share computed in accordance with this method. Results of Operations for the Three Years Ended December 31, 2002 Temporary and consultant staffing services revenues were $1.8 billion, $2.3 billion and $2.4 billion for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively, decreasing by 22% and 8% during 2002 and 2001, respectively. Permanent placement revenues were $100 million, $189 million and $252 million for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively, decreasing by 47% and 25% in 2002 and 2001, respectively. Staffing services revenue results for year ended December 31, 2002 were adversely impacted by weak labor markets and soft general economic conditions, particularly in the United States. Risk consulting and internal audit services revenues were $42 million for the period May 24, 2002 (inception) to December 31, 2002. We expect total company revenues to continue to be negatively impacted by general macroeconomic conditions in 2003. The Companys temporary and permanent staffing services business has more than 320 offices in 42 states, the District of Columbia and ten foreign countries, while Protiviti has more than 30 offices in 21 states and four foreign countries. Revenues from domestic operations represented 83%, 85% and 89% of revenues for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Revenues from foreign operations represented 17%, 15% and 11% of revenues for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Gross margin dollars from the Companys temporary and consultant staffing services represent revenues less direct costs of services, which consist of payroll, payroll taxes and insurance costs for temporary employees. Gross margin dollars from permanent placement staffing services are equal to revenues, as there are no direct costs associated with such revenues. Gross margin dollars for risk consulting and internal audit services represent revenues less direct costs of services, which consist primarily of professional staff payroll, payroll taxes, insurance costs and reimbursable expenses. Gross margin dollars for the Companys temporary and consultant staffing services were $628 million, $828 million and $908 million for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively, decreasing by 24% and 9% in 2002 and 2001, respectively. Gross margin amounts equaled 36% of revenues for temporary and consultant staffing services for the year ended December 31, 2002, and 37% for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000. The lower 2002 temporary and consulting margin percentage is primarily due to lower temp to perm conversion fees, which carry higher margins. Gross margin dollars for 11 the Companys permanent placement staffing division were $100 million, $189 million and $252 million for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively, decreasing by 47% and 25% in 2002 and 2001, respectively. Gross margin dollars for the Companys risk consulting and internal audit division were negative $13 million for the period May 24, 2002 (inception) to December 31, 2002, which reflects fixed payroll costs that were not totally covered by revenues. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $710 million in 2002, compared to $823 million in 2001 and $864 million in 2000. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues were 37%, 34% and 32% for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of staff compensation, advertising, depreciation and occupancy costs. The percentage increase in 2002 was primarily due to negative leverage from fixed operating expenses including depreciation, occupancy costs and administrative compensation. For acquisitions, the Company allocates the excess of cost over the fair market value of the net tangible assets first to identifiable intangible assets, if any, and then to goodwill. The Company adopted SFAS 142 on January 1, 2002, resulting in the discontinuance of the amortization of goodwill that was being amortized over 40 years. The methods used for evaluating and measuring impairment of certain intangible assets have changed in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 142. The Company completed its annual goodwill impairment test during the year ended December 31, 2002 and determined that no adjustment to the carrying value of goodwill was required. Net intangible assets represented 17% of total assets and 22% of total stockholders equity at December 31, 2002. Interest income for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000 was $5.5 million, $9.3 million and $11.3 million, respectively, while interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000 was $.9 million, $.8 million and $.9 million, respectively. Higher average cash balances in 2002 were more than offset by lower interest rates during the year, yielding lower interest income. The provision for income taxes was 38% of income before taxes for each of the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000. Liquidity and Capital Resources The change in the Companys liquidity during the past three years is the net effect of funds generated by operations and the funds used for capital expenditures, the purchase of intangible assets, repurchases of common stock, and principal payments on outstanding notes payable. As of December 31, 2002, the Company has authorized the repurchase, from time to time, of up to 11.1 million additional shares of the Companys common stock on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, depending on market conditions. During the year ended December 31, 2002, the Company repurchased approximately 6.9 million shares of common stock on the open market for a total cost of $132 million. Additional stock repurchases were made in connection with employee stock plans, whereby Company shares were tendered by employees for the payment of applicable withholding taxes. During the year ended December 31, 2002, such repurchases totaled approximately 0.6 million shares at a cost of $15 million. Repurchases of securities have been funded with cash generated from operations. For the year ended December 31, 2002, the Company generated $166 million from operations, used $89 million in investing activities and used $107 million in financing activities. This is further enumerated in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. The Companys working capital at December 31, 2002, included $317 million in cash and cash equivalents. The Companys working capital requirements consist primarily of the financing of accounts receivable. While there can be no assurances in this regard, the Company expects that internally generated cash will be sufficient to support the working capital needs of the Company, the Companys fixed payments, and other obligations on both a short and long term basis. As of December 31, 2002, the Company had no material capital commitments. In connection with the formation of Protiviti, the Company became the guarantor of certain former Andersen partners capital notes, which totaled approximately $4 million at December 31, 2002.  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk The Companys market risk sensitive instruments do not subject the Company to material market risk exposures. 12   
 
