Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Certain information contained in Managements Discussion and Analysis and in other parts of this report may be deemed forward looking statements regarding events and financial trends that may affect the Companys future operating results or financial positions. These statements may be identified by words such as estimate, forecast, project, plan, intend, believe, expect, anticipate, or variations or negatives thereof or by similar or comparable words or phrases. Forward looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following: changes in levels of unemployment and other economic conditions in the United States or foreign countries where the Company does business, or in particular regions or industries; reduction in the supply of candidates for temporary employment or the Companys ability to attract candidates; the entry of new competitors into the marketplace or expansion by existing competitors; the ability of the Company to maintain existing client relationships and attract new clients in the context of changing economic or competitive conditions; the impact of competitive pressures, including any change in the demand for the Companys services, on the Companys ability to maintain its margins; the possibility of the Company incurring liability for its activities, including the activities of its temporary employees, or for events impacting its temporary employees on clients premises; the possibility that adverse publicity could impact the Companys ability to attract and retain clients and candidates; the success of the Company in attracting, training, and retaining qualified management personnel and other staff employees; whether governments will impose additional regulations or licensing requirements on personnel services businesses in particular or on employer/employee relationships in general; whether there will be ongoing demand for Sarbanes Oxley or other regulatory compliance services; and litigation relating to prior or current transactions or activities, including litigation that may be disclosed from time to time in the Companys SEC filings. Additionally, with respect to Protiviti, other risks and uncertainties include the fact that future success will depend on its ability to retain employees and attract clients; there can be no assurance that there will be ongoing demand for Sarbanes Oxley or other regulatory compliance services; failure to produce projected revenues could adversely affect financial results; and possible involvement in litigation relating to prior or current transactions or activities. Further information regarding these and other risks and uncertainties is contained in Item 1. Business under the heading Risk Factors. Because long term contracts are not a significant part of the Companys business, future results cannot be reliably predicted by considering past trends or extrapolating past results. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates As described below, the Companys most critical accounting policies and estimates are those that involve subjective decisions or assessments. Accounts Receivable Allowances. The Company maintains accounts receivable allowances for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments. If the financial condition of the Companys customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required. Estimates used in determining the accounts receivable allowances were based on current trends and historical loss statistics. Actual results may differ from these estimates, which may materially affect the Companys future financial results. Income Tax Assets and Liabilities. In establishing its deferred income tax assets and liabilities, the Company makes judgments and interpretations based on the enacted tax laws and published tax guidance that are applicable to its operations. The Company records deferred tax assets and liabilities and evaluates the need for valuation allowances to reduce the deferred tax assets to realizable amounts. The likelihood of a material change in the Companys expected realization of these assets is dependent on future taxable income, its ability to use foreign tax credit carryforwards and carrybacks, final U.S. and foreign tax settlements, and the effectiveness of its tax planning strategies in the various relevant jurisdictions. While management believes that its judgments and interpretations regarding deferred income tax assets and liabilities are appropriate, significant differences in actual experience may materially affect the future financial results of the Company. 10 Employee Retirement Plans. The determination of the Companys obligations for certain employee retirement plans is dependent upon various assumptions, including, among others, expected retirement age, mortality, expected post retirement Consumer Price Index increases, and discount rates. Management believes its assumptions are appropriate; however, significant differences in actual experience or significant changes in assumptions may materially affect the Companys future financial results. Goodwill Impairment. The Company assesses the impairment of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets annually, or more often if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. This assessment is based upon a discounted cash flow analysis. The estimate of cash flow is based upon, among other things, certain assumptions about expected future operating performance and an appropriate discount rate determined by management. The Companys estimates of discounted cash flow may differ from actual cash flow due to, among other things, economic conditions, changes to its business model or changes in its operating performance. Significant differences between these estimates and actual cash flow could materially affect the future financial results of the Company. The Company completed its annual goodwill impairment analysis during each of the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, and determined that no adjustment to the carrying value of goodwill was required. Workers Compensation. The Company self insures or retains a portion of the exposure for losses related to workers compensation. The Company has established reserves for workers compensation claims based on historical loss statistics and periodic third party actuarial valuations. While management believes that its assumptions and estimates are appropriate, significant differences in actual experience or significant changes in assumptions may materially affect the Companys future financial results. Stock Option Plans. The Company has a long history of issuing stock options to employees and directors as an integral part of its compensation programs. Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America allow alternative methods of accounting for these plans. The Company has chosen to account for its stock option plans under Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees (APB 25). Under APB 25, the intrinsic value of the options is used to record compensation expense and, as a result, no compensation expense related to stock options is included in determining net income and net income per share in the Consolidated Financial Statements (Financial Statements). Restricted stock grants are accounted for in accordance with APB 25, which mandates that restricted stock grants with performance conditions are calculated using the intrinsic value. As required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 148, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure (SFAS 148), calculations of pro forma net income (loss) and net income (loss) per share, computed in accordance with the method prescribed by SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation (SFAS 123), are set forth in Note A to the Financial Statements. The Company expects to adopt the provisions of SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment, (SFAS 123R) on July 1, 2005. Among other things, SFAS 123R requires all share based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the financial statements based on their fair values beginning with the first interim or annual period after June 15, 2005. See Note B New Accounting Pronouncements in 
 
