FILE:EL/EL-8K-20050210124204.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549-1004 ---------------------- FORM 8-K/A CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): December 13, 2004 The Estee Lauder Companies Inc. (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 11-2408943 (State or other jurisdiction of (IRS Employer Identification No.) incorporation or organization) 767 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York 10153 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Commission File Number: 1-14064 212-572-4200 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) Not Applicable (Former name or former address, if changed since last report) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below): |_| Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) |_| Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) |_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) |_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement. Director Compensation --------------------- A summary of the compensation provided to the non-employee directors of The Estee Lauder Companies Inc. is attached as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and incorporated into this Item 1.01 by reference. Employment Agreement with Daniel J. Brestle ------------------------------------------- On February 7, 2005, The Estee Lauder Companies Inc. (the "Company") and Daniel J. Brestle finalized the terms of his employment agreement as Group President until December 31, 2004 and Chief Operating Officer from and after January 1, 2005 through June 30, 2007, unless earlier terminated. The agreement is filed as Exhibit 10.2 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference. The agreement provides for a base salary at the rate of $1 million from July 1, 2004 through December 31, 2004 and $1.25 million per year for the period from January 1, 2005 through June 30, 2005 and for the years ending June 30, 2006 and June 30, 2007 Mr. Brestle is entitled to participate in standard benefit plans, such as the Company's pension and medical plans. The Compensation Committee has granted to Mr. Brestle bonus opportunities with a target payout of $1.75 million for fiscal 2005, $1.9 million for fiscal 2006 and $2.0 million for fiscal 2007. Mr. Brestle may elect to defer certain of his cash compensation. Mr. Brestle was granted options with respect to 100,000 shares of Class A Common Stock with an exercise price of $43.10 per share in August 2004 and the agreement contemplates additional stock option grants of 200,000 shares of Class A Common Stock, or other equity compensation grants of equivalent value, in respect of each of fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2007. The Company will provide to Mr. Brestle executive term life insurance with annual premiums paid by the Company in the amount of $65,900. Under the agreement, the Company may terminate Mr. Brestle's employment at any time if he becomes "permanently disabled," in which event Mr. Brestle will be entitled to (i) receive for a period of one year from the date of termination his base salary in effect at the time of termination less any pension benefits or long-term disability payments, if any, made to the Mr. Brestle (ii) receive unpaid bonus compensation otherwise payable for the fiscal year in which such disability occurred pro-rated to the date of termination, and (iii) participate in the Company's benefit plans for such one-year period. In the event of Mr. Brestle's death during the term of his employment, his beneficiary or legal representative will be entitled to receive (i)for a period of one year Mr. Brestle's base salary in effect at the time of death and (ii) bonus compensation otherwise payable in respect of the fiscal year prior to that in which he dies and a one-time payment equal to 50% of the average actual bonuses paid or payable during the contract term (or $875,000 if he dies in fiscal 2005). The Company may terminate his employment for any reason upon 180 days' written notice. In the event of the Company's termination of his employment (other than for cause, disability or death), (a) Mr. Brestle will be entitled to (i) receive for the Post-Termination Period his base salary in effect at the time of termination, (ii) receive bonus compensation equal to 50% of the average of incentive compensation bonuses previously paid or payable to him during the contract term (or $875,000 if he dies in fiscal 2005) and (iii) participate in the Company's benefit plans during the Post-Termination Period 2
and (b) in the case of termination by the Company (other than for cause, disability or death), Mr. Brestle will not be subject to the non-competition covenant contained in his current Agreement. The Post-Termination Period is defined as a period ending on the latest to occur of a date one (1) year from the effective date of termination, June 30, 2007, or the conclusion of a severance period consistent with Company policy (which in no event will exceed two years). If the Company does not renew the term of his employment, Mr. Brestle will be entitled to receive his base salary and certain other benefits consistent with the Company's policy for the greater of one year or such period consistent with Company policy at that time (which in no event will exceed two years). Mr. Brestle may terminate his employment at any time upon six months' written notice to the Company, in which event Mr. Brestle will be entitled to receive his base salary and for one year following termination (or such longer period which is consistent with Company policy for severance (which in no event will exceed two years). Upon termination for any reason, options previously granted to Mr. Brestle will remain exercisable for the remainder of their respective terms, subject to certain non-competition and good conduct provisions. In the event than any termination payment received by Mr. Brestle would be subject to the excise tax (the "Excise Tax") imposed by Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code, such payments will be reduced (but not below zero) until no portion of such payments would be subject to Excise Tax. The agreement described above provides that the Company may require the executive to defer certain amounts to be received by him to the extent such amounts may not be deductible by reason of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code. The employment agreement also contains certain confidentiality and non-competition provisions. Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers. Confirmation of Appointment of Daniel J. Brestle as Chief Operating Officer ------------------------------------------------------------------- On December 13, 2004, the Board of Directors of The Estee Lauder Companies Inc. (the "Company") confirmed the appointment of Daniel J. Brestle as Chief Operating Officer ("COO") of the Company effective January 1, 2005. As COO, Mr. Brestle will be responsible through intermediate reports for the Company's operations, including materials planning, procurement, manufacturing and logistics; research and development; and Estee Lauder, M-A-C, Prescriptives, Jo Malone, La Mer, kate spade and the BeautyBank brands. Prior to his appointment as COO, Mr. Brestle, age 59, served as Group President responsible for the Company's specialty brands, such as Aveda, Bobbi Brown, Bumble and bumble, La Mer, Prescriptives, Jo Malone, kate spade and Stila on a worldwide basis since July 2001. During that time, he was also responsible for the recently acquired brands, Darphin and Rodan + Fields, and for BeautyBank and its brands. From July 1998 through June 2001, he was President of Estee Lauder (USA & Canada). Prior to July 1998, he was President of Clinique Laboratories, Inc. and had been the senior officer of that division since 1992. From 1988 through 1992, he was President of Prescriptives U.S.A. Mr. Brestle joined the Company in 1978. 3
Appointment of Mellody Hobson to Board of Directors and Audit Committee ------------------------------------------------------------- On December 17, 2004, the Board of Directors of the Company appointed Mellody Hobson to the Company's Board of Directors and to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors effective January 1, 2005. Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits (c) Exhibits Exhibit No. Description - ----------- ----------- Each exhibit set forth below is a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 10.1 Summary of Compensation for Non-Employee Directors (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities Exchange Commission on December 17, 2004).* 10.2 Employment Agreement with Daniel J. Brestle. * Incorporated herein by reference. SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized. THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC. Date: February 10, 2005 By: /s/ Andrew J. Cavanaugh ------------------------------ Andrew J. Cavanaugh Senior Vice President - Global Human Resources 4
THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC. EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit No. Description - ----------- ----------- 10.1 Summary of Compensation for Non-Employee Directors(filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities Exchange Commission on December 17, 2004).* 10.2 Employment Agreement with Daniel J. Brestle. * Incorporated herein by reference. 5

Exhibit 10.2 EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT -------------------- THIS AGREEMENT ("Agreement"), dated as of July 1, 2004, between THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and DANIEL J. BRESTLE, a resident of Wycoff, New Jersey (the "Executive" or "you"). W I T N E S S E T H: WHEREAS, the Company and its subsidiaries are principally engaged in the business of manufacturing, marketing and selling skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care products and related services (the "Business"); and WHEREAS, the Company desires to continue to retain the services of the Executive as Group President until December 31, 2004 and as Chief Operating Officer for the remainder of the Term of Employment (as defined below); and WHEREAS, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Compensation Committee") and the Stock Plan Subcommittee of the Compensation Committee have approved the terms of this Agreement; NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and of the mutual covenants and obligations hereinafter set forth, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound, hereby agree as follows: 1. Employment Term. The Company hereby agrees to employ the Executive, and the Executive hereby agrees to enter into employment, as Group President of the Company for the period commencing on July 1, 2004 and ending December 31, 2004 and Chief Operating Officer of the Company for a period commencing January 1, 2005 and ending June 30, 2007 unless terminated sooner pursuant to Section 6 hereof (the "Term of Employment"). The twelve-month period commencing on July 1, 2004 shall be the "First Contract Year" hereunder, and subsequent twelve-month periods shall be subsequent Contract Years. 2. Duties and Extent of Services. (a) During the period ending December 31, 2004, the Executive shall serve as Group President of the Company, and, in such capacity, he shall serve as the senior-most executive responsible for one or more of the Company's brands and/or business units as he may be assigned from time to time. For the remainder of the Term of Employment, the Executive shall serve as Chief Operating Officer of the Company and In such capacity, he shall render such executive, managerial, administrative and other services as customarily are associated with and incident to such positions, and as the Company may, from time to time, reasonably require of him consistent with such positions. (b) The Executive shall also hold such other positions and executive offices of the Company and/or of any of the Company's subsidiaries or affiliates as may from time to time be agreed by the Executive or assigned by the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company or the Board of Directors of the Company, provided that each such position shall be commensurate with the
Executive's standing in the business community as Group President or Chief Operating Officer, as the case may be. The Executive shall not be entitled to any compensation other than the compensation provided for herein for serving during the Term of Employment in any other office or position of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, unless the Board of Directors of the Company or the appropriate committee thereof shall specifically approve such additional compensation. (c) The Executive shall be a full-time employee of the Company and shall exclusively devote all his business time and efforts faithfully and competently to the Company and shall diligently perform to the best of his ability all of the duties required of him as Group President or Chief Operating Officer, and in the other positions or offices of the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates assigned to him hereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, the Executive may serve as a non-management director of such business corporations (or in a like capacity in other for-profit or not-for-profit organizations) as the Board of Directors, Chairman of the Board or President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company may approve, such approval not to be unreasonably withheld. 3. (a) Base Salary. As compensation for all services to be rendered pursuant to this Agreement and as payment for the rights and interests granted by Executive hereunder, the Company shall pay or cause any of its subsidiaries to pay the Executive a base salary of (i) $83,333.33 per month (which equates to $1,000,000 per annum) for the six month period ending December 31, 2004, and (ii) $104,166.67 per month (which equates to $1,250,000 per annum) for the six month period ending June 30, 2005 and for the Second and Third Contract Years (the "Base Salary"). All amounts of Base Salary provided for hereunder shall be payable in accordance with the regular payroll policies of the Company in effect from time to time. (b) Incentive Bonus Compensation. The Compensation Committee has established for the Executive annual opportunities under the Company's Executive Annual Incentive Plan or any subsequent Bonus Plan for executives that is approved by the stockholders of the Company (the "Bonus Plan") with aggregate target payouts of $1,750,000 in respect of the First Contract Year, $1,900,000 in respect of the Second Contract Year and $2,000,000 in respect of the Third Contract Year, subject to the terms and conditions of the Bonus Plan, which are incorporated herein by reference. (c) Deferral. The Executive may elect to defer payment of all or any part of his incentive bonus compensation payable in accordance with Section 3(b) hereof in respect of any Contract Year during the Term of Employment, by giving to the Company written notice thereof, on or before December 31 of such Contract Year or part year (or such earlier date as may be necessary to comply with the applicable tax laws and regulations). Additionally, in the event that in respect of any fiscal year of the Company any amount of Base Salary, any amount payable under the Incentive Bonus Plan or any other amount payable to the Executive hereunder or otherwise shall, either alone or in combination with other amounts payable hereunder or otherwise, result in the payment by the Company of any amount that shall not be currently deductible by it pursuant to the provisions of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended (the "Code"), or like or successor provisions (a "Non-Deductible Amount"), the Company may elect to defer the payment of the Non-Deductible Amount. Any amounts so deferred, either by election of the Executive or by election of the Company, shall be credited to a bookkeeping account in the name of the Executive as of the date scheduled for payment hereunder. Such amounts 2
shall be credited with interest as of each June 30 during the term of deferral, compounded annually, at a rate per annum equal to the annual rate of interest announced by Citibank N.A. in New York, New York as its base rate in effect on such June 30, but in no event shall such rate exceed 9%. The amounts credited to such bookkeeping account on or prior to December 31, 2004 and interest credited thereon shall be paid to the Executive (subject to all applicable withholding taxes) on a date to be chosen by the Company, but in no event later than ninety (90) days after the termination of the Executive's employment with the Company, unless the Executive requests prior to termination of his employment from the Company to continue the deferral of such payments until a later date and the Company agrees to such request. The amounts credited to the Deferred Compensation Account after December 31, 2004 and interest credited thereon shall be paid to the Executive (or to the Executive's designated beneficiary in the event of his death) on, or as soon as practicable after, the date that is six (6) months after the termination of the Executive's employment with the Company. The Company, in its sole discretion, may provide an investment facility for all or a portion of such deferred amounts, but shall not be required to do so. 4. (a) Stock Options. The Stock Plan Subcommittee of the Compensation Committee has approved the grant to the Executive of options to purchase no fewer than 100,000 shares of the Company's Class A Common Stock ("Stock Options") under the Fiscal 2002 Share Incentive Plan (the "Share Incentive Plan") in respect of the First Contract Year. Such grant shall be made at such time during the Contract Year determined by Stock Plan Subcommittee. The option grant is subject to the terms and conditions of the Share Incentive Plan (or applicable successor plan), which are incorporated herein by reference. The terms of the options shall be set forth in a separate grant letter approved by the Compensation Committee or the Stock Plan Subcommittee of the Compensation Committee. (b) Equity-Based Compensation. In respect of the Second and Third Contract Years, the Company shall recommend to the Stock Plan Subcommittee of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors that the Executive be awarded under the terms and conditions of the Fiscal 2002 Share Incentive Plan or successor plan (which are incorporated herein by reference) and subject to the provisions of Section 6(i) below, Equity-Based Compensation awards in accordance with the policies and procedures of the Company as in effect from time to time for its Executive Officers. The terms of such Equity-Based Compensation awards shall be set forth in a separate grant letter approved by the Stock Plan Subcommittee of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. The recommended equity-based compensation awards shall be of an equivalent value to a grant of stock option with respect to 200,000 shares of the Company's Class A Common Stock determined in accordance with procedures generally utilized by the Company for its financial reporting at the time of grant. (c) Certain Conditions. Executive acknowledges and agrees that any grant of Stock Options or other Equity-Based Compensation otherwise provided for in this Section 4 shall be effective as provided herein only to the extent permitted by the Share Incentive Plan, and this Agreement shall not obligate the Company to adopt any successor plan providing for the grant of Stock Options (or other Equity-Based Compensation). 5. Benefits. (a) Standard Benefits. During the Term of Employment, the Executive shall be entitled to (i) participate in any and all benefit programs 3
and arrangements now in effect and hereinafter adopted and made generally available by the Company to its senior officers, including but not limited to the Estee Lauder Companies 401(k) Savings Plan (the "401(k) Savings Plan"), the Estee Lauder Companies Retirement Growth Account Plan (the "Qualified Plan"), the related Estee Lauder Inc. Benefit Restoration Plan (the "Non-Qualified Plan"), contributory and non-contributory Company welfare and benefit plans, disability plans, and medical, death benefit and life insurance plans for which the Executive shall be eligible, or may become eligible during the Term of Employment; (ii) participate in the Company's automobile program now in effect and hereinafter adopted and generally made available by the Company to its senior officers officers and, in accordance with such program, may elect to be provided with an automobile having an acquisition value of up to $50,000; and (iii) paid vacations during each year of the Term of Employment in accordance with the policies and procedures of the Company as in effect from time to time for its senior officers. (b) Perquisite Reimbursement; Financial Counseling. The Company shall reimburse the Executive the actual expense incurred by him in connection with his professional standing, in accordance with the guidelines set out in the Company's executive perquisite program. In no event shall the gross amount of such reimbursements be greater than $15,000 in respect of any fiscal year during the Term of Employment. Additionally, the Executive will reimburse the Executive for up to $5,000.00 per year in financial counseling services. The Executive acknowledges that participation in such programs will result in the receipt by him of additional taxable income. (c) Expenses. The Company agrees to reimburse the Executive for all reasonable and necessary travel (including first class air fare), business entertainment and other business out-of-pocket expenses incurred or expended by him in connection with the performance of his duties hereunder upon presentation of proper expense statements or vouchers or such other supporting information as the Company may reasonably require of the Executive. (d) Spousal Travel. The Executive may upon prior approval of the President and Chief Executive Officer or his designee arrange for his spouse to accompany him on business related travel itineraries, on a reasonable basis, at Company expense. (e) Executive Term Life Insurance. During the Term of Employment, the Company shall continue to pay premiums on the existing term life insurance policy. 6. Termination. (a) Permanent Disability. In the event of the "permanent disability" (as hereinafter defined) of the Executive during the Term of Employment, the Company shall have the right, upon written notice to the Executive, to terminate the Executive's employment hereunder, effective upon the giving of such notice (or such later date as shall be specified in such notice). In the event of such termination, the Company shall have no further obligations hereunder, except that the Executive shall be entitled (i) to receive any amounts or benefits to which the Executive may otherwise have been entitled prior to the effective date of termination; (ii) to be paid his Base Salary under Section 3(a) hereof for a period of one (1) year from the effective date of termination; provided, however, that the Company shall only be required to pay that amount of the Executive's Base Salary which shall not be covered by pension benefits or long-term disability payments, if any, to the Executive under any Company plan or arrangement and (iii) to receive a pro-rata portion of the annual bonus that the Executive would have been entitled to receive had he 4
remained in employment through the end of the Contract Year during which the termination due to permanent disability occurred. In addition, upon termination for permanent disability, the Executive shall continue to participate in any and all pension, insurance and other benefit plans and programs of the Company during the period the Executive is continuing to receive his Base Salary in accordance with this Section 6(a). Thereafter, the Executive's rights to participate in such programs and plans, or to receive similar coverage, if any, shall be as determined under such programs; provided, however, that, except as otherwise provided in this Section 6(a), the Company will have no further obligations under Sections 3(b) and 4 hereof. For purposes of this Section 6(a), "permanent disability" means any disability as defined under the Company's applicable disability insurance policy or, if no such policy is available, any physical or mental disability or incapacity that renders the Executive incapable of performing the services required of him in accordance with his obligations under Section 2 hereof for a period of six (6) consecutive months or for shorter periods aggregating six (6) months during any twelve-month period. (b) Death. In the event of the death of the Executive during the Term of Employment, this Agreement shall automatically terminate. In the event of such termination the Company shall have no further obligations hereunder, except to pay, for a period of one (1) year from the date of his death, the Executive's beneficiary or legal representative (i) the Executive's Base Salary as established under Section 3(a) hereof as of the date of his death; (ii) (A) bonus compensation earned but not paid under Section 3(b) hereof that relates to any Contract Year ending prior to the date of his death and (B) a one-time payment equal to fifty percent (50%) of the average of actual annual bonuses paid or payable during the Term of Employment in accordance with Section 3(b) hereof, except that if the Executive dies during the First Contract Year, the sum of $875,000; and (iii) any other amounts to which the Executive otherwise would have been entitled to hereunder prior to the date of his death; provided, however, that, except as otherwise provided in this Section 6(b), the Company will have no further obligations under Sections 3(b) and 4 hereof. (c) Termination Without Cause. The Company shall have the right, upon one hundred eighty (180) days' prior written notice given to the Executive, to terminate the Executive's employment for any reason whatsoever. In the event of such termination, for a period ending on the latest to occur of (x) a date one (1) year from the effective date of termination, (y) June 30, 2007, or (z) the conclusion of a severance period consistent with Company policy (which in no event will exceed two years), the Executive shall be entitled as damages to (i) receive his Base Salary as established under Section 3(a) hereof; and (ii) participate in all pension, insurance and other benefit plans, programs or arrangements, on terms identical to those applicable to full-term senior officers of the Company. In addition, he shall receive a one-time payment equal to fifty percent (50%) of the average of actual annual bonuses paid or payable to the Executive during the Term of Employment in accordance with Section 3(b) hereof, or, if such termination occurs prior to the payment of any bonus hereunder, the sum of $875,000. Except as otherwise provided in this Section 6(c), the Company will have no further obligations under Sections 3(b) and 4 hereof. In the event of termination pursuant to this Section 6(c), the Executive shall not be required to mitigate his damages hereunder. (d) Cause. The Company shall have the right, upon written notice to the Executive, to terminate the Executive's employment under this Agreement for "Cause" (as hereinafter defined), effective upon the giving of such notice (or such later date as shall be specified in such notice), and the Company shall have no further obligations hereunder, except to pay the Executive any amounts otherwise payable pursuant to Section 3 hereof and provide the Executive any benefits to which the Executive may have been otherwise entitled prorated to the effective date of termination. The Executive's right to 5
participate in any of the Company's retirement, insurance and other benefit plans and programs shall be as determined under such programs and plans; provided, however, that, except as otherwise provided in this Section 6(d), the Company will have no further obligations under Sections 3(b) and 4 hereof. For purposes of this Agreement, "Cause" means: (i) a material breach of, or the willful failure or refusal by the Executive to perform and discharge duties or obligations he has agreed to perform or assume under this Agreement (other than by reason of disability or death) that, if capable of correction, is not corrected within ten (10) business days following notice thereof to the Executive by the Company, such notice to state with specificity the nature of the breach, failure or refusal; (ii) willful misconduct by the Executive, unrelated to the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, that could reasonably be anticipated to have an adverse effect on the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates; (iii) the Executive's gross negligence, whether related or unrelated to the business of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates which could reasonably be anticipated to have an adverse effect on the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates that, if capable of correction, is not corrected within ten (10) business days following notice thereof to the Executive by the Company, such notice to state with specificity the nature of the conduct complained of; (iv) the Executive's failure to follow a lawful directive of the chief Executive Officer of the Company that is within the scope of the Executive's duties for a period of ten (10) business days after notice from the Chief Executive Officer specifying the performance required; (v) any violation by the Executive of a policy contained in the Code of Conduct of the Company; or (vi) drug or alcohol abuse by the Executive that materially affects the Executive's performance of his duties under this Agreement. (e) Termination by Executive. The Executive shall have the right, exercisable at any time during the Term of Employment, to terminate his employment for any reason whatsoever, upon six (6) months' prior written notice to the Company. Upon such termination, the Company shall have no further obligations hereunder other than to pay the executive his accrued benefits through the date of such termination and to pay his salary for a period of one-year following termination (or such longer period which is consistent with Company policy for severance (which in no event will exceed two years)). (f) Release of Claims. As a condition precedent to the receipt of certain payments and benefits pursuant to Section 6, the Executive, or, in the case of his death or Disability that prevents the Executive from performing his obligation under this Section 6(f), his personal representative, and his beneficiary, if applicable, will execute an effective general release of claims against the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates and their respective directors, officers, employees, attorneys and agents; provided, however, that such release will not affect any right that the Executive, or in the event of his death, his personal representative or beneficiary, otherwise has to any payment or benefit provided for in this Agreement or to any vested 6
benefits the Executive may have in any employee benefit plan of Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, or any right the Executive has under any other agreement between the Executive and the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates that expressly states that the right survives the termination of the Executive's employment. (g) Certain Limitations. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, in the event that any payment received or to be received by the Executive pursuant to Section 6 hereof or otherwise (a "Severance Payment") would be subject to the excise tax (the "Excise Tax") imposed by Section 4999 of the Code (in whole or part), the Severance Payment shall be reduced (but not below zero) until no portion of such payments would be subject to Excise Tax. (h) Non-Renewal. In the event the Company does not offer the Executive the renewal of the Term of Employment on the basis of terms no less favorable than those pending at the time of the conclusion of the Term, the Executive shall be entitled to a severance arrangement providing Base Salary and continuation of certain benefits for a the greater of one year or such period consistent with Company policy at that time (which in no event will exceed two years). (i) Effect of Termination. Upon the termination of the Executive's employment hereunder for any reason, the Company shall have no further obligations hereunder, except as otherwise provided herein. The Executive, however, shall continue to have the obligations provided for in Sections 7 and 8 hereof. Furthermore, upon such termination, the Executive shall be deemed to have resigned immediately from all offices and directorships held by him in the Company or any of its subsidiaries. 7. Confidentiality; Ownership. (a) The Executive agrees that he shall forever keep secret and retain in strictest confidence and not divulge, disclose, discuss, copy or otherwise use or suffer to be used in any manner, except in connection with the Business of the Company, its subsidiaries or affiliates and any other business or proposed business of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, any "Protected Information" in any "Unauthorized" manner or for any "Unauthorized" purpose (as such terms are hereinafter defined). (i) "Protected Information" means trade secrets, confidential or proprietary information and all other knowledge, know-how, information, documents or materials owned, developed or possessed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, whether in tangible or intangible form, pertaining to the Business or any other business or proposed business of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, including, but not limited to, research and development, operations, systems, data bases, computer programs and software, designs, models, operating procedures, knowledge of the organization, products (including prices, costs, sales or content), processes, formulas, techniques, machinery, contracts, financial information or measures, business methods, business plans, details of consultant contracts, new personnel hiring plans, business acquisition plans, customer lists, business relationships and other information owned, developed or possessed by the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates; provided that Protected Information shall not include information that becomes generally known to the public or the trade without violation of this Section 7. (ii) "Unauthorized" means: (A) in contravention of the policies or procedures of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates; (B) otherwise inconsistent with the measures taken by the Company or 7
any of its subsidiaries or affiliates to protect their interests in any Protected Information; (C) in contravention of any lawful instruction or directive, either written or oral, of an employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates empowered to issue such instruction or directive; or (D) in contravention of any duty existing under law or contract. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Section 7, the Executive may disclose any Protected Information to the extent required by court order or decree or by the rules and regulations of a governmental agency or as otherwise required by law or to his legal counsel and, in connection with a determination under Section 6(h), to accounting experts; provided that the Executive shall provide the Company with prompt notice of such required disclosure in advance thereof so that the Company may seek an appropriate protective order in respect of such required disclosure. (b) The Executive acknowledges that all developments, including, without limitation, inventions (patentable or otherwise), discoveries, formulas, improvements, patents, trade secrets, designs, reports, computer software, flow charts and diagrams, procedures, data, documentation, ideas and writings and applications thereof relating to the Business or any business or planned business of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates that, alone or jointly with others, the Executive may conceive, create, make, develop, reduce to practice or acquire during the Term of Employment (collectively, the "Developments") are works made for hire and shall remain the sole and exclusive property of the Company. The Executive hereby assigns to the Company, in consideration of the payments set forth in Section 3(a) hereof, all of his right, title and interest in and to all such Developments. The Executive shall promptly and fully disclose all future material Developments to the Board of Directors of the Company and, at any time upon request and at the expense of the Company, shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the Company all instruments that the Company shall prepare, give evidence and take all other actions that are necessary or desirable in the reasonable opinion of the Company to enable the Company to file and prosecute applications for and to acquire, maintain and enforce all letters patent and trademark registrations or copyrights covering the Developments in all countries in which the same are deemed necessary by the Company. All memoranda, notes, lists, drawings, records, files, computer tapes, programs, software, source and programming narratives and other documentation (and all copies thereof) made or compiled by the Executive or made available to the Executive concerning the Developments or otherwise concerning the Business or planned business of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates shall be the property of the Company or such subsidiaries or affiliates and shall be delivered to the Company or such subsidiaries or affiliates promptly upon the expiration or termination of the Term of Employment. (c) The provisions of this Section 7 shall, without any limitation as to time, survive the expiration or termination of the Executive's employment hereunder, irrespective of the reason for any termination. 8. Covenant Not to Compete. Subject to the last sentence of this Section 8, the Executive agrees that during the Term of Employment and for a period of two (2) years commencing upon the expiration or termination of the Executive's employment hereunder (the "Non-Compete Period"), the Executive shall not, directly or indirectly, without the prior written consent of the Company: (a) solicit, entice, persuade or induce any employee, consultant, agent or independent contractor of the Company or of any of its subsidiaries or affiliates to terminate his, her or its employment with the Company or such subsidiary or affiliate, to become employed by any person, firm or corporation other than the Company or such subsidiary or affiliate or 8
approach any such employee, consultant, agent or independent contractor for any of the foregoing purposes, or authorize or assist in the taking of any such actions by any third party (for purposes of this Section 8 (a), the terms "employee," "consultant," "agent" and "independent contractor" shall include any persons with such status at any time during the six (6) months preceding any solicitation in question); or (b) directly or indirectly engage, participate, or make any financial investment in, or become employed by or render consulting, advisory or other services to or for any person, firm, corporation or other business enterprise, wherever located, which is engaged, directly or indirectly, in competition with the Business or any business of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates as conducted or any business proposed to be conducted at the time of the expiration or termination of the Executive's employment hereunder; provided, however, that nothing in this Section 8(b) shall be construed to preclude the Executive from making any investments in the securities of any business enterprise whether or not engaged in competition with the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, to the extent that such securities are actively traded on a national securities exchange or in the over-the-counter market in the United States or on any foreign securities exchange and represent, at the time of acquisition, not more than 3% of the aggregate voting power of such business enterprise. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Executive shall not be subject to the terms and provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section 8 if the Term of Employment is terminated pursuant to Section 6(c) or 6(f) hereof. 9. Specific Performance. The Executive acknowledges that the services to be rendered by the Executive are of a special, unique and extraordinary character and, in connection with such services, the Executive will have access to confidential information vital to the Company's Business and the other current or planned businesses of it and its subsidiaries and affiliates. By reason of this, the Executive consents and agrees that if the Executive violates any of the provisions of Sections 7 or 8 hereof, the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates would sustain irreparable injury and that monetary damages would not provide adequate remedy to the Company and that the Company shall be entitled to have Section 7 or 8 hereof specifically enforced by any court having equity jurisdiction. Nothing contained herein shall be construed as prohibiting the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates from pursuing any other remedies available to it or them for such breach or threatened breach, including the recovery of damages from the Executive. 10. Deductions and Withholding. The Executive agrees that the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates, as applicable, shall withhold from any and all compensation paid to and required to be paid to the Executive pursuant to this Agreement, all Federal, state, local and/or other taxes which the Company determines are required to be withheld in accordance with applicable statutes or regulations from time to time in effect and all amounts required to be deducted in respect of the Executive's coverage under applicable employee benefit plans. For purposes of this Agreement and calculations hereunder, all such deductions and withholdings shall be deemed to have been paid to and received by the Executive. 11. Entire Agreement. Except for the Fiscal 2002 Share Incentive Plan, the Executive's outstanding stock option agreements, the Executive Annual Incentive Plan, the Thrift Plan, the term life insurance arrangement between the Company and the Executive, the Qualified Plan and the Non-Qualified Plan and applicable successor plans or agreements, this Agreement embodies the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the Executive's employment, compensation, perquisites and related items and supersedes any other prior oral or written agreements, arrangements or understandings between the 9
Executive and the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, and any such prior agreements, arrangements or understandings are hereby terminated and of no further effect. This Agreement may not be changed or terminated orally but only by an agreement in writing signed by the parties hereto. 12. Waiver. The waiver by the Company of a breach of any provision of this Agreement by the Executive shall not operate or be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach by him. The waiver by the Executive of a breach of any provision of this Agreement by the Company shall not operate or be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach by the Company. 13. Governing Law; Jurisdiction. (a) This Agreement shall be subject to, and governed by, the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed therein. (b) Any action to enforce any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be brought in a court of the State of New York located in the Borough of Manhattan of the City of New York or in a Federal court located within the Southern District of New York. The parties consent to the jurisdiction of such courts and to the service of process in any manner provided by New York law. Each party irrevocably waives any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of the venue of any such suit, action or proceeding brought in such court and any claim that such suit, action or proceeding brought in such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum and agrees that service of process in accordance with the foregoing sentences shall be deemed in every respect effective and valid personal service of process upon such party. 14. Assignability. The obligations of the Executive may not be delegated and, except with respect to the designation of beneficiaries in connection with any of the benefits payable to the Executive hereunder, the Executive may not, without the Company's written consent thereto, assign, transfer, convey, pledge, encumber, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of this Agreement or any interest herein. Any such attempted delegation or disposition shall be null and void and without effect. The Company and the Executive agree that this Agreement and all of the Company's rights and obligations hereunder may be assigned or transferred by the Company to and shall be assumed by and be binding upon any successor to the Company. The Company shall require any successor by an agreement in form and substance satisfactory to the Executive, expressly to assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent as the Company would be required to perform if no such succession had taken place. The term "successor" means, with respect to the Company or any of its subsidiaries, any corporation or other business entity which, by merger, consolidation, purchase of the assets or otherwise acquires all or a majority of the operating assets or business of the Company. 15. Severability. If any provision of this Agreement or any part thereof, including, without limitation, Sections 7 and 8 hereof, as applied to either party or to any circumstances shall be adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction to be void or unenforceable, the same shall in no way affect any other provision of this Agreement or remaining part thereof, or the validity or enforceability of this Agreement, which shall be given full effect without regard to the invalid or unenforceable part thereof. 10
If any court construes any of the provisions of Section 7 or 8 hereof, or any part thereof, to be unreasonable because of the duration of such provision or the geographic scope thereof, such court may reduce the duration or restrict or redefine the geographic scope of such provision and enforce such provision as so reduced, restricted or redefined. 16. Notices. All notices to the Company or the Executive permitted or required hereunder shall be in writing and shall be delivered personally, by telecopier or by courier service providing for next-day delivery or sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the following addresses: The Company: The Estee Lauder Companies Inc. 767 Fifth Avenue New York, New York 10153 Attn: General Counsel Tel: (212) 572-3980 Fax: (212) 572-3989 The Executive: Daniel J. Brestle c/o The Estee Lauder Companies Inc. 767 Fifth Avenue New York, New York 10153 Tel: (212) 572- Fax: (212) 572- Either party may change the address to which notices shall be sent by sending written notice of such change of address to the other party. Any such notice shall be deemed given, if delivered personally, upon receipt; if telecopied, when telecopied; if sent by courier service providing for next-day delivery, the next business day following deposit with such courier service; and if sent by certified or registered mail, three days after deposit (postage prepaid) with the U.S. mail service. 17. No Conflicts. The Executive hereby represents and warrants to the Company that his execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and any other agreement to be delivered pursuant to this Agreement will not (i) require the consent, approval or action of any other person or (ii) violate, conflict with or result in the breach of any of the terms of, or constitute (or with notice or lapse of time or both, constitute) a default under, any agreement, arrangement or understanding with respect to the Executive's employment to which the Executive is a party or by which the Executive is bound or subject. The Executive hereby agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company and its directors, officers, employees, agents, representatives and affiliates (and such affiliates' directors, officers, employees, agents and representatives) from and against any and all losses, liabilities or claims (including interest, penalties and reasonable attorneys' fees, disbursements and related charges) based upon or arising out of the Executive's breach of any of the foregoing representations and warranties. 18. Paragraph Headings. The paragraph headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement. 11
19. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have duly executed this Agreement as of the date first written above. THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC. By: /s/ Andrew J. Cavanaugh -------------------------------------- Name: Andrew J. Cavanaugh Title: Senior Vice President, Global Human Resources /s/ Daniel J. Brestle ------------------------------------------ Daniel J. Brestle 12


