FILE:EL/EL-8K-20050928124928.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549-1004 ---------------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): September 26, 2005 The Estee Lauder Companies Inc. (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 11-2408943 (State or other jurisdiction of (IRS Employer Identification No.) incorporation or organization) 767 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York 10153 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Commission File Number: 1-14064 212-572-4200 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) Not Applicable (Former name or former address, if changed since last report) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below): |_| Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) |_| Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) |_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) |_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement On September 26, 2005, the Stock Plan Subcommittee of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of The Estee Lauder Companies Inc. (the "Company") granted options, performance share unit awards and restricted stock units to certain executive officers of the Company pursuant to The Estee Lauder Companies Inc. Fiscal 2002 Share Incentive Plan (the "Fiscal 2002 Plan"). Options - ------- Option grants were made to the following executive officers listed in the Summary Compensation Table in the Company's 2005 proxy statement: Shares of Class A Common Named Executive Officer Stock Underlying Options - ----------------------- ------------------------ William P. Lauder 150,000 Daniel J. Brestle 100,000 Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne 50,000 Philip Shearer 50,000 Each option has an exercise price equal to $35.00 per share. The options are generally exercisable in three substantially equal annual tranches beginning on January 1, 2007. Options become exercisable earlier upon death, disability or retirement of the optionee or a change in control of the Company. All options expire on September 26, 2015, subject to earlier termination or forfeiture and the expiration of the one year period after death in the case of death after September 26, 2014. Earlier termination or forfeiture can occur if the employee resigns other than by reason of retirement or is terminated. Post-termination exercises are subject to non-competition and good conduct requirements. A copy of the Form of Stock Option Agreement providing additional information regarding the terms of each option is incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.2 to this Form 8-K. Performance Share Unit Awards - ----------------------------- Performance Share Unit Awards were granted to the following executive officers listed in the Summary Compensation Table in the Company's 2005 proxy statement: Shares of Class A Common Stock Underlying Target Named Executive Officer Performance Share Awards - ----------------------- ------------------------ William P. Lauder 28,993 Daniel J. Brestle 19,329 Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne 9,664 Philip Shearer 9,664 Payout of the target amounts, which will be made in shares of Class A Common Stock, is generally subject to the achievement by the Company of its net sales and net earnings per share goals for the three years ending June 30, 2008. No payouts will be made pursuant to an opportunity unless the threshold for such opportunity is achieved and additional shares shall be paid out if 2
performance exceeds the targeted performance goals. Except as provided below, full payout to any executive is subject to his continued employment through June 30, 2008 (the "Award Period") or formal retirement under the Company's pension plan during the Award Period. Pro rata payouts will be made to the executive or his estate if he dies or becomes permanently disabled during the Award Period or if he is terminated without cause in the second or third year of the Award Period. Performance Share Units are forfeited upon voluntary resignation (which does not qualify as retirement), termination for cause and termination by the Company without cause in the first year of the Award Period. Full payouts based on target award amounts will be made in the case of a Change in Control. Upon payout shares will be withheld to cover minimum statutory tax obligations. Performance Share Units are accompanied by dividend equivalent rights that will be payable in cash at the time of payout of the related shares. Performance Share Unit Awards are Stock Units and Performance-Based Awards under the Fiscal 2002 Plan. Measurement of performance is subject to certain automatic adjustments, such as changes in accounting principles, the impact of discontinued operations and non-recurring income/expenses. The form of Performance Share Unit Award Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.3 and incorporated herein by reference. Restricted Stock Units - ---------------------- Restricted Stock Units were granted to the following executive officers listed in the Summary Compensation Table in the Company's 2005 proxy statement: Shares of Class A Common Stock Underlying Target Named Executive Officer Restricted Stock Units - ----------------------- ---------------------- William P. Lauder 28,993 Daniel J. Brestle 19,329 Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne 9,664 Philip Shearer 9,664 Restricted Stock Units vest ratably in thirds on October 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008 (or the first day thereafter that shares may be traded under the Company's policy). Upon death, disability or involuntary termination without cause, shares will vest pro rata for full months employed during the vesting period. Payout upon death will be as soon as practicable thereafter. Payout upon termination without cause shall be on the first day after termination that shares may be sold under the Company's policy. Payout upon disability will be in accordance with the annual vesting schedule. Upon retirement, unvested shares will vest and be paid out on the first day after retirement that shares of Class A Common Stock may be sold under the Company's policy. Restricted Stock Units will vest upon, and be paid out as soon as practicable after, a Change in Control. Unvested Restricted Stock Units will be forfeited upon termination for cause and upon voluntary resignation that does not qualify as retirement. Upon payout shares will be withheld to cover minimum statutory tax obligations. 3
Restricted Stock Units are accompanied by dividend equivalent rights that will be payable in cash at the time of payout of the related shares. The form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.4 and incorporated herein by reference. Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits (c) Exhibits 10.1 The Estee Lauder Companies Inc. Fiscal 2002 Share Incentive Plan (filed as Exhibit 4(d) to our Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 333-72684) on November 1, 2001).* 10.2 Form of Stock Option Agreement under Fiscal 2002 Share Incentive Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to our Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 24, 2004) (SEC File No. 1-14064).* 10.3 Form of Performance Share Unit Award Agreement Under The Estee Lauder Companies Inc. Fiscal 2002 Share Incentive Plan (including Form of Notice of Grant). 10.4 Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement Under The Estee Lauder Companies Inc. Fiscal 2002 Share Incentive Plan (including Form of Notice of Grant).* * Incorporated by reference. 4
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized. THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC. Date: September 28, 2005 By: /s/ Amy DiGeso ---------------------------------- Amy DiGeso Senior Vice President - Global Human Resources 5

Exhibit 10.3 EACH OF THE STOCK PLAN SUBCOMMITTEE OF THE COMPENSATION COMMITTEE AND THE COMPENSATION COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC. RESERVES THE RIGHT TO CHANGE PROVISIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT TO COMPLY WITH THE AMERICAN JOBS CREATION ACT OF 2004. PERFORMANCE SHARE UNIT AWARD AGREEMENT UNDER THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC. FISCAL 2002 SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN (THE "PLAN") This PERFORMANCE SHARE UNIT AWARD AGREEMENT ("Agreement") provides for the granting of performance share unit awards by The Estee Lauder Companies Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), to the participant, an employee of the Company or one of its subsidiaries (the "Participant"), of the Company's Class A Common Stock, par value $0.01 (the "Shares"), on the terms and subject to the conditions hereinafter provided. The name of the "Participant", the "Grant Date", the aggregate number of Shares representing the Target Award, and the Plan Achievement (as defined below) goals are stated in the attached "Notice of Grant", and incorporated herein by reference. The other terms and conditions of this Performance Share Unit Award are stated in this Agreement and in the Plan. Terms not defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan (including any amendments thereto). 1. AWARD GRANT. The Company hereby awards to the Participant a target award of Performance Share Units in respect of the number of Shares set forth in the Notice of Grant (the "Target Award"), representing a Stock Unit and Performance-Based Award under the terms of the Plan. 2. RIGHT TO PAYMENT OF PERFORMANCE SHARE UNITS. It is understood that the percentage of the Target Award earned and paid will be established by the Committee based on the plan achievement (the "Plan Achievement") during the period specified in the Notice of Grant (the "Award Period"). The Plan Achievement shall be comprised of, and measured separately with respect to, the following two components: (a) Net Sales Cumulative Annual Growth Rate (which shall represent [--] of the Target Award); and (b) Earnings Per Share Cumulative Annual Growth Rate (which shall represent [--] of the Target Award). For purposes of this Performance Share Unit Award Agreement, "Net Sales" shall have the meaning utilized by the Company in its consolidated financials in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles as in effect on the first day of the Award Period, excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations and "Earnings Per Share" shall have the meaning "diluted earnings per share" as utilized by the Company in its consolidated financials. Actual payment of the Performance Share Units awarded will be determined for each component in accordance with the table attached hereto as Schedule "A". 3. PAYMENT OF AWARDS. Payments made hereunder shall be equal in amount to the number of Shares equivalent to the number of Performance Share Units earned and payable to the Participant pursuant to paragraph 2 above. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 4 below, payments shall be made as soon as practicable following the end of the Award Period, but in no event later than 2 and 1/2
months following the last day of the calendar year in which the Award Period ends. The form of payout shall be in Shares. In addition, each Performance Share Unit that becomes earned and payable pursuant to paragraph 2 above shall carry a Dividend Equivalent Right, payable in cash at the same time as the payment of Shares in accordance with this paragraph 3. Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, each Performance Share Unit will become payable to the Participant with the total Shares to be paid equal to the Target Award. Payments upon the occurrence of a Change in Control shall be made as soon as practicable following the Change of Control, but in no event later than two weeks after the Change in Control. If the Shares cease to be outstanding immediately after the Change in Control (e.g., due to a merger with and into another entity), then the consideration to be received per Share shall equal the consideration paid to each stockholder per Share generally upon such Change in Control. 4. TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT. In the event the Participant's employment terminates during the Award Period, payouts will be as follows: (a) Death. In the event of the Participant's death, the Performance Share Units shall be paid as a pro rata Target Award for full months employed during the Award Period (i.e., the proration of the Target Award shall equal a fraction the numerator of which is the number of full months of service completed in the Award Period through the Participant's death and the denominator of which is the number of full months in the Award Period), as soon as practicable following such Participant's death. (b) Retirement. In the event of the Employee's formal retirement under the terms of The Estee Lauder Companies Retirement Growth Account Plan (or an affiliate or a successor plan or program of similar purpose), the Performance Share Unit Award shall continue through the Award Period and the Participant shall be paid based on actual Plan Achievement, at the same time as such awards are paid to active employees. (c) Disability. In the event of the occurrence of the Participant's total and permanent disability (as such status shall be determined under the Company's long-term disability program), the Performance Share Unit Award shall continue through the Award Period and the Participant shall be paid a pro rata amount for full months employed during the Award Period (with such proration methodology set forth in paragraph 4(a)) based on actual Plan Achievement, at the same time as such awards are paid to active employees. (d) Termination of Employment Without Cause. In the event the Participant's employment is terminated at the instance of the Company or relevant subsidiary without Cause (as defined below) on or prior to the end of the first year of the Award Period, the Performance Share Unit Award shall be forfeited. In the event of such termination after the end of the first year of the Award Period, the Performance Share Unit Award shall continue through the Award Period and the Participant shall be paid a pro rata amount for months employed during the Award Period (with such proration methodology set forth in paragraph 4(a)) based on actual Plan Achievement, at the same time as such awards are paid to active employees. (e) Termination of Employment By Employee. In the event the Participant terminates his or her employment (e.g., by voluntary resigning), except in the case of retirement which is subject to paragraph 4(b) above, the Performance Award shall be forfeited. 2
(f) Termination of Employment With Cause. In the event the Participant is terminated for Cause, the Performance Share Unit Award shall be forfeited. For purposes hereof, "Cause" shall have the meaning in any employment agreement as in effect between the Participant and the Company or any subsidiary and, in the absence of any such agreement, shall mean any breach by the Participant of any of his or her material obligations under any Company policy or procedure, including, without limiting the generality, the Code of Conduct. (g) Post Employment Conduct. Payout of any Performance Share Unit Award after termination of employment shall be subject to satisfaction of the conditions precedent that the Participant neither (i) competes with, or takes employment with or renders services to a competitor of, the Company, its subsidiaries or affiliates without the written consent of the Company, nor (ii) conducts himself or herself in a manner adversely affecting the Company. In the event Participant's employment terminates following the expiration of the Award Period but prior to payout, payout will be subject to the above. 5. NO RIGHTS OF STOCK OWNERSHIP. This grant of Performance Share Units will not entitle Participant to any interest in or to any voting or other rights normally attributable to Share ownership other than the Dividend Equivalent Rights granted in accordance with paragraph 3 above. 6. WITHHOLDING. All payments or distributions of Shares covered by Performance Share Unit Awards shall be net of any amounts required to be withheld pursuant to applicable federal, national, state and local tax withholding requirements imposed by each taxing authority having jurisdiction. The Company (or relevant subsidiary) may require the Participant to remit to it an amount sufficient to satisfy such tax withholding requirements prior to the delivery of any certificates for such Shares. The Company (or relevant subsidiary) may, in its discretion and subject to such rules as it may adopt (including any as may be required to satisfy applicable tax and/or non-tax regulatory requirements), permit the Participant to pay all or a portion of the federal, national, state and local withholding taxes arising in connection with any Performance Share Unit Award by electing to have the Company (or relevant subsidiary) withhold Shares equal in Fair Market Value to the amount to be withheld, such tax calculated at minimum statutory rates. 7. NONASSIGNABILITY. This award may not be assigned, pledged, or transferred except, in the event of death, to a designated beneficiary or by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. The foregoing restrictions shall not apply to transfers pursuant to a court order, including, but not limited to, any domestic relations order. 8. EFFECT UPON EMPLOYMENT. The Participant's right to continue to serve the Company or any of its subsidiaries as an officer, employee, or otherwise, shall not be enlarged or otherwise affected by the award hereunder. 9. NOTICES. Any notice required or permitted under this Performance Share Unit Award Agreement shall be deemed to have been duly given if delivered, telecopied or mailed, certified or registered mail, return receipt requested or by internationally-recognized courier guaranteeing next day delivery (a) to the Participant at such address as the Company (or relevant subsidiary) shall maintain for the Participant per its personnel records or (b) to the Company, attention Stock Plan Administration at its principal executive offices, which are currently located at 767 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY 10153. 10. DISCLOSURE AND USE OF INFORMATION. By signing and returning the attached Notice of Grant, the Participant hereby expressly: (i) authorizes the Company 3
and any subsidiary, and any agent of the Company and/or any subsidiary administering the Plan or providing Plan recordkeeping services, to disclose to the Company or any of its subsidiaries such information and data as the Company or any such subsidiary shall request in order to facilitate the grant and administration of the stock options and/or the administration of the Plan; (ii) waives any data privacy rights he or she may have with respect to such information; and (iii) authorizes the Company and any subsidiary to store and transmit such information in electronic form. 11. FAILURE TO ENFORCE NOT A WAIVER. The failure of the Company to enforce at any time any provision of this agreement shall in no manner be construed to be a waiver of such provision or of any other provision hereof. 12. GOVERNING LAW. The Performance Share Unit Award Agreement shall be governed by and construed according to the laws of the State of New York, applicable to agreements made and performed in that state. 13. PARTIAL INVALIDITY. The invalidity or illegality of any provision herein shall not be deemed to affect the validity of any other provision. The Estee Lauder Companies Inc. By: ------------------------------- Senior Vice President, Global Human Resources 4
SCHEDULE "A" ------------ For Net Sales Cumulative Annual Growth Rate: - -------------------------------------------- Component Payout Component Plan Achievement (Percentage of Target Award) -------------------------- ---------------------------- High [--] [--] [--] [--] Low [--] [--] For Net Earnings Per Share Cumulative Annual Growth Rate: - --------------------------------------------------------- Component Payout Component Plan Achievement (Percentage of Target Award) -------------------------- ---------------------------- High [--] [--] [--] [--] Low [--] [--] Payout amount for levels of Plan Achievement between the high and low achievement shall be interpolated on a straight line basis (rounded up to the nearest integer). In no event shall the Participant receive a payout in excess of [--] of the Target Award for any component. No payout shall be made in the event of component Plan Achievement less than low achievement. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary stated above, the Committee may reduce the payment based on other factors at the discretion of the Committee unless a Change of Control has occurred. In measuring Plan Achievement, financial performance measures (e.g., "Earnings Per Share" and "Net Sales") will be calculated without regard to the following: o Changes in accounting principles (i.e., cumulative effect of GAAP changes) o Extraordinary items as defined in accordance with US GAAP or which are the result of a change in the law or the Company's response thereto o Income/loss from discontinued operations and income/loss on sale of discontinued operations o Non-recurring operating income/expenses (separately stated and disclosed in the financial statements - e.g., restructuring charges, legal settlement charges, goodwill write-off) o Impairment of intangibles 1
In calculating net sales during the Award Period, net sales in currencies other than U.S. dollars shall be translated into U.S. dollars at the Company's budget exchange rate at the beginning of the Award Period. Earnings Per Share will be calculated based on the weighted average number of Shares outstanding as of the measurement date and will be adjusted to eliminate the effect of material changes in the number or type of outstanding Shares due to events such as: o Stock splits o Stock dividends o Recapitalizations o Acquisitions involving stock of the Company No adjustment will be made for the impact of stock repurchases under any plans approved by the Board 2
NOTICE OF GRANT UNDER THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC. FISCAL 2002 SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN (THE "PLAN") This is to confirm that you were awarded a grant of Performance Share Units at the most recent meeting of the Stock Plan Subcommittee of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors representing the right to receive shares of Class A Common Stock of The Estee Lauder Companies Inc. (the "Shares"), subject to the terms of the Plan and the Performance Share Unit Award Agreement. This award was made in recognition of the significant contributions you have made as a key employee of the Company, and to motivate you to achieve future successes by aligning your interests more closely with those of our stockholders. This Performance Share Unit Award is granted under and governed by the terms and conditions of the Plan and the Performance Share Unit Award Agreement (the "Agreement") attached hereto and made part hereof. Please read these documents and keep them for future reference. The specific terms of your award are as follows: Participant: [[FIRST_NAME]] [[LAST_NAME]] SSN or Tax ID: [[SS]] Grant Date: DATE Award Period: ______________ through ______________ Type of Award: STOCK UNIT AND PERFORMANCE-BASED AWARD (REFERRED TO HEREIN AS A "PERFORMANCE SHARE UNIT") Target Award: [__________] shares of Class A Common Stock. See Schedule "A" to the Agreement for actual payouts depending upon level of performance. Plan Achievement goal at 100% for Award Period: Net Sales Cumulative Annual Growth Rate --------------------------------------- [--] Earnings Per Share Cumulative Annual Growth Rate ------------------------------------------------ [--] Questions regarding the award can be directed to Lauren Whyte at (212) 572-3705 or Patricia Zakrzewski at (973) 492-3609. If you wish to accept this grant, PLEASE SIGN THIS NOTICE OF GRANT AND RETURN IMMEDIATELY TO: Compensation Department 767 Fifth Avenue, 43rd Floor New York, New York 10153 ATTENTION: The undersigned hereby accepts, and agrees to, all terms and provisions of the Agreement, including those contained in this Notice of Grant. By_________________________ Date__________ Enclosure: Performance Share Unit Award Agreement

Exhibit 10.4 EACH OF THE STOCK PLAN SUBCOMMITTEE OF THE COMPENSATION COMMITTEE AND THE COMPENSATION COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC. RESERVES THE RIGHT TO CHANGE PROVISIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT TO COMPLY WITH THE AMERICAN JOBS CREATION ACT OF 2004. RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT UNDER THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC. FISCAL 2002 SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN (THE "PLAN") This RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT ("Agreement") provides for the granting by The Estee Lauder Companies Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), to the participant, an employee of the Company or one of its subsidiaries (the "Participant"), of Stock Units under the Plan representing a notional account equal to a corresponding number of shares of the Company's Class A Common Stock, par value $0.01 (the "Shares"), on the terms and subject to the conditions hereinafter provided (the "Restricted Stock Units"). The name of the "Participant", the "Grant Date", the "Number of Restricted Stock Units", the "Vesting Commencement Date", the "Vesting Schedule" and the "Vesting Period" are stated in the attached "Notice of Grant", and incorporated herein by reference. The other terms and conditions of this award are stated in this Agreement and in the Plan. Terms not defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan (including any amendments thereto). 1. AWARD GRANT. The Company hereby awards to the Participant an award of Restricted Stock Units in respect of the number of Shares set forth in the Notice of Grant. 2. VESTING. The Restricted Stock Units granted to the Participant shall vest and become payable in accordance with the Vesting Schedule set forth in the Notice of Grant. Such schedule indicates the vesting date upon which the Participant shall be entitled to receive Shares, provided that as of such vesting date, the Participant's employment with the Company has not been terminated, except as otherwise provided herein. 3. PAYMENT OF AWARDS. Each Restricted Stock Unit granted hereunder shall represent the right to receive one Share upon the vesting of such Restricted Stock Unit. In addition, each Restricted Stock Unit shall carry a Dividend Equivalent Right, payable in cash at the same time as payment of Restricted Stock Units in Shares in accordance with this paragraph 3. Any Dividend Equivalent Right shall be deemed part of the related Restricted Stock Units for purposes of this Agreement. Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, each Restricted Stock Unit will vest and become payable to the Participant. Payments upon the occurrence of a Change in Control shall be made as soon as practicable following the Change of Control, but in no event later than two weeks after the Change in Control. If the Shares cease to be outstanding immediately after the Change in Control (e.g., due to a merger with and into another entity), then the consideration to be received per Share shall equal the consideration paid to each stockholder per Share generally upon such Change in Control. 4. TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT. In the event the Participant's employment terminates during the Vesting Period, all Restricted Stock Units shall be forfeited except for such vesting and payment of Restricted Stock Units as follows: (a) Death. In the event of the Participant's death, the Restricted Stock Units shall vest pro rata for the number of full months the Participant was employed during the Vesting Period (i.e., the
proration shall equal a fraction the numerator of which is the number of full months of service completed in the Vesting Period through the Participant's death and the denominator of which is the number of full months in the Vesting Period). Payment of such Restricted Stock Units shall be made as soon as practicable following such Participant's death. (b) Retirement. In the event of the Employee's formal retirement under the terms of The Estee Lauder Companies Retirement Growth Account Plan (or an affiliate or a successor plan or program of similar purpose), the Restricted Stock Units shall vest and be paid out on the first day after such retirement that shares may be sold by the Participant under applicable Company policy, including, without limitation, the Code of Conduct. (c) Disability. In the event of the occurrence of the Participant's total and permanent disability (as such status shall be determined under the Company's long-term disability program), the Restricted Stock Units shall vest pro rata for full months employed during the Vesting Period (with such proration methodology set forth in paragraph 4(a)). Payment of such Restricted Stock Units shall be made in accordance with the Vesting Schedule. (d) Termination of Employment Without Cause. In the event the Participant's employment is terminated at the instance of the Company or relevant subsidiary without Cause (as defined below), the Restricted Stock Units hereunder shall vest pro rata for full months employed during the Vesting Period (with such proration methodology set forth in paragraph 4(a)). The date of vesting and payment of such Restricted Stock Units shall be the first day after termination that shares may be sold by the Participant under applicable Company policy, including, without limitation, the Code of Conduct. (e) Termination of Employment By Employee. In the event the Participant terminates his or her employment (e.g., by voluntary resigning), except in the case of retirement which is subject to paragraph 4(b) above, the Restricted Stock Units shall be forfeited. (f) Termination of Employment With Cause. In the event the Participant is terminated for Cause, the Restricted Stock Units shall be forfeited. For purposes hereof, "Cause" shall have the meaning in any employment agreement as in effect between the Participant and the Company or any subsidiary and, in the absence of any such agreement, shall mean any breach by the Participant of any of his or her material obligations under any Company policy or procedure, including, without limiting the generality, the Code of Conduct. (g) Post Employment Conduct. Payment in respect of any Restricted Stock Unit after termination of employment shall be subject to satisfaction of the conditions precedent that the Participant neither (i) competes with, or takes employment with or renders services to a competitor of, the Company, its subsidiaries or affiliates without the written consent of the Company, nor (ii) conducts himself or herself in a manner adversely affecting the Company. 5. NO RIGHTS OF STOCK OWNERSHIP. This grant of Restricted Stock Units will not entitle the Participant to any interest in or to any voting or other rights normally attributable to Share ownership other than the Dividend Equivalent Rights granted in accordance with paragraph 3 above. 2
6. WITHHOLDING. All payments or distributions of Shares covered by Restricted Stock Units shall be net of any amounts required to be withheld pursuant to applicable federal, national, state and local tax withholding requirements imposed by each taxing authority having jurisdiction. The Company (or relevant subsidiary) may require the Participant to remit to it an amount sufficient to satisfy such tax withholding requirements prior to the delivery of any certificates for such Shares. The Company (or relevant subsidiary) may, in its discretion and subject to such rules as it may adopt (including any as may be required to satisfy applicable tax and/or non-tax regulatory requirements), permit the Participant to pay all or a portion of the federal, national, state and local withholding taxes arising in connection with any Restricted Stock Unit by electing to have the Company (or relevant subsidiary) withhold Shares equal in Fair Market Value to the amount to be withheld, such tax calculated at minimum statutory rates. 7. NONASSIGNABILITY. This award may not be assigned, pledged, or transferred except, in the event of death, to a designated beneficiary or by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. The foregoing restrictions shall not apply to transfers pursuant to a court order, including, but not limited to, any domestic relations order. 8. EFFECT UPON EMPLOYMENT. The Participant's right to continue to serve the Company or any of its subsidiaries as an officer, employee, or otherwise, shall not be enlarged or otherwise affected by the award hereunder. 9. NOTICES. Any notice required or permitted under this Agreement shall be deemed to have been duly given if delivered, telecopied or mailed, certified or registered mail, return receipt requested or by internationally-recognized courier guaranteeing next day delivery (a) to the Participant at such address as the Company (or relevant subsidiary) shall maintain for the Participant per its personnel records or (b) to the Company, attention Stock Plan Administration at its principal executive offices, which are currently located at 767 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY 10153. 10. DISCLOSURE AND USE OF INFORMATION. By signing and returning the attached Notice of Grant, the Participant hereby expressly: (i) authorizes the Company and any subsidiary, and any agent of the Company and/or any subsidiary administering the Plan or providing Plan recordkeeping services, to disclose to the Company or any of its subsidiaries such information and data as the Company or any such subsidiary shall request in order to facilitate the grant and administration of the stock options and/or the administration of the Plan; (ii) waives any data privacy rights he or she may have with respect to such information; and (iii) authorizes the Company and any subsidiary to store and transmit such information in electronic form. 11. FAILURE TO ENFORCE NOT A WAIVER. The failure of the Company to enforce at any time any provision of this agreement shall in no manner be construed to be a waiver of such provision or of any other provision hereof. 12. GOVERNING LAW. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed according to the laws of the State of New York, applicable to agreements made and performed in that state. 13. PARTIAL INVALIDITY. The invalidity or illegality of any provision herein shall not be deemed to affect the validity of any other provision. 3
14. SECTION 409A COMPLIANCE. This Agreement is intended to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and any regulations or notices provided thereunder. The Company reserves the unilateral right to amend this Agreement upon written notice to the Participant in order to comply with such section. The Estee Lauder Companies Inc. By: ----------------------------------- Senior Vice President, Global Human Resources 4
NOTICE OF GRANT UNDER THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC. FISCAL 2002 SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN (THE "PLAN") This is to confirm that you were awarded a grant of Restricted Stock Units at the most recent meeting of the Stock Plan Subcommittee of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors representing the right upon vesting of such units to receive shares of Class A Common Stock of The Estee Lauder Companies Inc. (the "Shares"), subject to the terms of the Plan and the Restricted Stock Unit Agreement. This award was made in recognition of the significant contributions you have made as a key employee of the Company, and to motivate you to achieve future successes by aligning your interests more closely with those of our stockholders. This Restricted Stock Unit award is granted under and governed by the terms and conditions of the Plan and the Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (the "Agreement") attached hereto and made part hereof. Please read these documents and keep them for future reference. The specific terms of your award are as follows: Participant: [[FIRST_NAME]] [[LAST_NAME]] SSN or Tax ID: [[SS]] Number of Restricted Stock Units: [___________________] Grant Date: DATE Vesting Commencement Date: [_________________] Vesting Schedule: Subject to Participant's continuous employment, this Restricted Stock Unit grant shall vest as to the number of Shares set forth below: Shares Vesting Date ------ ------------ ------ ------------ ------ ------------ ------ ------------ Vesting Period: The Vesting Commencement Date through and including the applicable date set forth in the Vesting Schedule Questions regarding the award can be directed to Lauren Whyte at (212) 572-3705 or Patricia Zakrzewski at (973) 492-3609. If you wish to accept this grant, PLEASE SIGN THIS NOTICE OF GRANT AND RETURN IMMEDIATELY TO: Compensation Department 767 Fifth Avenue, 43rd Floor New York, New York 10153 ATTENTION: The undersigned hereby accepts, and agrees to, all terms and provisions of the Agreement, including those contained in this Notice of Grant. By_________________________ Date__________ Enclosure: Restricted Stock Unit Agreement


