FILE:EL/EL-8K-20060925163043.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
8 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549-1004 ---------------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): September 20, 2006 The Estee Lauder Companies Inc. (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 11-2408943 (State or other jurisdiction of (IRS Employer Identification No.) incorporation or organization) 767 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York 10153 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Commission File Number: 1-14064 212-572-4200 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) Not Applicable (Former name or former address, if changed since last report) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below): |_| Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) |_| Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) |_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) |_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement Annual Bonus Opportunities for Fiscal 2007 - ------------------------------------------ On September 20, 2006, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of The Estee Lauder Companies Inc. (the "Company") granted bonus opportunities for the year ending June 30, 2007 ("fiscal 2007") under the Company's Executive Annual Incentive Plan to the Company's executive officers. For the executive officers who will be named in the 2006 proxy statement, aggregate target bonus opportunities were granted in the following amounts: Fiscal 2007 Aggregate Named Executive Officer (title) Target Bonus Opportunities - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Leonard A. Lauder (Chairman of the Board) $1,800,000 William P. Lauder (President and Chief Executive $2,000,000 Officer) Daniel J. Brestle (Chief Operating Officer) $2,000,000 Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne (Group President) $2,000,000 Philip Shearer (Group President) $2,000,000 The opportunities for bonuses for Leonard A. Lauder, William P. Lauder and Daniel J. Brestle are based on the levels of achievement of net sales and earnings per share targets by the Company in fiscal 2007. Messrs. W. Lauder and Brestle also have opportunities based on levels of achievement of working capital relating to inventory targets for the Company in fiscal 2007. The opportunities for Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne and Philip Shearer are based on the levels of achievement of the earnings per share and net sales target for the Company in fiscal 2007 and levels of achievement of full-year goals for their respective groups at the start of fiscal 2007, including net sales for the group, operating margin, working capital relating to inventory and planning accuracy. Each opportunity has a threshold that must be reached before any payout is made. Certain opportunities provide for payout in excess of the target amount for performance that exceeds the target goal. Payouts to Mr. L. Lauder are limited to 100% of the target opportunities. Measurement of performance is subject to certain automatic adjustments, such as changes in accounting principles, the impact of discontinued operations and non-recurring income/expenses. Equity-Based Compensation - ------------------------- On September 20, 2006, the Stock Plan Subcommittee of the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors granted options with respect to an aggregate of 650,000 shares of Class A Common Stock, performance share unit awards with aggregate target payouts of 119,038 shares and restricted stock units with respect to an aggregate of 119,038 shares to certain executive officers of the Company pursuant to The Estee Lauder Companies Inc. Amended and Restated Fiscal 2002 Share Incentive Plan (the "Fiscal 2002 Plan"). The Subcommittee also granted stock options with respect to an aggregate of 967,914 shares of Class A Common Stock and/or restricted stock units with respect to an 2
aggregate of 474,405 shares of Class A Common Stock to certain other officers and employees of the Company and its subsidiaries. Options - ------- Option grants were made to the following executive officers, who will be listed in the Summary Compensation Table in the Company's 2006 proxy statement: Shares of Class A Common Named Executive Officer Stock Underlying Options - ----------------------- ------------------------ William P. Lauder 150,000 Daniel J. Brestle 100,000 Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne 50,000 Philip Shearer 50,000 Each option has an exercise price equal to $39.56 per share. The options are generally exercisable in three substantially equal annual tranches beginning on January 1, 2008. Options become exercisable earlier upon death, disability or retirement of the optionee or a change in control of the Company. All options expire on September 20, 2016, subject to earlier termination or forfeiture and the expiration of the one year period after death in the case of death after September 20, 2015. Earlier termination or forfeiture can occur if the employee resigns other than by reason of retirement or is terminated. Post-termination exercises are subject to non-competition and good conduct requirements. Options granted to persons other than the named executive officers also have an exercise price of $39.56 per share and similar terms and conditions. There are exceptions to the general terms and conditions for options granted to employees of our subsidiaries in certain countries, but none provide for an exercise price less than $39.56 per share. Aerin Lauder, Senior Vice President, Global Creative Directions for Estee Lauder and a Director of the Company, received an option grant in respect to 1,250 shares of Class A Common Stock. The exercise price of her options and the terms and conditions are the same as those for the executive officers. A copy of the Form of Stock Option Agreement providing additional information regarding the terms of each option is incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.3 to this Form 8-K. Performance Share Unit Awards - ----------------------------- Performance Share Unit Awards were granted to the following executive officers who will be listed in the Summary Compensation Table in the Company's 2006 proxy statement: Shares of Class A Common Stock Underlying Target Named Executive Officer Performance Share Awards - ----------------------- ------------------------ William P. Lauder 27,471 Daniel J. Brestle 18,314 Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne 9,157 Philip Shearer 9,157 3
Payout of the target amounts, which will be made in shares of Class A Common Stock, is generally subject to the achievement by the Company of its net sales and net earnings per share goals for the three years ending June 30, 2009. Under ordinary circumstances, payouts will be made pursuant to an opportunity unless the threshold for such opportunity is achieved and additional shares shall be paid out if performance exceeds the targeted performance goals. Except as provided below, full payout to any executive is subject to his continued employment through June 30, 2009 (the "Award Period") or formal retirement under the Company's pension plan during the Award Period. Pro rata payouts will be made to the executive or his estate if he dies or becomes permanently disabled during the Award Period or if he is terminated without cause in the second or third year of the Award Period. Performance Share Units are forfeited upon voluntary resignation (which does not qualify as retirement), termination for cause and termination by the Company without cause in the first year of the Award Period. Full payouts based on target award amounts will be made in the case of a change in control of the Company. Upon payout, shares will be withheld to cover minimum statutory tax obligations. Performance Share Units are accompanied by dividend equivalent rights that will be payable in cash at the time of payout of the related shares. Performance Share Unit Awards are Stock Units and Performance-Based Awards under the Fiscal 2002 Plan. Measurement of performance is subject to certain automatic adjustments, such as changes in accounting principles, the impact of discontinued operations and non-recurring income/expenses. The form of Performance Share Unit Award Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.4 and incorporated herein by reference. Restricted Stock Units - ---------------------- Restricted Stock Units were granted to the following executive officers who will be listed in the Summary Compensation Table in the Company's 2006 proxy statement: Shares of Class A Common Stock Underlying Target Named Executive Officer Restricted Stock Units - ----------------------- ---------------------- William P. Lauder 27,471 Daniel J. Brestle 18,314 Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne 9,157 Philip Shearer 9,157 Restricted Stock Units vest ratably in thirds on October 31, 2007 and 2008 and November 2, 2009 (or the first day thereafter that shares may be traded under the Company's policy). Upon death, disability or involuntary termination without cause, shares will vest pro rata for full months employed during the vesting period. Payout upon death will be as soon as practicable thereafter. Payout upon termination without cause shall be on the first vesting day after termination that shares may be sold under the Company's policy. Payout upon disability will be in accordance with the annual vesting schedule. Upon retirement, unvested shares will vest and be paid out on the first day after 4
retirement that such shares may be sold under the Company's policy. Payout of Restricted Stock Units after termination of employment without cause or due to retirement shall be subject to non-competition and good conduct requirements. Restricted Stock Units will vest upon, and be paid out as soon as practicable after, a change in control of the Company. Unvested Restricted Stock Units will be forfeited upon termination for cause and upon voluntary resignation that does not qualify as retirement. Upon payout, shares will be withheld to cover minimum statutory tax obligations. Restricted Stock Units are accompanied by dividend equivalent rights that will be payable in cash at the time of payout of the related shares. The form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for executive officers is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.5 and incorporated herein by reference. The restricted stock units granted to other employees have similar terms and conditions, but there are exceptions, including shorter vesting periods for grants to certain levels of employees, vesting in accordance with the original vesting schedule upon retirement and no dividend equivalents. Aerin Lauder received a restricted stock unit grant in respect of 417 shares of Class A Common Stock. The restricted stock units granted to Ms. Lauder have similar terms and conditions as those granted to executive officers, except there are no dividend equivalent rights. The form of her Restricted Stock Unit Agreement is attached as exhibit 10.6 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference. Stock Ownership Guidelines - -------------------------- The Compensation Committee implemented stock ownership guidelines for executive officers of the Company. The guidelines generally provide that executive officers own directly or indirectly (excluding shares underlying unexercised stock options granted by the Company), shares of Class A Common Stock equal to: 2.5 times annual base salary for the Chief Executive Officer, 2 times annual base salary for the Chief Operating Officer, 1.5 times annual base salary for Group Presidents and 1 times annual base salary for all other executive officers. Current executive officers have until September 2011 to achieve the ownership levels. Lauder family members who are executive officers already own more shares than are required by the guidelines. Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits (d) Exhibits 10.1 The Estee Lauder Companies Inc. Executive Annual Incentive Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.7 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2005) (SEC File No. 1-14064).* 10.2 The Estee Lauder Companies Inc. Amended and Restated Fiscal 2002 Share Incentive Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 10, 2005 )(SEC File No. 1-14064).* 10.3 Form of Stock Option Agreement under The Estee Lauder Companies Inc. Amended and Restated Fiscal 2002 Share Incentive Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q dated May 4, 2006) (SEC File No. 1-14064).* 5
10.4 Form of Performance Share Unit Award Agreement under The Estee Lauder Companies Inc. Amended and Restated Fiscal 2002 Share Incentive Plan (including Form of Notice of Grant). 10.5 Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement under The Estee Lauder Companies Inc. Amended and Restated Fiscal 2002 Share Incentive Plan for Executive Officers (including Form of Notice of Grant). 10.6 Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement under The Estee Lauder Companies Inc. Amended and Restated Fiscal 2002 Share Incentive Plan for Employees other than Executive Officers (including Form of Notice of Grant). * Incorporated by reference. 6
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized. THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC. Date: September 20, 2006 By: /s/ Amy DiGeso ---------------------------------- Amy DiGeso Executive Vice President - Global Human Resources 7
Exhibit Index 10.1 The Estee Lauder Companies Inc. Executive Annual Incentive Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.7 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2005) (SEC File No. 1-14064).* 10.2 The Estee Lauder Companies Inc. Amended and Restated Fiscal 2002 Share Incentive Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 10, 2005 )(SEC File No. 1-14064).* 10.3 Form of Stock Option Agreement under The Estee Lauder Companies Inc. Amended and Restated Fiscal 2002 Share Incentive Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q dated May 4, 2006) (SEC File No. 1-14064).* 10.4 Form of Performance Share Unit Award Agreement under The Estee Lauder Companies Inc. Amended and Restated Fiscal 2002 Share Incentive Plan (including Form of Notice of Grant). 10.5 Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement under The Estee Lauder Companies Inc. Amended and Restated Fiscal 2002 Share Incentive Plan for Executive Officers (including Form of Notice of Grant). 10.6 Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement under The Estee Lauder Companies Inc. Amended and Restated Fiscal 2002 Share Incentive Plan for Employees other than Executive Officers (including Form of Notice of Grant). * Incorporated by reference.

Exhibit 10.4 ------------ EACH OF THE STOCK PLAN SUBCOMMITTEE OF THE COMPENSATION COMMITTEE AND THE COMPENSATION COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC. RESERVES THE RIGHT TO CHANGE PROVISIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT TO COMPLY WITH THE AMERICAN JOBS CREATION ACT OF 2004. PERFORMANCE SHARE UNIT AWARD AGREEMENT UNDER THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC. AMENDED AND RESTATED FISCAL 2002 SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN (THE "PLAN") This PERFORMANCE SHARE UNIT AWARD AGREEMENT ("Agreement") provides for the granting of performance share unit awards by The Estee Lauder Companies Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), to the participant, an employee of the Company or one of its subsidiaries (the "Participant"), of the Company's Class A Common Stock, par value $0.01 (the "Shares"), on the terms and subject to the conditions hereinafter provided. The name of the "Participant", the "Grant Date", the aggregate number of Shares representing the Target Award, and the Plan Achievement (as defined below) goals are stated in the attached "Notice of Grant", and incorporated herein by reference. The other terms and conditions of this Performance Share Unit Award are stated in this Agreement and in the Plan. Terms not defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan (including any amendments thereto). 1. AWARD GRANT. The Company hereby awards to the Participant a target award of Performance Share Units in respect of the number of Shares set forth in the Notice of Grant (the "Target Award"), representing a Stock Unit and Performance-Based Award under the terms of the Plan. 2. RIGHT TO PAYMENT OF PERFORMANCE SHARE UNITS. It is understood that the percentage of the Target Award earned and paid will be established by the Committee based on the plan achievement (the "Plan Achievement") during the period specified in the Notice of Grant (the "Award Period"). The Plan Achievement shall be comprised of, and measured separately with respect to, the following two components: (a) Net Sales Cumulative Annual Growth Rate (which shall represent 50% of the Target Award); and (b) Earnings Per Share Cumulative Annual Growth Rate (which shall represent 50% of the Target Award). For purposes of this Performance Share Unit Award Agreement, "Net Sales" shall have the meaning utilized by the Company in its consolidated financials in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles as in effect on the first day of the Award Period, excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations and "Earnings Per Share" shall have the meaning "diluted earnings per share" as utilized by the Company in its consolidated financials. Actual payment of the Performance Share Units awarded will be determined for each component in accordance with the table attached hereto as Schedule "A". 3. PAYMENT OF AWARDS. Payments made hereunder shall be equal in amount to the number of Shares equivalent to the number of Performance Share Units earned and payable to the Participant pursuant to paragraph 2 above. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 4 below, payments shall be made as soon as practicable following the end of the Award Period, but in no event later than 2 and 1/2
months following the last day of the calendar year in which the Award Period ends. The form of payout shall be in Shares. In addition, each Performance Share Unit that becomes earned and payable pursuant to paragraph 2 above shall carry a Dividend Equivalent Right, payable in cash at the same time as the payment of Shares in accordance with this paragraph 3. Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, each Performance Share Unit will become payable to the Participant with the total Shares to be paid equal to the Target Award. Payments upon the occurrence of a Change in Control shall be made as soon as practicable following the Change of Control, but in no event later than two weeks after the Change in Control. If the Shares cease to be outstanding immediately after the Change in Control (e.g., due to a merger with and into another entity), then the consideration to be received per Share shall equal the consideration paid to each stockholder per Share generally upon such Change in Control. 4. TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT. In the event the Participant's employment terminates during the Award Period, payouts will be as follows: (a) Death. In the event of the Participant's death, the Performance Share Units shall be paid as a pro rata Target Award for full months employed during the Award Period (i.e., the proration of the Target Award shall equal a fraction the numerator of which is the number of full months of service completed in the Award Period through the Participant's death and the denominator of which is the number of full months in the Award Period), as soon as practicable following such Participant's death. (b) Retirement. In the event of the Employee's formal retirement under the terms of The Estee Lauder Companies Retirement Growth Account Plan (or an affiliate or a successor plan or program of similar purpose), the Performance Share Unit Award shall continue through the Award Period and the Participant shall be paid based on actual Plan Achievement, at the same time as such awards are paid to active employees. (c) Disability. In the event of the occurrence of the Participant's total and permanent disability (as such status shall be determined under the Company's long-term disability program), the Performance Share Unit Award shall continue through the Award Period and the Participant shall be paid a pro rata amount for full months employed during the Award Period (with such proration methodology set forth in paragraph 4(a)) based on actual Plan Achievement, at the same time as such awards are paid to active employees. (d) Termination of Employment Without Cause. In the event the Participant's employment is terminated at the instance of the Company or relevant subsidiary without Cause (as defined below) on or prior to the end of the first year of the Award Period, the Performance Share Unit Award shall be forfeited. In the event of such termination after the end of the first year of the Award Period, the Performance Share Unit Award shall continue through the Award Period and the Participant shall be paid a pro rata amount for months employed during the Award Period (with such proration methodology set forth in paragraph 4(a)) based on actual Plan Achievement, at the same time as such awards are paid to active employees. (e) Termination of Employment By Employee. In the event the Participant terminates his or her employment (e.g., by voluntary resigning), except in the case of retirement which is subject to paragraph 4(b) above, the Performance Award shall be forfeited. 2
(f) Termination of Employment With Cause. In the event the Participant is terminated for Cause, the Performance Share Unit Award shall be forfeited. For purposes hereof, "Cause" shall have the meaning in any employment agreement as in effect between the Participant and the Company or any subsidiary and, in the absence of any such agreement, shall mean any breach by the Participant of any of his or her material obligations under any Company policy or procedure, including, without limiting the generality, the Code of Conduct. (g) Post Employment Conduct. Payout of any Performance Share Unit Award after termination of employment shall be subject to satisfaction of the conditions precedent that the Participant neither (i) competes with, or takes employment with or renders services to a competitor of, the Company, its subsidiaries or affiliates without the written consent of the Company, nor (ii) conducts himself or herself in a manner adversely affecting the Company. In the event Participant's employment terminates following the expiration of the Award Period but prior to payout, payout will be subject to the above. 5. NO RIGHTS OF STOCK OWNERSHIP. This grant of Performance Share Units will not entitle Participant to any interest in or to any voting or other rights normally attributable to Share ownership other than the Dividend Equivalent Rights granted in accordance with paragraph 3 above. 6. WITHHOLDING. All payments or distributions of Shares covered by Performance Share Unit Awards shall be net of any amounts required to be withheld pursuant to applicable federal, national, state and local tax withholding requirements imposed by each taxing authority having jurisdiction. The Company (or relevant subsidiary) may require the Participant to remit to it an amount sufficient to satisfy such tax withholding requirements prior to the delivery of any certificates for such Shares. The Company (or relevant subsidiary) may, in its discretion and subject to such rules as it may adopt (including any as may be required to satisfy applicable tax and/or non-tax regulatory requirements), permit the Participant to pay all or a portion of the federal, national, state and local withholding taxes arising in connection with any Performance Share Unit Award by electing to have the Company (or relevant subsidiary) withhold Shares equal in Fair Market Value to the amount to be withheld, such tax calculated at minimum statutory rates. 7. NONASSIGNABILITY. This award may not be assigned, pledged, or transferred except, in the event of death, to a designated beneficiary or by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. The foregoing restrictions shall not apply to transfers pursuant to a court order, including, but not limited to, any domestic relations order. 8. EFFECT UPON EMPLOYMENT. The Participant's right to continue to serve the Company or any of its subsidiaries as an officer, employee, or otherwise, shall not be enlarged or otherwise affected by the award hereunder. 9. NOTICES. Any notice required or permitted under this Performance Share Unit Award Agreement shall be deemed to have been duly given if delivered, telecopied or mailed, certified or registered mail, return receipt requested or by internationally-recognized courier guaranteeing next day delivery (a) to the Participant at such address as the Company (or relevant subsidiary) shall maintain for the Participant per its personnel records or (b) to the Company, attention Stock Plan Administration at its principal executive offices, which are currently located at 767 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY 10153. 3
10. DISCLOSURE AND USE OF INFORMATION. By signing and returning the attached Notice of Grant, the Participant hereby expressly: (i) authorizes the Company and any subsidiary, and any agent of the Company and/or any subsidiary administering the Plan or providing Plan recordkeeping services, to disclose to the Company or any of its subsidiaries such information and data as the Company or any such subsidiary shall request in order to facilitate the grant and administration of the stock options and/or the administration of the Plan; (ii) waives any data privacy rights he or she may have with respect to such information; and (iii) authorizes the Company and any subsidiary to store and transmit such information in electronic form. 11. FAILURE TO ENFORCE NOT A WAIVER. The failure of the Company to enforce at any time any provision of this agreement shall in no manner be construed to be a waiver of such provision or of any other provision hereof. 12. GOVERNING LAW. The Performance Share Unit Award Agreement shall be governed by and construed according to the laws of the State of New York, applicable to agreements made and performed in that state. 13. PARTIAL INVALIDITY. The invalidity or illegality of any provision herein shall not be deemed to affect the validity of any other provision. The Estee Lauder Companies Inc. By: --------------------------- Executive Vice President, Global Human Resources
SCHEDULE "A" ------------ For Net Sales Cumulative Annual Growth Rate: - -------------------------------------------- Component Plan Achievement Component Payout (Percentage of Target -------------------------- -------------------------------------- Award) ------ High [*] [*] [*] [*] Low [*] [*] For Net Earnings Per Share Cumulative Annual Growth Rate: - --------------------------------------------------------- Component Plan Achievement Component Payout (Percentage of Target -------------------------- -------------------------------------- Award) ------ High [*] [*] [*] [*] Low [*] [*] Payout amount for levels of Plan Achievement between the high and low achievement shall be interpolated on a straight line basis (rounded up to the nearest integer). In no event shall the Participant receive a payout in excess of 150% of the Target Award for any component. No payout shall be made in the event of component Plan Achievement less than low achievement. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary stated above, the Committee may reduce the payment based on other factors at the discretion of the Committee unless a Change of Control has occurred. In measuring Plan Achievement, financial performance measures (e.g., "Earnings Per Share" and "Net Sales") will be calculated without regard to the following: * Changes in accounting principles (i.e., cumulative effect of GAAP changes) * Extraordinary items as defined in accordance with US GAAP or which are the result of a change in the law or the Company's response thereto * Income/loss from discontinued operations and income/loss on sale of discontinued operations * Non-recurring operating income/expenses (separately stated and disclosed in the financial statements - e.g., restructuring charges, legal settlement charges, goodwill write-off) * Impairment of intangibles 1
In calculating net sales during the Award Period, net sales in currencies other than U.S. dollars shall be translated into U.S. dollars at the Company's budget exchange rate at the beginning of the Award Period. Earnings Per Share will be calculated based on the weighted average number of Shares outstanding as of the measurement date and will be adjusted to eliminate the effect of material changes in the number or type of outstanding Shares due to events such as: * Stock splits * Stock dividends * Recapitalizations * Acquisitions involving stock of the Company No adjustment will be made for the impact of stock repurchases under any plans approved by the Board 2
NOTICE OF GRANT UNDER THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC. AMENDED AND RESTATED FISCAL 2002 SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN (THE "PLAN") This is to confirm that you were awarded a grant of Performance Share Units at the most recent meeting of the Stock Plan Subcommittee of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors representing the right to receive shares of Class A Common Stock of The Estee Lauder Companies Inc. (the "Shares"), subject to the terms of the Plan and the Performance Share Unit Award Agreement. This award was made in recognition of the significant contributions you have made as a key employee of the Company, and to motivate you to achieve future successes by aligning your interests more closely with those of our stockholders. This Performance Share Unit Award is granted under and governed by the terms and conditions of the Plan and the Performance Share Unit Award Agreement (the "Agreement") attached hereto and made part hereof. Please read these documents and keep them for future reference. The specific terms of your award are as follows: Participant: ((FIRST_NAME)) ((LAST_NAME)) SSN or Tax ID: ((SS)) Grant Date: [*] Award Period: [*] Type of Award: STOCK UNIT AND PERFORMANCE-BASED AWARD (REFERRED TO HEREIN AS A "PERFORMANCE SHARE UNIT") Target Award: [*] shares of Class A Common Stock. See Schedule "A" to the Agreement for actual payouts depending upon level of performance. Plan Achievement goal at 100% for Award Period: Net Sales Cumulative Annual Growth Rate --------------------------------------- Earnings Per Share Cumulative Annual Growth Rate ------------------------------------------------ Questions regarding the award can be directed to Lauren Whyte at (212) 572-3705 or Patricia Zakrzewski at (973) 492-3609. If you wish to accept this grant, PLEASE SIGN THIS NOTICE OF GRANT AND RETURN IMMEDIATELY TO: Compensation Department 767 Fifth Avenue, 43rd Floor New York, New York 10153 ATTENTION: LAUREN WHYTE The undersigned hereby accepts, and agrees to, all terms and provisions of the Agreement, including those contained in this Notice of Grant. By_________________________ Date__________ Enclosure: Performance Share Unit Award Agreement Summary Plan Description

Exhibit 10.5 ------------ EACH OF THE STOCK PLAN SUBCOMMITTEE OF THE COMPENSATION COMMITTEE AND THE COMPENSATION COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC. RESERVES THE RIGHT TO CHANGE PROVISIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT TO COMPLY WITH THE AMERICAN JOBS CREATION ACT OF 2004. RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT UNDER THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC. AMENDED AND RESTATED FISCAL 2002 SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN (THE "PLAN") This RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT ("Agreement") provides for the granting by The Estee Lauder Companies Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), to the participant, an employee of the Company or one of its subsidiaries (the "Participant"), of Stock Units under the Plan representing a notional account equal to a corresponding number of shares of the Company's Class A Common Stock, par value $0.01 (the "Shares"), on the terms and subject to the conditions hereinafter provided (the "Restricted Stock Units"). The name of the "Participant", the "Grant Date", the "Number of Restricted Stock Units", the "Vesting Commencement Date", the "Vesting Schedule" and the "Vesting Period" are stated in the attached "Notice of Grant", and incorporated herein by reference. The other terms and conditions of this award are stated in this Agreement and in the Plan. Terms not defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan (including any amendments thereto). 1. AWARD GRANT. The Company hereby awards to the Participant an award of Restricted Stock Units in respect of the number of Shares set forth in the Notice of Grant. 2. VESTING. The Restricted Stock Units granted to the Participant shall vest and become payable in accordance with the Vesting Schedule set forth in the Notice of Grant. Such schedule indicates the vesting date upon which the Participant shall be entitled to receive Shares, provided that as of such vesting date, the Participant's employment with the Company has not been terminated, except as otherwise provided herein. 3. PAYMENT OF AWARDS. Each Restricted Stock Unit granted hereunder shall represent the right to receive one Share upon the vesting of such Restricted Stock Unit. In addition, each Restricted Stock Unit shall carry a Dividend Equivalent Right, payable in cash at the same time as payment of Restricted Stock Units in Shares in accordance with this paragraph 3. Any Dividend Equivalent Right shall be deemed part of the related Restricted Stock Units for purposes of this Agreement. Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, each Restricted Stock Unit will vest and become payable to the Participant. Payments upon the occurrence of a Change in Control shall be made as soon as practicable following the Change of Control, but in no event later than two weeks after the Change in Control. If the Shares cease to be outstanding immediately after the Change in Control (e.g., due to a merger with and into another entity), then the consideration to be received per Share shall equal the consideration paid to each stockholder per Share generally upon such Change in Control.
4. TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT. In the event the Participant's employment terminates during the Vesting Period, all Restricted Stock Units shall be forfeited except for such vesting and payment of Restricted Stock Units as follows: (a) Death. In the event of the Participant's death, the Restricted Stock Units shall vest pro rata for the number of full months the Participant was employed during the Vesting Period (i.e., the proration shall equal a fraction the numerator of which is the number of full months of service completed in the Vesting Period through the Participant's death and the denominator of which is the number of full months in the Vesting Period). Payment of such Restricted Stock Units shall be made as soon as practicable following such Participant's death and in accordance with any applicable laws or Company procedures regarding such payments. (b) Retirement. In the event of the Employee's formal retirement under the terms of The Estee Lauder Companies Retirement Growth Account Plan (or an affiliate or a successor plan or program of similar purpose), the Restricted Stock Units shall vest and be paid out on the first day after such retirement that shares may be sold by the Participant under applicable Company policy, including, without limitation, the Code of Corporate Conduct. (c) Disability. In the event of the occurrence of the Participant's total and permanent disability (as such status shall be determined under the Company's long-term disability program), the Restricted Stock Units shall vest pro rata for full months employed during the Vesting Period (with such proration methodology set forth in paragraph 4(a)). Payment of such Restricted Stock Units shall be made in accordance with the Vesting Schedule. (d) Termination of Employment Without Cause. In the event the Participant's employment is terminated at the instance of the Company or relevant subsidiary without Cause (as defined below), the Restricted Stock Units hereunder shall vest pro rata for full months employed during the Vesting Period (with such proration methodology set forth in paragraph 4(a)). The date of vesting and payment of such Restricted Stock Units shall be the first day after termination that shares may be sold by the Participant under applicable Company policy, including, without limitation, the Code of Conduct. (e) Termination of Employment By Employee. In the event the Participant terminates his or her employment (e.g., by voluntary resigning), except in the case of retirement which is subject to paragraph 4(b) above, all unvested Restricted Stock Units as of the effective date of resignation shall be forfeited. (f) Termination of Employment With Cause. In the event the Participant is terminated for Cause, all unvested Restricted Stock Units as of the effective date of termination shall be forfeited. For purposes hereof, "Cause" shall have the meaning in any employment agreement as in effect between the Participant and the Company or any subsidiary and, in the absence of any such agreement, shall mean any breach by the Participant of any of his or her material obligations under any Company policy or procedure, including, without limiting the generality, the Code of Corporate Conduct. (g) Post Employment Conduct. Payment in respect of any Restricted Stock Unit after termination of employment shall be subject to satisfaction of the conditions precedent that the Participant neither (i) competes with, or takes employment with or renders services to a competitor of, 2
the Company, its subsidiaries or affiliates without the written consent of the Company, nor (ii) conducts himself or herself in a manner adversely affecting the Company. 5. NO RIGHTS OF STOCK OWNERSHIP. This grant of Restricted Stock Units will not entitle the Participant to any interest in or to any voting or other rights normally attributable to Share ownership other than the Dividend Equivalent Rights granted in accordance with paragraph 3 above. 6. WITHHOLDING. All payments or distributions of Shares covered by Restricted Stock Units shall be net of any amounts required to be withheld pursuant to applicable federal, national, state and local tax withholding requirements imposed by each taxing authority having jurisdiction. The Company (or relevant subsidiary) may require the Participant to remit to it an amount sufficient to satisfy such tax withholding requirements prior to the delivery of any certificates for such Shares. The Company (or relevant subsidiary) may, in its discretion and subject to such rules as it may adopt (including any as may be required to satisfy applicable tax and/or non-tax regulatory requirements), permit the Participant to pay all or a portion of the federal, national, state and local withholding taxes arising in connection with any Restricted Stock Unit by electing to have the Company (or relevant subsidiary) withhold whole Shares equal in Fair Market Value to the amount to be withheld, such tax calculated at minimum statutory rates applicable to the participant. 7. NONASSIGNABILITY. This award may not be assigned, pledged, or transferred except, in the event of death, to a designated beneficiary or by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. The foregoing restrictions shall not apply to transfers pursuant to a court order, including, but not limited to, any domestic relations order. 8. EFFECT UPON EMPLOYMENT. The Participant's right to continue to serve the Company or any of its subsidiaries as an officer, employee, or otherwise, shall not be enlarged or otherwise affected by the award hereunder. 9. NOTICES. Any notice required or permitted under this Agreement shall be deemed to have been duly given if delivered, telecopied or mailed, certified or registered mail, return receipt requested or by internationally-recognized courier guaranteeing next day delivery (a) to the Participant at such address as the Company (or relevant subsidiary) shall maintain for the Participant per its personnel records or (b) to the Company, attention Stock Plan Administration at its principal executive offices, which are currently located at 767 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY 10153. 10. DISCLOSURE AND USE OF INFORMATION. By signing and returning the attached Notice of Grant, the Participant hereby expressly: (i) authorizes the Company and any subsidiary, and any agent of the Company and/or any subsidiary administering the Plan or providing Plan recordkeeping services, to disclose to the Company or any of its subsidiaries such information and data as the Company or any such subsidiary shall request in order to facilitate the grant and administration of the stock options and/or the administration of the Plan; (ii) waives any data privacy rights he or she may have with respect to such information; and (iii) authorizes the Company and any subsidiary to store and transmit such information in electronic form. 11. FAILURE TO ENFORCE NOT A WAIVER. The failure of the Company to enforce at any time any provision of this agreement shall in no manner be construed to be a waiver of such provision or of any other provision hereof. 3
12. GOVERNING LAW. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed according to the laws of the State of New York, applicable to agreements made and performed in that state, without regard to the choice of law provisions thereof 13. PARTIAL INVALIDITY. The invalidity or illegality of any provision herein shall not be deemed to affect the validity of any other provision. 14. SECTION 409A COMPLIANCE. This Agreement is intended to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and any regulations or notices provided thereunder. The Company reserves the unilateral right to amend this Agreement upon written notice to the Participant in order to comply with such section. The Estee Lauder Companies Inc. By: ---------------------------- Executive Vice President, Global Human Resources 4
NOTICE OF GRANT UNDER THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC. AMENDED AND RESTATED FISCAL 2002 SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN (THE "PLAN") This is to confirm that you were awarded a grant of Restricted Stock Units at the most recent meeting of the Stock Plan Subcommittee of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors representing the right upon vesting of such units to receive shares of Class A Common Stock of The Estee Lauder Companies Inc. (the "Shares"), subject to the terms of the Plan and the Restricted Stock Unit Agreement. This award was made in recognition of the significant contributions you have made as a key employee of the Company, and to motivate you to achieve future successes by aligning your interests more closely with those of our stockholders. This Restricted Stock Unit award is granted under and governed by the terms and conditions of the Plan and the Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (the "Agreement") attached hereto and made part hereof. Please read these documents and keep them for future reference. The specific terms of your award are as follows: Participant: ((FIRST_NAME)) ((LAST_NAME)) SSN or Global Identification Number: Number of Restricted Stock Units: ______________________ Grant Date: ______________________ Vesting Commencement Date: ______________________ Vesting Schedule: Subject to Participant's continuous employment, this Restricted Stock Unit grant shall vest as to the number of Shares set forth below: Shares Vesting Date ------- ------------ [*] [*] [*] [*] [*] [*] Vesting Period: The Vesting Commencement Date through and including the applicable date set forth in the Vesting Schedule Questions regarding the award can be directed to Lauren Whyte at (212) 572-3705 or Patricia Zakrzewski at (973) 492-3609. If you wish to accept this grant, PLEASE SIGN THIS NOTICE OF GRANT AND RETURN IMMEDIATELY TO: Compensation Department 767 Fifth Avenue, 43rd Floor New York, New York 10153 ATTENTION: LAUREN WHYTE The undersigned hereby accepts, and agrees to, all terms and provisions of the Agreement, including those contained in this Notice of Grant. By_________________________ Date__________ Enclosure: Restricted Stock Unit Agreement Summary Plan Description Restricted Stock Unit Q&A 5

Exhibit 10.6 ------------ EACH OF THE STOCK PLAN SUBCOMMITTEE OF THE COMPENSATION COMMITTEE AND THE COMPENSATION COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC. RESERVES THE RIGHT TO CHANGE PROVISIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT TO COMPLY WITH THE AMERICAN JOBS CREATION ACT OF 2004. RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT UNDER THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC. AMENDED AND RESTATED FISCAL 2002 SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN (THE "PLAN") This RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT ("Agreement") provides for the granting by The Estee Lauder Companies Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), to the participant, an employee of the Company or one of its subsidiaries (the "Participant"), of Stock Units under the Plan representing a notional account equal to a corresponding number of shares of the Company's Class A Common Stock, par value $0.01 (the "Shares"), on the terms and subject to the conditions hereinafter provided (the "Restricted Stock Units"). The name of the "Participant", the "Grant Date", the "Number of Restricted Stock Units", the "Vesting Commencement Date", the "Vesting Schedule" and the "Vesting Period" are stated in the attached "Notice of Grant", and incorporated herein by reference. The other terms and conditions of this award are stated in this Agreement and in the Plan. Terms not defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan (including any amendments thereto). 1. AWARD GRANT. The Company hereby awards to the Participant an award of Restricted Stock Units in respect of the number of Shares set forth in the Notice of Grant. 2. VESTING. The Restricted Stock Units granted to the Participant shall vest and become payable in accordance with the Vesting Schedule set forth in the Notice of Grant. Such schedule indicates the vesting date upon which the Participant shall be entitled to receive Shares, provided that as of such vesting date, the Participant's employment with the Company has not been terminated, except as otherwise provided herein. 3. PAYMENT OF AWARDS. Each Restricted Stock Unit granted hereunder shall represent the right to receive one Share upon the vesting of such Restricted Stock Unit. Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, (a) each unvested Restricted Stock Unit will vest and become payable to the Participant in accordance with the Plan and this paragraph and (b) each vested Restricted Stock Unit not paid shall become payable to the Participant in accordance with the Plan and this paragraph. Payments upon the occurrence of a Change in Control shall be made as soon as practicable following the Change of Control, but in no event later than two weeks after the Change in Control. If the Shares cease to be outstanding immediately after the Change in Control (e.g., due to a merger with and into another entity), then the consideration to be received per Share shall equal the consideration paid to each stockholder per Share generally upon such Change in Control. In the event of Participant's death, disability or termination of employment without cause prior to the Change in Control, then only such Restricted Stock Units that vested (in the case of death) or the Restricted Stock Units that were to vest pro rata due to disability or termination without cause shall vest and become payable in accordance with this paragraph and all other unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be forfeited.
4. TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT. In the event the Participant's employment terminates during the Vesting Period, all unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be forfeited except for such vesting and payment of Restricted Stock Units as follows, subject to the provisions of Paragraph 3: (a) Death. In the event of the Participant's death, unvested Restricted Stock Units shall vest as of the date of death pro rata based on the number of full months the Participant was employed during the Vesting Period after the last vesting date (i.e., the proration shall equal a fraction the numerator of which is the number of full months of service completed in the Vesting Period after the last vesting date through the Participant's death and the denominator of which is the number of full months after the last vesting date that are remaining in the Vesting Period). For purposes hereof, "last vesting date" shall be the grant date if the first vesting date has not yet occurred. As an example, assume a grant to Participant X of Restricted Stock Units for 300 shares with a three-year Vesting Period and one-third of the units vesting at the end of each twelve-month period. If the Participant X dies 18 months after the grant date and six months after the last vesting date, then the estate or beneficiary of Participant X would be entitled to payment of 50 Shares (before withholding). Participant X would have already received 100 Shares (before withholding) on the first anniversary of the grant date. Payment of the vested Restricted Stock Units shall be made as soon as practicable following such Participant's death and in accordance with any applicable laws or Company procedures regarding such payments. (b) Retirement. In the event of the Employee's formal retirement under the terms of The Estee Lauder Companies Retirement Growth Account Plan (or an affiliate or a successor plan or program of similar purpose), the unvested Restricted Stock Units shall continue to vest and be paid in accordance with the Vesting Schedule. Vesting and payment in respect of any unvested Restricted Stock Unit after retirement shall be subject to satisfaction of the conditions precedent that the Participant neither (i) competes with, or takes employment with or renders services to a competitor of, the Company, its subsidiaries or affiliates without the written consent of the Company, nor (ii) conducts himself or herself in a manner adversely affecting the Company. (c) Disability. In the event of the occurrence of the Participant's total and permanent disability (as such status shall be determined under the Company's long-term disability program), the unvested Restricted Stock Units shall vest pro rata for full months employed during the Vesting Period (with such proration methodology set forth in paragraph 4(a)) on the next vesting date during the Vesting Period. Payment of vested Restricted Stock Units shall be made in accordance with the Vesting Schedule (i.e., on the next vesting date during the Vesting Period). (d) Termination of Employment Without Cause. In the event the Participant's employment is terminated at the instance of the Company or relevant subsidiary without Cause (as defined below), the unvested Restricted Stock Units hereunder shall vest pro rata for full months employed during the Vesting Period (with such proration methodology set forth in paragraph 4(a)) on the next vesting date during the Vesting Period. Payment of Restricted Stock Units shall be made in accordance with the Vesting Schedule and payment in respect of any unvested Restricted Stock Unit after last day of active employment shall be subject to satisfaction of the conditions precedent that the Participant neither (i) competes with, or takes employment with or renders services to a competitor of, the Company, its subsidiaries or affiliates without the written consent of the Company, nor (ii) conducts himself or herself in a manner adversely affecting the Company. 2
(e) Termination of Employment By Employee. In the event the Participant terminates his or her employment (e.g., by voluntarily resigning), except in the case of retirement or disability, which are subject to paragraphs 4(b) and 4(c) above, respectively, all unvested Restricted Stock Units as of the effective date of resignation shall be forfeited. (f) Termination of Employment With Cause. In the event the Participant is terminated for Cause, all unvested Restricted Stock Units as of the effective date of resignation shall be forfeited. For purposes hereof, "Cause" shall have the meaning in any employment agreement as in effect between the Participant and the Company or any subsidiary and, in the absence of any such agreement, shall mean any breach by the Participant of any of his or her material obligations under any Company policy or procedure, including, without limiting the generality, the Code of Corporate Conduct. 5. NO RIGHTS OF STOCK OWNERSHIP. This grant of Restricted Stock Units will not entitle the Participant to any interest in or to any voting or other rights normally attributable to Share ownership. 6. WITHHOLDING. All payments or distributions of Shares covered by Restricted Stock Units shall be net of any amounts required to be withheld pursuant to applicable federal, national, state and local tax withholding requirements imposed by each taxing authority having jurisdiction. The Company (or relevant subsidiary) may require the Participant to remit to it an amount sufficient to satisfy such tax withholding requirements prior to the delivery of any certificates for such Shares. The Company (or relevant subsidiary) may, in its discretion and subject to such rules as it may adopt (including any as may be required to satisfy applicable tax and/or non-tax regulatory requirements), permit the Participant to pay all or a portion of the federal, national, state and local withholding taxes arising in connection with any Restricted Stock Unit by electing to have the Company (or relevant subsidiary) withhold Shares equal in Fair Market Value to the amount to be withheld, such tax calculated at minimum statutory rates applicable to the Participant. 7. NONASSIGNABILITY. This award may not be assigned, pledged, or transferred except, in the event of death, to a designated beneficiary or by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. The foregoing restrictions shall not apply to transfers pursuant to a court order, including, but not limited to, any domestic relations order. 8. EFFECT UPON EMPLOYMENT. The Participant's right to continue to serve the Company or any of its subsidiaries as an officer, employee, or otherwise, shall not be enlarged or otherwise affected by the award hereunder. Nothing in this Agreement or the Plan gives the Participant any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or to interfere in any way with any right the Company or any Subsidiary may have to terminate his or her employment at any time. Payment of Shares is not secured by a trust, insurance contract or other funding medium, and the Participant does not have any interest in any fund or specific asset of the Company by reason of this Award or the account established on his or her behalf. The Participant has no rights as a shareholder of the Company pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units until Shares are actually delivered to the Participant. 9. NOTICES. Any notice required or permitted under this Agreement shall be deemed to have been duly given if delivered, telecopied or mailed, certified or registered mail, return receipt requested or by internationally-recognized courier guaranteeing next day delivery (a) to the Participant at such address as the Company (or relevant subsidiary) shall maintain for the Participant per its personnel records or (b) to the Company, attention Stock Plan Administration at its principal executive offices, which are currently located at 767 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY 10153. 3
10. DISCLOSURE AND USE OF INFORMATION. a. By signing and returning the attached Notice of Grant, and as a condition of the grant of the Restricted Stock Units, the Participant hereby expressly consents to the Company and its subsidiaries, and any agent of the Company and/or its subsidiaries administering the Plan or providing Plan recordkeeping service to the collection, use, and transfer of personal data as described in this Section. b. The Participant understands that the local employer, the Company and/or its other subsidiaries holds, by means of an automated data file or otherwise, certain personal information about the Participant, including, but not limited to, name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares or directorships held in the Company, details of all Restricted Stock Units or other entitlement to shares awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested, or outstanding in the Participant's favor, for purposes of managing and administering the Plan ("Data"). The Participant further understands that part or all of his or her Data may be also held by the Company and/or its subsidiaries, pursuant to a transfer made in the past with the Participant's consent, in respect of any previous grant of stock options or other awards, which was made for the same purposes of managing and administering previous award/incentive plans, or for other purposes. c. The Participant further understands that his or her local employer will transfer Data to the Company and/or its subsidiaries among themselves as necessary for the purposes of implementation, administration, and management of the his or her participation in the Plan, and that the Company and/or its subsidiaries may transfer data among themselves, and/or each, in turn, further transfer Data to any third parties assisting the Company in the implementation, administration, and management of the Plan ("Data Recipients"). d. The Participant understands that the Company and/or its subsidiaries, as well as the Data Recipients, are or may be located in his or her country of residence or elsewhere, such as the United States. The Participant authorizes the Company and/or its subsidiaries, as well as Data Recipients to receive, possess, use, retain, and transfer Data in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering, and managing his or her participation in the Plan, including any transfer of such Data, as may be required for the administration of the Plan and/or the subsequent holding of Shares on his or her behalf, to a broker or third party with whom the Shares may be deposited. e. The Participant understands that he or she may show opposition to the processing and transfer of his or her Data, and, may at any time, review the Data, request that any necessary amendments be made to it, or withdraw his or her consent herein in writing by contacting the Company. The Participant further understands that withdrawing consent may affect his or her ability to participate in the Plan. 11. DISCRETIONARY NATURE AND ACCEPTANCE OF AWARD. By accepting this Award, the Participant agrees to be bound by the terms of this Agreement and acknowledges that: a. The Company (and not the local employer) is granting Restricted Stock Units. Furthermore, this Agreement is not derived from any preexisting labor relationship between the Participant and the Company, but rather from a mercantile relationship. 4
b. The Company will administer the Plan from the United States or such other country that may be outside the Participant's country of residence and the laws of the State of New York (without regard to its choice of laws provisions) will govern all Restricted Stock Units granted under the Plan. c. That benefits and rights provided under the Plan are wholly discretionary and, although provided by the Company, do not constitute regular or periodic payments. d. The benefits and rights provided under the Plan are not to be considered part of the Participant's salary or compensation under his or her employment with the local employer for purposes of calculating any severance, resignation, redundancy or other end of service payments, vacation, bonuses, long-term service awards, indemnification, pension or retirement benefits, or any other payments, benefits or rights of any kind. The Participant waives any and all rights to compensation or damages as a result of the termination of employment with the Participant's local employer for any reason whatsoever insofar as those rights result or may result from the loss or diminution in value of such rights under the Plan or his or her ceasing to have any rights under, or ceasing to be entitled to any rights under the Plan as a result of such termination. e. The grant of Restricted Stock Units, hereunder, and any future grant of Restricted Stock Units under the Plan is entirely voluntary, and at the complete discretion of the Company. Neither the grant of the Restricted Stock Units nor any future grant of Restricted Stock Units by the Company shall be deemed to create any obligation to grant any further Restricted Stock Units, whether or not such a reservation is explicitly stated at the time of such a grant. The Company has the right in its sole discretion, at any time and/or on an annual basis, to amend, suspend, or terminate the Plan; provided, however, that no such amendment, suspension, or termination shall adversely affect the Participant's rights hereunder. f. The Plan shall not be deemed to constitute, and shall not be construed by as constituting, part of the terms and conditions of employment. The Company shall not incur any liability of any kind to the Participant as a result of any change or amendment, or any cancellation, of the Plan at any time. g. Participation in the Plan shall not be deemed to constitute, and shall not be deemed by the Participant to constitute, an employment or labor relationship of any kind with the Company. 12. FAILURE TO ENFORCE NOT A WAIVER. The failure of the Company to enforce at any time any provision of this agreement shall in no manner be construed to be a waiver of such provision or of any other provision hereof. 13. GOVERNING LAW. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed according to the laws of the State of New York, applicable to agreements made and performed in that state, without regard to the choice of law provisions thereof. 5
14. PARTIAL INVALIDITY. The invalidity or illegality of any provision herein shall not be deemed to affect the validity of any other provision. 15. SECTION 409A COMPLIANCE. This Agreement is intended to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and any regulations or notices provided thereunder. The Company reserves the unilateral right to amend this Agreement upon written notice to the Participant in order to comply with such section. The Estee Lauder Companies Inc. By: ---------------------------- Executive Vice President, Global Human Resources 6
NOTICE OF GRANT UNDER THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC. AMENDED AND RESTATED FISCAL 2002 SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN (THE "PLAN") This is to confirm that you were awarded a grant of Restricted Stock Units at the most recent meeting of the Stock Plan Subcommittee of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors representing the right upon vesting of such units to receive shares of Class A Common Stock of The Estee Lauder Companies Inc. (the "Shares"), subject to the terms of the Plan and the Restricted Stock Unit Agreement. This award was made in recognition of the significant contributions you have made as a key employee of the Company, and to motivate you to achieve future successes by aligning your interests more closely with those of our stockholders. This Restricted Stock Unit award is granted under and governed by the terms and conditions of the Plan and the Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (the "Agreement") attached hereto and made part hereof. Please read these documents and keep them for future reference. The specific terms of your award are as follows: Participant: ((FIRST_NAME)) ((LAST_NAME)) SSN or Global Identification Number: Number of Restricted Stock Units: ______________________ Grant Date: ______________________ Vesting Commencement Date: ______________________ Vesting Schedule: Subject to Participant's continuous employment, this Restricted Stock Unit grant shall vest as to the number of Shares set forth below: Shares Vesting Date ------- ------------ [*] [*] [*] [*] [*] [*] Vesting Period: The Vesting Commencement Date through and including the applicable date set forth in the Vesting Schedule Questions regarding the award can be directed to Lauren Whyte at (212) 572-3705 or Patricia Zakrzewski at (973) 492-3609. If you wish to accept this grant, PLEASE SIGN THIS NOTICE OF GRANT AND RETURN IMMEDIATELY TO: Compensation Department 767 Fifth Avenue, 43rd Floor New York, New York 10153 ATTENTION: LAUREN WHYTE The undersigned hereby accepts, and agrees to, all terms and provisions of the Agreement, including those contained in this Notice of Grant. By_________________________ Date__________ Enclosure: Restricted Stock Unit Agreement Summary Plan Description Restricted Stock Unit Q&A 7


