FILE:EL/EL-8K-20070306171759.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities
TEXT:
ITEM: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549-1004 ---------------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): March 6, 2007 The Estee Lauder Companies Inc. (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 11-2408943 (State or other jurisdiction of (IRS Employer Identification No.) incorporation or organization) 767 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York 10153 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Commission File Number: 1-14064 212-572-4200 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) Not Applicable (Former name or former address, if changed since last report) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below): |_| Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) |_| Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) |_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) |_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement. Overnight Share Repurchase Agreement - ------------------------------------ On March 6, 2007, The Estee Lauder Companies Inc. ("the Company") entered into an "overnight share repurchase" agreement (the "Agreement") with Bank of America, N.A. ("Bank of America") to repurchase from Bank of America approximately $750 million of its outstanding shares of the Company's class A common stock (the "Class A Common Stock"). The accelerated repurchase is part of the Company's share repurchase program, which was last increased by 20 million shares, and previously disclosed in the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on February 15, 2007. Under the Agreement, the Company expects to purchase during the week ending March 9, 2007 approximately 16 million shares of its Class A Common Stock at a cost of approximately $750 million from Bank of America. The exact purchase price per share and number of shares to be delivered by Bank of America initially to the Company shall be fixed in accordance with the Agreement. It is expected that Bank of America will purchase an equivalent number of shares that it initially delivers to the Company over a period of the next several months. At the end of that period, the Company may receive from, or may be required to pay, Bank of America a settlement amount to be determined based on the volume weighted average price for the shares of Class A Common Stock during the period of Bank of America's purchases. Such payments received by the Company shall be settled in additional shares of Class A Common Stock. Such payments made by the Company may, at the Company's option, be settled in shares of Class A Common Stock or cash. The Company's obligation to pay in respect of two thirds of the initial shares delivered is subject to a cap. All of the shares repurchased under the Agreement will be placed into treasury. In the ordinary course of its businesses, Bank of America or its affiliates have or may have various relationships with the Company and its subsidiaries involving the provision of a variety of financial services, including cash management, commercial banking, investment banking, advisory or other financial services, for which they received, or will receive, customary fees and expenses. In addition, the Company and its subsidiaries may have entered into interest rate and foreign exchange derivative arrangements with Bank of America or its affiliates. The forward-looking statements in this current report, including those containing the words "may", "expect" or similar expressions, are based on the Company's current understandings. Actual actions, timing and results may differ materially from those forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including the Company's future operating results and financial condition (see the "Forward-Looking Information" section of the Company's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2006 for additional factors that could affect operating results and financial condition) and changes in the public equity and debt markets that could affect the terms upon which the overnight share repurchase is settled. -2-
$400 Million Revolving Credit Agreement - --------------------------------------- On March 6, 2007, the Company entered into a credit agreement (the "Agreement") by and among the Company, Estee Lauder Inc., a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, the Eligible Subsidiaries of the Company, as defined therein (the "Eligible Subsidiaries"), the lenders listed therein (the "Lenders"), JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent ("JPMCB"), Bank of America N.A., as syndication agent, Citibank, N.A., as documentation agent and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and JPMCB, as joint bookrunners. The Facility (as defined below) created by the Agreement is intended to supplement the Company's existing, and unused, $600 million revolving credit facility. The Agreement provides for a 364-day revolving credit facility (the "Facility") to the Company and the Eligible Subsidiaries (collectively, the "Borrowers"), in the amount of $400,000,000, of which the entire amount is currently undrawn and available. The proceeds of the loans made under the Agreement will be used by each Borrower to provide credit support for such Borrower's commercial paper program, to fund the Company's share repurchase program and for general corporate purposes in the ordinary course of business of the Company and its subsidiaries, as shall be determined by the Company from time to time. The Facility commenced on March 6, 2007 and expires by its terms on March 4, 2008. Estee Lauder Inc. will act as Guarantor with respect to the obligations of the Borrowers under the Agreement and the Company will act as Guarantor with respect to the obligations of the Borrowers under the Agreement, other than itself, each pursuant to the terms set forth in the Agreement. Interest and fees payable under the Agreement shall be determined pursuant to the terms set forth in the Agreement. The Agreement also contains certain affirmative, negative and financial covenants customary for facilities of this type, including, furnishing to Lenders periodic financial information of the Company and all reports, proxy statements and registration statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission; paying and discharging, at or before maturity, material obligations and liabilities; maintenance of corporate existence and ability to do business; limitations on ability to consolidate, merge or sell, lease or otherwise transfer all or substantially all assets; limitations on the incurrence of liens; limitations on the incurrence of debt by subsidiaries of the Company; and limitations on transactions with affiliates. The Agreement also contains certain events of default customary for facilities of this type (with customary grace periods), including nonpayment of principal, interest, fees or other amounts when due; material inaccuracies of representations and warranties; violations of covenants; the occurrence of certain bankruptcy events; certain ERISA events; material judgments; changes of control; or the invalidity of the guaranty provided by the Guarantors. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, any outstanding loans under the Agreement may be accelerated and/or the Lenders' commitments may be terminated; provided -3-
however, that upon the occurrence of certain insolvency or bankruptcy related events of default, all amounts payable under the Agreement will automatically become immediately due and payable, and the Lenders' commitments will automatically terminate. In the ordinary course of their respective businesses, one or more of the Lenders, or their affiliates, have or may have various relationships with the Company and its subsidiaries involving the provision of a variety of financial services, including cash management, commercial banking, investment banking, advisory or other financial services, for which they received, or will receive, customary fees and expenses. In addition, the Company and its subsidiaries may have entered into interest rate and foreign exchange derivative arrangements with one or more Lenders, or their affiliates. Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation Under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant The disclosure required by this item is included in Item 1.01 and is incorporated herein by reference. Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure On March 6, 2007, the Company issued a press release relating to its Analyst and Investor Day to discuss the Company's current business and recent progress, key growth opportunities, and the outlook for the next three fiscal years. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, and incorporated herein by reference. The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K under this Item 7.01, including the attached exhibit, is being furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except as shall be expressly set forth by a specific reference in such filing. Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits (d) Exhibits 99.1 Press Release issued by the Company, dated March 6, 2007, relating to the Analyst and Investor Day. -4-
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized. THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC. Date: March 6, 2007 By: /s/ Richard W. Kunes ----------------------------- Richard W. Kunes Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer -5-
Exhibit No. Description - ----------- ----------- 99.1 Press Release issued by the Company, dated March 6, 2007, relating to the Analyst and Investor Day. -6-

EXHIBIT 99.1 ------------ [THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC. LOGO] NEWS Contact: INVESTOR RELATIONS: DENNIS D'ANDREA 767 Fifth Avenue (212) 572-4384 New York, NY 10153 MEDIA RELATIONS: SALLY SUSMAN (212) 572-4430 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES TO HOST ANALYST AND INVESTOR DAY TO PROVIDE OVERVIEW OF RECENT PROGRESS AND OUTLOOK THROUGH FISCAL 2010 - OUTLINES PLANS TO OPTIMIZE, DIVERSIFY AND GROW ITS BUSINESS AND DRIVE SOLID, CONSISTENT GROWTH OVER THE LONG-TERM - - REITERATES EXPECTATIONS FOR FISCAL 2007 OF NET SALES GROWTH OF 6% - 7% IN CONSTANT CURRENCY AND DILUTED EPS BETWEEN $2.10 AND $2.20 - - PROVIDES THREE YEAR OUTLOOK INCLUDING EXPECTED ANNUAL SALES GROWTH OF 6% - 8% IN CONSTANT CURRENCY, DILUTED EPS GROWTH BETWEEN 10% - 12% PER YEAR AND TARGETS ROIC OF 23% - 24% BY 2010 - NEW YORK, NY, MARCH 6, 2007 - The Estee Lauder Companies Inc. (NYSE: EL) today will host an Analyst and Investor Day to discuss the Company's current business and recent progress, key growth opportunities, and the outlook for the next three fiscal years. William P. Lauder, President and Chief Executive Officer, said, "Since our last Analyst and Investor Day in 2002, we have delivered solid overall performance, strengthened our business, and maintained our position as a leading global prestige beauty company. We've sustained our track record of steady sales growth and continued to build some of the strongest global brands in the industry. Our management team has focused on creating a more disciplined and efficient organization and we are making significant strides in improving sourcing, streamlining our infrastructure, and implementing systems to drive efficiencies across the business. "As a result, we are delivering strong sales growth and realizing cost improvements. We also exceeded our five-year goal for return on invested capital (ROIC) a year earlier than planned. Further, we have created significant stockholder value through strong overall performance, aggressive share repurchases, and increased dividends."
OVERVIEW OF KEY DISCUSSION POINTS AT THE 2007 ANALYST AND INVESTOR DAY - ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Today's meeting will include presentations from key senior executives of The Estee Lauder Companies. The senior management team will provide an overview of the business, operating initiatives, and financial expectations through fiscal 2010. A number of other key executives will provide a business and marketing overview of the Company's largest product categories. The Company's executives will outline initiatives to effectively position The Estee Lauder Companies for a strong future. Specifically, the Company will discuss plans to: o OPTIMIZE its brand portfolio, product categories, operations, and cost structure; o DIVERSIFY sales, distribution channels, and geographies; and o GROW by maximizing international growth opportunities, enhancing performance in existing channels, introducing innovative products, increasing market share across product categories, and making strategic acquisitions. FINANCIAL OUTLOOK FOR FISCAL 2007- 2010 - --------------------------------------- EXPECTATIONS FOR FISCAL 2007 Today the Company will reaffirm its previously provided estimates for the fiscal third quarter ending March 31, 2007, and full fiscal year ending June 30, 2007. o For the third quarter, net sales are expected to grow between 4% and 6% in constant currency and the foreign currency translation impact is expected to add approximately 1.5% to 2% on a reported basis. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations is expected to be approximately flat with last year. o For fiscal 2007, annual net sales are expected to grow between 6% and 7% in constant currency, while foreign currency translation is expected to add approximately a 1.5% benefit versus the prior year. The Company continues to expect diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to be between $2.10 and $2.20. As announced separately today, the Company is committed to optimizing its capital structure and aggressively returning value to stockholders. The Company has entered into an "overnight share repurchase" agreement with Bank of America, N.A. to repurchase from the bank approximately 16 million shares of The Estee Lauder Companies Inc.'s Class A Common stock at a cost of approximately $750 million. There are currently 23 million shares remaining under the Company's current share repurchase program. In order to fund the initial purchase, the Company will use cash on hand supplemented by borrowings of up to $750 million, which may be refinanced from time to time. OUTLOOK THROUGH 2010 The Company will also provide three-year targets for a number of key financial metrics and business building investment goals. -2-
o The Company currently anticipates average annual sales growth of between 6% and 8% in constant currency. This top line increase is expected to be driven by international growth, particularly in emerging markets, further development of core and fast growing brands, market share expansion in existing channels, and diversified distribution. o The current plan is to achieve improvements in annual gross margin driven by ongoing cost of sales initiatives and efficiencies. o Continuing its cost savings initiatives, the Company plans to further streamline costs across the organization while it also modernizes its operations. The Company expects to realize in excess of $200 million in savings over the three year-period. o The majority of the realized savings is expected to be reinvested in business building investments to drive consistent top and bottom line growth and position the business for the long-term. Investments include brand building initiatives, aggressive expansion in international markets, global infrastructure and technology improvements, new brand development, and strengthening our professional talent. o Given the substantial reinvestment, operating expense margin is expected to remain relatively flat and the Company anticipates modest operating margin improvements over the next three fiscal years. o Annual diluted earnings per share growth is expected to be in the range of 10% - 12%. o ROIC is estimated to be between of 23% - 24% at the end of fiscal 2010. Mr. Lauder concluded, "We are committed to continuing to optimize, diversify, and grow our business and to further drive stockholder value. We are confident that our strategic investments, balanced by operating and financial discipline, will enable us to drive solid, consistent overall growth and sustain our position as a global leader in prestige beauty well into the future." WEBCAST INFORMATION - ------------------- The Company will webcast all of the presentations delivered at today's Analyst and Investor Day. The live webcast will begin at 8:00 am ET and is expected to conclude by approximately 2:30 pm ET. To access the webcast, please visit the "Investor" section of the Company's website, www.elcompanies.com. The webcast will be archived on the site for two weeks. DEFINITION - ---------- The Company defines ROIC as annualized net income from continuing operations plus net interest (tax effected), divided by the average of five quarters of invested capital. Invested capital is defined as current assets minus current liabilities plus property, plant and equipment and intangibles. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS - -------------------------- The forward-looking statements in this press release, including those containing words like "expect," "planned," "may," "could," "anticipate," "estimate," "projected," those in Mr. Lauder's remarks and those in the "Financial Outlook for 2007-2010" section involve risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements include the following: -3-
(1) increased competitive activity from companies in the skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care businesses, some of which have greater resources than the Company does; (2) the Company's ability to develop, produce and market new products on which future operating results may depend and to successfully address challenges in core brands, including gift with purchase, and in the Company's fragrance business; (3) consolidations, restructurings, bankruptcies and reorganizations in the retail industry causing a decrease in the number of stores that sell the Company's products, an increase in the ownership concentration within the retail industry, ownership of retailers by the Company's competitors and ownership of competitors by the Company's customers that are retailers; (4) destocking by retailers; (5) the success, or changes in timing or scope, of new product launches and the success, or changes in the timing or scope, of advertising, sampling and merchandising programs; (6) shifts in the preferences of consumers as to where and how they shop for the types of products and services the Company sells; (7) social, political and economic risks to the Company's foreign or domestic manufacturing, distribution and retail operations, including changes in foreign investment and trade policies and regulations of the host countries and of the United States; (8) changes in the laws, regulations and policies (including the interpretation and enforcement thereof) that affect, or will affect, the Company's business, including those relating to its products, changes in accounting standards, tax laws and regulations, trade rules and customs regulations, and the outcome and expense of legal or regulatory proceedings, and any action the Company may take as a result; (9) foreign currency fluctuations affecting the Company's results of operations and the value of its foreign assets, the relative prices at which the Company and its foreign competitors sell products in the same markets and the Company's operating and manufacturing costs outside of the United States; (10) changes in global or local conditions, including those due to natural or man-made disasters, real or perceived epidemics, or energy costs, that could affect consumer purchasing, the willingness or ability of consumers to travel and/or purchase the Company's products while traveling, the financial strength of the Company's customers or suppliers, the Company's operations, the cost and availability of capital which the Company may need for new equipment, facilities or acquisitions, the cost and availability of raw materials and the assumptions underlying the Company's critical accounting estimates; (11) shipment delays, depletion of inventory and increased production costs resulting from disruptions of operations at any of the facilities that manufacture nearly all of the Company's supply of a particular type of product (i.e., focus factories) or at the Company's distribution or inventory centers; (12) real estate rates and availability, which may affect the Company's ability to increase the number of retail locations at which the Company sells its products and the costs associated with the Company's other facilities; (13) changes in product mix to products which are less profitable; (14) the Company's ability to acquire, develop or implement new information and distribution technologies, including those related to its strategic modernization initiative, on a timely basis and within the Company's cost estimates; (15) the Company's ability to capitalize on opportunities for improved efficiency, such as publicly-announced cost-savings initiatives and the success of Stila under new ownership, and to integrate acquired businesses and realize value therefrom; (16) consequences attributable to the events that are currently taking place in the Middle East, including terrorist attacks, retaliation and the threat of further attacks or retaliation; (17) the timing and impact of acquisitions and divestitures, which depend on willing sellers and buyers, respectively; and (18) additional factors as described in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006. The Company assumes no responsibility to update forward-looking statements made herein or otherwise. -4-
ABOUT THE ESTEE LAUDER COMPANIES INC. The Estee Lauder Companies Inc. is one of the world's leading manufacturers and marketers of quality skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care products. The Company's products are sold in over 130 countries and territories under well-recognized brand names, including Estee Lauder, Aramis, Clinique, Prescriptives, Lab Series, Origins, M-A-C, Bobbi Brown, Tommy Hilfiger, La Mer, Donna Karan, Aveda, Jo Malone, Bumble and bumble, Darphin, Michael Kors, Rodan + Fields, American Beauty, Flirt!, Good Skin(TM), Donald Trump The Fragrance, Grassroots, Sean John, Missoni, Daisy Fuentes and Tom Ford Beauty. An electronic version of this release can be found at the Company's Website, www.elcompanies.com. # # # -5-


