FILE:EL/EL-8K-20070703160619.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
               
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12(b))
o
               
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
               
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
               
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On June 28, 2007, Estee Lauder Companies Inc. (the "Company") entered into a new employment agreement with William P. Lauder, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, effective July 1, 2007 (the "Agreement"). The term of employment under his prior agreement was set to expire on June 30, 2007.
The Agreement provides for Mr. Lauder's employment as President and Chief Executive Officer through June 30, 2010, unless earlier terminated. Under the Agreement, Mr. Lauder will continue to receive a base salary of not less than $1.5 million per annum and will be eligible for aggregate target incentive bonus compensation of $3 million for each Contract Year (as defined below). Under the terms of the Company's Executive Annual Incentive Plan (the "Bonus Plan"), Mr. Lauder may elect to defer all or part of his incentive bonus compensation in compliance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). If any amount of Mr. Lauder's base salary or any amounts owed him under the Bonus Plan or any other amounts payable to Mr. Lauder are not currently deductible by the Company under Section 162(m) of the Code, the Company will defer payment of such amounts until Section 162(m) no longer applies to Mr. Lauder. During the term of the Agreement, Mr. Lauder will continue to be eligible to receive annual stock-based awards under the Company's Amended and Restated Fiscal 2002 Share Incentive Plan with a value equivalent to a grant of stock options with respect to 300,000 shares of the Company's Class A Common Stock. During the term of the Agreement, in addition to the Company's benefits generally available to senior executives (i.e., annual perquisite reimbursement under the Company's Senior Executive Compensation Program Perquisite Plan of up to $20,000, financial counseling services up to $5,000, and participation in the Company's Executive Automobile Program with an automobile having an acquisition value of $75,000), the Company will continue to provide Mr. Lauder additional executive term life insurance with a face amount of $5 million with annual premiums to be paid by the Company and reimbursed by his life insurance trust to the Company.
The Company may terminate Mr. Lauder's employment at any time if he becomes "permanently disabled" (as defined in the Agreement), in which event Mr. Lauder will be entitled to receive (i) any accrued but unpaid salary and other amounts to which he is otherwise entitled prior to the date of termination, (ii) bonus compensation earned but not paid that relates to any Contract Year ended prior to the date of termination, (iii) unpaid bonus compensation otherwise payable for the Contract Year in which such disability occurred pro-rated to the date of termination, (iv) reimbursement for financial counseling services in the amount of $5,000 for a period of one year from the date of termination, and (v) for a period of one year from the date of termination (the "Disability Continuation Period"), his base salary in effect at the time of termination (less disability payments).  In addition, Mr. Lauder will be entitled to continue to participate, to the extent permitted by applicable law, in the Company's benefit plans during the Disability Continuation Period (disregarding any required delay in payments pursuant to Section 409A). Since Mr. Lauder's continued participation in any qualified pension and qualified retirement savings plans of the Company is not permitted during the Disability Continuation Period, the Company will provide Mr. Lauder, subject to the provisions of Section 409A, cash payments equivalent in value to his continued participation in the benefit plans during such period and an amount equal to the maximum matching contribution available under the 401(k) Savings Plan. For purposes of the Agreement, each of the three twelve-month periods commencing on July 1, 2007, July 1, 2008 and July 1, 2009 and ending June 30, 2008, June 30, 2009 and June 30, 2010, respectively, is defined as a "Contract Year".
In the event of Mr. Lauder's death during the term of his employment, his beneficiary or legal representative will be entitled to receive (i) any accrued but unpaid salary and other amounts to which Mr. Lauder otherwise was entitled prior to the date of his death, (ii) bonus compensation earned but not paid
2
 
that relates to any Contract Year ended prior to his death, (iii) unpaid bonus compensation otherwise payable for the Contract Year in which his death occurred pro-rated to the date of his death, (iv) reimbursement for financial counseling services in the amount of $5,000 for a period of one year from the date of his death, and (v) for a period of one year from the date of his death, his base salary in effect at the time of his death.
The Company may terminate Mr. Lauder's employment for any reason (other than for "cause" as defined in the Agreement) upon 180 days' prior written notice. In the event of the Company's termination of his employment (other than for cause, disability or death) or a termination by Mr. Lauder for an uncured "material breach" (as such term is defined in the Agreement), Mr. Lauder will be entitled to (a) receive (i) any accrued but unpaid salary and other amounts to which he is otherwise entitled prior to the date of termination, (ii) bonus compensation earned but not paid that relates to any Contract Year ended prior to the date of termination, (iii) unpaid bonus compensation otherwise payable for the Contract Year in which termination occurred pro-rated to the date of termination, (iv) for a period ending on a date two years from the date of termination, his base salary in effect at the time of termination, (v) bonus compensation equal to 100% of the average of incentive compensation bonuses previously paid or payable to him during the contract term or, if such termination occurs prior to payment of any bonus, $3 million, (vi) reimbursement for financial counseling services in the amount of $10,000 for a period of two years from the date of termination, and (b) participate, for a period ending on a date two years from the date of termination, to the extent permitted by applicable law, in the Company's benefit plans or receive the cash payments equivalent in value to his continued participation in the benefit plans during such period as described above.  In the event Mr. Lauder terminates his employment for good reason following a change of control of the Company, he is entitled to receive payments and benefits as if his employment were terminated by the Company without cause.  In the event of a termination by the Company or by Mr. Lauder for good reason after a change of control, Mr. Lauder may also be entitled to reimbursement for outside legal counsel up to $20,000.
In the case of termination by the Company for cause, Mr. Lauder will be entitled to receive his accrued but unpaid salary and any benefit under the employee benefit programs and plans of the Company as determined under such programs and plans upon and as of such termination.
Mr. Lauder may terminate his employment voluntarily for any reason at any time upon 180 days' prior written notice to the Company, in which event the Company will have no further obligations after termination other than to pay his accrued but unpaid salary, bonus compensation, if any, earned but not paid that relates to any Contract Year ended prior to the date of termination.
The Agreement requires Mr. Lauder to abide by restrictive covenants relating to non-competition and non-solicitation during his employment and, under certain circumstances, for two years following termination of employment, and non-disclosure relating to the Company's confidential information.
If the Company does not renew the term of his employment (except for a change in Company policy regarding the use of written employment agreements for executives, the form of equity-based compensation or the mix of cash and non-cash compensation), Mr. Lauder will be entitled to receive for two years his base salary and other benefits consistent with the Company's obligations upon termination without cause, including the required delay in payment for the six-month period following the date of termination for any amounts determined to be subject to Section 409A. In the event that Mr. Lauder's employment with the Company is terminated as a result of death or disability or by the Company without cause or his term of employment is not renewed and Mr. Lauder is not eligible for retirement under the terms of the Company's qualified defined benefit pension plan, all stock options previously granted to Mr. Lauder will vest and become immediately exercisable until the earlier of the end of the respective option term or the one-year period from the date of such termination, subject to certain non-competition and good conduct provisions. The Agreement provides that in the event any amount or benefit paid under
3
 
the Agreement, taken together with any amounts or benefits otherwise paid to Mr. Lauder by the Company or any affiliated company, are subject to excise tax payments or parachute payments under Section 4999 of the Code, the Company will reimburse Mr. Lauder for such payments.
The Agreement provides that any amounts that are not exempt from Section 409A will be subject to the required six-month delay in payment after termination of service provided that Mr. Lauder is a "specified employee" for purposes of Section 409A at the time of termination of service. Amounts that otherwise would have been paid during this six-month delay will be paid in a lump sum on the first day after such period expires.
The above summary of the material terms of the Agreement is qualified by reference to the text of the Agreement which is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01               Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
4
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:  July 3, 2007
 
5
 
 
6

Exhibit 10.1
THIS AGREEMENT ("Agreement"), dated as of July 1, 2007, between THE ESTE LAUDER COMPANIES INC., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and WILLIAM P. LAUDER, a resident of New York, New York (the "Executive" or "you"),
WHEREAS, the Company and its subsidiaries are principally engaged in the business of manufacturing, marketing and selling skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care products and related services (the "Business"); and
WHEREAS, the Company and the Executive are parties to an employment agreement dated as of January 1, 1995 as superseded by agreements dated July 1, 1995, July 1, 1998, July 1, 2001 as amended July 1, 2002, January 1, 2003 and July 1, 2004; and
WHEREAS, the Company desires to continue to retain the services of the Executive as President and Chief Executive Officer and the Executive desires to provide services in such capacities to the Company, upon the terms and subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Compensation Committee") and the Stock Plan Subcommittee of the Compensation Committee have approved the terms of this Agreement; and
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and of the mutual covenants and obligations hereinafter set forth, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound, hereby agree as follows:
1.             .
Employment Term
The Company hereby agrees to employ the Executive, and the Executive hereby agrees to enter into employment, as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company for the period commencing on July 1, 2007 and ending June 30, 2010 unless terminated sooner pursuant to Section 6 hereof (the "Term of Employment").  The twelve-month period commencing on July 1, 2007 and ending on June 30, 2008 shall be the "First Contract Year" hereunder, and subsequent twelve-month periods shall be subsequent Contract Years.
2.             .
Duties and Extent of Services
(a)           During the Term of Employment, the Executive shall serve as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company reporting to the  Board of Directors, and, in such capacities, shall render such executive, managerial, administrative and other services as customarily are associated with and incident to such positions, and as the Company may, from time to time, reasonably require of him consistent with such positions.
(b)           The Executive shall also hold such other positions and executive offices of the Company and/or of any of the Company's subsidiaries or affiliates as may from time to time be agreed by the Executive or assigned by the  Board of Directors, provided that each such position shall be commensurate with the Executive's standing in the business community as
 
President and Chief Executive Officer.  The Executive shall not be entitled to any compensation other than the compensation provided for herein for serving during the Term of Employment in any other office or position of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, unless the Board of Directors of the Company or the appropriate committee thereof shall specifically approve such additional compensation.
(c)           The Executive shall be a full-time employee of the Company and shall exclusively devote all his business time and efforts faithfully and competently to the Company and shall diligently perform to the best of his ability all of the duties required of him as President and Chief Executive Officer, and in the other positions or offices of the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates assigned to him hereunder.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, the Executive may serve as a non-management director of such business corporations (or in a like capacity in other for-profit or not-for-profit organizations) as the Board of Directors of the Company may approve, such approval not to be unreasonably withheld.
(d)           The Executive shall comply with the Company's stock ownership guidelines applicable to the Executive as they may be implemented and/or amended by the Board of Directors or the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.
3.             .
Salary and Bonus
(a)           .  As compensation for all services to be rendered pursuant to this Agreement and as payment for the rights and interests granted by Executive hereunder, the Company shall pay or cause any of its subsidiaries to pay the Executive a base salary (the "Base Salary") during the Term of Employment subject to the provisions of Section 3(c) below at the annualized rate of not less than $1,500,000.00.  Subject to Section 6(l) of this Agreement, all amounts of Base Salary provided for hereunder shall be payable in accordance with the regular payroll policies of the Company in effect from time to time.
Base Salary
(b)           .  The Compensation Committee has established for the Executive the target bonus payout for the aggregate opportunities that may be awarded in respect of each fiscal year of the Company under the Company's Executive Annual Incentive Plan or any subsequent Bonus Plan for executives that is approved by the stockholders of the Company (the "Bonus Plan") in respect of each Contract Year under this Agreement.   The target bonus payout for the aggregate opportunities in respect of each Contract Year shall be no less than $3,000,000.00.  All such opportunities shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the Bonus Plan, which are incorporated herein by reference; , , except that with respect to bonuses deferred in accordance with Section 3(c) hereof, and as otherwise indicated under Section 6, the bonus payout with respect to any fiscal year shall be paid to Executive no later than the 15th day of the third month following the end of such fiscal year.
Incentive Bonus Compensation
provided
however
(c)           .
Deferral
(i)  .  The Executive may elect to defer payment of all or any part of any incentive bonus compensation payable under Section 3(b) by making an election, in a manner prescribed by the Company, on or before December 31 of the calendar year before the Contract Year begins (or such earlier date as may be necessary to comply with the applicable tax laws and regulations).
Deferral ElectionsIn General
 
(ii)  .  For any incentive bonus compensation that qualifies as performance-based compensation under Treas. Reg. Section 1.409A-1(e) and is based upon a performance period of at least twelve (12) months, the Executive may make a deferral election at any time before the date that is six (6) months before the applicable performance period ends, but only if (i) the incentive bonus compensation is not readily ascertainable when the election is made and (ii) the service provider has performed services continuously from the later of the beginning of the performance period or the date the performance criteria are established.
Deferral ElectionsPerformance-Based Compensation
(iii)  .  If any amount of Base Salary, any amount payable under the Bonus Plan, or any other amount payable to the Executive is not currently deductible under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), or like or successor provisions (a "Non-Deductible Amount"), the Company will defer payment of the Non-Deductible Amount until section 162(m) no longer applies to the Executive.  Any amounts so deferred will be credited to a bookkeeping account in the name of the Executive as of the date scheduled for payment (the "Deferred Compensation Account").  The Deferred Compensation Account will be credited with interest as of each June 30 during the term of deferral, compounded annually, at an annual rate equal to the annual rate of interest announced by Citibank N.A. in New York, New York as its base rate in effect on such June 30, but limited to a maximum annual rate of 9%.
Amounts Subject to Section 162(m)
(iv)  .  Amounts credited to the Executive's Deferred Compensation Account on or before December 31, 2004, and any subsequently credited interest, will be paid in cash to the Executive (or the Executive's designated beneficiary if the Executive dies before payment,)  subject to applicable withholding taxes.  The Company will choose the payment date, which will be no later than 90 days after Executive's employment with the Company terminates, unless the Executive requests before terminating a later payment date or dates and the Company agrees to the request.
Payment of Amounts Deferred and Vested On or Before December 31, 2004
(v)  .  Subject to Section 6(l), amounts credited to the Executive's Deferred Compensation Account after December 31, 2004 will be paid to the Executive (or the Executive's designated beneficiary if the Executive dies before payment), subject to applicable withholding taxes on, or as soon as practicable after, the date the Executive separates from service with the Company (as defined in Treas. Reg. section 1.409A-1(h)).  The Non-Deductible Amount will be paid at the earliest date at which the Company reasonably expects that the deduction will not be limited or eliminated by Code section 162(m).  The Company, in its sole discretion, may provide an investment facility for all or a portion of such deferred amounts, but is not required to do so.
Payment of Amounts Deferred and Vested After December 31, 2004
4.             .
Equity-Based Compensation
(a)           .  In respect of each Contract Year, the Company shall recommend to the Stock Plan Subcommittee of the Compensation Committee that the Executive be awarded under the terms and conditions of the Amended and Restated Fiscal 2002 Share Incentive Plan (the "Share Incentive Plan"), which are incorporated herein by reference, or successor plan and subject to the provisions of Section 6(k) below, equity-based compensation awards in accordance with the policies and procedures of the Company as in effect from time to time for its Executive Officers. The terms of such equity-based compensation awards shall be set forth in separate grant letters approved by the Stock Plan Subcommittee of the Compensation Committee.  The recommended annual equity-based compensation awards
General
 
shall be of an equivalent value to a grant of stock options with respect to 300,000 shares of the Company's Class A Common Stock determined in accordance with procedures generally utilized by the Company for its financial reporting at the time of grant.
(b)           .  Executive acknowledges and agrees that any grant of equity-based compensation otherwise provided for in this Section 4 shall be effective as provided herein only to the extent permitted by the Share Incentive Plan, and this Agreement shall not obligate the Company to adopt any successor plan providing for the grant of equity-based compensation.  If authority over the Company's equity compensation programs is changed from the Stock Plan Subcommittee to the Compensation Committee (or other committee), then after such change, references herein to the Stock Plan Subcommittee shall be to the appropriate committee.
Certain Conditions
.
5.
                                      
Benefits
.  During the Term of Employment, the Executive shall be entitled to participate in all pension and retirement savings, fringe benefit and welfare plans, including life insurance, medical, health and accident, disability, and vacation plans and programs maintained by the Company from time to time for senior executives at a level commensurate with his position.  The Executive acknowledges that participation in such programs may result in the receipt by him of additional taxable income.
(a)          
Standard Benefits
(b)           .  During the Term of Employment, the Company shall reimburse the Executive for the actual expenses incurred by him in connection with his professional standing, in accordance with the guidelines set out in the Company's Senior Executive Compensation Program Perquisite Plan and upon presentation of proper expense statements or vouchers or such other supporting information as the Company may reasonably require of the Executive.  Such reimbursement shall generally occur within seventy-five (75) days after the end of the calendar year of presentment, provided that such presentment occurs within ninety (90) days after the date the related expense were incurred.  Notwithstanding the above, to the extent that the expenses were incurred in one calendar year and presentment occurs in the following calendar year, such reimbursement shall occur by the end of the calendar year in which the presentment occurs.  In no event shall the gross amount of such reimbursements be greater than $20,000.00 in respect of any calendar year during the Term of Employment, nor shall amounts that are not reimbursed in one calendar year up to the $20,000.00 per year limitation be able to be used in another calendar year or otherwise be made available to the Executive.  Additionally, the Company will pay directly to the service provider following presentment of invoice(s) reasonably acceptable to the Company up to $5,000.00 per year for reasonable financial counseling services for the Executive, and in no event shall amounts up to the $5,000.00 per year limitation that are not paid in one calendar year be able to be used in another calendar year or otherwise be made available to the Executive.  The Executive acknowledges that participation in such programs will result in the receipt by him of additional taxable income.
Perquisite Reimbursement; Financial Counseling
(c)           . The Executive will participate in the Executive Automobile Program of the Company, and may elect to be provided an automobile having an acquisition value of up to $75,000.00.  Alternatively, the Executive may receive an automobile allowance in the gross monthly amount of $1,100.00.  The Executive acknowledges that participation in this program will result in the receipt by him of additional taxable income.
Executive Auto
 
(d)           . The Company agrees to reimburse the Executive for all reasonable and necessary travel (inclusive of first class air travel), business entertainment and other business out-of-pocket expenses incurred or expended by him in connection with the performance of his duties hereunder upon presentation of proper expense statements or vouchers or such other supporting information as the Company may reasonably require of the Executive.  The timing of payment of such reimbursements and presentation by the Executive of expenses incurred shall be in accordance with the rules described in Section 5(b).
Expenses
(e)           . The Executive may, upon prior approval of the Chairman of the Board of Directors or his designee, arrange for his spouse to accompany him on business related travel itineraries, on a reasonable basis, at Company expense.  Any reimbursement for such travel shall require presentation of proper expense statements or vouchers or such other supporting information as the Company may reasonably require of the Executive, in accordance with the timeframe described in Section 5(b). The Executive acknowledges that participation in this program will result in the receipt by him of additional taxable income.
Spousal Travel
(f)            .  During the Term of Employment, the Company shall pay premiums on the existing term life insurance policy with a face amount of $5,000,000.00.  Such obligation to pay premiums is subject to standard underwriting conditions.  The Executive acknowledges that this coverage will result in the receipt by him of additional taxable income.
Executive Term Life Insurance
6.             .
Termination
.  In the event of the "permanent disability" (as hereinafter defined) of the Executive during the Term of Employment, the Company shall have the right, upon written notice to the Executive, to terminate the Executive's employment hereunder, effective upon the giving of such notice (or such later date as shall be specified in such notice). In the event of such termination, the Company shall have no further obligations hereunder, except that the Executive shall be entitled to receive (i) any accrued but unpaid salary and other amounts to which the Executive otherwise is entitled hereunder prior to the date of his termination of employment, such salary to be paid in accordance with Section 3(a) and such other amounts to be paid in accordance with applicable payment provisions herein; (ii) bonus compensation earned but not paid under Section 3(b) hereof that relates to any Contract Year ended prior to the date of his termination of employment, to be paid in accordance with Section 3(b) hereof; (iii) a pro-rata portion of the annual bonus payout that the Executive would have been entitled to receive had he remained in employment through the end of the Contract Year during which termination due to permanent disability occurred, based on the portion of the Contract Year that has elapsed prior to such termination, and paid in accordance with Section 3(b) hereof; (iv) reimbursement for financial counseling services specified under Section 5(b) hereof in the amount of $5,000.00 for a period of one (1) year from the date of termination, in accordance with Section 5(b) hereof; and (v) his Base Salary under Section 3(a) hereof for a period of one (1) year from the date of termination as a result of permanent disability (the "Disability Continuation Period"), paid in accordance with Section 6(l)(i) hereof; ,, that the Company shall only be required to pay that amount of the Executive's Base Salary which shall not be covered by short-term disability payments or benefits or long-term disability payments or benefits, if any, to the Executive under any Company plan or arrangement.  In addition, upon termination for permanent disability, the Executive shall continue to participate, to the extent permitted by applicable law and regulations and the applicable benefit plan, program or arrangement, in any and all healthcare, life insurance and accidental death and dismemberment insurance benefit plans, programs or arrangements of the
(a)          
Permanent Disability
provided
however
 
Company during the Disability Continuation Period (disregarding any required delay in payments under Section 6(l)).  Thereafter, the Executive's rights to participate in such programs and plans, or to receive similar coverage, if any, shall be as determined under such programs.  Because continued participation in any qualified pension and qualified retirement savings plans of the Company is not permitted during the Disability Continuation Period, the Company shall provide to the Executive, subject to Section 6(l), cash payments, to be paid in accordance with Section 6(l)(i), equal to the sum of (x) the maximum qualified defined contribution retirement savings plan match for pre-tax and after-tax contributions allowable by the plan and by applicable laws and regulations for each year during the Disability Continuation Period (or other period as expressly provided herein), and (y) the excess of the benefit that would have been received by the Executive had he been credited with additional years of age and service equal to the Disability Continuation Period (or other period as expressly provided herein) over the actual benefit to which the Executive is entitled, in each case, under any and all qualified and non-qualified defined benefit pension plans and qualified defined contribution retirement savings plans in which the Executive participates as of the date of termination of employment, calculated as of and based upon the Executive's date of termination (such sum, the "Pension Replacement Payment").  Notwithstanding the above, any amounts payable under this Section 6(a) that are separation pay as described under Treas. Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(9)(iii)(A) shall be paid no later than December 31 of the second calendar year following the year in which the Executive's termination for permanent disability occurs; any amounts payable under this Section 6(a) that are not otherwise exempt from Code section 409A are subject to, and payable in accordance with, Section 6(l) of this Agreement.  Except as otherwise provided in this Section 6(a), the Company will have no further obligations under Sections 3, 4 and 5 hereof or otherwise.  For purposes of this Section 6(a), "permanent disability" means any disability as defined under the Company's applicable disability insurance policy or, if no such policy is available, any physical or mental disability or incapacity that renders the Executive incapable of performing the services required of him in accordance with his obligations under Section 2 hereof for a period of six (6) consecutive months or for shorter periods aggregating six (6) months during any twelve-month period.
(b)           .  In the event of the death of the Executive during the Term of Employment, Executive's employment and this Agreement shall automatically terminate.  In the event of such termination the Company shall have no further obligations hereunder, except to pay the Executive's beneficiary or legal representative (i) any accrued but unpaid salary and other amounts to which the Executive otherwise is entitled hereunder prior to the date of his death, in accordance with Section 3(a) and other applicable payment provisions herein; (ii) bonus compensation earned but not paid under Section 3(b) hereof that relates to any Contract Year ended prior to the date of his death, in accordance with Section 3(b) hereof; (iii) a pro-rata portion of the annual bonus payout the Executive would have been entitled to receive had he remained in the employ of the Company through the end of the Contract Year during which termination due to his death occurred, based on the portion of the Contract Year that has elapsed prior to such termination, and paid in accordance with Section 3(b) hereof; (iv) reimbursement for financial counseling services under Section 5(b) hereof in the amount of $5,000.00 for a period of one (1) year from the date of termination, in accordance with Section 5(b) hereof; and (v) for a period of one (1) year from the date of his death, the Executive's Base Salary as established under Section 3(a) hereof as of the date of his death, in accordance with Section 3(a) hereof; , , that, except as otherwise provided in this Section 6(b), the Company will have no further obligations under Sections 3, 4 and 5 hereof or otherwise.
Death
provided
however
 
(c)           .  The Company shall have the right, upon one hundred and eighty (180) days' prior written notice given to the Executive, to terminate the Executive's employment for any reason whatsoever (excluding for Cause (as defined below)).  In the event of such termination, the Company shall have no further obligations hereunder, except that the Executive shall be entitled to (i) receive any accrued but unpaid salary and other amounts to which the Executive otherwise is entitled hereunder prior to the date of his termination without Cause, such salary to be paid in accordance with Section 3(a) and such other amounts to be paid in accordance with applicable payment provisions herein; (ii) receive bonus compensation earned but not paid under Section 3(b) hereof that relates to any Contract Year ended prior to the date of his termination without Cause, to be paid in accordance with Section 3(b) hereof; (iii) receive a pro-rata portion of the annual bonus payout that the Executive would have been entitled to receive had he remained in employment through the end of the Contract Year during which the termination without Cause occurred, based on the portion of the Contract Year that has elapsed prior to such termination, and paid in accordance with Section 3(b) hereof; (iv) receive as damages (A) for a period ending on a date two (2) years from the date of termination without Cause, to be paid in accordance with Section 6(l)(i), his Base Salary as established under and in accordance with Section 3(a) hereof and (B) bonus compensation equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the average of the actual annual bonuses paid or payable (with respect to completed Contract Years) to the Executive during the Term of Employment , or, if such termination occurs prior to the payment of any bonus hereunder, $3,000,000.00, to be paid in accordance with Section 6(l)(i) (v) receive reimbursement for financial counseling services specified under Section 5(b) hereof in the amount of $10,000.00 for a period of two (2) years from the date of termination, in accordance with Section 5(b) hereof; and (vi) participate for a period ending on a date two (2) years from the date of termination without Cause (the "Without Cause Continuation Period"), to the extent permitted by applicable law and regulations and the applicable benefit plan, program or arrangement, in any and all healthcare, life insurance and accidental death and dismemberment insurance benefit plans, programs or arrangements, on terms identical to those applicable to full-term senior officers of the Company.  Because continued participation in any qualified pension and qualified retirement savings plans of the Company is not permitted during the Without Cause Continuation Period, the Company shall provide to the Executive, subject to Section 6(l), cash payments, to be paid in accordance with Section 6(l)(i), equal to the Pension Replacement Payment (as defined in Section 6(a)) with respect to the Without Cause Continuation Period.  Notwithstanding the above, any amounts payable under this Section 6(c) that are separation pay as described under Treas. Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(9)(iii)(A) shall be paid no later than December 31 of the second calendar year following the year in which the Executive's termination pursuant to this section 6(c) occurs; any amounts payable under this Section 6(c) that are not otherwise exempt from Code section 409A are subject to, and payable in accordance with, Section 6(l) of this Agreement. Except as otherwise provided in this Section 6(c), the Company will have no further obligations under Sections 3, 4 and 5 hereof or otherwise.  In the event of termination pursuant to this Section 6(c), the Executive shall not be required to mitigate his damages hereunder.
Termination Without Cause
;
(d)           .  The Company shall have the right, upon notice to the Executive, to terminate the Executive's employment under this Agreement for "Cause" (as defined below), effective upon the Executive's receipt of such notice (or such later date as shall be specified in such notice), and the Company shall have no further obligations hereunder, except to pay the Executive his accrued but unpaid salary, in accordance with Section 3(a) hereof, and provide the Executive with any benefit under the employee benefit programs and plans of the Company as determined under such programs and plans upon and as of such a termination for Cause.
Cause
Except as otherwise provided in this Section 6(d), the Company will have no further obligations under Sections 3, 4 and 5 hereof or otherwise.
For purposes of this Agreement, "Cause" means:
(i)            a material breach of, or the willful failure or refusal by the Executive to perform and discharge duties or obligations he has agreed to perform or assume under this Agreement (other than by reason of disability or death) that, if capable of correction, is not corrected within ten (10) business days following notice thereof to the Executive by the Company, such notice to state with specificity the nature of the breach, failure or refusal;
(ii)           willful misconduct by the Executive, unrelated to the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, that could reasonably be anticipated to have a material adverse effect on the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates (the determination of Cause to be made by  the Company's Board of Directors in its reasonable judgment);
(iii)          the Executive's gross negligence, whether related or unrelated to the business of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates which could reasonably be anticipated to have a material adverse effect on the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates that, if capable of correction, is not corrected within ten (10) business days following notice thereof to the Executive by the Company, such notice to state with specificity the nature of the conduct complained of (the determination of Cause to be made by  the Company's Board of Directors in its reasonable judgment);
(iv)          the Executive's failure to follow a lawful directive of  the Board of Directors of the Company that is within the scope of the Executive's duties for a period of ten (10) business days after notice from  the Board of Directors of the Company specifying the performance required;
(v)           any violation by the Executive of a policy contained in the Code of Conduct of the Company (the determination of Cause to be made by the Company's Board of Directors in its reasonable judgment);
(vi)          drug or alcohol abuse by the Executive that materially affects the Executive's performance of his duties under this Agreement; or
(vii)         conviction of, or the entry of a plea of guilty or nolo contendere by the Executive for, any felony.
.  The Executive shall have the right, exercisable at any time during the Term of Employment, to terminate his employment for any reason whatsoever, upon one hundred and eighty (180) days' prior written notice to the Company.  Upon such termination, the Company shall have no further obligations hereunder other than to (i) pay the Executive his accrued but unpaid salary, in accordance with Section 3(a) hereof; (ii) provide bonus compensation, if any, earned but not paid under Section 3(b) hereof that relates to any Contract Year ended prior to the date of such a termination by the Executive, in accordance with Section 3(b) hereof; and (iii) provide the Executive with any benefit under the employee benefit programs and plans of the Company as determined under such programs and plans upon and as of such a termination by the Executive, to the extent that any such benefit is permitted by applicable law and regulations and provided that any such benefit shall not be provided beyond a period ending on a date two (2) years from the date of such termination by
(e)          
Termination by Executive
 
the ExecutiveAny amounts payable under this Section 6(e) that are not otherwise exempt from Code section 409A are subject to, and payable in accordance with, Section 6(l) of this Agreement.  Except as otherwise provided in this Section 6(e), the Company will have no further obligations under Sections 3, 4 and 5 hereof or otherwise.
. 
(f)            .  The Executive shall have the right, exercisable by notice to the Company, to terminate his employment effective ninety (90) days after the giving of such notice, if, at any time during the Term of Employment, the Company shall be in material breach of its obligations hereunder; , that such notice must be provided to the Company within thirty (30) days of the date on which the Executive obtains knowledge or reasonably should obtain knowledge of such material breach; and , that such termination will not become effective if within thirty (30) days after receiving the notice the Company shall have cured all such material breaches of its obligations hereunder.  For purposes of this Section 6(f), a material breach shall only be, (i) a material reduction in the Executive's authority, functions, duties or responsibilities provided in Section 2 hereof, (ii) the Company's failure to cause the Executive to serve in all the positions set forth in Section 1 hereof for any time period in which he is entitled to so serve, or (iii) the Company's failure to pay any award that the Executive is entitled to receive pursuant to the terms of this Agreement. Such termination shall be deemed to be a termination without Cause and shall be controlled by the provisions of Section 6(c) hereof.  Any amounts payable under this Section 6(f) that are not otherwise exempt from Code section 409A are subject to, and payable in accordance with, Section 6(l) of this Agreement.  Except as otherwise provided in this Section 6(f), the Company will have no further obligations under Sections 3, 4 and 5 hereof or otherwise.
Termination by Executive for Material Breach
provided
however,
provided
further
.
(g)
                                
Change of Control
.  For purposes of this Agreement,
(i)
                                   
Definitions
(A)
                            
a "" shall be deemed to have occurred upon any of the following events:
Change of Control
(1)          
a change in control of a nature that would be required to be reported in response to Item 6(e) of Schedule 14A of Regulation 14(A) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; or
(2)          
during any period of two (2) consecutive years, the individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Company's Board of Directors or any individuals who would be "Continuing Directors" (as defined below) cease for any reason to constitute a majority thereof; or
(3)          
the Company's Class A Common Stock shall cease to be publicly traded; or
(4)          
the Company's Board of Directors shall approve a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, and such transaction shall have been consummated; or
(5)          
the Company's Board of Directors shall approve any merger, exchange, consolidation, or like business combination or reorganization of the
 
Company, the consummation of which would result in the occurrence of any event described in Section 6(g)(i)(A)(2) or (3) above, and such transaction shall have been consummated.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, (X) changes in the relative beneficial ownership among members of the Lauder family and family-controlled entities shall not, by itself, constitute a Change of Control of the Company, (Y) any spin-off of a division or subsidiary of the Company to its stockholders  shall not constitute a Change of Control of the Company.
(B)
                               
"Continuing Directors" shall mean (1) the directors in office on July 1, 2007 and (2) any successor to such directors and any additional director who after July 1, 2007 was nominated or selected by a majority of the Continuing Directors in office at the time of his or her nomination or selection.
(C)
                               
"Good Reason" means the occurrence of any of the following, without the express written consent of the Executive,  after the occurrence of a Change in Control:
(1)          
(a) the assignment to the Executive of any duties inconsistent in any material adverse respect with the Executive's position, authority or responsibilities as contemplated by Section 2 hereof, or (b) any other material adverse change in such position, including title, authority or responsibilities;
(2)          
any failure by the Company to comply with any provisions of Sections 3, 4 or 5 hereof, other than an insubstantial or inadvertent failure remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by the Executive ;
(3)          
the Company's requiring the Executive to be based at any office or location more than fifty (50) miles from that location at which he performed his services specified under the provisions of Section 2 immediately prior to the Change in Control, except for travel reasonably required in the performance of the Executive's responsibilities; or
(4)          
any failure by the Company to obtain the assumption and agreement to perform this Agreement by a successor as contemplated by Section 14, unless such assumption occurs by operation of law.
(ii)           .  Following the occurrence of a Change of Control, the Executive may terminate his employment for Good Reason.  Such termination shall be deemed to be a termination without Cause and shall be controlled by the provisions of Section 6(c) and Section 6(l) hereof, including the required delay in payment for the six-month period following the date of termination for any amounts determined to be subject to Code section 409A, as described in Section 6(l).  Except as otherwise provided in this Section 6(g)(ii), the Company will have no further obligations under Sections 3, 4 and 5 hereof or otherwise.
Termination for Good Reason
(h)
                                
Certain Payments by the Company.
(i)            In the event that any amount or benefit paid or distributed to the Executive pursuant to this Agreement, taken together with any amounts or benefits otherwise paid or distributed to the Executive by the Company or any affiliated company (collectively, the "Covered Payments"), are or become subject to the tax (the "Excise Tax") imposed under
 
Section 4999 of the Code, or any similar tax that may hereafter be imposed, the Company shall pay to the Executive at the time specified in Section 6(h)(v) below an additional amount (the "Tax Reimbursement Payment") such that the net amount retained by the Executive with respect to such Covered Payments, after deduction of any Excise Tax on the Covered Payments and any Federal, state and local income or employment tax and Excise Tax on the Tax Reimbursement Payment provided for by this Section 6(h), but before deduction for any Federal, state or local income or employment tax withholding on such Covered Payments, shall be equal to the amount of the Covered Payments.
For purposes of determining whether any of the Covered Payments will be subject to the Excise Tax and the amount of such Excise Tax,
(ii)
                                 
such Covered Payments will be treated as "parachute payments" to the extent they exceed the "2.99 base amount threshold" within the meaning of Section 280G of the Code, and all "parachute payments" in excess of the "base amount" (as defined under Section 280G(b)(3) of the Code) shall be treated as subject to the Excise Tax, unless, and except to the extent that, in the good faith judgment of the Company's independent certified public accountants appointed prior to the date of the change in ownership or control or tax counsel selected by such accountants (the "Accountants"), the Company has a reasonable basis to conclude that such Covered Payments (in whole or in part) either do not constitute "parachute payments" or are otherwise not subject to such Excise Tax, and
(A)         
the value of any non-cash benefits or any deferred payment or benefit shall be determined by the Accountants in accordance with the principles of Section 280G of the Code.
(B)          
For purposes of determining the amount of the Tax Reimbursement Payment, the Executive shall be deemed to pay:
(iii)
                             
Federal income taxes at the highest applicable marginal rate of Federal income taxation applicable to individuals for the calendar year in which the Tax Reimbursement Payment is to be made, and
(A)
                            
any applicable state and local income or other employment taxes at the highest applicable marginal rate of taxation applicable to individuals for the calendar year in which the Tax Reimbursement Payment is to be made, net of the maximum reduction in Federal income taxes which could be obtained by Executive from the deduction of such state or local taxes if paid in such year.
(B)
                              
In the event that the Excise Tax is subsequently determined by the Accountants or pursuant to any proceeding or negotiations with the Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS") to be less than the amount taken into account hereunder in calculating the Tax Reimbursement Payment made, the Executive shall repay to the Company, at the time of such determination, the portion of such prior Tax Reimbursement Payment that would not have been paid if such reduced Excise Tax had been taken into account in initially calculating such Tax Reimbursement Payment, plus interest on the amount of such repayment at the rate provided in Section 1274(b)(2)(b) of the Code. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event any portion of the Tax Reimbursement Payment to be refunded to the Company has been paid to any Federal, state or local tax authority, repayment thereof shall not be required until actual refund or credit of such portion has been made to the Executive, and interest payable to the Company shall not exceed interest received or credited to the Executive by such tax authority
(iv)
                            
 
for the period it held such portion. The Executive and the Company shall mutually agree upon the course of action to be pursued (and the method of allocating the expenses thereof) if the Executive's good faith claim for refund or credit is denied.
In the event that the Excise Tax is later determined by the Accountants or pursuant to any proceeding or negotiations with the Internal Revenue Service to exceed the amount taken into account hereunder at the time the Tax Reimbursement Payment is made (including, but not limited to, by reason of any payment the existence or amount of which cannot be determined at the time of the Tax Reimbursement Payment), the Company shall make an additional Tax Reimbursement Payment in respect of such excess (plus any interest or penalty payable with respect to such excess) at the time that the amount of such excess is finally determined; such additional Tax Reimbursement Payment shall be made no later than the end of the calendar year following the year in which the Excise Tax is remitted to the IRS in the case of a determination by the Accountants, or in the case of any proceeding or negotiations with the IRS, no later than the end of the calendar year following the year in which any such proceeding or negotiations with the IRS is settled and not appealable or otherwise resolved or completed.
The Tax Reimbursement Payment (or portion thereof) provided for in Section 6(h)(i) above shall be paid to the Executive not later than ten (10) business days following the payment of the Covered Payments; , , that if the amount of such Tax Reimbursement Payment (or portion thereof) cannot be finally determined on or before the date on which payment is due, the Company shall pay to the Executive by such date an amount estimated in good faith by the Accountants to be the minimum amount of such Tax Reimbursement Payment and shall pay the remainder of such Tax Reimbursement Payment (together with interest at the rate provided in Section 1274(b)(2)(B) of the Code) as soon as the amount thereof can be determined, but in no event later than forty-five (45) calendar days after payment of the related Covered Payment.  Notwithstanding the above, the Tax Reimbursement Payment shall be made no later than the end of the calendar year following the year in which taxes on the Covered Payments are remitted to the IRS.  In the event that the amount of the estimated Tax Reimbursement Payment exceeds the amount subsequently determined to have been due, such excess shall constitute a loan by the Company to the Executive, payable on the fifth business day after written demand by the Company for payment (together with interest at the rate provided in Section 1274(b)(2)(B) of the Code) but in no event payable by the Executive later than the end of the calendar year following the year in which taxes on the Covered Payments are remitted to the IRS.
(v)
                                
provided
however
(i)
                                    
Non-Renewal.
  In the event the Company does not offer the Executive renewal of the Term of Employment on the basis of terms no less favorable, in the aggregate, than those pending at the time of the conclusion of the Term of Employment and, as a result, the Company terminates the Executive's employment with the Company ("Non-Renewal"), such termination shall be deemed to be a termination without Cause and shall be controlled by the provisions of Section 6(c) and Section 6(l) hereof, including the required delay in payment for the six-month period following the date of termination for any amounts determined to be subject to Code section 409A, as described in Section 6(l).  Except as otherwise provided in this Section 6(i), the Company will have no further obligations under Sections 3, 4 and 5 hereof or otherwise.  This provision shall not apply if at the time for renewal any of (x) the Board of Directors, (y) the Compensation Committee and/or the Stock Plan Subcommittee of the Board of Directors or (z) the stockholders of the Company have changed the Company's policy regarding the use of written employment agreements for executives, the form of equity-based compensation, or the mix of cash and non-cash compensation.
 
(j)            .  Unless the parties otherwise agree in writing, continuation of Executive's employment with the Company beyond the non-renewal or expiration of the Term of Employment shall be deemed an employment-at-will and shall not be deemed to extend any of the provisions of this Agreement, and Executive's employment may thereafter be terminated at will by either Executive or the Company.
Continued Employment Beyond the Non-Renewal or Expiration of the Term of Employment
(k)           .  In addition to the foregoing, in the event that this Agreement shall be terminated pursuant to the provisions of subparagraphs 6(a), 6(b), 6(c), 6(f), 6(g) or 6(i) above, and the Executive is not considered to be retirement eligible under the terms and conditions of the Company's qualified defined benefit pension plan, if any, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Company's Share Incentive Plan or other similar equity plan, all stock options granted to the Executive during the Term of Employment shall become immediately exercisable and shall be exercisable until the earlier to occur of (A) the end of the stock option term as set forth in the applicable option agreement(s); or (B) the first anniversary of the date that Base Salary continuation payments end, after which all such option awards shall expire and be of no further force or effect.  The vesting and exercisability provided for in the previous sentence shall be subject to all provisions relating to post-employment exercises set forth in the applicable Share Incentive Plan and option agreement(s).  Subject to the preceding sentences,  upon the termination of the Executive's employment hereunder for any reason, the Company shall have no further obligations hereunder, except as otherwise provided herein.  The Executive, however, shall continue to have the obligations provided for in Sections 7 and 8 hereof. Furthermore, upon any such termination, the Executive shall be deemed to have resigned immediately from all offices and directorships held by him in the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Effect of Termination
(l)          .  It is the intention of the parties to this Agreement that no payment or entitlement pursuant to this Agreement will give rise to any adverse tax consequences to the Executive under Section 409A of the Code and Department of Treasury regulations and other interpretive guidance issued thereunder, including that issued after the date hereof (collectively, "Section 409A").  The Agreement shall be interpreted to that end and, consistent with that objective and notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, the Company may unilaterally take any action it deems necessary or desirable to amend any provision herein to avoid the application of or excise tax under Section 409A.  Further, no effect shall be given to any provision herein in a manner that reasonably could be expected to give rise to adverse tax consequences under that provision.  The Company shall from time to time compile a list of "specified employees" as defined in, and pursuant to, Treas. Reg. Section 1.409A-1(i).  Notwithstanding any other provision herein, if the Executive is a specified employee on the date of termination, no payment of compensation under this Agreement shall be made to the Executive during the period lasting six (6) months from the date of termination unless the Company determines that there is no reasonable basis for believing that making such payment would cause the Executive to suffer any adverse tax consequences pursuant to Section 409A of the Code.  If any payment to the Executive is delayed pursuant to the foregoing sentence, such payment instead shall be made on the first business day following the expiration of the six-month period referred to in the prior sentence, unless specified otherwise in Section 6(l)(i) hereof. Although the Company shall consult with Executive in good faith regarding implementation of this Section 6(l), neither the Company nor its employees or representatives shall have liability to the Executive with respect to any additional taxes that the Executive may be subject to in the event that any amounts under this Agreement are determined to violate Code section 409A.
Section 409A of the Code
 
(i)            Notwithstanding the above, amounts described as being subject to payment in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6(l)(i) shall be subject to a delay in payment for a six-month period following the date of termination and shall be paid as follows:  For any Base Salary under Section 6(a)(v) or Section 6(c)(iv)(A) to be continued beyond the date of termination and for any Pension Replacement Payment, all payments that would have been made during the six-month period immediately following the date of termination shall be made in a single cash payment on the first business day following the expiration of such six-month period, and as of the first business day following the expiration of such six-month period all such payments shall resume in accordance with the regular payroll practices of the Company until the end of the specified period; any bonus payments under Section 6(c)(iv)(B) shall be paid in a single lump sum payment on the first business day following the expiration of such six-month period.
  As a condition precedent to the receipt of payments and benefits pursuant to this Section, the Executive, or, in the case of his death or Disability that prevents the Executive from performing his obligation under this Section 6(m), his personal representative, and his beneficiary, if applicable, will execute an effective general release of claims against the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates and their respective directors, officers, employees, attorneys and agents; , , that such effective release will not affect any right that the Executive, or in the event of his death, his personal representative or beneficiary, otherwise has to any payment or benefit provided for in this Agreement or to any vested benefits the Executive may have in any employee benefit plan of Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, or any right the Executive has under any other agreement between the Executive and the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates that expressly states that the right survives the termination of the Executive's employment.
(m)
                             
Release of Claims.
provided
however
7.             .
Confidentiality; Ownership
The Executive agrees that he shall forever keep secret and retain in strictest confidence and not divulge, disclose, discuss, copy or otherwise use or suffer to be used in any manner, except in connection with the Business of the Company, its subsidiaries or affiliates and any other business or proposed business of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, any "Protected Information" in any "Unauthorized" manner or for any "Unauthorized" purpose (as such terms are hereinafter defined).
(a)
                                
(i)            "Protected Information" means trade secrets, confidential or proprietary information and all other knowledge, know-how, information, documents or materials owned, developed or possessed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, whether in tangible or intangible form, pertaining to the Business or any other business or proposed business of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, including, but not limited to, research and development, operations, systems, data bases, computer programs and software, designs, models, operating procedures, knowledge of the organization, products (including prices, costs, sales or content), processes, formulas, techniques, machinery, contracts, financial information or measures, business methods, business plans, details of consultant contracts, new personnel hiring plans, business acquisition plans, customer lists, business relationships and other information owned, developed or possessed by the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates; that Protected Information shall not include information that becomes generally known to the public or the trade without violation of this Section 7.
provided
(ii)           "Unauthorized" means: (A) in contravention of the policies or procedures of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates; (B) otherwise inconsistent with
 
the measures taken by the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates to protect their interests in any Protected Information; (C) in contravention of any lawful instruction or directive, either written or oral, of an employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates empowered to issue such instruction or directive; or (D) in contravention of any duty existing under law or contract. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Section 7, the Executive may disclose any Protected Information to the extent required by court order or decree or by the rules and regulations of a governmental agency or as otherwise required by law or to his legal counsel and, in connection with a determination under Section 6(h), to accounting experts; that the Executive shall provide the Company with prompt notice of such required disclosure in advance thereof so that the Company may seek an appropriate protective order in respect of such required disclosure.
provided
(b)           The Executive acknowledges that all developments, including, without limitation, inventions (patentable or otherwise), discoveries, formulas, improvements, patents, trade secrets, designs, reports, computer software, flow charts and diagrams, procedures, data, documentation, ideas and writings and applications thereof relating to the Business or any business or planned business of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates that, alone or jointly with others, the Executive may conceive, create, make, develop, reduce to practice or acquire during the Executive's employment with the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates (collectively, the "Developments") are works made for hire and shall remain the sole and exclusive property of the Company.  The Executive hereby assigns to the Company, in consideration of the payments set forth in Section 3(a) hereof, all of his right, title and interest in and to all such Developments. The Executive shall promptly and fully disclose all future material Developments to the Board of Directors of the Company and, at any time upon request and at the expense of the Company, shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the Company all instruments that the Company shall prepare, give evidence and take all other actions that are necessary or desirable in the reasonable opinion of the Company to enable the Company to file and prosecute applications for and to acquire, maintain and enforce all letters patent and trademark registrations or copyrights covering the Developments in all countries in which the same are deemed necessary by the Company.  All memoranda, notes, lists, drawings, records, files, computer tapes, programs, software, source and programming narratives and other documentation (and all copies thereof) made or compiled by the Executive or made available to the Executive concerning the Developments or otherwise concerning the Business or planned business of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates shall be the property of the Company or such subsidiaries or affiliates and shall be delivered to the Company or such subsidiaries or affiliates promptly upon the expiration or termination of the Term of Employment.
(c)           During the Term of Employment, the Company, its subsidiaries and affiliates shall have the exclusive right to use the Executive's name and image throughout the world in its advertising and promotional materials in connection with the advertising and promotion of the Company, its subsidiaries and affiliates, and their products.  After the expiration of the Term of Employment, the Company, it subsidiaries and affiliates shall have the non-exclusive right in perpetuity to use the Executive's name and image throughout the world solely in connection with promotional materials related to the history of the Company, it subsidiaries and affiliates, and their products.  The consideration for such rights is the payments set forth in Section 3(a) hereof.  The rights conveyed hereby may be assigned by the Company, its subsidiaries or affiliates to a successor in the interest of the Company or the relevant subsidiary or affiliate or their businesses or product lines.
 
(d)           The provisions of this Section 7 shall, without any limitation as to time, survive the expiration or termination of the Executive's employment hereunder, irrespective of the reason for any termination.
8.             .  The Executive agrees that during the Executive's employment with the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates and for a period of two (2) years commencing upon the expiration or termination of the Executive's employment for any reason whatsoever (the "Non-Compete Period"), the Executive shall not, directly or indirectly, without the prior written consent of the Company:
Covenant Not to Compete
(a)           solicit, entice, persuade or induce any employee, consultant, agent or independent contractor of the Company or of any of its subsidiaries or affiliates to terminate his, her or its employment with the Company or such subsidiary or affiliate, to become employed by any person, firm or corporation other than the Company or such subsidiary or affiliate or approach any such employee, consultant, agent or independent contractor for any of the foregoing purposes, or authorize or assist in the taking of any such actions by any third party (for purposes of this Section 8 (a), the terms "employee," "consultant," "agent" and "independent contractor" shall include any persons with such status at any time during the six (6) months preceding any solicitation in question); or
(b)           directly or indirectly engage, participate, or make any financial investment in, or become employed by or render consulting, advisory or other services to or for any person, firm, corporation or other business enterprise, wherever located, which is engaged, directly or indirectly, in competition with the Business or any business of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates as conducted or any business proposed to be conducted at the time of the expiration or termination of the Executive's employment with the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates; , , that nothing in this Section 8(b) shall be construed to preclude the Executive from making any investments in the securities of any business enterprise whether or not engaged in competition with the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, to the extent that such securities are actively traded on a national securities exchange or in the over-the-counter market in the United States or on any foreign securities exchange and represent, at the time of acquisition, not more than 3% of the aggregate voting power of such business enterprise.
provided
however
To ensure that the Company is able to enforce these provisions in Sections 8(a) and (b) above, the Executive and the Company further agree that if such noncompetition and nonsolicitation requirements should be violated during this additional two-year period after the Executive's termination of employment, the remedy (determined at the Company's option) shall be either equitable relief (in the form of an injunction to stop the violation), or liquidated damages payable by the Executive to the Company in an amount equal to (a) (i) (A) twenty-four (24) minus (B) the number of full months between the date of Executive's termination and the date of breach ("Months Complied") divided by (ii) 12, times (b) oneyear's Base Salary in effect at the time of termination.  In other words:
 
If equitable relief is elected by the Company as an alternative to liquidated damages, any equitable relief shall not include any forfeiture or cash refund of monies or benefits.  If liquidated damages is elected by the Company, the Company may elect not to pay amounts that would
 
otherwise be payable but for the breach; provided that, the Executive would remain liable to the Company to the extent that the liquidated damages exceeded the amounts not paid by the Company. The foregoing shall have no impact on the operation of the provisions of any other compensation program of the Company or its subsidiaries, including without limitation the Amended and Restated Fiscal 2002 Share Incentive Plan.
9.             .  The Executive acknowledges that the services to be rendered by the Executive are of a special, unique and extraordinary character and, in connection with such services, the Executive will have access to confidential information vital to the Company's Business and the other current or planned businesses of it and its subsidiaries and affiliates.  By reason of this, the Executive consents and agrees that if the Executive violates any of the provisions of Sections 7 or 8 hereof, the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates would sustain irreparable injury and that monetary damages would not provide adequate remedy to the Company and that the Company shall be entitled to have Section 7 or 8 hereof specifically enforced by any court having equity jurisdiction.  Nothing contained herein shall be construed as prohibiting the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates from pursuing any other remedies available to it or them for such breach or threatened breach, including the recovery of damages from the Executive.  This provision shall, without any limitation as to time, survive the expiration or termination of the Executive's employment hereunder, irrespective of the reason for any termination.
Specific Performance
10.           .  The Executive agrees that the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates, as applicable, shall withhold from any and all compensation paid to and required to be paid to the Executive pursuant to this Agreement, all Federal, state, local and/or other taxes which the Company determines are required to be withheld in accordance with applicable statutes or regulations from time to time in effect and all amounts required to be deducted in respect of the Executive's coverage under applicable employee benefit plans.  For purposes of this Agreement and calculations hereunder, all such deductions and withholdings shall be deemed to have been paid to and received by the Executive.
Deductions and Withholding
11.           .  Except for the Amended and Restated Fiscal 2002 Share Incentive Plan, the Executive's outstanding stock option and other equity-compensation agreements, the Executive Annual Incentive Plan, the Executive Perquisites Program, the Executive Automobile Program, the term life insurance arrangement between the Company and the Executive, the Company's qualified and non-qualified defined benefit pension plans, the Company's qualified defined contribution retirement savings plan and applicable successor plans or agreements, this Agreement embodies the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the Executive's employment, compensation, perquisites and related items and supersedes any other prior oral or written agreements, arrangements or understandings between the Executive and the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, and any such prior agreements, arrangements or understandings are hereby terminated and of no further effect.  This Agreement may not be changed or terminated orally but only by an agreement in writing signed by the parties hereto.
Entire Agreement
12.           .  The waiver by the Company of a breach of any provision of this Agreement by the Executive shall not operate or be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach by him. The waiver by the Executive of a breach of any provision of this Agreement by the Company shall not operate or be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach by the Company.
Waiver
 
13.           .
Governing Law; Jurisdiction
(a)           This Agreement shall be subject to, and governed by, the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed therein, without regard to conflict of laws principles.
(b)           Any action to enforce any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be brought in a court of the State of New York located in the Borough of Manhattan of the City of New York or in a Federal court located within the Southern District of New York.  The parties consent to the jurisdiction of such courts and to the service of process in any manner provided by New York law.  Each party irrevocably waives any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of the venue of any such suit, action or proceeding brought in such court and any claim that such suit, action or proceeding brought in such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum and agrees that service of process in accordance with the foregoing sentences shall be deemed in every respect effective and valid personal service of process upon such party.
14.           .  The obligations of the Executive may not be delegated and, except with respect to the designation of beneficiaries in connection with any of the benefits payable to the Executive hereunder, the Executive may not, without the Company's written consent thereto, assign, transfer, convey, pledge, encumber, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of this Agreement or any interest herein.  Any such attempted delegation or disposition shall be null and void and without effect.  The Company and the Executive agree that this Agreement and all of the Company's rights and obligations hereunder may be assigned or transferred by the Company to and shall be assumed by and be binding upon any successor to the Company.  Unless assumption occurs by operation of law, the Company shall require any successor by an agreement in form and substance satisfactory to the Executive, expressly to assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent as the Company would be required to perform if no such succession had taken place.  The term "successor" means, with respect to the Company or any of its subsidiaries, any corporation or other business entity which, by merger, consolidation, purchase of the assets or otherwise acquires all or a majority of the operating assets or business of the Company.
Assignability
15.           .  If any provision of this Agreement or any part thereof, including, without limitation, Sections 7 and 8 hereof, as applied to either party or to any circumstances shall be adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction to be void or unenforceable, the same shall in no way affect any other provision of this Agreement or remaining part thereof, or the validity or enforceability of this Agreement, which shall be given full effect without regard to the invalid or unenforceable part thereof.
Severability
If any court construes any of the provisions of Section 7 or 8 hereof, or any part thereof, to be unreasonable because of the duration of such provision or the geographic scope thereof, such court may reduce the duration or restrict or redefine the geographic scope of such provision and enforce such provision as so reduced, restricted or redefined.
 
16.           .  All notices to the Company or the Executive permitted or required hereunder shall be in writing and shall be delivered personally, by telecopier or by courier service providing for next-day or two-day delivery or sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the following addresses:
Notices
 
Either party may change the address to which notices shall be sent by sending written notice of such change of address to the other party.  Any such notice shall be deemed given, if delivered personally, upon receipt; if telecopied, when telecopied; if sent by courier service providing for next-day or two-day delivery, the next business day or two business days, as applicable, following deposit with such courier service; and if sent by certified or registered mail, three days after deposit (postage prepaid) with the U.S. mail service.
17.           .  The Executive hereby represents and warrants to the Company that his execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and any other agreement to be delivered pursuant to this Agreement will not (i) require the consent, approval or action of any other person or (ii) violate, conflict with or result in the breach of any of the terms of, or constitute (or with notice or lapse of time or both, constitute) a default under, any agreement, arrangement or understanding with respect to the Executive's employment to which the Executive is a party or by which the Executive is bound or subject.  The Executive hereby agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company and its directors, officers, employees, agents, representatives and affiliates (and such affiliates' directors, officers, employees, agents and representatives) from and against any and all losses, liabilities or claims (including interest, penalties and reasonable attorneys' fees, disbursements and related charges) based upon or arising out of the Executive's breach of any of the foregoing representations and warranties.
No Conflicts
 
18.           .  Following a Change of Control, the Company shall reimburse the Executive up to $20,000.00, in the aggregate and to be provided as described herein, for all legal fees and related expenses (including the costs of experts, evidence and counsel) reasonably and in good faith incurred by the Executive in an action (i) by the Executive to obtain or enforce any right or benefit to which the Executive is entitled under this Agreement or (ii) by the Company to enforce a post-termination covenant referred to in Section 7 or 8 against the Executive, in each case, provided that the Executive substantially prevails in such action. Such amount shall be reimbursed to the Executive by the end of the calendar year in which the Executive substantially prevails in such action, based on the date of any settlement, judgment, or other official document evidencing same.
Legal Fees
19.           .  During the Term of Employment and thereafter, Executive shall provide reasonable cooperation in connection with any action or proceeding (or any appeal therefrom) that relates to events occurring during Executive's employment with the Company.
Cooperation
20.           .  The paragraph headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.
Paragraph Headings
21.           .  This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have duly executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
 


