FILE:EL/EL-8K-20081113170507.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
_____________________
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
November 7, 2008
 
 
 
 
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code: (212) 572-4200
 
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
On November 7, 2008, the stockholders of The Este Lauder Companies Inc. (the Company) approved The Este Lauder Companies Inc. Executive Annual Incentive Plan (the Executive Incentive Plan). The Executive Incentive Plan is for Executive Officers of the Company and is substantially identical to the Executive Incentive Plan approved by stockholders of the Company in 2003 (the 2003 Plan), except
The Executive Incentive Plan replaces the 2003 Plan.
For purposes of the plan, Executive Officers means those persons who are denoted as such from time to time by the Company in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and those other persons as may be designated as such from time to time by the Companys Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.
Under the Executive Incentive Plan, each participant is granted opportunities that will be paid if the performance target for the particular opportunity is achieved. Aggregate opportunities for an individual, and therefore payouts at target level, would be limited to 250% of the executives annual base salary or such lower level as determined by the committee administering the plan.
The annual performance target for each opportunity shall be based on achievement of hurdle rates, targets and/or growth in one or more business criteria that apply to the individual participant, one or more business units or the Company as a whole. The business criteria shall be as follows, individually or in combination: (i) net earnings; (ii) earnings per share; (iii) net sales; (iv) market share; (v) net operating profit; (vi) expense control; (vii) working capital relating to inventory and/or accounts receivable; (viii) operating margin; (ix) return on equity; (x) return on assets; (xi) return on invested capital; (xii) planning accuracy (as measured by comparing planned results to actual results); (xiii) market price per share; and (xiv) total return to stockholders. In addition, the annual performance targets may include comparisons to performance at other companies, such performance to be measured by one or more of the foregoing business criteria.
The Executive Incentive Plan is administered by a committee appointed by the Board of Directors comprised, unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, solely of not less than two members who shall be outside directors within the meaning of treasury regulation Section 1.162-27(e)(3) under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code. Payouts are
 
 
determined annually following the determination of the Companys fiscal year-end results and certification by the committee that the achievement of the opportunities has been accurately determined.
No opportunity may be granted after May 29, 2018.
The Executive Incentive Plan is subject to amendment or termination at any time by the Compensation Committee, but no such action may adversely affect any rights or obligations with respect to any awards previously made under the Executive Incentive Plan and, unless the stockholders of the Company shall have first approved thereof, no amendment of the plan shall be effective which would: (i) increase the maximum amount which can be paid to any participant under the plan; (ii) change the types of business criteria on which performance targets are to be based under the plan; or (iii) modify the requirements as to eligibility for participation in the plan.
A copy of the Executive Incentive Plan is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated into this Item 5.02(e) by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-4-
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-5-
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.1
 
THE ESTE LAUDER COMPANIES
 
INC.
EXECUTIVE ANNUAL INCENTIVE PLAN
The principal purposes of The Este Lauder Companies Inc. Executive Annual Incentive Plan (the Plan) are to provide incentives and rewards to the Executive Officers of The Este Lauder Companies Inc. (the Company), including those who may be employed by any of the Companys subsidiaries and affiliates, and to assist the Company in motivating them to achieve the Companys annual performance goals.
The Plan will be administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the Board) from among its members (or such other Committee as may be appointed by the Board) (the Committee) and shall be comprised, unless otherwise determined by the Board, solely of not less than two members who shall be outside directors within the meaning of Treasury Regulation Section 1.162-27(e)(3) under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code).
The Committee shall have all the powers vested in it by the terms of this Plan, such powers to include authority (within the limitations described herein) to select the persons to be granted opportunities under the Plan, to determine the time when opportunities will be granted, to determine whether objectives and conditions for achieving an opportunity have been met, to determine whether opportunities will be paid out at the end of the opportunity period or deferred, and to determine whether an opportunity or payout of an opportunity should be reduced or eliminated.
The Committee shall have full power and authority to administer and interpret the Plan and to adopt such rules, regulations, agreements, guidelines and instruments for the administration of the Plan and for the conduct of its business as the Committee deems necessary or advisable. The Committees interpretations of the Plan in its sole discretion, and all actions taken and determinations made by the Committee pursuant to the powers vested in it hereunder, shall be conclusive and binding on all parties concerned, including the Company, its stockholders and any person granted an opportunity under the Plan.
The Committee may delegate all or a portion of its administrative duties under the Plan to such officers or other employees of the Company as it shall determine; provided, however, that no delegation shall be made regarding the selection of Executive Officers of the Company who shall be granted opportunities under the Plan, the amount and timing thereof, or the objectives and conditions pertaining thereto.
The Committee, in its discretion, may grant opportunities to Executive Officers for each fiscal year of the Company as it shall determine. For purposes of the Plan, Executive Officers shall be defined as those persons who shall be denoted as such from time to time by the Company in the Companys filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and those other persons as may be designated as such from time to time by the Compensation Committee. Executive Officers granted opportunities for a fiscal year of the Company are referred to as participants for such fiscal year.
 
 
 
 
A-2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A-3


