FILE:EL/EL-8K-20080201090238.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
o
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On February 1, 2008, The Este Lauder Companies Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fiscal quarter and six months ended December 31, 2007.  The release also includes the Company's estimates related to its fiscal 2008 third quarter and full year net sales and diluted net earnings per common share.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
                Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
3
 
THE ESTE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
ESTE LAUDER COMPANIES DELIVERS STRONG SECOND QUARTER RESULTS
 
SALES AND EPS INCREASE 16%
 
EARNINGS PER SHARE RISE TO $1.14
 
 
New York, NY, February 1, 2008 -
The Este Lauder Companies Inc. (NYSE: EL) today reported $2.31 billion in net sales for its fiscal second quarter ended December 31, 2007, a 16% increase over the $1.99 billion reported in the prior-year quarter.  Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, net sales rose 11%.
 
The Company reported net earnings for the quarter ended December 31, 2007 of $224.4 million, an 8% increase compared with $208.4 million last year.  Diluted net earnings per common share for the quarter rose 16% to $1.14 compared with $.99 reported in the prior year.
 
William P. Lauder, President and Chief Executive Officer said, "In our second quarter, we produced across-the-board sales gains in our geographic regions and product categories.  A favorable currency environment further aided our strong top-line growth.  Solid overall global performances from our travel retail business, freestanding retail stores, internet distribution and most brands contributed to our overall results this quarter.  Our top- and bottom-line gains were led by our international operations, which continued their steady growth pace.  Sales in the United States this holiday season reflected the soft retail backdrop, particularly in department stores.
 
"Despite a slowdown in consumer spending in the U.S., I believe we can achieve our profit objectives through ongoing cost containment efforts and disciplined expense control.  With this view, we continue to forecast earnings per share of $2.28 to $2.40 for the full 2008 fiscal year."
 
 
 
In the quarter, sales and operating income in the skin care, makeup and fragrance categories were favorably impacted in the United States by the ordering patterns of department stores as a result of a one week shift in the retail calendar from the Company's fiscal first quarter.
 
During the quarter, sales increased in all product categories within each of the Company's geographic regions.
 
Skin Care
                 
The significant net sales growth in skin care products in the current quarter was particularly strong in view of the 9% sales gain in the category in last year's second quarter.  The current quarter growth was fueled by double-digit increases in all geographic regions.
                 
Net sales benefited from the additional spending in the fiscal first quarter behind the Company's brands to maintain momentum into the holiday season.
                 
In addition to sales growth from certain existing products, the skin care category benefited from strong worldwide incremental sales of recent products such as Idealist Pore Minimizing Skin Refinisher by Este Lauder and Acne Solutions Clear Skin System from Clinique.  The category's growth reflected strong double-digit gains from the Company's La Mer brand, due in part to the momentum from the recent launch of The Eye Concentrate.
                 
Operating income increased reflecting the strong worldwide sales gains.
 
Makeup
                 
Makeup sales growth was impressive in the current quarter despite facing a difficult comparison to the prior-year second quarter when sales grew 12%.
                 
The increase was led by solid gains internationally.  Sales in the Americas were up primarily due to the effect of the shift in the U.S. retail calendar.
                 
Double-digit growth in the Company's makeup artist brands contributed more than 65% of the incremental sales.  The strong gains in the makeup artist brands were generated by solid product performances, additional market expansion, and for the
M
A
C
brand
, new freestanding retail stores.  The increase also reflects the positive contributions of new and existing products from certain core brands.
                 
Operating income increased, reflecting strong international growth, partially offset by weakness in certain brands in the United States.
 
Fragrance
                 
In absolute dollars fragrance sales growth was strongest in the Company's European region, primarily driven by newer fragrance offerings.  While current quarter sales compared favorably to the same prior-year period, the Company continues to face challenges in this product category, primarily in the United States.
                 
Contributing to the sales growth were recent launches, such as Sean John Unforgivable Woman and Este Lauder , as well as the introduction of Dreaming by Tommy Hilfiger, primarily in certain international countries.  The successful introduction of Tom Ford for Men also generated incremental sales, as well as the continued strong performance of DKNY Be Delicious.
pleasures delight
                 
Operating income in the fragrance product category increased, reflecting growth outside of the United States in certain of the Company's core fragrances, partially offset by lower results from designer fragrances, which continued spending in support of new product launches as well as its existing fragrances.
 
Hair Care
                 
Sales of hair care products increased, primarily due to growth from Aveda and Bumble and bumble, and the inclusion of the Ojon brand, which was acquired in July 2007.
                 
Aveda net sales benefited from the recent launch of Aveda Men Pure-Formance and Smooth Infusion products, and the recent acquisition of an independent distributor.
                 
Higher sales at Bumble and bumble were primarily due to its hotel amenities program and new points of distribution.
                 
Hair care operating profit decreased, reflecting investments designed to support short- and long-term growth in this category through new points of distribution.  The lower results are also due to an increase in intangible asset amortization resulting from recent strategic acquisitions.
 
 
The Americas
                 
The soft retail environment during the holiday season, particularly in the department store channel, as well as competitive pressures negatively impacted certain of the Company's brands.
                 
Sales growth reflected the favorable impact of the shift in the U.S. retail calendar.  Increases were generated from the Company's internet distribution, hair care business, including the addition of the Ojon brand, and the BeautyBank division.  Higher overall sales gains were also achieved in Latin America and Canada.
                 
Operating income in the Americas declined versus the prior year-period, reflecting increased spending on global information technology systems and infrastructure, as well as on new business development initiatives and activities.
                 
Improved operating income from the Company's makeup artist and internet distribution businesses partially offset these results.
 
Europe, the Middle East & Africa
                 
In constant currency, net sales increased in every country in the region.  The higher sales were led by the Company's travel retail business, the United Kingdom, and Russia, which benefited from the Company's continued expansion in this emerging market.
                 
Operating income increased, primarily due to improved results in the United Kingdom, travel retail, the Balkans and Germany.  Partially offsetting these increases were lower results in Russia, reflecting spending to support market expansion.
 
Asia/Pacific
                 
Every country in the region posted constant currency sales increases.  The strongest growth came in China, Hong Kong, Australia and Korea, with each country recording double-digit increases.
                 
In China, the Company's largest emerging Asian market, most of the Company's brands sold in the country recorded double-digit retail sales growth, reflecting the strength of the brands and the appeal of their products.
                 
Operating income in the region increased substantially, with all countries experiencing profit growth in the quarter.  Improved results were led by Australia, Japan, China, Korea and Hong Kong
.
 
Six-Month Results
                 
For the six months ended December 31, 2007, the Company reported net sales of $4.02 billion, a 12% increase from $3.58 billion in the comparable prior-year period.  Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, net sales rose 8%.  The Company reported net earnings of $263.5 million for the six months compared with $266.7 million in the same period last year.  Diluted net earnings per common share for the six months ended December 31, 2007 increased 7% to $1.34, compared with $1.25 reported in the prior-year period.
 
 
Cash Flows
                 
For the six months ended December 31, 2007, net cash flows provided by operating activities increased 16% to $361.9 million, compared with $312.7 million in the prior-year period.
                 
The
increase primarily reflects higher net earnings from continuing operations before non-cash items such as depreciation, amortization and stock-based compensation, as well as an improvement in collections of accounts receivable balances.
                 
Operating cash flow was utilized primarily for capital investments, dividends, the acquisition of Ojon and the repurchase of shares of the Company's Class A Common Stock.
 
Estimate of Fiscal 2008 Third Quarter and Full Year
 
Third Quarter
                 
Net sales are expected to grow between 8% and 10% in constant currency.
                 
Foreign currency translation benefit is expected to be approximately 3.5% versus the prior-year period.
                 
Diluted earn
ings per share are projected to be between $.43 and $.49.
 
Full Year
                 
Net sales are forecasted to grow between 7% and 9% in constant currency.
                 
Foreign currency translation benefit is expected to be approximately 3.5% versus the prior-year period.
                 
The Company projects diluted earnings per share to be between $2.28 and $2.40.
                 
On a product category basis, in constant currency, sales in hair care and skin care are expected to be the leading sales growth categories, followed by makeup and fragrance.
                 
Geographic region net sales growth in constant currency is expected to be led by Asia/Pacific, followed by Europe, the
Middle East & Africa and the Americas.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
The forward-looking statements in this press release, including those containing words like "expect," "planned," "may," "could," "anticipate," "estimate," "projected," "forecasted," those in Mr. Lauder's remarks and those in the "Estimate of Fiscal 2008 Third Quarter and Full Year" section involve risks and uncertainties.  Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements include the following:
 
The Company assumes no responsibility to update forward-looking statements made herein or otherwise.
 
The Este Lauder Companies Inc. is one of the world's leading manufacturers and marketers of quality skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care products.  The Company's products are sold in over 135 countries and territories under well-recognized brand names, including Este Lauder, Aramis, Clinique, Prescriptives, Lab Series, Origins, M
A
C, Bobbi Brown, Tommy Hilfiger, Kiton, La Mer, Donna Karan, Aveda, Jo Malone, Bumble and bumble, Darphin, Michael Kors, American Beauty, Flirt!, Good Skin, Grassroots, Sean John, Missoni, Daisy Fuentes, Tom Ford Beauty, Mustang, Coach and Ojon.
 
An electronic version of this release can be found at the Company's website, www.elcompanies.com.
 
 
THE ESTE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.
 
SUMMARY OF CONSOLIDATED RESULTS
SUMMARY OF CONSOLIDATED RESULTS
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
 
SELECTED CASH FLOW DATA
 


