FILE:EL/EL-8K-20080814092718.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On August 14, 2008, The Este Lauder Companies Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its fiscal 2008 full year and fourth quarter financial results.  The release also includes the Company's estimates related to its fiscal 2009 first quarter and full year net sales and diluted net earnings per common share.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
                Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
THE ESTE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
ESTE LAUDER COMPANIES REPORTS FISCAL YEAR
EARNINGS PER SHARE OF $2.40
 
GROWTH DRIVEN BY ROBUST INTERNATIONAL SALES AND EARNINGS
 
FOURTH QUARTER EPS RISES 36% ON 14% INCREASE IN SALES
 
The Este Lauder Companies Inc. (NYSE: EL) today reported $7.91 billion in net sales for its fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, a 12% increase over the $7.04 billion reported in the prior year.  Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, net sales rose 8%.
New York, NY, August 14, 2008 -
 
The Company reported net earnings for the year ended June 30, 2008 of $473.8 million compared with $449.2 million last year.  Diluted net earnings per common share for the year rose 11% to $2.40 compared with $2.16 reported in the prior year.
 
William P. Lauder, Chief Executive Officer said, "Our Company delivered strong sales gains and solid double-digit earnings per share growth in both the fourth quarter and full year.  We effectively managed our business through diverse economic challenges, particularly in the United States, by building on the strength of our brand portfolio.  Importantly, our strategic investments enabled us to achieve a terrific worldwide performance, highlighted by outstanding double-digit sales and earnings growth from our international operations, where we are continuing to build market share and leverage opportunities in emerging markets.
 
"Our plan for fiscal 2009 is to enhance our strategies and initiatives to achieve greater levels of profitable growth.  We believe that focusing investments on our high-growth brands, promising distribution channels and international markets will enable us to meet that goal.  It is clear that our greatest strengths lie in our brands and in our employees; they are a highly effective combination that provide our consumers with the hallmark products and services that have made our Company a global leader in luxury beauty."
Fourth Quarter Results
 
For the three months ended June 30, 2008, the Company reported net sales of $2.01 billion, a strong 14% increase from $1.76 billion in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007.  Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, net sales rose 9%.  On a reported basis, as well as in constant currency, net sales increased in each product category and geographic region.
 
The Company reported an outstanding 36% increase in net earnings for the fourth quarter of $120.2 million, versus $88.6 million last year.  Diluted net earnings per common share also increased 36% to $.61, compared with $.45 reported in the same prior-year period.  In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company increased its investment spending to drive growth, acquire market share and expand geographically, especially in key international markets.
 
 
Full-Year Results by Product Category
 
 
 
The net sales growth in each of the product categories in fiscal 2008 was particularly strong in view of the solid sales gains last year.
 
For fiscal 2008, on a reported basis, as well as in constant currency, sales increased in all product categories within each of the Company's geographic regions.
 
Skin Care
 
                 
As a percentage, skin care sales growth was strongest in the Asia/Pacific region, owing to new whitening products and higher sales in Greater China.
                 
In addition to sales growth from certain existing products, the skin care category benefited from strong worldwide incremental sales of recent products, such as Idealist Pore Minimizing Skin Refinisher and Cyber White EX by Este Lauder, and Acne Solutions Clear Skin System and Redness Solutions from Clinique.  The category's growth reflected double-digit gains from the Company's La Mer brand, due in part to the momentum from the recent launch of The Eye Concentrate.
                 
Operating income rose, primarily reflecting improved results internationally.
 
The overall operating results in this category were adversely impacted in the prior year by expenses related to the Company's pharmacy channel business.
Makeup
 
                 
The makeup category posted solid double-digit sales growth internationally and a single-digit increase in the Americas.
                 
Double-digit growth in the Company's makeup artist brands contributed more than 65% of the incremental sales.  The strong gains in the makeup artist brands were generated by solid product performances, additional market and door expansion, and new freestanding retail stores.
                 
Also contributing to the growth were incremental sales from the recent launches of Este Lauder Signature Hydra Lustre Lipstick and Supermoisture Makeup from Clinique.
                 
Operating income increased, primarily reflecting strong international growth, partially offset by lower results in the United States from certain of the Company's core brands,  as well as costs related to the establishment of new points of distribution for
the
M
A
C
brand.  Additionally, makeup operating income reflects a valuation reserve for the impairment of certain financial instruments in connection with the divestiture of the Stila brand in fiscal 2006.
 
Fragrance
 
                 
In absolute dollars, fragrance sales growth was strongest in the Company's European region, primarily driven by newer fragrance offerings, followed by gains in Asia/Pacific and the Americas.  Fragrance sales were tempered by the soft retail environment in the United States.
                 
While current year sales compared favorably to the prior year, the Company continues to face challenges in this product category, primarily in the United States.
                 
Contributing to the sales growth were products such as Sean John Unforgivable Woman, Dreaming Tommy Hilfiger, DKNY Be Delicious and Este Lauder Pure White Linen Light Breeze.
                 
Operating income in the fragrance category increased, reflecting higher international growth from certain core brands as well as improved results from some of the Company's developing brands.  These positives were partially offset by lower results from the Company's designer fragrance business, due to incremental spending in support of new product launches as well as existing fragrances.
 
Hair Care
 
                 
Sales of hair care products increased, due to the inclusion of the Ojon brand, which was acquired in July 2007, and higher sales from Aveda and Bumble and bumble.
                 
The increase in Aveda net sales benefited from the recent launches of Smooth Infusion and Aveda Men Pure-Formance products, as well as the recent acquisition of an independent distributor.
                 
Sales at Bumble and bumble were up due to new points of distribution and increases from its hotel amenities program, which was discontinued in the fiscal third quarter.
                 
Hair care operating results declined, primarily reflecting one-time costs related to the acquisition and integration of Ojon to position the brand for future growth.  The lower results are also due to an increase in intangible asset amortization resulting from recent strategic acquisitions coupled with investments designed to support short- and long-term growth in this category through new points of distribution.
 
 
Full-Year Results by Geographic Region
 
 
 
The Americas
 
                 
Sales growth reflected overall gains in Canada and Latin America, as well as the inclusion of the Ojon brand.  Gains were also achieved in the United States from the Company's makeup artist and hair care brands, and internet distribution.  These increases were partially offset by lower sales from certain of the Company's core brands.
                 
The Company believes the soft retail environment in the United States during the year, particularly in the department store channel, as well as competitive pressures, negatively impacted certain of the Company's brands.  These challenges have been mitigated through sales in alternative channels, such as freestanding retail stores, the internet, self-select distribution and direct-response television.
                 
Operating income in the Americas declined versus the prior-year period, primarily reflecting a difficult retail environment coupled with the investments and higher intangible asset amortization related to the Company's hair care business mentioned above.  Operating results also reflected higher costs of global information technology systems and infrastructure.  In addition, the Company established new points of distribution for existing brands, incurred costs to streamline certain business activities to generate future efficiencies, and recorded a charge for the impairment of certain financial instruments mentioned above.
 
Europe, the Middle East & Africa
 
                 
In constant currency, net sales increased sharply in virtually all countries in the region.  The higher sales were led by double-digit growth in the Company's travel retail business and the United Kingdom, as well as strong gains in France, Germany and Italy.
                 
Strong double-digit sales increases were also achieved in certain emerging markets, including Russia and Eastern Europe.
                 
Operating income increased, primarily due to improved results in travel retail, the United Kingdom, Italy, the Balkans and Spain.  Partially offsetting these increases were lower results in Russia and India, reflecting spending to support market expansion in these emerging countries.  The overall operating results in this region were adversely impacted in the prior year by expenses related to the Company's pharmacy channel business.
 
Asia/Pacific
 
                 
This region generated significant constant currency sales growth with every country posting increases.  Strong double-digit growth was generated in China, Hong Kong, Korea and Malaysia.  Japan, the Company's largest Asian market, continued to improve with sales rising mid-single digits.
                 
In China, the Company's largest emerging Asian market, most of the Company's brands recorded double-digit retail sales growth, including strong like-door growth.
                 
Operating income in the region increased substantially, with all countries experiencing profit growth for the year.  Improved results were led by Japan, Hong Kong, China, Australia and Korea
.
 
Full-Year Cash Flows
 
For the twelve months ended June 30, 2008, net cash flows provided by operating activities increased 4% to $690.1 million, compared with $661.6 million in the prior-year period.
                 
The increase primarily reflects higher net earnings before certain non-cash items, such as depreciation, amortization and stock-based compensation.  These improvements were partially offset by the timing and level of trade payables, as well as higher accounts receivable balances, principally related to significant sales growth from the Company's international operations.
                 
Operating cash flow was utilized primarily for capital investments, dividends, the acquisition of Ojon and the repurchase of shares of the Company's Class A Common Stock.
                 
 
Estimate of Fiscal 2009 First Quarter and Full Year
 
First Quarter
 
Net sales are expected to grow between 9% and 11% in constant currency.
                 
Foreign currency translation benefit is expected to be approximately 1% versus the prior-year period.
                 
Diluted net earnings per share are projected to be between $.18 and $.25.
                 
 
Full Year
 
Net sales are forecasted to grow between 6% and 8% in constant currency.
                 
Foreign currency translation is expected to have a minimal negative impact versus the prior-year period.
                 
Diluted net earnings per share are projected to be between $2.57 and $2.72.
                 
On a product category basis, in constant currency, sales in hair care and skin care are expected to be the leading sales growth categories, followed by makeup and fragrance.
                 
Geographic region net sales growth in constant currency is expected to be led by Asia/Pacific, followed by Europe, the Middle East & Africa, and the Americas.
                 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
The forward-looking statements in this press release, including those containing words like "expect," "planned," "may," "could," "anticipate," "estimate," "projected," "forecasted," those in Mr. Lauder's remarks and those in the "Estimate of Fiscal 2009 First Quarter and Full Year" section involve risks and uncertainties.  Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements include the following:
 
The Company assumes no responsibility to update forward-looking statements made herein or otherwise.
AC, Bobbi Brown, Tommy Hilfiger, Kiton, La Mer, Donna Karan, Aveda, Jo Malone, Bumble and bumbleDarphin,Michael Kors, American Beauty, Flirt!, Good Skin, Grassroots, Sean John, Missoni, Daisy Fuentes, Tom Ford, Mustang, Coach, Ojon and Eyes by Design.
The Este Lauder Companies Inc. is one of the world's leading manufacturers and marketers of quality skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care products.  The Company's products are sold in over 140 countries and territories under the following brand names, Este Lauder, Aramis, Clinique, Prescriptives, Lab Series, Origins, M
,
 
An electronic version of this release can be found at the Company's website, www.elcompanies.com.
 
 
THE ESTE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.
 
SUMMARY OF CONSOLIDATED RESULTS
 
SUMMARY OF CONSOLIDATED RESULTS
 
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
 
SELECT CASH FLOW DATA
 


