FILE:EL/EL-8K-20090504122317.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
ITEM 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On May 4, 2009, The Este Lauder Companies Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fiscal quarter and nine months ended March 31, 2009.  The release also includes the Company's estimates related to its fiscal 2009 full year net sales and diluted net earnings per common share.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Exhibit No.
                   
Description
 
     99.1                           Press release dated May 4, 2009 of T he Este Lauder Companies Inc.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
THE ESTE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
ESTE LAUDER COMPANIES REPORTS FISCAL 2009 THIRD QUARTER RESULTS
 
DESPITE A DIFFICULT ECONOMY, COMPANY REPORTS
SALES IN LINE WITH EXPECTATIONS AND DILUTED EPS OF $.14
 
The Este Lauder Companies Inc. (NYSE: EL) today reported $1.70 billion in net sales for its fiscal third quarter ended March 31, 2009, a 10% decrease compared with the $1.88 billion reported in the prior-year quarter.  Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, net sales declined 2%. The Company reported net earnings, including restructuring and other special charges, for the quarter ended March 31, 2009 of $27.2 million compared with $90.1 million last year.  Diluted net earnings per common share for the quarter were $.14, compared with $.46 reported in the prior-year quarter.
New York, NY, May 4, 2009 -
 
The fiscal 2009 third quarter results included restructuring and other special charges of $6.2 million (pre-tax), equal to $.02 per diluted common share, associated with the Company's previously announced restructuring initiatives. Excluding these charges, net earnings for the fiscal 2009 third quarter were $31.4 million and diluted earnings per share was $.16.  A reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures can be found on page 10 of this press release.
 
William P. Lauder, Chief Executive Officer, said, "The confluence of lower consumer spending and continuing macroeconomic conditions resulted in our third quarter performance being lower than the prior-year period. However, the strategy we announced last quarter was developed to navigate our Company through the medium- and long-term challenges and to capitalize on the opportunities we are pursuing.  Whether in good times or bad, we are properly balancing investing for growth with the goal of improving and sustaining profitability.  We expect to deploy our strategy with excellence and already have begun making progress towards achieving our goals."
 
During the quarter, each of the Company's product categories and geographic regions continued to be adversely impacted by the challenging and volatile global economic conditions.  The worldwide economic downturn has negatively affected consumer demand, resulting in weak retail sales and
 
inventory destocking by certain key retailers.  These conditions are reflected in the Company's sales and operating results and were foremost in the Americas and Europe, the Middle East & Africa regions.  In the Asia/Pacific region, the Company generated a strong performance, reporting double-digit sales growth in constant currency and a solid gain in operating income.  The Company believes it gained share globally in its distribution, despite the current economic climate.
 
 
 
 
Skin Care
 
Makeup
 
Fragrance
 
Hair Care
 
 
 
 
The Americas
 
Europe, the Middle East & Africa
 
Asia/Pacific
 
           
Operating income in the region increased, primarily reflecting improved results in Hong Kong, Taiwan and Korea.  Partially offsetting these improvements were lower results in Japan and Malaysia.
 
Nine-Month Results
            
For the nine months ended March 31, 2009, the Company reported net sales of $5.64 billion, a 4% decrease from $5.90 billion in the comparable prior-year period.  Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, net sales were essentially flat with the prior-year period.  The Company reported net earnings of $236.3 million for the nine months, compared with $353.6 million in the same period last year.  Diluted net earnings per common share for the nine months ended March 31, 2009 was $1.19, compared with $1.80 reported in the prior-year period.
            
Results for the first nine months of fiscal 2009 included restructuring and other special charges of $6.6 million (pre-tax), equal to $.02 per diluted common share associated with the Company's previously announced restructuring initiatives.  Excluding these charges, net earnings for the nine months ended March 31, 2009 was $240.8 million and diluted earnings per share was $1.21.  A reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures can be found on page 10 of this press release.
 
Cash Flows
For the nine months ended March 31, 2009, net cash flows provided by operating activities were $306.7 million, compared with $518.5 million in the prior-year period.
            
The change primarily reflects lower net earnings, a reduction in cash from certain working capital components, as well as the timing and level of income tax payments.  These changes were partially offset by a decrease in inventory, as well as lower accounts receivable balances as a result of lower sales.
           
           
Operating cash flow was utilized primarily for capital investments, dividends, the acquisitions of businesses and the repurchase of shares of the Company's Class A Common Stock.
           
The Company has taken several actions to manage and preserve cash during this difficult economic climate. They include issuing $300.0 million of five-year notes, suspending the share repurchase program, and for fiscal 2009, reducing discretionary capital spending by 25%.
           
The Company's focus on inventory management resulted in 22 fewer days of inventory at March 31, 2009, compared to the year-ago quarter.  This occurred in spite of lower sales and destocking by certain retailers worldwide.
           
The Company believes that cash on hand, cash generated from operations, available credit lines and access to credit markets will be adequate to support its currently planned business operations on both a near-term and long-term basis.
 
Estimate of Fiscal 2009 Full Year
The high degree of global economic uncertainty has had a negative effect on consumer confidence, demand and spending.  The Company cannot predict with certainty the extent or duration of these conditions.  The Company's business strategies are designed to strengthen the Company over the long-term.  The uncertainty about future market conditions, consumer spending patterns and the financial strength of some of the Company's key retail customers, coupled with retailer destocking, will continue to negatively affect the Company's results for the
remainder of fiscal 2009.  A continuation of these conditions, which are almost without precedent, makes definitive forecasting difficult.
 
The Company expects the current retail trends in the Americas and Europe, the Middle East & Africa to continue for the remainder of the fiscal year.  The Company's outlook in Asia/Pacific is cautious, reflecting the softening of certain retail environments in this region.  If there is a significant further weakening of business in the Asia/Pacific region, it will negatively impact future results.
 
Net sales are forecasted to decrease 1% to 3% in constant currency.
            
Foreign currency translation at spot rates is expected to negatively impact net sales by approximately 5% to 7% versus the prior-year period.
            
The Company projects diluted net earnings per share, before restructuring and other special charges, to be between $1.32 and $1.44.  This projection includes the expected negative impact of foreign currency translation of approximately $.21 to $.23 per share.
            
In connection with its long-term strategic plan, the Company will likely take additional restructuring and other special charges in fiscal 2009, the extent of which is continuing to be developed.  Such additional charges are not included in the Company's earnings per share projection noted above.
            
On a product category basis, in constant currency, sales in skin care are expected to increase modestly.  Makeup and hair care are projected to decrease slightly.  Fragrance is expected to decline.
            
Geographic region net sales growth in constant currency is expected to be led by Asia/Pacific, where the Company expects sales gains in the low teens.  The Company is forecasting constant currency sales to decline mid-single digits in Europe, the Middle East & Africa and in the Americas.
            
 
Forward-Looking Statements
The forward-looking statements in this press release, including those containing words like "expect," "planned," "may," "could," "anticipate," "estimate," "projected," "forecasted," those in Mr. Lauder's remarks and those in the "Estimate of Fiscal 2009 Full Year" section involve risks and uncertainties.  Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements include those described in this press release and the Company's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009, and the following:
(1)
             
increased competitive activity from companies in the skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care businesses, some of which have greater resources than the Company does;
(2)
             
the Company's ability to develop, produce and market new products on which future operating results may depend and to successfully address challenges in the Company's core brands, including gift with purchase, and in the Company's fragrance business;
(3)
             
consolidations, restructurings, bankruptcies and reorganizations in the retail industry causing a decrease in the number of stores that sell the Company's products, an increase in the ownership concentration within the retail industry, ownership of retailers by the Company's competitors and ownership of competitors by the Company's customers that are retailers and our inability to collect receivables;
(4)
             
destocking by retailers;
(5)
             
the success, or changes in timing or scope, of new product launches and the success, or changes in the timing or scope, of advertising, sampling and merchandising programs;
(6)
             
shifts in the preferences of consumers as to where and how they shop for the types of products and services the Company sells;
(7)
             
social, political and economic risks to the Company's foreign or domestic manufacturing, distribution and retail operations, including changes in foreign investment and trade policies and regulations of the host countries and of the United States;
 
The Company assumes no responsibility to update forward-looking statements made herein or otherwise.
 
AC, Bobbi Brown, Tommy Hilfiger, Kiton, La Mer, Donna Karan, Aveda, Jo Malone, Bumble and bumbleDarphin,Michael Kors, American Beauty, Flirt!, Good Skin, Grassroots Research Labs, Sean John, Missoni, Daisy Fuentes, Tom Ford, Mustang, Coach, Ojon and Eyes by Design.
The Este Lauder Companies Inc. is one of the world's leading manufacturers and marketers of quality skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care products.  The Company's products are sold in over 140 countries and territories under the following brand names: Este Lauder, Aramis, Clinique, Prescriptives, Lab Series, Origins, M
,
 
An electronic version of this release can be found at the Company's website, .
www.elcompanies.com
THE ESTE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.
 
SUMMARY OF CONSOLIDATED RESULTS
 
(A) In February 2009, the Company announced the implementation of a multi-faceted cost savings program (the "Program") to position it to achieve long-term profitable growth.  The Company anticipates the Program will result in related restructuring and other special charges over the next few fiscal years totaling between $350 million and $450 million before taxes.  The Program includes organizational resizing and regional realignments which principally reflects the reduction of the workforce by approximately 2,000 employees.
 
During fiscal 2009, the Company approved cost savings initiatives to resize the or ganization, reorganize certain functions, exit unprofitable operations and outsource certain services.  For the three and nine months ended March 31, 2009, aggregate expenses of $7.0 million and $10.3 million, respectively, were recorded as restructuring and other special charges related to the Program in the summary of consolidated results.  These charges primarily reflected employee-related costs, asset write-offs, contract terminations and other special charges.
 
During the three and nine months ended March 31, 2009, the Company recorded gains of $0.8 million and $3.7 million, respectively, related to adjustments to accruals that were recorded as other special charges in prior periods.
(B) In light of the recent decline in its stock price, the Company reviewed the impact of the aggregate change in market capitalization on the fair value of its reporting units with goodwill and such review indicated that all reporting units, except for the Darphin reporting unit, continued to have fair value in excess of carrying value.  During the third quarter of fiscal 2009, the Company concluded that the Darphin reporting unit met certain indicators triggering an interim impairment review of goodwill and trademarks.  Those indicators included a decline in recent operating activities, restructuring activities, revisions in internal forecasts and an application of the Company's continued decline in market capitalization to this reporting unit.  The Company performed an interim impairment test for goodwill and trademarks as of March 31, 2009 on Darphin.  The Company concluded that the carrying value of the Darphin trademark exceeded its estimated fair value and as a result recognized an impairment charge of $12.3 million at the exchange rate at March 31, 2009.  After adjusting the carrying value of the trademark, the Company completed step one of the impairment analysis for goodwill and concluded that the fair value of the Darphin reporting unit was in excess of its carrying value including goodwill.
 
During the third quarter of fiscal 2009, the Company reviewed its other intangible assets for events or changes in circumstances that indicate the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable.  Pursuant to this review, the Company identified a fragrance license agreement intangible asset which was tested for impairment based upon a history of operating losses in excess of projections and revisions in internal forecasts.  The Company determined that the intangible asset was impaired and therefore recorded an asset impairment charge of $2.3 million.
 
As the duration and magnitude of the volatility of the current economic conditions remain uncertain, the Company will continue to monitor and evaluate the potential impact on the business and on the annual impairment testing in the fourth quarter of the current fiscal year.  Accordingly, it is possible that the Company would recognize an impairment charge in the future with respect to goodwill and/or other intangible assets.
 
 
This earnings release includes some non-GAAP financial measures relating to the restructuring and other special charges.  The following is a reconciliation between the non-GAAP financial measures and the most directly comparable GAAP measure for certain summary of consolidated results accounts before and after the special charges.  The Company uses the non-GAAP financial measure, among other things, to evaluate its operating performance and the measure represents the manner in which the Company conducts and views its business.  Management believes that excluding these items that are special in nature or that are not comparable from period to period helps investors and others compare operating performance between two periods.  While the Company considers the non-GAAP measures useful in analyzing its results, it is not intended to replace, or act as a substitute for, any presentation included in the consolidated financial statements prepared in conformity with GAAP.
 
THE ESTE LAUDER COMPANIES INC.
 
RECONCILIATION OF CERTAIN SUMMARY OF CONSOLIDATED RESULTS ACCOUNTS
BEFORE AND AFTER RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER SPECIAL CHARGES
SUMMARY OF CONSOLIDATED RESULTS
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
 
 
 


