FILE:EL/EL-8K-20110211164736.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On February 9, 2011, The Este Lauder Companies Inc. (the Company) entered into a new employment agreement with Fabrizio Freda, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company.  The new agreement will be effective as of July 1, 2011.  His current employment agreement expires on June 30, 2011.
 
Under the new employment agreement, Mr. Freda will be an employee-at-will and continue as President and Chief Executive Officer until he leaves the Company or his employment is otherwise terminated.  The agreement provides for a base salary to be set by the Compensation Committee.  For the fiscal year ending June 30, 2012 (fiscal 2012), his base salary shall be $1,750,000.  His bonus opportunities and equity grants shall be determined by the Compensation Committee or Stock Plan Subcommittee.  For fiscal 2012, his aggregate bonus opportunities at target are $3,250,000.    In addition, the Company agreed to recommend to the Stock Plan Subcommittee annual stock-based awards under the Companys Amended and Restated Fiscal 2002 Share Incentive Plan with a value equivalent at the time of grant of no less than $5 million with such value determined in accordance with procedures generally utilized by the Company for its financial reporting at the time of grant; provided however, at  no time shall an annual grant exceed or be in respect of more than 500,000 shares of Class A Common Stock at target performance (provided that above-target performance payouts on performance-based awards shall not be subject to that limitation). The additional benefits to be provided to Mr. Freda, including the supplemental deferral to be made on his behalf, and payments and benefits upon termination of employment are substantially the same as those described in the Companys proxy statement, dated September 24, 2010, under Executive Compensation  Employment Agreements and -- Potential Payments Upon Termination of Employment or Change in Control.  Benefits provided to Mr. Freda under the agreement may be modified by the Compensation Committee at any time other than in contemplation of a Change of Control (as defined in the agreement) or after a Change of Control.  Any such modification shall not be effective until at least two years after such modification is approved by the Compensation Committee.
In connection with the new agreement, the Stock Plan Subcommittee granted to Mr. Freda a market share unit (MSU) payable in shares of the Companys Class A Common Stock.   Such MSU will be paid out depending upon performance of the Class A Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange during the 20 trading days ending June 30, 2014.    If the average closing stock price per share of the Class A Common Stock during that period (the Average Price) equals or exceeds $150.00 per share, then Mr. Freda will receive 160,000 shares of Class A Common Stock.    If the Average Price is less than $150.00 per share and equal to or greater than $37.50 per share, then Mr. Freda will receive that number of shares equal to 160,000 times the Average Price divided by $150.00.  Mr. Freda will receive no shares if the Average Price is less than $37.50 per share.  If the Average Price equals $92.92, which is the closing price per share on the date of grant, then, assuming all other conditions are met, Mr. Freda would receive 99,915 shares of Class A Common Stock.  If Mr. Freda resigns or is terminated for cause prior to June 30, 2014, he will receive no shares.  If Mr. Freda dies or becomes disabled prior to June 30, 2014 or is terminated without cause after February 9, 2012 and prior to June 30, 2014, then the number of shares to be paid out will be multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which will be the number of completed months of services starting with July 2010 and the denominator of which shall be 48.  The MSU will vest and be paid out upon a change in control, with performance being determined by the consideration per share to be received by the holders of the Companys Class A Common Stock.  Dividend equivalents will be paid out in cash in connection with the shares that are earned by Mr. Freda.  Shares and cash paid out pursuant to the MSU are subject to applicable tax withholding requirements.
 
The above summary of the material terms of the agreement is qualified by reference to the text of the agreement which is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(a) Not Applicable
 
(b) Not Applicable.
 
(c) Not Applicable.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
  
* Exhibit is a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
 
3
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
  
* Exhibit is a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5

 
EXHIBIT 10.1
                                                                                                                                      EXECUTION COPY
THIS AGREEMENT (Agreement), dated as of February 9, 2011, between THE ESTE LAUDER COMPANIES INC., a Delaware corporation (the Company), and FABRIZIO FREDA, a resident of New York, New York (the Executive or you),
WHEREAS, the Company and its subsidiaries are principally engaged in the business of manufacturing, marketing and selling skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care products and related services (the Business); and
 WHEREAS, the Company and the Executive are parties to an employment agreement dated as of November 8, 2007 and amended as of  March 25, 2009; and
          WHEREAS, the Company desires to continue to retain the services of the Executive as the President and Chief Executive Officer and the Executive desires to provide services in such capacity to the Company, upon the terms and subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth; and
 WHEREAS, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the Compensation Committee) and the Stock Plan Subcommittee of the Compensation Committee have approved the terms of this Agreement; and
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and of the mutual covenants and obligations hereinafter set forth, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound, hereby agree as follows:
1.           
Employment Term; Effectiveness
The Company hereby agrees to employ the Executive, and the Executive hereby agrees to enter into employment, as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company subject to termination pursuant to Section 6 hereof. The period from July 1, 2011 through the date of such termination shall be the Term of Employment. This agreement shall be effective as of July 1, 2011, provided the Executive is still actively employed by the Company as of such date.
2.           
Duties and Extent of Services.
(a)           During the Term of Employment, the Executive shall serve as (i) President and Chief Executive Officer, reporting to the Executive Chairman subject to the control of the Board of Directors, and (ii) a member of the Board of Directors.  In such capacities, the Executive shall render such executive, managerial, administrative and other services as customarily are associated with and incident to such positions, and as the Company may, from time to time, reasonably require of him consistent with such positions.
(b)           The Executive shall also hold such other positions and executive offices of the Company and/or of any of the Companys subsidiaries or affiliates as may from time to time be agreed by the Executive or assigned by the Board of Directors, provided that each such
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
position shall be commensurate with the Executives standing in the business community as President and Chief Executive Offficer of the Company.  The Executive shall not be entitled to any compensation other than the compensation provided for herein for serving during the Term of Employment in any other office or position of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, unless the Board of Directors of the Company or the appropriate committee thereof shall specifically approve such additional compensation.
(c)           The Executive shall be a full-time at will employee of the Company and shall exclusively devote all his business time and efforts faithfully and competently to the Company and shall diligently perform to the best of his ability all of the duties required of him as President and Chief Executive Officer, and in the other positions or offices of the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates assigned to him hereunder.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, the Executive may serve as a non-management director of such business corporations (or in a like capacity in other for-profit or not-for-profit organizations) as the Board of Directors of the Company may approve, such approval not to be unreasonably withheld.
(d)            The Executive shall comply with the Company's stock ownership guidelines applicable to the Executive as they may be implemented and/or amended by the Board of Directors or the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.
3.           (a)   As compensation for all services to be rendered pursuant to this Agreement and as payment for the rights and interests granted by Executive hereunder, the Company shall pay or cause any of its subsidiaries to pay the Executive a base salary (the Base Salary) during the Term of Employment subject to the provisions of Section 3(c) at a rate set by the Compensation Committee from time to time.  The Compensation Committee has determined that the Base Salary shall be $1,750,000 for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2012 (Fiscal 2012).  Subject to Section 6(j) of this Agreement, all amounts of Base Salary provided for hereunder shall be payable in accordance with the regular payroll policies of the Company in effect from time to time.
Base Salary.
(b)              The Executive shall be eligible to participate in the Companys Executive Annual Incentive Plan or any subsequent Bonus Plan for executives that is approved by the stockholders of the Company (the Bonus Plan), with aggregate target bonus opportunities to be reviewed by the Compensation Committee from time to time.  The Compensation Committee has determined that aggregate target bonus opportunities for Fiscal 2012 shall be equal to $3,250,000.
Incentive Bonus Compensation.
Any target bonus opportunities granted to the Executive shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the Bonus Plan, which are incorporated herein by reference; , , that the bonus payout with respect to any fiscal year shall be paid to Executive no later than the 15th day of the third month following the end of such fiscal year.
provided
however
 (c)            .
Deferral
(i)  .  The Executive may elect to defer payment of all or any part of any salary payable under Section 3(a) or any incentive bonus compensation payable under Section 3(b) by making an election, in a manner prescribed by the Company, on or before December 31 of the calendar year before the fiscal year begins (or such earlier date as may be necessary to comply with the applicable tax laws and regulations).
Deferral ElectionsIn General
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
(ii)  .  For any incentive bonus compensation that qualifies as performance-based compensation under Treas. Reg. Section 1.409A-1(e) and is based upon a performance period of at least twelve (12) months, the Executive may make a deferral election at any time before the date that is six (6) months before the applicable performance period ends, but only if (i) the incentive bonus compensation is not readily ascertainable when the election is made and (ii) the service provider has performed services continuously from the later of the beginning of the performance period or the date the performance criteria are established.
Deferral ElectionsPerformance-Based Compensation
(iii)  .  Any amounts deferred by Executive will be credited to a bookkeeping account in the name of the Executive as of the date scheduled for payment (the Deferred Compensation Account).  The Deferred Compensation Account will be credited with interest as of each June 30 during the term of deferral, compounded annually, at an annual rate equal to the annual rate of interest announced by Citibank N.A. in New York, New York as its base rate in effect on such June 30, but limited to a maximum annual rate of 9%.
Credit on Amounts Deferred
 
(iv)  .  Subject to Section 6(j), amounts credited to the Executives Deferred Compensation Account  will be paid to the Executive (or the Executives designated beneficiary if the Executive dies before payment), subject to applicable withholding taxes on, or as soon as practicable after, the date the Executive separates from service with the Company (as defined in Treas. Reg. section 1.409A-1(h)).   The Company, in its sole discretion, may provide an investment facility for all or a portion of such deferred amounts, but is not required to do so.
Payment of Amounts Deferred and Vested
(d)            . (i) The Company shall credit to a bookkeeping account in the name of the Executive an annual supplemental deferral amount during the Term of Employment computed by taking the difference between $485,000.00 (the gross amount of the pension contributions made on behalf of the Executive by his former employer, using an effective tax rate of approximately forty-two (42) percent) and the actual vested annual accruals and contributions made to the Companys qualified and non-qualified pension and qualified retirement savings plans on behalf of the Executive. Such amounts shall be credited with interest as of each June 30 for the duration of this supplemental pension bookkeeping account, compounded annually, at a rate per annum equal to the annual rate of interest announced by Citibank N.A. in New York, New York as its base rate in effect on such June 30, but in no event shall such rate exceed 9%.
Supplemental Deferral
(ii)  Subject to Section 6(j), amounts credited to the Executives supplemental deferral account will be paid to the Executive (or the Executives designated beneficiary if the Executive dies before payment), subject to applicable withholding taxes on, or as soon as practicable after, the date the Executive separates from service with the Company (as defined in Treas. Reg. section 1.409A-1(h)).  The Company, in its sole discretion, may provide an investment facility for all or a portion of such deferred amounts, but is not required to do so.
4.        (a)            .  The Executive shall be eligible to participate in the Amended and Restated Fiscal 2002 Share Incentive Plan or such other share incentive plan that is approved by the stockholders of the Company (the Share Incentive Plan).  Any awards or opportunities granted to the Executive shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the Share Incentive Plan, which are incorporated herein by reference The terms of such equity-based compensation awards shall be set forth in separate grant letters approved by the Stock Plan Subcommittee of the Compensation Committee.
Equity-Based Compensation - General
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
  (b)            . An additional one-time award of Market Share Units will be granted concurrently  with the signing of this Agreement, as provided for  in the Market Share Unit Award Agreement and Notice of Grant dated as of the date hereof.
                                 
Equity-Based Compensation  Additional One-Time Award
  (c)            . For Fiscal 2012, the recommended annual equity-based compensation award target opportunity under the Share Incentive Plan shall be of a value at the time of grant of no less than $5,000,000.00 with the number of shares determined in accordance with procedures generally utilized by the Company for its financial reporting at the time of grant; , , at no time shall the aggregate grants during a fiscal year exceed or be in respect of more than 500,000 shares of Class A Common Stock.  For purposes of this calculation, shares underlying performance share units and other performance-based awards shall be at target performance, which means that that above-target performance payouts on performance share units or any other form of performance-based awards shall not be subject to this limitation).
                                 
Equity-Based Compensation  Annual Awards
provided
however
(d)           
.  Executive acknowledges and agrees that any grant of equity-based compensation shall be effective as provided only to the extent permitted by the Share Incentive Plan, and this Agreement shall not obligate the Company to adopt any successor plan providing for the grant of equity-based compensation.  If authority over the Companys equity compensation programs is changed from the Stock Plan Subcommittee to the Compensation Committee (or other committee), then after such change, references herein to the Stock Plan Subcommittee shall be to the appropriate committee.
Certain Conditions
 
be entitled to participate in all pension and retirement savings, fringe benefit and welfare plans, including life insurance, medical, health and accident, disability, and vacation plans and programs maintained by the Company from time to time for senior executives at a level commensurate with his position.  The Executive acknowledges that participation in such programs may result in the receipt by him of additional taxable income.
  During the Term of Employment, the Executive shall
(a)           
.
Standard Benefits
     
 
(b)            The Company shall reimburse the Executive for the actual expenses incurred by him in connection with his professional standing, in accordance with the guidelines set out in the Companys Senior Executive Compensation Program Perquisite Plan and upon presentation of proper expense statements or vouchers or such other supporting information as the Company may reasonably require of the Executive.  Such reimbursement shall generally occur within seventy-five (75) days after the end of the calendar year of presentment, provided that such presentment occurs within ninety (90) days after the date the related expenses were incurred.  Notwithstanding the above, to the extent that the expenses were incurred in one calendar year and presentment occurs in the following calendar year, such reimbursement shall occur by the end of the calendar year in which the presentment occurs.  In no event shall the gross amount of such reimbursements be greater than $20,000.00 in respect of any calendar year, nor shall amounts that are not reimbursed in one calendar year up to the $20,000.00 per year limitation be able to be used in another calendar year or otherwise be made available to the Executive.  Additionally, the Company will pay directly to the service provider following presentment of invoice(s) reasonably acceptable to the Company up to $5,000.00 per year for reasonable financial counseling services for the Executive, and in no event shall amounts up to the $5,000.00 per
Perquisite Reimbursement; Financial Counseling.
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
year limitation that are not paid in one calendar year be able to be used in another calendar year or otherwise be made available to the Executive.  The Executive acknowledges that participation in such programs will result in the receipt by him of additional taxable income.
(c)            The Executive will participate in the Executive Automobile Program of the Company, and may elect to be provided an automobile having an acquisition value of up to $75,000.00.  Alternatively, the Executive may receive an automobile allowance in the gross monthly amount of $1,100.00.  The Executive acknowledges that participation in this program will result in the receipt by him of additional taxable income.   
Executive Auto.
(d)            . The Company agrees to reimburse the Executive for all reasonable and necessary travel (inclusive of first class air travel), business entertainment and other business out-of-pocket expenses incurred or expended by him in connection with the performance of his duties hereunder upon presentation of proper expense statements or vouchers or such other supporting information as the Company may reasonably require of the Executive.  The timing of payment of such reimbursements and presentation by the Executive of expenses incurred shall be in accordance with the rules described in Section 5(b).
Expenses
(e)            . The Executive may upon prior approval of the  Executive Chairman or the Chairman of the Compensation Committee or their respective designee(s), arrange for his spouse/companion or domestic partner to accompany him on up to two (2) business related travel itineraries per fiscal year, on a reasonable basis, at Company expense.  Any reimbursement for such travel shall require presentation of proper expense statements or vouchers or such other supporting information as the Company may reasonably require of the Executive, and shall be payable within seventy-five (75) days after the end of the calendar year of presentment.  The Executive acknowledges that participation in this program will result in the receipt by him of additional taxable income.   
Spousal/Companion Travel
 
(f)           
Executive Term Life Insurance
.  During the Term of Employment, the Company shall continue to pay premiums on the existing term life insurance policy or successor   life insurance policy with a face amount of $10,000,000.00.  Such obligation to pay premiums is subject to standard underwriting conditions.  The Executive acknowledges that this coverage will result in the receipt by him of additional taxable income.
(g)           
Modification of Benefits
.  Nothwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the Company reserves the right with respect to any benefit set forth in this Section 5 to modify such benefit or not to provide such benefit.  Changes in any benefit provided solely to Executive Officers of the Company shall be subject to approval of the Compensation Committee.   
6.           
Termination.
(as hereinafter defined) of the Executive during the Term of Employment, the Company shall have the right, upon written notice to the Executive, to terminate the Executives employment hereunder, effective upon the giving of such notice (or such later date as shall be specified in such notice).  In the event of such termination, the Company shall have no further obligations hereunder, except that the Executive shall be entitled to receive (i) any accrued but unpaid salary and other amounts to which the Executive otherwise is entitled hereunder prior to the date of his termination of employment, in accordance with Section 3(a) and other applicable
  In the event of the permanent disability
(a)           
.
Permanent Disability
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
payment provisions herein; (ii) bonus compensation earned but not paid under Section 3(b) hereof that relates to any fiscal year ended prior to the date of his termination of employment, in accordance with Section 3(b) hereof; (iii) a pro-rata portion of the annual bonus payout that the Executive would have been entitled to receive had he remained in employment through the end of the fiscal year during which termination due to permanent disability occurred, based on the portion of the fiscal year that has elapsed prior to such termination, and paid in accordance with Section 3(b) hereof (provided, that such payment shall not be made prior to the sixtieth (60) day following the Executives date of termination); (iv) reimbursement for financial counseling services under Section 5(b) hereof for a period of one (1) year from the date of termination, in accordance with Section 5(b) hereof (provided, that such payment shall not be made prior to the sixtieth (60) day following the Executives date of termination); and (v) his Base Salary at a rate equal to the highest rate during the past twelve (12) months for a period of one (1) year from the date of termination as a result of permanent disability, in accordance with Section 3(a) hereof (the Disability Continuation Period), paid in accordance with Section 6(j)(i) hereof (provided, that such payment shall not be made prior to the sixtieth (60) day following the Executives date of termination); further ,, that the Company shall only be required to pay that amount of the Executives Base Salary which shall not be covered by short-term disability payments or benefits or long-term disability payments or benefits, if any, to the Executive under any Company plan or arrangement.  In addition, upon termination for permanent disability, the Executive shall continue to participate, to the extent permitted by applicable law and regulations and the applicable benefit plan, program or arrangement, in any and all healthcare, life insurance and accidental death and dismemberment insurance benefit plans, programs or arrangements of the Company during the Disability Continuation Period (disregarding any required delay in payments under Section 6(j)).  Thereafter, the Executives rights to participate in such programs and plans, or to receive similar coverage, if any, shall be as determined under such programs.  Because continued participation in any qualified pension and qualified retirement savings plans of the Company is not permitted during the Disability Continuation Period, the Company shall provide to the Executive, subject to Section 6(j), cash payments, to be paid in accordance with Section 6(j)(i), equal to the sum of the maximum qualified defined contribution retirement savings plan match for pre-tax and after-tax contributions allowable by the plan and by applicable laws and regulations for each year during the Disability Continuation Period (or other period as expressly provided herein), and (v) the excess of the benefit that would have been received by the Executive had he been credited with additional years of age and service(provided, that such payment shall not be made prior to the sixtieth (60) day following the Executives date of termination)Notwithstanding the above, any amounts payable under this Section 6(a) that are separation pay as described under Treas. Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(9)(iii)(A) shall be paid no later than December 31 of the second calendar year following the year in which the Executives termination for permanent disability occurs; any amounts payable under this Section 6(a) that are not otherwise exempt from Code section 409A are subject to, and payable in accordance with, Section 6(j) of this Agreement.  Except as otherwise provided in this Section 6(a), the Company will have no further obligations under Sections 3, 4 and 5 hereof or otherwise.  For purposes of this Section 6(a), permanent disability means any disability as defined under the Companys applicable disability insurance policy or, if no such policy is available, any physical or mental disability or incapacity that renders the Executive incapable of performing the services required of him in accordance with
th
th
th
provided
however
(x)
 equal to the Disability Continuation Period (or other period as expressly provided herein) over the actual benefit to which the Executive is entitled, in each case, under any and all qualified and non-qualified defined benefit pension plans and qualified defined contribution retirement savings plans in which the Executive participates as of the date of termination of employment, calculated as of and based upon the Executives date of termination (such sum the Pension Replacement Payment),
th
. 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
his obligations under Section 2 hereof for a period of six (6) consecutive months or for shorter periods aggregating six (6) months during any twelve-month period.
(b)            .  In the event of the death of the Executive during the Term of Employment, Executives employment and this Agreement shall automatically terminate.  In the event of such termination the Company shall have no further obligations hereunder, except to pay the Executives beneficiary or legal representative (i) any accrued but unpaid salary and other amounts to which the Executive otherwise is entitled hereunder prior to the date of his  death, in accordance with Section 3(a) and other applicable payment provisions herein; (ii) bonus compensation earned but not paid under Section 3(b) hereof that relates to any fiscal year ended prior to the date of his death, in accordance with Section 3(b) hereof; (iii) a pro-rata portion of the annual bonus payout the Executive would have been entitled to receive had he remained in the employ of the Company through the end of the fiscal year during which termination due to his death occurred, based on the portion of the fiscal year that has elapsed prior to such termination, and paid in accordance with Section 3(b) hereof (provided, that such payment shall not be made prior to the sixtieth (60) day following the Executives date of termination);(iv) reimbursement for financial counseling services under Section 5(b) hereof for a period of one (1) year from the date of termination, in accordance with Section 5(b) hereof (provided, that such payment shall not be made prior to the sixtieth (60) day following the Executives date of termination); and (v) for a period of one (1) year from the date of his death, the Executives Base Salary as established under Section 3(a) hereof as of the date of his death, in accordance with Section 3(a) hereof (provided, that such payment shall not be made prior to the sixtieth (60) day following the Executives date of termination); further , , that, except as otherwise provided in this Section 6(b), the Company will have no further obligations under Sections 3, 4 and 5 hereof or otherwise.  
Death
th
 
th
th
provided
however
(c)              The Company shall have the right, upon ninety (90) days prior written notice given to the Executive, to terminate the Executives employment for any reason whatsoever (except for Cause (as defined below) which is covered by Section 3(d)).  In the event of such termination, the Company shall have no further obligations hereunder, except that the Executive shall be entitled to (i) receive any accrued but unpaid salary and other amounts to which the Executive otherwise is entitled hereunder prior to the date of his termination without Cause, in accordance with Section 3(a) and other applicable payment provisions herein; (ii) receive bonus compensation earned but not paid under Section 3(b) hereof that relates to any fiscal year ended prior to the date of his termination without Cause, in accordance with Section 3(b) hereof; (iii) receive a pro-rata portion of the annual bonus payout that the Executive would have been entitled to receive had he remained in employment through the end of the fiscal year during which the termination without Cause occurred, based on the portion of the fiscal year that has elapsed prior to such termination, and paid in accordance with Section 3(b) hereof (provided, that such payment shall not be made prior to the sixtieth (60) day following the Executives date of termination); (iv) receive as damages (A) for a period ending on a date two (2) years from the date of termination without Cause, in accordance with the regular payroll policies of the Company in effect from time to time, his Base Salary as established under and in accordance with Section 3(a) hereof and (B) bonus compensation equal to fifty percent (50%) of the average of the actual annual bonuses paid or payable to the Executive under the Bonus Plan during the past two (2) completed fiscal years paid in accordance with Section 6(j)(i) hereof (provided, that such payment shall not be made prior to the sixtieth (60) day following the Executives date of termination); (v) receive reimbursement for financial counseling services under Section 5(b) hereof for a period of two (2) years from the date of termination, in accordance with Section 5(b) hereof (provided, that such payment shall not be made prior to the sixtieth (60) day following the Executives date of
Termination Without Cause.
th
th
th
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
termination); and (vi) participate for a period ending on a date two (2) years from the date of termination without Cause (the Without Cause Continuation Period), to the extent permitted by applicable law and regulations and the applicable benefit plan, program or arrangement, in any and all qualified and non-qualified pension and qualified retirement savings, healthcare, life insurance and accidental death and dismemberment insurance benefit plans, programs or arrangements, on terms identical to those applicable to full-term senior officers of the Company.  Because continued participation in any qualified pension and qualified retirement savings plans of the Company is not permitted during the Without Cause Continuation Period, the Company shall provide to the Executive, subject to Section 6(j), cash payments, to be paid in accordance with Section 6(j)(i), equal to the Pension  Replacement Payment (as defined in Section 6(a)) with respect to the Without Cause Continuation Period (provided, that such payment shall not be made prior to the sixtieth (60) day following the Executives date of termination).  Notwithstanding the above, any amounts payable under this Section 6(c) that are separation pay as described under Treas. Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(9)(iii)(A) shall be paid no later than December 31 of the second calendar year following the year in which the Executives termination pursuant to this section 6(c) occurs; any amounts payable under this Section 6(c) that are not otherwise exempt from Code section 409A are subject to, and payable in accordance with, Section 6(j) of this Agreement. Except as otherwise provided in this Section 6(c), the Company will have no further obligations under Sections 3, 4 and 5 hereof or otherwise.  In the event of termination pursuant to this Section 6(c), the Executive shall not be required to mitigate his damages hereunder.  
th
(d)              The Company shall have the right, upon notice to the Executive, to terminate the Executives employment under this Agreement for Cause (as defined below), effective upon the Executives receipt of such notice (or such later date as shall be specified in such notice), and the Company shall have no further obligations hereunder, except to pay the Executive his accrued but unpaid salary, in accordance with Section 3(a) hereof, and provide the Executive with any benefit under the employee benefit programs and plans of the Company as determined under such programs and plans upon and as of such a termination for Cause.  Except as otherwise provided in this Section 6(d), the Company will have no further obligations under Sections 3, 4 and 5 hereof or otherwise.
Cause.
For purposes of this Agreement, Cause means:
(i)            a material breach of, or the willful failure or refusal by the Executive to perform and discharge duties or obligations he has agreed to perform or assume under this Agreement (other than by reason of disability or death) that, if capable of correction, is not corrected within ten (10) business days following notice thereof to the Executive by the Company, such notice to state with specificity the nature of the breach, failure or refusal;
(ii)           willful misconduct by the Executive, unrelated to the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, that could reasonably be anticipated to have a material adverse effect on the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates (the determination of Cause to be made by the Companys Executive Chairman in his/her reasonable judgment);
(iii)           the Executives gross negligence, whether related or unrelated to the business of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates which could reasonably be anticipated to have a material adverse effect on the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates that, if capable of correction, is not corrected within ten (10) business days following notice thereof to the Executive by the Company, such notice to state with specificity the nature
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
of the conduct complained of (the determination of Cause to be made by the Companys Executive Chairman in his/her reasonable judgment);
(iv)            the Executives failure to follow a lawful directive of the Executive Chairman or the Board of Directors of the Company that is within the scope of the Executives duties for a period of ten (10) business days after notice from the Executive Chairman of the Company specifying the performance required;
(v)            any violation by the Executive of a policy contained in the Code of Conduct of the Company (the determination of Cause to be made by the Companys Executive Chairman in his/her reasonable judgment);
(vi)            drug or alcohol abuse by the Executive that materially affects the Executives performance of his duties under this Agreement; or
(vii)            conviction of, or the entry of a plea of guilty or nolo contendere by the Executive for, any felony.
 
(e)
  
  The Executive shall have the right, exercisable at any time during the Term of Employment, to terminate his employment for any reason whatsoever, upon ninety (90) days prior written notice to the Company.  Upon such termination, the Company shall have no further obligations hereunder other than to (i) pay the Executive his accrued but unpaid salary, in accordance with Section 3(a) hereof; (ii) provide bonus compensation, if any, earned but not paid under Section 3(b) hereof that relates to any fiscal year ended prior to the date of such a termination by the Executive, in accordance with Section 3(b) hereof; and (iii) provide the Executive with any benefit under the employee benefit programs and plans of the Company as determined under such programs and plans upon and as of such a termination by the ExecutiveExcept as otherwise provided in this Section 6(e), the Company will have no further obligations under Sections 3, 4 and 5 hereof or otherwise.
Termination by Executive.
.
                       (f)             The Executive shall have the right, exercisable by notice to the Company, to terminate his employment effective ninety (90) days after the giving of such notice, if, at any time during the Term of Employment, the Company shall be in material breach of its obligations hereunder; , that such notice must be provided to the Company within thirty (30) days of the date on which the Executive obtains knowledge or reasonably should obtain knowledge of such material breach; and , that such termination will not become effective if within thirty (30) days after receiving the notice the Company shall have cured all such material breaches of its obligations hereunder.  For purposes of this Section 6(f), a material breach shall only be, (i) a material reduction in the Executives authority, functions, duties or responsibilities provided in Section 2 hereof, or (ii) the Company's failure to pay any award that the Executive is entitled to receive pursuant to the terms of this Agreement. Such termination shall be deemed to be a termination without Cause and shall be controlled by the provisions of Section 6(c) hereof.
Termination by Executive for Material Breach.
provided
however,
provided
further
Except as otherwise provided in this Section 6(f), the Company will have no further obligations under Sections 3, 4 and 5 hereof or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
(g)           .
Change of Control
(i)           .  For purposes of this Agreement,
Definitions
(A)
 
a  shall be deemed to have occurred upon any of the following events:
Change of Control
(1)
 
a change in control of a nature that would be required to be reported in response to Item 6(e) of Schedule 14A of Regulation 14(A) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; or
(2)
 
during any period of two (2) consecutive years, the individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Companys Board of Directors or any individuals who would be Continuing Directors (as defined below) cease for any reason to constitute a majority thereof; or
(3)
 
the Companys Class A Common Stock shall cease to be publicly traded; or
(4)
 
the Companys Board of Directors shall approve a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, and such transaction shall have been consummated; or
(5)
 
the Companys Board of Directors shall approve any merger, exchange, consolidation, or like business combination or reorganization of the Company, the consummation of which would result in the occurrence of any event described in Section 6(g)(i)(A)(2) or (3) above, and such transaction shall have been consummated.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, (X) changes in the relative beneficial ownership among members of the Lauder family and family-controlled entities shall not, by itself, constitute a Change of Control of the Company, (Y) any spin-off of a division or subsidiary of the Company to its stockholders  shall not constitute a Change of Control of the Company.
(B)
 
Continuing Directors shall mean (1) the directors in office on the date hereof and (2) any successor to such directors and any additional director who after the date hereof was nominated or selected by a majority of the Continuing Directors in office at the time of his or her nomination or selection.
(C)
 
Good Reason means the occurrence of any of the following, without the express written consent of the Executive, within two (2) years after the occurrence of a Change in Control:
(1)
 
(a) the assignment to the Executive of any duties inconsistent in any material adverse respect with the Executives position, authority or responsibilities as contemplated by Section 2 hereof, or (b) any other material adverse change in such position, including title, authority or responsibilities;
(2)
 
any failure by the Company to comply with any provisions of Sections 3, 4 or 5 hereof or a material reduction of the overall amounts set by the Compensation Committee or the Stock Plan Subcommittee and in effect within twelve (12)
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
months prior to the Change in Control, other than an insubstantial or inadvertent failure remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by the Executive;
(3)
 
the Companys requiring the Executive to be based at any office or location more than fifty (50) miles from that location at which he performed his services specified under the provisions of Section 2 immediately prior to the Change in Control, except for travel reasonably required in the performance of the Executives responsibilities; or
(4)
 
any failure by the Company to obtain the assumption and agreement to perform this Agreement by a successor as contemplated by Section 14, unless such assumption occurs by operation of law.
(ii)           .  Within two (2) years after the occurrence of a Change of Control, the Executive may terminate his employment for Good Reason.  Such termination shall be deemed to be a termination without Cause and shall be controlled by the provisions of Section 6(c) hereof.  Except as otherwise provided in this Section 6(g)(ii), the Company will have no further obligations under Sections 3, 4 and 5 hereof or otherwise.
Termination for Good Reason
 
 
                 (h)  .
Certain Limitations
(i)           Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, in the event that any amount or benefit paid or distributed to the Executive pursuant to this Agreement, taken together with any amounts or benefits otherwise paid or distributed to the Executive by the Company or any affiliated company (collectively, the "Covered Payments"), are or become subject to the tax (the "Excise Tax") imposed under Section 4999 of the Code, or any similar tax that may hereafter be imposed, the Covered Payments shall be reduced (but not below zero) until no portion of such payments would be subject to Excise Tax.
(ii)           For purposes of determining whether any of the Covered Payments will be subject to the Excise Tax and the amount of such Excise Tax,
(A)  such Covered Payments will be treated as "parachute payments" to the extent they exceed the 2.99 base amount threshold within the meaning of Section 280G of the Code, and all parachute payments in excess of the base amount (as defined under Section 280G(b)(3) of the Code) shall be treated as subject to the Excise Tax, unless, and except to the extent that, in the good faith judgment of the Company's independent certified public accountants appointed prior to the date of the change in ownership or control or tax counsel selected by such accountants (the "Accountants"), the Company has a reasonable basis to conclude that such Covered Payments (in whole or in part) either do not constitute "parachute payments" or are otherwise not subject to such Excise Tax, and
(B)  the value of any non-cash benefits or any deferred payment or benefit shall be determined by the Accountants in accordance with the principles of Section 280G of the Code.
 
                                   (iii)           In the event that Covered Payments are to be reduced pursuant to this Section 6(h), such Covered Payments shall be reduced such that the reduction of compensation to be provided to the Executive as a result of this Section 6(h) is minimized.  In applying this principle, the reduction shall be made in a manner consistent with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, and where two economically equivalent amounts are
 
 
 
11
 
 
 
subject to reduction but payable at different times, such amounts shall be reduced on a pro rata basis (but not below zero). 
 
(i)     In addition to the foregoing, in the event that this Agreement shall be terminated pursuant to the provisions of subparagraphs 6(a), 6(b) and 6(c) above, and the Executive is not considered to be retirement eligible under the terms and conditions of the Companys qualified defined benefit pension plan, if any, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Companys Share Incentive Plan or other similar equity plan, (i) all stock options granted to the Executive during the Term of Employment shall become immediately exercisable and shall be exercisable until the earlier to occur of (A) the end of the stock option term as set forth in the applicable option agreement(s); or (B) the first anniversary of the date that Base Salary continuation payments end, after which all such option awards shall expire and be of no further force or effect and (ii) all restricted stock units and performance share units granted to the Executive shall continue to vest through the last date that Base Salary continuation payments, if any, are made hereunder.  The vesting and exercisability provided for in the previous sentence shall be subject to all provisions relating to post-employment exercises set forth in the applicable Share Incentive Plan and option agreement(s).  Subject to the preceding sentences, upon the termination of the Executives employment hereunder for any reason, the Company shall have no further obligations hereunder, except as otherwise provided herein.  The Executive, however, shall continue to have the obligations provided for in Sections 7 and 8 hereof. Furthermore, upon any such termination, the Executive shall be deemed to have resigned immediately from all offices and directorships held by him in the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Effect of Termination.
(j)    .  It is the intention of the parties to this Agreement that no payment or entitlement pursuant to this Agreement will give rise to any adverse tax consequences to the Executive under Section 409A of the Code and Department of Treasury regulations and other interpretive guidance issued thereunder, including that issued after the date hereof (collectively, Section 409A).  The Agreement shall be interpreted to that end and, consistent with that objective and notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, the Company may unilaterally take any action it deems necessary or desirable to amend any provision herein to avoid the application of an excise tax under Section 409A.  Further, no effect shall be given to any provision herein in a manner that reasonably could be expected to give rise to adverse tax consequences under that provision.  The Company shall from time to time compile a list of "specified employees" as defined in, and pursuant to, Treas. Reg. Section 1.409A-1(i).  Notwithstanding any other provision herein, if the Executive is a specified employee on the date of termination, no payment of compensation under this Agreement shall be made to the Executive during the period lasting six (6) months from the date of termination unless the Company determines that there is no reasonable basis for believing that making such payment would cause the Executive to suffer any adverse tax consequences pursuant to Section 409A of the Code.  If any payment to the Executive is delayed pursuant to the foregoing sentence, such payment instead shall be made on the first business day following the expiration of the six-month period referred to in the prior sentence, unless specified otherwise in Section 6(j)(i) hereof. Although the Company shall consult with Executive in good faith regarding implementation of this Section 6(j), neither the Company nor its employees or representatives shall have liability to the Executive with respect to any additional taxes that the Executive may be subject to in the event that any amounts under this Agreement are determined to violate Code section 409A.
Section 409A of the Code
 
 
 
12
 
 
 
          (i)           Notwithstanding the above, amounts described as being subject to payment in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6(j)(i) shall be subject to a delay in payment for a six-month period following the date of termination and shall be paid as follows:  For any Base Salary under Section 6(a)(v) or Section 6(c)(iv)(A) to be continued beyond the date of termination and for any Payment, all payments that would have been made during the six-month period immediately following the date of termination shall be made in a single cash payment on the first business day following the expiration of such six-month period, and as of the first business day following the expiration of such six-month period all such payments shall resume in accordance with the regular payroll practices of the Company until the end of the specified period; any bonus payments under Section 6(c)(iv)(B) shall be paid in a single lump sum payment on the first business day following the expiration of such six-month period.
Pension Replacement
(k)             In the event of termination of the Executives employment hereunder for any reasons other than for Cause pursuant to Section 6(d) hereof, the Executive will be reimbursed for the actual cost of relocating Executive and his family from the New York City area to Rome, Italy.  Such reimbursement shall be subject to the Executive actually undertaking relocation within one (1) year from the termination of his employment and will be capped at the amount reimbursed with respect to his relocation from Rome, Italy to the New York City area, inclusive of the two month salary relocation allowance.
Relocation.
(l)             As a condition precedent to the receipt of payments (other than accrued but unpaid amounts) and benefits pursuant to this Section, the Executive, or, in the case of his death or Disability that prevents the Executive from performing his obligation under this Section 6(l), his personal representative, and his beneficiary, if applicable, will execute an effective general release of claims (in a form satisfactory to the Company) against the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates and their respective directors, officers, employees, attorneys and agents; , , that such effective release will not affect any right that the Executive, or in the event of his death, his personal representative or beneficiary, otherwise has to any payment or benefit provided for in this Agreement or to any vested benefits the Executive may have in any employee benefit plan of Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, or any right the Executive has under any other agreement between the Executive and the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates that expressly states that the right survives the termination of the Executives employment.  
Release of Claims.
provided
however
(m)           .  Nothwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein except as provided in this Section 6(m), the Company reserves the right with respect to any severance payments or benefits set forth in this Section 6 to modify such payments or benefits or not to provide such payments or benefits.  Changes in any severance payment or benefit provided to the Executive may only be made by the Compensation Committee (or the Stock Plan Subcommittee, if there is one, and the change relates to matters subject to the authority of such Subcommittee).   Unless agreed to by the Executive, no change to any severance payments or benefits set forth in this Section 6 will be effective until two years after such change is approved by the Compensation Committee (or Stock Plan Subcommittee).    No changes may be made in severance payments or benefits set forth in this Section 6 either (i) at such time the Company is contemplating one or more transactions that will result in a Change of Control or (ii) after a Change of Control.
Modification of Severance Payments and Benefits
 
 
 
 
13
 
 
 
 
7.           
Confidentiality; Ownership.
(a)           The Executive agrees that he shall forever keep secret and retain in strictest confidence and not divulge, disclose, discuss, copy or otherwise use or suffer to be used in any manner, except in connection with the Business of the Company, its subsidiaries or affiliates and any other business or proposed business of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, any Protected Information in any Unauthorized manner or for any Unauthorized purpose (as such terms are hereinafter defined).
(i)           Protected Information means trade secrets, confidential or proprietary information and all other knowledge, know-how, information, documents or materials owned, developed or possessed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, whether in tangible or intangible form, pertaining to the Business or any other business or proposed business of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, including, but not limited to, research and development, operations, systems, data bases, computer programs and software, designs, models, operating procedures, knowledge of the organization, products (including prices, costs, sales or content), processes, formulas, techniques, machinery, contracts, financial information or measures, business methods, business plans, details of consultant contracts, new personnel hiring plans, business acquisition plans, customer lists, business relationships and other information owned, developed or possessed by the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates; that Protected Information shall not include information that becomes generally known to the public or the trade without violation of this Section 7.
provided
(ii)           Unauthorized means: (A) in contravention of the policies or procedures of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates; (B) otherwise inconsistent with the measures taken by the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates to protect their interests in any Protected Information; (C) in contravention of any lawful instruction or directive, either written or oral, of an employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates empowered to issue such instruction or directive; or (D) in contravention of any duty existing under law or contract. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Section 7, the Executive may disclose any Protected Information to the extent required by court order or decree or by the rules and regulations of a governmental agency or as otherwise required by law or to his legal counsel and, in connection with a determination under Section 6(h), to accounting experts; that the Executive shall provide the Company with prompt notice of such required disclosure in advance thereof so that the Company may seek an appropriate protective order in respect of such required disclosure.
provided
(b)           The Executive acknowledges that all developments, including, without limitation, inventions (patentable or otherwise), discoveries, formulas, improvements, patents, trade secrets, designs, reports, computer software, flow charts and diagrams, procedures, data, documentation, ideas and writings and applications thereof relating to the Business or any business or planned business of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates that, alone or jointly with others, the Executive may conceive, create, make, develop, reduce to practice or acquire during the Executives employment with the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates (collectively, the Developments) are works made for hire and shall remain the sole and exclusive property of the Company.  The Executive hereby assigns to the Company, in consideration of the payments set forth in Section 3(a) hereof, all of his right, title and interest in and to all such Developments. The Executive shall promptly and fully disclose all future material Developments to the Board of Directors of the Company and, at any time upon request and at the expense of the Company, shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the Company all
 
 
 
14
 
 
 
instruments that the Company shall prepare, give evidence and take all other actions that are necessary or desirable in the reasonable opinion of the Company to enable the Company to file and prosecute applications for and to acquire, maintain and enforce all letters patent and trademark registrations or copyrights covering the Developments in all countries in which the same are deemed necessary by the Company.  All memoranda, notes, lists, drawings, records, files, computer tapes, programs, software, source and programming narratives and other documentation (and all copies thereof) made or compiled by the Executive or made available to the Executive concerning the Developments or otherwise concerning the Business or planned business of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates shall be the property of the Company or such subsidiaries or affiliates and shall be delivered to the Company or such subsidiaries or affiliates promptly upon the expiration or termination of the Term of Employment.
(c)           During the Term of Employment, the Company, its subsidiaries and affiliates shall have the exclusive right to use the Executives name and image throughout the world in its advertising and promotional materials in connection with the advertising and promotion of the Company, its subsidiaries and affiliates, and their products.  After the expiration of the Term of Employment, the Company, it subsidiaries and affiliates shall have the non-exclusive right in perpetuity to use the Executives name and image throughout the world solely in connection with promotional materials related to the history of the Company, it subsidiaries and affiliates, and their products.  The consideration for such rights is the payments set forth in Section 3(a) hereof.  The rights conveyed hereby may be assigned by the Company, its subsidiaries or affiliates to a successor in the interest of the Company or the relevant subsidiary or affiliate or their businesses or product lines.
(d)           The provisions of this Section 7 shall, without any limitation as to time, survive the expiration or termination of the Executives employment hereunder, irrespective of the reason for any termination.
8.             The Executive agrees that during the Executives employment with the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates and for a period of two (2) years commencing upon the expiration or termination of the Executives employment for any reason whatsoever (the Non-Compete Period), the Executive shall not, directly or indirectly, without the prior written consent of the Company:  
Covenant Not to Compete.
(a)           solicit, entice, persuade or induce any employee, consultant, agent or independent contractor of the Company or of any of its subsidiaries or affiliates to terminate his, her or its employment with the Company or such subsidiary or affiliate, to become employed by any person, firm or corporation other than the Company or such subsidiary or affiliate or approach any such employee, consultant, agent or independent contractor for any of the foregoing purposes, or authorize or assist in the taking of any such actions by any third party (for purposes of this Section 8 (a), the terms employee, consultant, agent and independent contractor shall include any persons with such status at any time during the six (6) months preceding any solicitation in question); or
(b)           directly or indirectly engage, participate, or make any financial investment in, or become employed by or render consulting, advisory or other services to or for any person, firm, corporation or other business enterprise, wherever located, which is engaged, directly or indirectly, in competition with the Business or any business of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates as conducted or any business proposed to be conducted at the time of the expiration or termination of the Executives employment with the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates; , , that nothing in this Section 8(b) shall be
provided
however
 
 
 
15
 
 
 
construed to preclude the Executive from making any investments in the securities of any business enterprise whether or not engaged in competition with the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, to the extent that such securities are actively traded on a national securities exchange or in the over-the-counter market in the United States or on any foreign securities exchange and represent, at the time of acquisition, not more than 3% of the aggregate voting power of such business enterprise.
To ensure that the Company is able to enforce these provisions in Sections 8(a) and (b) above, the Executive and the Company further agree that if such noncompetition and nonsolicitation requirements should be violated during this additional two-year period after the Executive's termination of employment, the remedy (determined at the Company's option) shall be either equitable relief (in the form of an injunction to stop the violation), or liquidated damages payable by the Executive to the Company in an amount equal to (a) (i) (A) twenty-four (24) minus (B) the number of full months between the date of Executives termination and the date of breach (Months Complied) divided by (ii) 12, times (b) oneyears Base Salary in effect at the time of termination.  In other words:
 
 
                             Twenty-four (24)  Months Complied
                                 -----------------------------------------            x          One Years Base Salary
                                                       12
 
If equitable relief is elected by the Company as an alternative to liquidated damages, any equitable relief shall not include any forfeiture or cash refund of monies or benefits.  If liquidated damages is elected by the Company, the Company may elect not to pay amounts that would otherwise be payable but for the breach; provided that, the Executive would remain liable to the Company to the extent that the liquidated damages exceeded the amounts not paid by the Company. The foregoing shall have no impact on the operation of the provisions of any other compensation program of the Company or its subsidiaries, including without limitation the Amended and Restated Fiscal 2002 Share Incentive Plan.
(c)           During the Non-Compete Period, to the extent that the Executive is not receiving termination payments pursuant to Section 6 hereof, the Company pay or cause to be paid to the Executive his Base Salary under Section 3(a) hereofto the extent permitted by applicable law and regulations and the applicable benefit plan, program or arrangement, in any and all healthcare, life insurance and accidental death and dismemberment insurance benefit plans, programs or arrangements, on terms identical to those applicable to full-term senior officers of the Company   for that portion of the Non-Compete Period during which the Executive is required to comply and does comply with the provisions of this Section 8 (the Non-Compete Period).Notwithstanding the above, any amounts payable under this Section 8 that are separation pay as described under Treas. Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(9)(iii)(A) shall be paid no later than December 31 of the second calendar year following the year in which the Executives termination pursuant to this Section 6 occurs; any amounts payable under this Section 8 that are not otherwise exempt from Code section 409A are subject to, and payable in accordance with, Section 6(j) of this Agreement.
shall
 and continue to provide the Executive with benefits hereunder 
 
9.             The Executive acknowledges that the services to be rendered by the Executive are of a special, unique and extraordinary character and, in connection with such services, the Executive will have access to confidential information vital to the Companys Business and the other current or planned businesses of it and its subsidiaries and affiliates.  By reason of this, the Executive consents and agrees that if the Executive violates any of the provisions of Sections 7 or 8 hereof, the Company and its subsidiaries
Specific Performance.
 
 
 
16
 
 
 
and affiliates would sustain irreparable injury and that monetary damages would not provide adequate remedy to the Company and that the Company shall be entitled to have Section 7 or 8 hereof specifically enforced by any court having equity jurisdiction.  Nothing contained herein shall be construed as prohibiting the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates from pursuing any other remedies available to it or them for such breach or threatened breach, including the recovery of damages from the Executive.  This provision shall, without any limitation as to time, survive the expiration or termination of the Executives employment hereunder, irrespective of the reason for any termination.
10.             The Executive agrees that the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates, as applicable, shall withhold from any and all compensation paid to and required to be paid to the Executive pursuant to this Agreement, all Federal, state, local and/or other taxes which the Company determines are required to be withheld in accordance with applicable statutes or regulations from time to time in effect and all amounts required to be deducted in respect of the Executives coverage under applicable employee benefit plans.  For purposes of this Agreement and calculations hereunder, all such deductions and withholdings shall be deemed to have been paid to and received by the Executive.
Deductions and Withholding.
11.             Except for the Amended and Restated Fiscal 2002 Share Incentive Plan, the Executives outstanding stock option and other equity-compensation agreements, the Executive Annual Incentive Plan,  the Executive Perquisites Program, the Executive Automobile Program,  the term life insurance arrangement between the Company and the Executive, the Companys qualified and non-qualified defined benefit pension plans, the Companys qualified defined contribution retirement savings plan and applicable successor plans or agreements, this Agreement embodies the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the Executives employment, compensation, perquisites and related items and supersedes any other prior oral or written agreements, arrangements or understandings between the Executive and the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, and any such prior agreements, arrangements or understandings are hereby terminated and of no further effect.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the current employment agreement dated November 8, 2007 and amended March 25, 2009, shall remain in full force and effect until which time this Agreement becomes effective, as provided in Section 1 hereof.  This Agreement may not be changed or terminated orally but only by an agreement in writing signed by the parties hereto.
Entire Agreement.
12.             The waiver by the Company of a breach of any provision of this Agreement by the Executive shall not operate or be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach by him. The waiver by the Executive of a breach of any provision of this Agreement by the Company shall not operate or be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach by the Company.
Waiver.
13.           
Governing Law; Jurisdiction.
(a)           This Agreement shall be subject to, and governed by, the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed therein, without regard to conflict of laws principles.
(b)           Any action to enforce any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be brought in a court of the State of New York located in the Borough of Manhattan of the City of New York or in a Federal court located within the Southern District of New York.  The parties consent to the jurisdiction of such courts and to the service of process in any manner provided by New York law.  Each party irrevocably waives any objection which it may now or hereafter
 
 
 
17
 
 
 
have to the laying of the venue of any such suit, action or proceeding brought in such court and any claim that such suit, action or proceeding brought in such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum and agrees that service of process in accordance with the foregoing sentences shall be deemed in every respect effective and valid personal service of process upon such party.
14.             The obligations of the Executive may not be delegated and, except with respect to the designation of beneficiaries in connection with any of the benefits payable to the Executive hereunder, the Executive may not, without the Companys written consent thereto, assign, transfer, convey, pledge, encumber, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of this Agreement or any interest herein.  Any such attempted delegation or disposition shall be null and void and without effect.  The Company and the Executive agree that this Agreement and all of the Companys rights and obligations hereunder may be assigned or transferred by the Company to and shall be assumed by and be binding upon any successor to the Company.  Unless assumption occurs by operation of law, the Company shall require any successor by an agreement in form and substance satisfactory to the Executive, expressly to assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent as the Company would be required to perform if no such succession had taken place.  The term successor means, with respect to the Company or any of its subsidiaries, any corporation or other business entity which, by merger, consolidation, purchase of the assets or otherwise acquires all or a majority of the operating assets or business of the Company.
Assignability.
15.             If any provision of this Agreement or any part thereof, including, without limitation, Sections 7 and 8 hereof, as applied to either party or to any circumstances shall be adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction to be void or unenforceable, the same shall in no way affect any other provision of this Agreement or remaining part thereof, or the validity or enforceability of this Agreement, which shall be given full effect without regard to the invalid or unenforceable part thereof.
Severability.
If any court construes any of the provisions of Section 7 or 8 hereof, or any part thereof, to be unreasonable because of the duration of such provision or the geographic scope thereof, such court may reduce the duration or restrict or redefine the geographic scope of such provision and enforce such provision as so reduced, restricted or redefined.
16.             All notices to the Company or the Executive permitted or required hereunder shall be in writing and shall be delivered personally, by telecopier or by courier service providing for next-day or two-day delivery or sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the following addresses:
Notices.
The Company:
The Este Lauder Companies Inc.
767 Fifth Avenue
New York, New York 10153
Attn:     General Counsel
Tel:      (212) 572-3980
Fax:     (212) 572-3989
 
18
 
 
 
 
The Executive:
Fabrizio Freda
c/o The Este Lauder Companies Inc.
767 Fifth Avenue
New York, New York 10153
Tel:      (212) 572-4200
Either party may change the address to which notices shall be sent by sending written notice of such change of address to the other party.  Any such notice shall be deemed given, if delivered personally, upon receipt; if telecopied, when telecopied; if sent by courier service providing for next-day or two-day delivery, the next business day or two business days, as applicable, following deposit with such courier service; and if sent by certified or registered mail, three days after deposit (postage prepaid) with the U.S. mail service.
17.             The Executive hereby represents and warrants to the Company that his execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and any other agreement to be delivered pursuant to this Agreement will not (i) require the consent, approval or action of any other person or (ii) violate, conflict with or result in the breach of any of the terms of, or constitute (or with notice or lapse of time or both, constitute) a default under, any agreement, arrangement or understanding with respect to the Executives employment to which the Executive is a party or by which the Executive is bound or subject.  The Executive hereby agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company and its directors, officers, employees, agents, representatives and affiliates (and such affiliates directors, officers, employees, agents and representatives) from and against any and all losses, liabilities or claims (including interest, penalties and reasonable attorneys fees, disbursements and related charges) based upon or arising out of the Executives breach of any of the foregoing representations and warranties.
No Conflicts.
 18.           .  Following a Change of Control, the Company shall reimburse the Executive up to $20,000.00, in the aggregate, for all legal fees and related expenses (including the costs of experts, evidence and counsel) reasonably and in good faith incurred by the Executive in an action (i) by the Executive to obtain or enforce any right or benefit to which the Executive is entitled under this Agreement or (ii) by the Company to enforce a post-termination covenant referred to in Section 7 or 8 against the Executive, in each case, provided that the Executive substantially prevails in such action.  Such amount shall be reimbursed to the Executive by the end of the calendar year in which the Executive substantially prevails in such action, based on the date of any settlement, judgment, or other official document evidencing same.
Legal Fees
19.           .  During the Term of Employment and thereafter, Executive shall provide reasonable cooperation in connection with any action or proceeding (or any appeal therefrom) that relates to events occurring during Executives employment with the Company.
Cooperation
20.             The paragraph headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.
Paragraph Headings.
 
 
 
 
19
 
 
 
 
21.             This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have duly executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20

 
EXHIBIT 10.2
 
Each of the Stock Plan Subcommittee of the Compensation Committee and the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of The Este Lauder Companies Inc. reserves the right to change
provisions of this Agreement to comply with applicable laws or regulations.
This () provides for the granting of market share unit awards by The Este Lauder Companies Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ), to the participant, an employee of the Company or one of its subsidiaries (the ), representing the right to receive shares of the Companys Class A Common Stock, par value $0.01 (the ), subject to the terms below (the ).  The name of the  the  the aggregate number of Shares that may be paid out and the Plan Achievement (as defined below) goals are stated in the attached , and are incorporated by reference.  The other terms of this Market Share Unit Award are stated in this Agreement and in the Plan, which is incorporated by reference and made a part hereof. Terms not defined in this Agreement are defined in the Plan, as amended.
MARKET SHARE UNIT AWARD AGREEMENT
Agreement
Company
Participant
Shares
Market Share Units
Participant,
Grant Date,
Notice of Grant
1.
 
. The Company hereby awards to the Participant an award of Market Share Units to be paid out as set forth in the Notice of Grant, representing a Performance Award and Performance-Based Award under the terms of the Plan.
Award Grant
2.
 
. The number of shares to be paid out to the Participant shall be determined by the Committee based on the Participants continued employment with the Company and plan achievement through the end of the Performance Period (as set forth in the Notice of Grant).  Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 3, 4 or 5 below, at the end of the Performance Period, the number of Shares earned in respect of the Market Share Units will be determined in accordance with the Notice of Grant.
Right to Payment of Market Share Units
3.
 
. Payments under this Agreement will be made in the number of Shares that is equivalent to the number of Market Share Units earned and payable to the Participant pursuant to paragraph 2 above. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 3, 4 or 5 below, earned Market Share Units shall be paid in Shares as soon as practicable following the date on which the Committee certifies the attainment of the Plan Achievement goals with respect to the Performance Period, but in no event later than 2 and  months following the last day of the calendar year in which the Performance Period ends.  In addition, during the Performance Period, each Market Share Unit that becomes earned and payable pursuant to paragraph 2 above carries a Dividend Equivalent Right, payable in cash at the same time as the Market Share Units are paid in accordance with paragraph 3, 4 or 5.
Payment of Awards
4.
 
.  Upon a Change in Control that occurs during employment, each Market Share Unit with a Performance Period ending after the Change in Control will become payable to the Participant with the total number of Shares to be paid equal to the number of Shares earned in accordance with the Notice of Grant as if the Performance Period ended on the date of the Change in Control.  Payment of Shares so earned will be made within two weeks following the date of the Change in Control.  If the Shares cease to be outstanding immediately after the Change in Control (e.g., due to a
Change in Control
 
1
 
merger with and into another entity), then the consideration to be received in respect of each Share earned under a Market Share Unit will equal the consideration paid to each stockholder per Share generally upon the Change in Control.  If the Performance Period ends on or prior to the Change in Control, the Market Share Unit shall be paid out in accordance with paragraph 3 or 5 of this Agreement, as applicable.
 
 
5.
 
. If the Participants employment terminates during the Performance Period, payouts will be as follows:
Termination of Employment
 
2
 
 
 
6.
 
. This grant of Market Share Units does not entitle the Participant to any interest in or to any voting or other rights normally attributable to Share ownership other than the Dividend Equivalent Rights granted under paragraph 3 above.
No Rights of Stock Ownership
7.
 
.  Shares earned and delivered under any Market Share Unit Award shall be subject to any recoupment policy for awards under the Plan adopted by the Company as such policy exists from time to time.
Clawback
8.
 
. Regardless of any action the Company or the Participants employer (the ) takes with respect to any or all income tax, social security, payroll tax, or other tax-related withholding (), the Participant acknowledges that the ultimate liability for all Tax-Related Items legally due by the Participant is and remains his or her responsibility.  Furthermore, the Participant acknowledges that the Company and/or the Employer (i) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the Market Share Units, including the grant of the Market Share Units, the vesting of the Market Share Units, the delivery of Shares, the subsequent sale of Shares acquired under the Plan and the receipt of any dividends; and (ii) do not commit to structure the terms of the grant of the Market Share Units or any aspect of the Participants participation in the Plan to reduce or eliminate his or her liability for Tax-Related Items.
Withholding
Employer
Tax-Related Items
Prior to the relevant taxable event, the Participant shall pay or make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Company and/or the Employer to satisfy all withholding obligations of the Company and/or the Employer.  In this regard, the Participant authorizes the Company and/or the Employer to withhold all applicable Tax-Related Items legally payable by the Participant from his or her wages or other cash compensation paid by the Company and/or the Employer or from proceeds of the sale of the Shares acquired under the Plan.  Alternatively, or in addition, the Company may (i) sell or arrange for the sale of Shares that the Participant acquires under the Plan to meet the withholding obligation for the Tax-Related Items, and/or (ii) withhold in Shares, provided that the Company only withholds the
 
3
 
amount of Shares necessary to satisfy the minimum withholding amount.  If the Company satisfies the Tax-Related Item withholding obligation by withholding a number of Shares as described herein, the Participant will be deemed to have been issued the full number of Shares due to the Participant at vesting, notwithstanding that a number of the Shares is held back solely for purposes of such Tax-Related Items.
Finally, the Participant shall pay to the Company or the Employer any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to withhold as a result of his or her participation in the Plan that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described.  The Company may refuse to issue Shares under the Plan and refuse to deliver the Shares if the Participant fails to comply with his or her obligations in connection with the Tax-Related Items as described in this paragraph.
9.
 
. This award may not be assigned, pledged, or transferred except, if the Participant dies, to a designated beneficiary or by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. The foregoing restrictions do not apply to transfers under a court order, including, but not limited to, any domestic relations order.
Nonassignability
10.
 
. The Participants right to continue to serve the Company or any of its subsidiaries as an officer, employee, or otherwise, is not enlarged or otherwise affected by an award under this Agreement.  Nothing in this Agreement or the Plan gives the Participant any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or to interfere in any way with any right the Company or any subsidiary may have to terminate his or her employment at any time.  Payment of Shares is not secured by a trust, insurance contract or other funding medium, and the Participant does not have any interest in any fund or specific asset of the Company by reason of this Award or the account established on his or her behalf.
Effect Upon Employment
 
11.
 
  Any notice required or permitted under this Market Share Unit Award Agreement is deemed to have been duly given if delivered, telecopied, mailed (certified or registered mail, return receipt requested), or sent by internationally-recognized courier guaranteeing next day delivery (a) to the Participant at the address on file in the Companys (or relevant subsidiarys) personnel records or (b) to the Company, attention Stock Plan Administration at its principal executive offices, which are currently located at 767 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY 10153.
Notices.
12.
 
Disclosure and Use of Information.
a.
 
By signing and returning the attached Notice of Grant, and as a condition of the grant of the Market Share Units, the Participant hereby expressly and unambiguously consents to the collection, use, and transfer of personal data as described in this paragraph by and among, as necessary and applicable, the Employer, the Company and its subsidiaries and by any agent of the Company or its subsidiaries for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Participants participation in the Plan.
b.
 
The Participant understands that the Employer, the Company and/or its other  subsidiaries holds, by means of an automated data file or otherwise, certain personal information about the Participant, including, but not limited to, name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares or directorships held in the Company, details of all Market Share Units or other entitlement to Shares awarded, canceled,
 
4
 
exercised, vested, unvested, or outstanding in the Participants favor, for purposes of managing and administering the Plan ().
Data
c.
 
The Participant also understands that part or all of his or her Data may be held by the Company or its subsidiaries in connection with managing and administering previous award or incentive plans or for other purposes, pursuant to a prior  transfer made with the Participants consent in respect of any previous grant of Market Share units or other awards.
d.
 
The Participant further understands that the Employer may transfer Data to the Company or its subsidiaries as necessary to implement, administer, and manage his or her participation in the Plan.  The Company and its subsidiaries may transfer data among themselves, and each, in turn, may further transfer Data to any third parties assisting the Company in the implementation, administration, and management of the Plan ().
Data Recipients
e.
 
The Participant understands that the Company, its subsidiaries, and the Data Recipients are or may be located in his or her country of residence or elsewhere. The Participant authorizes the Employer, the Company, its subsidiaries, and the Data Recipients to receive, possess, use, retain, and transfer Data in electronic or other form to implement, administer, and manage his or her participation in the Plan, including any transfer of Data that the Administrator deems appropriate for the administration of the Plan and any transfer of Shares on his or her behalf to a broker or third party with whom the Shares may be deposited.
f.
 
The Participant understands that he or she may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting his or her local human resources representative.
g.
 
The Participant understands that Data will be held as long as is reasonably necessary to implement, administer and manage his or her participation in the Plan and he or she may oppose the processing and transfer of his or her Data and may, at any time, review the Data, request that any necessary amendments be made to it, or withdraw his or her consent by notifying the Company in writing. The Participant further understands that withdrawing consent may affect his or her ability to participate in the Plan.
13.
 
.  By accepting this Award, the
Discretionary Nature and Acceptance of Award
Participant agrees to be bound by the terms of this Agreement and acknowledges that:
a.
 
The Plan is established voluntarily by the Company, it is discretionary in nature, and it may be modified, amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, unless otherwise provided in the Plan and this Agreement;
b.
 
The award of Market Share Units is voluntary and occasional, and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future awards of Market Share Units, or benefits in lieu of Market Share Units, even if Market Share Units have been awarded repeatedly in the past.
c.
 
All decisions with respect to future awards, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company;
 
5
 
d.
 
The Participants participation in the Plan is voluntary;
e.
 
Market Share Units are an extraordinary item that does not constitute compensation of any kind for services of any kind rendered to the Company or any subsidiary, and which is outside the scope of the Participants employment or service contract, if any;
f.
 
The Market Share Units are not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purposes, including, but not limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement or welfare benefits or similar payments and in no event should be considered as compensation for, or relating in any way to, past services for the Company or any subsidiary;
g.
 
In the event the Participant is not an employee of the Company, the Market Share Units and Participants participation in the Plan will not be interpreted to form an employment or service contract or relationship with the Company; and furthermore, the Market Share Units and the Participants participation in the Plan will not be interpreted to form an employment or service contract with any subsidiary of the Company;
h.
 
The future value of the underlying Shares is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty;
i.
 
In consideration of the award of the Market Share Units, no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from termination of the Market Share Units or diminution in value of the Market Share Units, or Shares acquired upon vesting of the Market Share Units, resulting from termination of the Participants employment by the Company or any subsidiary (for any reason whatsoever and whether or not in breach of local labor laws) and in consideration of the award of the Market Share Units, the Participant irrevocably releases the Company and any subsidiary from any such claim that may arise; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen, then, by signing the Notice of Grant, the Participant shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived his or her right to pursue or seek remedy for any such claim or entitlement;
j.
 
Except as provided in Section 4 above, in the event of termination of the Participants employment (whether or not in breach of local labor laws), the Participants right to receive Market Share Units under the Plan and to vest in such Market Share Units, if any, will terminate effective as of the date that the Participant is no longer actively employed and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law (active employment would not include a period of  or similar period pursuant to local law); the Committee shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when the Participant is no longer actively employed for purposes of this Agreement;
e.g.,
garden leave
k.
 
The Company is not providing any tax, legal or financial advice, nor is the Company making any recommendations regarding the Participants participation in the Plan or the Participants acquisition or sale of the underlying Shares; and
l.
 
The Participant is hereby advised to consult with the Participants own personal tax, legal and financial advisors regarding the Participants participation in the Plan before taking any action related to the Plan.
 
6
 
14.
 
  The Companys failure to enforce at any time any provision of this Agreement does not constitute a waiver of that provision or of any other provision of this Agreement.
Failure to Enforce Not a Waiver.
15.
 
  The Market Share Unit Award Agreement is governed by and is to be construed according to the laws of the State of New York that apply to agreements made and performed in that state, without regard to its choice of law provisions.  For purposes of litigating any dispute that arises under the Market Share Units or this Agreement, the parties hereby submit to and consent to the jurisdiction of the State of New York, and agree that such litigation will be conducted in the courts of New York County, New York, or the federal courts for the United States for the Southern District of New York, and no other courts, where the Market Share Units are made and/or to be performed.
Governing Law.
16.
 
  The invalidity or illegality of any provision of the Agreement will be deemed not to affect the validity of any other provision.
Partial Invalidity.
17.
 
  This Agreement is intended to comply with section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ) or an exemption therefrom, and any regulations, rulings, or guidance provided thereunder.  To the extent that any amounts under this Agreement are subject to Code section 409A, whenever a payment under this Agreement specifies a payment period with reference to a number of days, the actual date of payment shall be within the sole discretion of the Company.  The Company reserves the unilateral right to amend this Agreement upon written notice to the Participant to prevent taxation under Code section 409A.
Section 409A Compliance.
Code
18.
 
The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to Market Share Units awarded under the Plan or future Market Share Units that may be awarded under the Plan by electronic means or request the Participants consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means.  The Participant hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agrees to participate in the Plan through any on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company.
Electronic Delivery.  
 
7
 
 
This is to confirm that you were awarded a grant of Market Share Units at the most recent meeting of the Stock Plan Subcommittee of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors representing the right to receive shares of Class A Common Stock of The Este Lauder Companies Inc. (the ), subject to the terms of the Plan and the Market Share Unit Award Agreement.  This award was made in recognition of the significant contributions you have made as a key employee of the Company, and to motivate you to achieve future successes by aligning your interests more closely with those of our stockholders.  This Market Share Unit Award is granted under and governed by the terms and conditions of the Plan and the Market Share Unit Award Agreement (the ) which are made a part hereof.  The Agreement and Summary Plan Description are being sent to you in a separate e-mail.  Please read these documents and keep them for future reference.  The specific terms of your award are as follows:
Shares
Agreement
 
Participant:
 
Employee Number:
 
Grant Date:                         
February 9, 2011
 
Service Period:                   
July 1, 2010 to June 30, 2014
 
Performance Period:          ,
February 9
2011 to June 30, 2014
 
Type of Award:                 Performance Award and Performance-Based Award (referred to herein as a )
Market Share Unit
 
:  Except as otherwise provided in Section 4 or 5 of the Agreement, the number of Shares that may be earned under the Market Share Unit Award shall be determined in accordance with the following formula:   (160,000/$150) times Average Final Price (as defined below), subject to the requirement that the Average Final Price shall be greater than or equal to $37.50 and that no more than 160,000 shares (subject to adjustment provisions set forth in the Plan) shall be issued pursuant to this grant.
Plan Achievement goal for Performance Period
 
 
 
 
Examples of potential payouts assuming continued employment through June 30, 2014 (and all other conditions are met) include:
 
 
 
Questions regarding the award can be directed to Thomas Fellenbaum at (212) 572-3705 or Patricia Zakrzewski at (973) 492-3609.
 
If you wish to accept this grant,
please sign this Notice of Grant and return it immediately to:
 
           Compensation Department
           767 Fifth Avenue, 43rd Floor
           New York, New York 10153
           Attention: Thomas Fellenbaum
 
The undersigned hereby accepts, and agrees to, all terms and provisions of the Agreement, including those contained in this Notice of Grant.
 
By____________________________________________________________________Date___________________________________________


