FILE:EL/EL-8K-20120523170746.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
On May 22, 2012, The Este Lauder Companies Inc. (the Company) amended its Amended and Restated Bylaws.  The amendments, which allow for electronic transmission of notices and waivers relating to meetings of stockholders and electronic transmission of notices, waivers and consents relating to meetings of the Board of Directors and committees of the Board of Directors, change: Article II (Meeting of Stockholders), Section 4 (Notice of Meeting); Article III (Board of Directors), Section 8 (Notice of Meetings) and Section 12 (Action without Meeting); Article IV (Committees of the Board of Directors), Section 3 (Action by Written or Electronic Consent); and Article XI (Waiver of Notice). The preceding is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amended and Restated Bylaws, as adopted by the Board of Directors, attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) Not Applicable
(b) Not Applicable.
(c) Not Applicable.
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 3.1
SECTION 1.  .  The registered office of The Este Lauder Companies Inc. (the "Corporation") in the State of Delaware shall be at 1013 Centre Road, in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle and its registered agent at such address shall be Corporation Services Company or such other office or agent as the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "Board") shall from time to time select.
Registered Office
SECTION 2.  .  The Corporation may also have an office or offices, and keep the books and records of the Corporation, except as may otherwise be required by law, at such other place or places, either within or without the State of Delaware, as the Board may from time to time determine or the business of the Corporation may require.
Other Offices
SECTION 1.  .  All meetings of the stockholders of the Corporation shall be held at the office of the Corporation or at such other places, within or without the State of Delaware, as may from time to time be fixed by the Board.
Place of Meeting
SECTION 2.  .  The annual meeting of the stockholders for the election of directors and for the transaction of such other business as may properly come before the meeting shall be held each year at such date and time, within or without the State of Delaware, as the Board shall determine.
Annual Meetings
SECTION 3.  .  Except as otherwise required by law or the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation (the "Certificate"), special meetings of the stockholders for any purpose or purposes may be called by the Chairman of the Board or a majority of the entire Board.  Only such business as is specified in the notice of any special meeting of the stockholders shall come before such meeting.
Special Meetings
 
 
 
SECTION 4.  .  Except as otherwise provided by law, written notice of each meeting of the stockholders, whether annual or special, shall be given, either by personal delivery, by mail, or by electronic transmission (in manner provided by Sections 232 and 233 of the DGCL) not less than 10 nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting to each stockholder of record entitled to notice of the meeting.  If mailed, such notice shall be deemed given when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to the stockholder at such stockholder's address as it appears on the records of the Corporation.  If notice is given by electronic transmission, such notice shall be deemed to be given at the times provided in the DGCL.  Each such notice shall state the place, date and hour of the meeting, and the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called.  Notice of any meeting of stockholders shall not be required to be given to any stockholder who shall attend such meeting in person or by proxy without protesting, prior to or at the commencement of the meeting, the lack of proper notice to such stockholder, or who shall sign a written waiver (or waiver by electronic transmission) of notice thereof, whether before or after such meeting.  Notice of adjournment of a meeting of stockholders need not be given if the time and place to which it is adjourned are announced at such meeting, unless the adjournment is for more than 30 days or, after adjournment, a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting.
Notice of Meetings
SECTION 5.  .  Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Certificate, the holders of a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the stockholders entitled to vote generally, present in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the stockholders; provided, however, that in the case of any vote to be taken by classes, the holders of a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the stockholders of a particular class shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business by such class.  When a quorum is once present it is not broken by the subsequent withdrawal of any stockholder.
Quorum
SECTION 6.  .  The chairman of the meeting or the holders of a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the stockholders who are present in person or by proxy may adjourn the meeting from time to time whether or not a quorum is present.  In the event that a quorum does not exist with respect to any vote to be taken by a particular class, the chairman of the meeting or the holders of a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the stockholders of such class who are present in person or by proxy may adjourn the meeting with respect to the vote(s) to be taken by such class.  At such adjourned meeting at which a quorum may be present, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called.
Adjournments
SECTION 7.  .  (a)  At each meeting of the stockholders, the Chairman of the Board or, in the absence of the Chairman of the Board, such person as shall be selected by the Board shall act as chairman of the meeting.  The order of business at each such meeting shall be as determined by the chairman of the meeting.  The chairman of the meeting shall have the right and authority to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts and things as are necessary or desirable for the proper conduct of the meeting, including, without limitation, the establishment of procedures for the maintenance of order and safety, limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments on the affairs of the
Order of Business
 
2
 
Corporation, restrictions on entry to such meeting after the time prescribed for the commencement thereof, and the opening and closing of the voting polls.
(b)  At any annual meeting of stockholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been brought before the annual meeting (i) by or at the direction of the chairman of the meeting, (ii) pursuant to the notice provided for in Section 4 of this Article II or (iii) by any stockholder who is a holder of record at the time of the giving of such notice provided for in this Section 7, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the procedures set forth in this Section 7.
(c)  For business properly to be brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the Secretary of the Corporation (the "Secretary") and such business must be a proper matter for stockholder action under the Delaware General Corporation Law ("DGCL").  To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than 60 days nor more than 90 days prior to the first anniversary of the date on which the Corporation first mailed its proxy materials for the preceding year's annual meeting of stockholders; provided, however, that if the date of the annual meeting is advanced more than 30 days prior to or delayed by more than 60 days after the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting of stockholders, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made.  To be in proper written form, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth in writing as to each matter the stockholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting:  (i) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting; (ii) the name and address of the stockholder proposing such business and all persons or entities acting in concert with the stockholder; (iii) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by the stockholder and all persons or entities acting in concert with such stockholder; and (iv) any material interest of the stockholder in such business.  The foregoing notice requirements shall be deemed satisfied by a stockholder if the stockholder has notified the Corporation of his or her intention to present a proposal at an annual meeting and such stockholder's proposal has been included in a proxy statement that has been prepared by management of the Corporation to solicit proxies for such annual meeting; provided, however, that if such stockholder does not appear or send a qualified representative to present such proposal at such annual meeting, the Corporation need not present such proposal for a vote at such meeting, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the Corporation.  Notwithstanding anything in the Bylaws to the contrary, no business shall be conducted at any annual meeting except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 7.  The chairman of an annual meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine that business was not properly brought before the annual meeting in accordance with the provisions of this Section 7 and, if the chairman should so determine, the chairman shall so declare to the annual meeting and any such business not properly brought before the annual meeting shall not be transacted.
 
3
 
SECTION 8.  .  It shall be the duty of the Secretary or other officer who has charge of the stock ledger to prepare and make, at least 10 days before each meeting of the stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote thereat, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in such stockholder's name.  Such list shall be produced and kept available at the times and places required by law.
List of Stockholders
SECTION 9.  .  (a)  Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Certificate, each stockholder of record of any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation shall be entitled at each meeting of stockholders to such number of votes for each share of such stock as may be fixed in the Certificate or in the resolution or resolutions adopted by the Board providing for the issuance of such stock, registered in such stockholder's name on the books of the Corporation:
Voting
(i)  on the date fixed pursuant to Section 6 of Article VII of these Bylaws as the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to notice of and to vote at such meeting; or
(ii)  if no such record date shall have been so fixed, then at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice of such meeting is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held.
(b)  Each stockholder entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders may authorize not in excess of three persons to act for such stockholder by proxy.  Any such proxy shall be delivered to the secretary of such meeting at or prior to the time designated for holding such meeting.  No such proxy shall be voted or acted upon after three years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period.
(c)  At each meeting of the stockholders, all corporate actions to be taken by vote of the stockholders (except as otherwise required by law and except as otherwise provided in the Certificate or these Bylaws) shall be authorized by a majority of the votes cast affirmatively or negatively by the stockholders, and where a separate vote by class is required, a majority of the votes cast affirmatively or negatively by the stockholders of such class shall be the act of such class.
(d)  Unless required by law or determined by the chairman of the meeting to be advisable, the vote on any matter, including the election of directors, need not be by written ballot.  In the case of a vote by written ballot, each ballot shall be signed by the stockholder voting, or by such stockholder's proxy.
(e)  Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of stockholders may, except as otherwise required by law or the Certificate, be taken without a meeting, without prior notice and without a vote, if a consent in writing, setting forth the action so taken, shall be signed by the holders of record of the issued and outstanding capital stock of the Corporation having a majority of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take such action at a meeting
 
4
 
at which all shares entitled to vote thereon were present and voted, and the writing or writings are filed with the permanent records of the Corporation.  Prompt notice of the taking of corporate action without a meeting by less than unanimous written consent shall be given to those stockholders who have not consented in writing.
SECTION 10.  .  The chairman of the meeting may appoint one or more inspectors to act at any meeting of stockholders.  If appointed, such inspectors shall perform such duties as shall be required by law and as shall be specified by the chairman of the meeting.  Inspectors need not be stockholders.  No director or nominee for the office of director shall be appointed such inspector.
Inspectors
SECTION 1.  .  The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board, which may exercise all such powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by law or by the Certificate directed or required to be exercised or done by the stockholders.
General Powers
SECTION 2.  .  (a)  Except as otherwise fixed by or pursuant to the provisions of Article IV of the Certificate relating to the rights of the holders of any class or series of stock having preference over the common stock of the Corporation as to dividends or upon liquidation, the number of directors of the Corporation shall be determined from time to time by the Board by the affirmative vote of directors constituting at least a majority of the entire Board.  The use of the phrase "entire board" herein refers to the total number of directors which the Corporation would have if there were no vacancies.
Number, Qualification and Election
(b) At the first annual meeting of stockholders of the Corporation held after the consummation of the initial offering and sale by the Corporation of shares of common stock pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the directors, other than those who may be elected by the holders of shares of any class or series of stock having a preference over the common stock of the Corporation as to dividends or upon liquidation pursuant to the terms of Article IV of the Certificate or any resolution or resolutions providing for the issuance of such stock adopted by the Board, shall be divided into three classes, designated Class I, Class II and Class III.  Initially, Class I directors shall be elected for a one-year term, Class II directors for a two-year term, and Class III directors for a three-year term.  At each succeeding annual meeting of the stockholders beginning at the annual meeting after such first meeting, successors to the class of directors whose term expires at that meeting shall be elected for a three-year term.  Any additional director of any class elected to fill a vacancy resulting from an increase in such class shall hold office for a term that shall coincide with the remaining term of that class, but in no case will a decrease in the number of directors shorten the term of any incumbent director.  A director shall hold office until the annual meeting for the year in which his or her term expires and until his or her successor shall be elected, subject, however, to his or her prior death, resignation, retirement or removal from office.
 
5
 
(c) Each director shall be at least 30 years of age.  Directors need not be stockholders of the Corporation.
(d) In any election of directors held at a meeting of stockholders, the persons receiving a plurality of the votes cast by the stockholders entitled to vote thereon at such meeting who are present or represented by proxy, up to the number of directors to be elected in such election, shall be deemed elected.
SECTION 3.  .  Subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the common stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, nominations for the election of directors may be made by the Board or by any stockholder who is a stockholder of record at the time of giving of the notice of nomination provided for in this Section 3 of this Article III and who is entitled to vote for the election of directors.  Any stockholder of record entitled to vote for the election of directors at a meeting may nominate persons for election as directors only if timely written notice of such stockholder's intent to make such nomination is given, either by personal delivery or by United States mail, postage prepaid, to the Secretary.  To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation (i) with respect to an election to be held at an annual meeting of stockholders, not less than 60 days nor more than 90 days prior to the first anniversary of the date on which the Corporation first mailed its proxy materials for the preceding year's annual meeting of stockholders; provided, however, that if the date of the annual meeting is advanced more than 30 days prior to or delayed by more than 60 days after the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting of stockholders, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made and (ii) with respect to an election to be held at a special meeting of stockholders for the election of directors, not earlier than the 120th day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such special meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board to be selected at such meeting.  Each such notice shall set forth:  (i) the name and address of the stockholder who intends to make the nomination, of all persons or entities acting in concert with the stockholder, and of the person or persons to be nominated; (ii) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the person or persons specified in the notice; (iii)a description of all arrangements or understandings between the stockholder and each nominee and any other person or entities acting in concert with the stockholder (naming such person or entities) pursuant to which the nomination or nominations are to be made by the stockholder; (iv) such other information regarding each nominee proposed by the stockholder as would have been required to be included in a proxy statement filed pursuant to the proxy rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission had each nominee been nominated, or intended to be nominated, by the Board; (v) the class and number of shares of the Corporation that are beneficially owned by the stockholder and all persons or entities acting in concert with the stockholder; and (vi) the consent of each nominee to being named in a proxy statement as nominee and to serve as a director of the Corporation if so elected.  Only persons nominated in
Notification of Nomination
 
6
 
accordance with this Section shall be qualified to serve as directors.  The chairman of the meeting may refuse to acknowledge the nomination of any person not made in compliance with the foregoing procedure.  Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 3 of this Article III shall be eligible to serve as directors of the Corporation.
Notwithstanding anything in the third sentence of this Section 3 of Article III to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board is increased and there is no public announcement naming all of the nominees for director or specifying the size of the increased Board made by the Corporation at least 70 days prior to the first anniversary of date on which the Corporation first mailed its proxy materials for the preceding year's annual meeting of stockholders, a stockholder's notice required by these Bylaws shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation.
For purposes of the Bylaws, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or a comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
SECTION 4.  .  Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate or these Bylaws, a majority of the entire Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the Board, and, except as so provided, the vote of a majority of the directors present at any meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board.  The chairman of the meeting or a majority of the directors present may adjourn the meeting to another time and place whether or not a quorum is present.  At any adjourned meeting at which a quorum is present, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called.
Quorum and Manner of Acting
SECTION 5.  .  The Board may hold its meetings at such place or places within or without the State of Delaware as the Board may from time to time determine or as shall be specified or fixed in the respective notice or waivers of notice thereof.
Place of Meeting
SECTION 6.  .  Regular meetings of the Board shall be held at such times and places as the Chairman of the Board or the Board shall from time to time by resolution determine.  If any day fixed for a regular meeting shall be a legal holiday under the laws of the place where the meeting is to be held, the meeting which would otherwise be held on that day shall be held at the same hour on the next succeeding business day.
Regular Meetings
SECTION 7.  .  Special meetings of the Board shall be held whenever called by the Chairman of the Board or by a majority of the directors then in office.
Special Meetings
 
7
 
SECTION 8.  .  Notice of regular meetings of the Board or of any adjourned meeting thereof need not be given.  Notice of each special meeting of the Board shall be given (1) by overnight delivery service or mailed to each director, in either case addressed to such director at such director's residence or usual place of business, at least two days before the day on which the meeting is to be held or (2) shall be sent to such director at such place by electronic transmission or telegraph or telecopy or be given personally or by telephone, not later than the day before the meeting is to be held, but notice need not be given to any director who shall, either before or after the meeting, submit a written waiver (or waiver by electronic transmission) of such notice or who shall attend such meeting other than for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting was not lawfully called or convened.  Every such notice shall state the time and place but need not state the purpose of the meeting.
Notice of Meetings
SECTION 9.  .  At all meetings of the Board, the Chairman, if any, or if none or in the Chairman's absence or inability to act the Chief Executive Officer, if any, or if none or in the Chief Executive Officers absence or inability to act, the President, or in the President's absence or inability to act any Vice-President who is a member of the Board of Directors, or in such Vice-President's absence or inability to act a chairman chosen by the directors, shall preside.  The Secretary of the Corporation shall act as secretary at all meetings of the Board when present, and, in the Secretary's absence, the presiding officer may appoint any person to act as secretary.
Organization
SECTION 10.  .  The Board may adopt such rules and regulations not inconsistent with the provisions of law, the Certificate or these Bylaws for the conduct of its meetings and management of the affairs of the Corporation as the Board may deem proper.
Rules and Regulations
SECTION 11.  .  Any one or more members of the Board or any committee thereof may participate in any meeting of the Board or of any such committee by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and such participation in a meeting shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Participation in Meeting by Means of Communication Equipment
SECTION 12.  .  Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board or any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all of the members of the Board or of any such committee consent thereto in writing or by electronic transmission and such writings or electronic transmissions are filed with the minutes or proceedings of the Board or of such committee.
Action without Meeting
SECTION 13.  .  Any director of the Corporation may at any time resign by giving written notice to the Board, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Secretary.  Such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein or, if the time be not specified therein, upon receipt thereof; and, unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
Resignations
 
8
 
SECTION 14.  .  Any director (including all members of the Board) may be removed from office at any time, but only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of the voting power of all of the shares of capital stock of the Corporation then entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class; provided, however, that after the election of directors in accordance with the provisions of Section 2(b) of this Article III, such removal shall be only for cause.  For the purposes of this Section 14, "cause" shall mean the willful failure of a director to substantially perform such director's duties to the Corporation (other than any such failure resulting from incapacity due to physical or mental illness) or the willful engaging by a director in gross misconduct injurious to the Corporation.
Removal of Directors
SECTION 15.  .  Except as otherwise required by law and subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the common stock of the Corporation as to dividends or upon liquidation, any vacancy in the Board for any reason and any newly created directorship resulting by reason of any increase in the number of directors may be filled only by the Board (and not by the stockholders), by resolution adopted by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors then in office, even though less than a quorum (or by a sole remaining director); provided, however, that if not so filled, any such vacancy shall be filled by the stockholders at the next annual meeting or at a special meeting called for that purpose.  Any director so appointed shall hold office until the next meeting of stockholders at which directors of the class for which such director has been chosen are to be elected and until his or her successor is elected and qualified.
Vacancies
SECTION 16.  .  Each director, in consideration of such person serving as a director, shall be entitled to receive from the Corporation such amount per annum and such fees for attendance at meetings of the Board or of committees of the Board, or both, as the Board shall from time to time determine.  In addition, each director shall be entitled to receive from the Corporation reimbursement for the reasonable expenses incurred by such person in connection with the performance of such person's duties as a director.  Nothing contained in this Section 16 of this Article III shall preclude any director from serving the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries in any other capacity and receiving proper compensation therefor.
Compensation
SECTION 17.  .  The Board may at any meeting duly convened elect as Director Emeritus any person who has, in the opinion of the Board, given long and meritorious service as a member of the Board.  A Director Emeritus shall be entitled to attend and participate in any meeting of the Board; provided, however, that a Director Emeritus shall not be entitled to vote at any such meeting and shall not be included in the calculation of a quorum at any such meeting; and provided, further, that notice of any meeting of the Board shall not be required be given to a Director Emeritus.
Director Emeritus
 
9
 
SECTION 1.  .  The Board may, in accordance with and subject to the DGCL, from time to time establish committees of the Board to exercise such powers and authorities of the Board, and to perform such other functions, as the Board may from time to time determine.
Establishment of Committees of the Board of Directors; Election of Members of Committees of the Board of Directors; Functions of Committees of the Board of Directors
SECTION 2.  .  Regular meetings of committees of the Board, of which no notice shall be necessary, may be held at such times and places as shall be fixed by resolution adopted by a majority of the members thereof.  Special meetings of any committee of the Board shall be called at the request of a majority of the members thereof.  Notice of each special meeting of any committee of the Board shall be given by overnight delivery service or mailed to each member, in either case addressed to such member at such member's residence or normal place of business, at least two days before the day on which the meeting is to be held or shall be sent to such members at such place by telegraph or telecopy or be given personally or by telephone, not later than the day before the meeting is to be held, but notice need not be given to any member who shall, either before or after the meeting, submit a signed waiver of such notice or who shall attend such meeting other than for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting was not lawfully called or convened.  Any special meeting of any committee of the Board shall be a legal meeting without any notice thereof having been given, if all the members thereof shall be present thereat.  Notice of any adjourned meeting of any committee of the Board need not be given.  Any committee of the Board may adopt such rules and regulations not inconsistent with the provisions of law, the Certificate or these Bylaws for the conduct of its meetings as such committee of the Board may deem proper.  A majority of the members of any committee of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting, and the vote of a majority of the members thereof present at any meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of such committee.  Each committee of the Board shall keep written minutes of its proceedings and shall report on such proceedings to the Board.
Procedure; Meetings; Quorum
SECTION 3.                      .  Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of any committee of the Board may be taken without a meeting if all the members of the committee consent thereto in writing or by electronic transmission, and such writings or electronic transmissions are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the committee.
Action by Written or Electronic Consent
SECTION 4.  .  In the event any person shall cease to be a director of the Corporation, such person shall simultaneously therewith cease to be a member of any committee appointed by the Board.
Term; Termination
 
10
 
SECTION 1.  .  The Board shall elect the officers of the Corporation, which shall include a President and a Secretary, and may include, by election or appointment, an Executive Chairman, one or more Vice-Presidents (any one or more of whom may be given an additional designation of rank, such as "Executive Vice-President" or "Senior Vice-President," or function), a Treasurer and such Assistant Secretaries, such Assistant Treasurers and such other officers as the Board may from time to time deem proper.  Each officer shall have such powers and duties as may be prescribed by these Bylaws and as may be assigned by the Board, the Executive Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer or the President.  Any two or more offices may be held by the same person except the offices of President and Secretary; provided, however, that no officer shall execute, acknowledge or verify any instrument in more than one capacity if such instrument is required by law, the Certificate or these Bylaws to be executed, acknowledged or verified by two or more officers.  The Board may from time to time authorize any officer to appoint and remove any such other officers and agents and to prescribe their powers and duties.  The Board may require any officer or agent to give security for the faithful performance of such person's duties.
Number; Term of Office
SECTION 2.  .  Each officer shall hold office for such term as may be prescribed by the Board and until such person's successor shall have been chosen and shall qualify, or until such person's death or resignation, or until such person's removal in the manner hereinafter provided.  Any officer may be removed, either with or without cause, by the Board.
Term of Office; Removal; Remuneration
SECTION 3.  .  Any officer may resign at any time by giving notice in writing to the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Secretary.  Any such resignation shall take effect at the date of receipt of such notice or at any later date specified therein; and, unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
Resignation
SECTION 4.  .  A vacancy in any office because of death, resignation, removal or any other cause may be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the Board.
Vacancies
SECTION 5.  .  The Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and the Board.
Chairman of the Board; Powers and Duties
SECTION 6. .  Subject to the control of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer shall supervise and direct generally all the business and affairs of the Corporation.  The Executive Chairmen shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned by the Board.  The President and each Executive Vice President, each Senior Vice President, and each Vice President shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned by the Board, the Executive Chairman, the
Executive Chairman, Chief Executive Officer; President; Executive Vice Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents and Vice Presidents; Powers and Duties
 
11
 
Chief Executive Officer or the President.  In case of the absence or disability of the Chief Executive Officer or a vacancy in the office, the President, an Executive Vice President, a Senior Vice President, or a Vice President designated by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the Board shall exercise all the powers and perform all the duties of the Chief Executive Officer.  The Board may elect one or more persons to be the President and/or Chief Executive Officer of a division or business unit of the Corporation.
SECTION 7.  .  The Secretary shall attend all meetings of the stockholders and the Board and shall keep the minutes for such meetings in one or more books provided for that purpose.  The Secretary shall be custodian of the corporate records, except those required to be in the custody of the Treasurer or the Controller, shall keep the seal of the Corporation, and shall execute and affix the seal of the Corporation to all documents duly authorized for execution under seal on behalf of the Corporation, and shall perform all of the duties incident to the office of Secretary, as well as such other duties as may be assigned by the Board, the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer.
Secretary and Assistant Secretary; Powers and Duties
An Assistant Secretary shall perform such of the Secretary's duties as the Secretary shall from time to time direct.  In case of the absence or disability of the Secretary or a vacancy in the office, an Assistant Secretary designated by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the Secretary, if the office is not vacant, shall perform the duties of the Secretary.
SECTION 8.  .  The Chief Financial Officer shall be responsible for maintaining the financial integrity of the Corporation, shall prepare the financial plans for the Corporation, and shall monitor the financial performance of the Corporation and its subsidiaries, as well as performing such other duties as may be assigned by the Board, the Executive Chairman, or the Chief Executive Officer.
Chief Financial Officer; Powers and Duties
SECTION 9.  .  The Treasurer shall have care and custody of the funds and securities of the Corporation, shall deposit such funds in the name and to the credit of the Corporation with such depositories as the Treasurer shall approve, shall disburse the funds of the Corporation for proper expenses and dividends, and as may be ordered by the Board, taking proper vouchers for such disbursements.  The Treasurer shall perform all of the duties incident to the office of Treasurer, as well as such other duties as may be assigned by the Board, the Executive Chairman, or the Chief Executive Officer.
Treasurer and Assistant Treasurer; Powers and Duties
An Assistant Treasurer shall perform such of the Treasurer's duties as the Treasurer shall from time to time direct.  In case of the absence or disability of the Treasurer or a vacancy in the office, an Assistant Treasurer designated by the Executive Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer or by the Treasurer, if the office is not vacant, shall perform the duties of the Treasurer.
SECTION 10.  .  The General Counsel shall be a licensed attorney at law and shall be the chief legal officer of the Corporation.  The General
General Counsel; Powers and Duties
 
12
 
Counsel shall have such power and exercise such authority and provide such counsel to the Corporation as deemed necessary or desirable to enforce the rights and protect the property and integrity of the Corporation, shall also have the power, authority, and responsibility for securing for the Corporation all legal advice, service, and counseling, and shall perform all of the duties incident to the office of General Counsel, as well as such other duties as may be assigned by the Board, the Executive Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer.
SECTION 11.  .  The Controller shall be the chief accounting officer of the Corporation and shall keep and maintain in good and lawful order all accounts required by law and shall have sole control over, and ultimate responsibility for, the accounts and accounting methods of the Corporation and the compliance of the Corporation with all systems of accounts and accounting regulations prescribed by law.  The Controller shall audit, to such extent and at such times as may be required by law or as the Controller may think necessary, all accounts and records of corporate funds or property, by whomsoever kept, and for such purposes shall have access to all such accounts and records.  The Controller shall make and sign all necessary and proper accounting statements and financial reports of the Corporation, and shall perform all of the duties incident to the office of Controller, as well as such other duties as may be assigned by the Board, the Executive Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer.
Controller and Assistant Controller; Powers and Duties
An Assistant Controller shall perform such of the Controller's duties as the Controller shall from time to time direct.  In case of the absence or disability of the Controller or a vacancy in the office, an Assistant Controller designated by the Executive Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer or the Controller, if the office is not vacant, shall perform the duties of the Controller.
SECTION 12.  .  The salaries of all officers of the Corporation shall be fixed by the Board, or an authorized committee thereof, or in such manner as the Board, or any authorized committee thereof, shall provide.  No officer shall be disqualified from receiving a salary by reason of also being a director of the Corporation.
Salaries
SECTION 1.  .  (a)  Each person who is or was a director, officer or employee of the Corporation (or any of its direct or indirect subsidiaries) and who was or is made a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is otherwise involved in any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (hereinafter a "proceeding"), by reason of the fact that he or she is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to an employee benefit plan (hereinafter an "indemnitee"), whether the basis of such proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director, officer, employee or agent, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation to the fullest extent authorized by the DGCL, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended
Scope of Indemnification
 
13
 
(but, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the Corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than permitted prior thereto), against all expense, liability and loss (including attorneys' fees, judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes or penalties and amounts paid in settlement) reasonably incurred or suffered by such indemnitee in connection therewith and such indemnification shall continue as to an indemnitee who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of the indemnitee's heirs, executors and administrators; provided, however, that, except as provided in Section 3 of this Article VI with respect to proceedings to enforce rights to indemnification, the Corporation shall indemnify any such indemnitee in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such indemnitee only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board.
(b)  If an indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification with respect to a portion of any liabilities to which such person may be subject, the Corporation shall nonetheless indemnify such indemnitee to the maximum extent for the remaining portion of the liabilities.
(c)  The termination of a proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent shall not, of itself, create a presumption that the indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification.
(d)  To the extent permitted by law, the payment of indemnification provided for by this Article, including the advancement of expenses pursuant to Section 2 of this Article VI, with respect to proceedings other than those brought by or in the right of the Corporation, shall be subject to the conditions that the indemnitee shall give the Corporation prompt notice of any proceeding, that the Corporation shall have complete charge of the defense of such proceeding and the right to select counsel for the indemnitee, and that the indemnitee shall assist and cooperate fully in all matters respecting the proceeding and its defense or settlement.  The Corporation may waive any or all of the conditions set forth in the preceding sentence.  Any such waiver shall be applicable only to the specific payment for which the waiver is made and shall not in any way obligate the Corporation to grant such waiver at any future time.  In the event of a conflict of interest between the indemnitee and the Corporation that would disqualify the Corporations counsel from representing the indemnitee under the rules of professional conduct applicable to attorneys, it shall be the policy of the Corporation to waive any or all of the foregoing conditions subject to such limitations or conditions as the Corporation shall deem to be reasonable in the circumstances.
SECTION 2.  . The right to indemnification conferred in Section 1 of this Article VI shall include the right to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any proceeding for which such right to indemnification is applicable in advance of its final disposition (hereinafter an "advancement of expenses"); provided, however, that, an advancement of expenses incurred by an indemnitee shall be made only upon delivery to the Corporation of an undertaking (hereinafter an "undertaking"), by or on behalf of such indemnitee, to repay all amounts so advanced if it shall ultimately be determined that such indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified for such expenses under this Section or otherwise.  No advance shall be made by the Corporation if a determination is reasonably and promptly made by a majority vote of disinterested directors, even if the disinterested directors constitute
Advancing Expenses
 
 
14
 
less than a quorum, or (if such a quorum is not obtainable or, even if obtainable, a quorum of disinterested directors so directs) by independent legal counsel in a written opinion, that, based upon the facts known to the Board or counsel at the time such determination is made, the indemnitee has acted in such a manner as to permit or require the denial of indemnification pursuant to the provisions of Section 1 of this Article VI.  For purposes of this Article VI, "disinterested director" means a director of the Corporation who is not or was not a party to the proceeding in respect of which indemnification is sought by the indemnitee and independent legal counsel" means a law firm or a member of a law firm that neither presently is, nor in the past five years has been, retained to represent: (x) the Corporation or the indemnitee in any matter material to either such party or (y) any other party to the proceeding giving rise to the claim for indemnification under this Article VI. The term "independent legal counsel" also shall not include any person who, under the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing under the law of the State of Delaware, would have a conflict of interest in representing either the Corporation or the indemnitee in an action to determine the indemnitee's rights under this Article VI.
 
SECTION 3.  .  The rights to indemnification and to the advancement of expenses conferred in Sections 1 and 2 of this Article VI shall be contract rights.  If a claim under Sections 1 and 2 of this Article VI is not paid in full by the Corporation within sixty days after a written claim has been received by the Corporation, except in the case of a claim for an advancement of expenses, in which case the applicable period shall be twenty days, the indemnitee may at any time thereafter bring suit against the Corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim.  If successful in whole or in part in any such suit, or in a suit brought by the Corporation to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of an undertaking, the indemnitee shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting or defending such suit.  In any suit brought by (a) the indemnitee to enforce a right to indemnification hereunder (but not in a suit brought by the indemnitee to enforce a right to an advancement of expenses) it shall be a defense that the indemnitee has not met the applicable standard of conduct and (b) the Corporation to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of an undertaking, the Corporation shall be entitled to recover such expenses upon proof of a determination, as provided in Section 2 of this Article VI, that the indemnitee has not met any applicable standard for indemnification set forth in the DGCL.  Neither the failure of the Corporation (including its board of directors, independent legal counsel, or its stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such suit that indemnification of the indemnitee is proper in the circumstances because the indemnitee has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the DGCL, nor an actual determination by the Corporation (including its board of directors, independent legal counsel, or its stockholders) that the indemnitee has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall create a presumption that the indemnitee has not met the applicable standard of conduct or, in the case of such a suit brought by the indemnitee, be a defense to such suit.  In any suit brought by the indemnitee to enforce a right to indemnification or to an advancement of expenses hereunder, or by the Corporation to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of an undertaking, the burden of proving that the indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified, or to such advancement of expenses, under this Section or otherwise shall be on the Corporation.
Right of Indemnitee to Bring Suit
 
15
 
SECTION 4.  .  The rights to indemnification and to the advancement of expenses conferred in this Article VI shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, the Certificate, bylaw, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise.
Non-Exclusivity of Rights
SECTION 5.  .  The Corporation may purchase and maintain insurance to protect itself and any indemnitee against any expenses, judgments, fines and amounts payable as specified in this Article VI, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law as then in effect.  The Corporation may enter into contracts with any indemnitee in furtherance of the provisions of this Article VI and may create a trust fund, grant a security interest or use other means (including, without limitation, a letter of credit) to ensure the payment of such amounts as may be necessary to effect indemnification as provided in this Article VI.
Insurance, Contracts and Funding
SECTION  6.  .  Neither the amendment or repeal of, nor the adoption of a provision inconsistent with, any provision of this Article VI (including, without limitation, this Section 6) shall adversely affect the rights of any indemnitee under this Article VI with respect to any act or omission of such indemnitee that occurs prior to such amendment, repeal or adoption of an inconsistent provision.
Effects of Amendments
SECTION 7.  .  If any provision or provisions of this Article VI shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever:  (a) the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Article VI (including, without limitation, all portions of any paragraph of this Article VI containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that are not themselves invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby; and (b) to the fullest extent possible, the provisions of this Article VI (including, without limitation, all portions of any paragraph of this Article VI containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that are not themselves invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall be construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested by the provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable.
Severability
SECTION 1.  .  (a) Holders of shares of stock of each class of the Corporation shall be recorded on the books of the Corporation and ownership of such stock shall be evidenced by a certificate or other form as shall be approved by the Board.  Certificates representing shares of stock of each class shall be signed by, or in the name of, the Corporation by the Chairman or Vice-Chairman of the Board, or the President or any Vice President and by the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary or the Treasurer or any Assistant Treasurer of the Corporation, and sealed with the seal of the Corporation, which may be a facsimile thereof.  Any or all such signatures and the signatures of any transfer agent or registrar may be facsimiles.  Although any officer, transfer agent or registrar whose manual or facsimile signature is affixed to such a certificate ceases to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate has been issued, the certificate may nevertheless be issued by the
Share Ownership
 
16
 
Corporation with the same effect as if such officer, transfer agent or registrar were still such at the date of its issue.
(b) The stock ledger and blank share certificates shall be kept by the Secretary or by a transfer agent or by a registrar or by any officer or agent designated by the Board.
SECTION 2.  .  Transfers of shares of stock of each class of the Corporation shall be made only on the books of the Corporation by the holder thereof, or by such holder's attorney thereunto authorized by a power of attorney duly executed and filed with the Secretary or a transfer agent for such stock, if any, and on surrender of the certificate or certificates, if any, for such shares properly endorsed or accompanied by a duly executed stock transfer power (or by proper evidence of succession, assignment or authority to transfer) and the payment of any taxes thereon; provided, however, that the Corporation shall be entitled to recognize and enforce any lawful restriction on transfer.  The person in whose name shares are registered on the books of the Corporation shall be deemed the owner thereof for all purposes as regards the Corporation; provided, however, that whenever any transfer of shares shall be made for collateral security and not absolutely, and written notice thereof shall be given to the Secretary or to such transfer agent, such fact shall be stated in the entry of the transfer.  No transfer of shares shall be valid as against the Corporation, its stockholders and creditors for any purpose, until it shall have been entered in the stock records of the Corporation by an entry showing from and to whom transferred.
Transfer of Shares
SECTION 3.  .  (a) The Corporation shall be entitled to recognize the exclusive right of a person registered on its records as the owner of shares of stock to receive dividends and to vote as such owner, and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to, or interest in, such share or shares of stock on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as otherwise provided by applicable law.
Registered Stockholders and Addresses of Stockholders
(b) Each stockholder shall designate to the Secretary or transfer agent of the Corporation an address at which notices of meetings and all other corporate notices may be delivered or mailed to such person, and, if any stockholder shall fail to designate such address, corporate notices may be delivered to such person by mail directed to such person at such person's post office address, if any, as the same appears on the stock record books of the Corporation or at such person's last known post office address.
SECTION 4.  .  The Corporation may issue to any holder of shares of stock the certificate for which has been lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated a new certificate or certificates for shares, upon the surrender of the mutilated certificate or, in the case of loss, theft or destruction of the certificate, upon satisfactory proof of such loss, theft or destruction.  The Board, or a committee designated thereby, or the transfer agents and registrars for the stock, may, in their discretion, require the owner of the lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, or such person's legal representative, to give the Corporation a bond in such sum and with such surety or sureties as they may direct to indemnify the Corporation and said transfer agents and registrars against any claim that may be
Lost, Stolen, Destroyed and Mutilated Certificates
 
17
 
made on account of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of any such certificate or the issuance of such new certificate.
SECTION 5.  .  The Board may make such additional rules and regulations as it may deem expedient concerning the issue and transfer of certificates representing shares of stock of each class of the Corporation and may make such rules and take such action as it may deem expedient concerning the issue of certificates in lieu of certificates claimed to have been lost, destroyed, stolen or mutilated.
Regulations
SECTION 6.  .  (a)  In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment or any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not be more than 60 nor less than 10 days before the date of such meeting, nor more than 60 days prior to any other action.  A determination of stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of the stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
Fixing Date for Determination of Stockholders of Record
(b)  In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, the Board may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board, and which date shall not be more than 10 days after the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board.  Any stockholder of record seeking to have the stockholders authorize or take corporate action by written consent shall, by written notice to the Secretary, request the Board to fix a record date.  The Board shall promptly, but in all events within 10 days after the date on which such a request is received, adopt a resolution fixing the record date.  If no record date has been fixed by the Board within 10 days of the date on which such a request is received, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, when no prior action by the Board is required by applicable law, shall be the first date on which a signed written consent setting forth the action taken or proposed to be taken is delivered to the Corporation by delivery to its registered office in the State of Delaware, its principal place of business, or any officer or agent of the Corporation having custody of the book in which proceedings of meetings of stockholders are recorded.  Delivery made to the Corporation's registered office shall be by hand or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested.  If no record date has been fixed by the Board and prior action by the Board is required by applicable law, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting shall be at the close of business on the date on which the board adopts the resolution taking such prior action.
SECTION 7.  .  The Board may appoint, or authorize any officer or officers to appoint, one or more transfer agents and one or more registrars.
Transfer Agents and Registrars
 
18
 
Subject always to the provisions of law and the Certificate, the Board shall have full power to determine whether any, and, if any, what part of any, funds legally available for the payment of dividends shall be declared as dividends and paid to stockholders; the division of the whole or any part of such funds of the Corporation shall rest wholly within the lawful discretion of the Board, and it shall not be required at any time, against such discretion, to divide or pay any part of such funds among or to the stockholders as dividends or otherwise; and before payment of any dividend, there may be set aside out of any funds of the Corporation available for dividends such sum or sums as the Board from time to time, in its absolute discretion, thinks proper as a reserve or reserves to meet contingencies, or for equalizing dividends, or for repairing or maintaining any property of the Corporation, or for such other purpose as the Board shall think conducive to the interest of the Corporation, and the Board may modify or abolish any such reserve in the manner in which it was created.
The Board shall provide a corporate seal which shall have inscribed thereon the name of the Corporation and the year of its incorporation, and shall be in such form and contain such other words and/or figures as the Board shall determine.  The corporate seal may be used by printing, engraving, lithographing, stamping or otherwise making, placing or affixing, or causing to be printed, engraved, lithographed, stamped or otherwise made, placed or affixed, upon any paper or document, by any process whatsoever, an impression, facsimile or other reproduction of said corporate seal.
The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be fixed, and shall be subject to change, by the Board.  Unless otherwise fixed by the Board, the fiscal year of the Corporation shall be the twelve-month period beginning July 1 and ending June 30.
Whenever notice is required to be given by these Bylaws or by the Certificate of Incorporation or by law, a written waiver (or waiver by electronic transmission) thereof, signed or electronically transmitted by the person or persons entitled to said notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to notice.
 
19
 
SECTION 1.  .  In addition to such bank accounts as may be authorized by the Board, the primary financial officer or any person designated by said primary financial officer, whether or not an employee of the Corporation, may authorize such bank accounts to be opened or maintained in the name and on behalf of the Corporation as he may deem necessary or appropriate, payments from such bank accounts to be made upon and according to the check of the Corporation in accordance with the written instructions of said primary financial officer, or other person so designated by the Treasurer.
Bank Accounts and Drafts
SECTION 2.  .  The Board may authorize any person or persons, in the name and on behalf of the Corporation, to enter into or execute and deliver any and all deeds, bonds, mortgages, contracts and other obligations or instruments, and such authority may be general or confined to specific instances.
Contracts
SECTION 3.  .  The Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or any other person designated by either of them shall have the power and authority to execute and deliver proxies, powers of attorney and other instruments on behalf of the Corporation in connection with the rights and powers incident to the ownership of stock by the Corporation.  The Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or any other person authorized by proxy or power of attorney executed and delivered by either of them on behalf of the Corporation may attend and vote at any meeting of stockholders of any company in which the Corporation may hold stock, and may exercise on behalf of the Corporation any and all of the rights and powers incident to the ownership of such stock at any such meeting, or otherwise as specified in the proxy or power of attorney so authorizing any such person.  The Board, from time to time, may confer like powers upon any other person.
Proxies; Powers of Attorney; Other Instruments
SECTION 4.  .  The Board may appoint the primary financial officer or other fiscal officer and/or the Secretary or any other officer to cause to be prepared and furnished to stockholders entitled thereto any special financial notice and/or financial statement, as the case may be, which may be required by any provision of law.
Financial Reports
The Board shall have the power to adopt, amend or repeal these Bylaws by the affirmative vote of at least a majority of the members then in office.  The affirmative vote of the holders of not less than seventy-five (75%) of the voting power of all shares of capital stock of the Corporation then entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting as a single class shall be required to adopt, amend or repeal these Bylaws (notwithstanding the fact that approval by a lesser percentage may be permitted by the DGCL).
20


