FILE:EL/EL-8K-20121101082534.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
 
On November 1, 2012, The Este Lauder Companies Inc. (the Company) issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2012.  The release also includes the Companys estimates related to its fiscal 2013 second quarter and full year net sales and diluted net earnings per common share.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 8.01 Other Events
 
On November 1, 2012, the Company announced that its Board of Directors took the following actions:
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
                                         
Exhibit No.
Description
 
 
 
2
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
The Este Lauder Companies Inc. (NYSE: EL) today reported a solid financial performance for its first quarter ended September 30, 2012.  For the quarter, the Company had net sales of $2.55 billion, a 3% increase compared with $2.48 billion reported in the prior-year quarter.  Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, net sales increased 6% from a year ago.  These results were delivered against a 14% local currency sales increase in the prior-year quarter and softer than expected markets, particularly in Western Europe.  The Company reported a 150 basis point increase in operating margin and net earnings for the quarter rose 8% to $299.5 million, compared with $278.6 million last year.  Diluted net earnings per common share rose 9% to $.76, compared with $.70 reported in the prior year.  All mention of net earnings in the body of this release refers to net earnings attributable to The Este Lauder Companies Inc., which reflects the adjustment for noncontrolling interests.
New York, NY, November 1, 2012 -
The fiscal 2013 first-quarter results included charges associated with restructuring activities of $0.4 million.  Additionally, in the quarter the Company redeemed $230.1 million principal amount of its 7.75% Senior Notes due 2013.  As a result, the Company recorded a pre-tax charge to earnings of $19.1 million ($12.2 million after tax), for the impact of the extinguishment of debt, equal to $.03 per diluted common share.  The fiscal 2012 first quarter results included charges associated with restructuring activities of $4.1 million.
Excluding these charges in the first quarters of fiscal 2013 and 2012, net earnings rose 11% to $312.1 million.  Diluted net earnings per common share rose 12% to $.79 versus a comparable $.70 in the prior-year period.  A reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures is included in this release.
Fabrizio Freda, President and Chief Executive Officer, said, In this new fiscal year, we continue to be guided by our winning strategy and commitment to profitable growth.  Our first quarter results demonstrate the solid fundamentals underlying our business and I am pleased and encouraged with our performance even in softer markets. Organic sales growth for the quarter was in line with our expectations, while earnings per share were better than planned.  In particular,
 
 
 
Page 1 of 11
 
 
 
strong growth in North America and China drove our sales gains and, when coupled with cost of sales improvements and effective expense management, we generated a significant operating margin increase.
Looking ahead, we continue to focus our resources on the most attractive areas of growth and on drawing new consumers into our business via successful product and service innovation and effective investment spending.  We are very mindful of the uncertain market dynamics in several countries and of the solid growth in others, but we are judicious in our resource allocation to maximize our results in this dynamic market situation.  We are confident that we have developed the necessary agility to manage our business effectively.  We expect that we will grow our sales 6 to 7% in local currency this fiscal year, or double the rate of global prestige beauty, while raising the lower end of our earnings per share range.
The Companys performance was due to solid overall business, particularly from its largest brands.  The Company generated local currency sales gains in each of its product categories and geographic regions.  Sales growth was particularly strong in the United States and overall in emerging markets, along with solid gains in certain developed countries.
During the quarter, the Company made substantial progress on its previously stated strategic goals, with a strong improvement in cost of sales and operating expenses as a percentage of net sales.  All product categories and geographic regions benefited from Company-wide efforts to reduce or eliminate non-value-added costs.  In connection with the long-term strategic plan and certain ongoing initiatives, the Company realized savings of $17 million during the quarter.  As a percentage of net sales, all significant operating expense categories were lower.  Gross margin expanded 50 basis points, operating expense margin improved 90 basis points and operating margin rose 140 basis points, before charges.
 
Results by Product Category
 
 
Skin Care
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 11
 
 
 
 
Makeup
Fragrance
Hair Care
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 11
 
 
Results by Geographic Region
 
The Americas
Europe, the Middle East & Africa
 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 11
 
 
 
 
Asia/Pacific
Cash Flows
Outlook for Fiscal 2013 Second Quarter and Full Year
The Company has benefited from the strength in prestige beauty in North America and China. While overall the Companys business is performing well, certain Western European countries and Korea are seeing worse than expected weakness due to economic uncertainties.
Specifically, in the context of its strategy, during fiscal 2013, the Company expects to continue to increase gross margins and reduce operating expenses, which allows it to increase global advertising spending and finance SMI, while increasing profitability.  Investment in advertising behind strong innovation should continue to create growth well beyond the industry average.
 
 
 
 
Page 5 of 11
 
 
Second Quarter
Full Year
 
 
 
 
Page 6 of 11
 
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
The forward-looking statements in this press release, including those containing words like expect, plans, may, could, anticipate, estimate, projected, forecasted, those in Mr. Fredas remarks and those in the Outlook for Fiscal 2013 Second Quarter and Full Year section involve risks and uncertainties.  Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements include the following:
 
 
 
 
Page 7 of 11
 
 
 
The Company assumes no responsibility to update forward-looking statements made herein or otherwise.
The Este Lauder Companies Inc. is one of the worlds leading manufacturers and marketers of quality skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care products.  The Companys products are sold in over 150 countries and territories under the following brand names: Este Lauder, Aramis, Clinique, Prescriptives, Lab Series, Origins, MAC, Bobbi Brown, Tommy Hilfiger, Kiton, La Mer, Donna Karan, Aveda, Jo Malone, Bumble and bumbleDarphin,Michael Kors, American Beauty, Flirt!, GoodSkin Labs, Grassroots Research Labs, Tom Ford, Coach, Ojon, Smashbox, Ermenegildo Zegna, AERIN Beauty and Osiao.
,
 
An electronic version of this release can be found at the Companys website, .
www.elcompanies.com
 
Page 8 of 11
 
(A) In February 2009, the Company announced the implementation of a multi-faceted cost savings program (the Program) to position it to achieve long-term profitable growth.  The Company anticipates the Program will result in related restructuring and other charges, inclusive of cumulative charges recorded to date and through the remainder of the Program, totaling between $350 million and $450 million, before taxes. Since the inception of the Program, the Company approved cost savings initiatives to resize the organization, reorganize certain functions, turnaround or exit unprofitable operations and outsource certain services.
 
For the three months ended September 30, 2012 and 2011, aggregate restructuring charges of $0.3 million and $3.0 million, respectively, were recorded in the Companys consolidated statements of earnings related to the Program.  These charges primarily reflected employee-related costs, asset write-offs, contract terminations and other exit costs.
The Company recorded other charges in connection with the implementation of the Program for the three months ended September 30, 2012 and 2011 of $0.1 million and $1.7 million, respectively, primarily related to consulting and other professional services.  For the three months ended September 30, 2011, the Company recorded an adjustment to reduce the reserve for then-anticipated sales returns associated with restructuring activities of $0.7 million and a charge to cost of sales of $0.1 million.
 
 
 
Page 9 of 11
 
 
 
Total charges associated with restructuring activities included in operating income for the three months ended September 30, 2012 and 2011, were $0.4 million and $4.1 million, respectively.
(B) In the first quarter of fiscal 2013, the Company redeemed $230.1 million principal amount of its 7.75% Senior Notes due November 1, 2013.  As a result, the Company recorded a pre-tax charge to earnings of $19.1 million.
_____________________________________
 
This earnings release includes some non-GAAP financial measures relating to charges associated with restructuring activities and the extinguishment of debt.  The following is a reconciliation between the non-GAAP financial measures and the most directly comparable GAAP measure for certain consolidated statements of earnings accounts before and after the returns and charges associated with restructuring activities and the extinguishment of debt.  The Company uses the non-GAAP financial measure, among other things, to evaluate its operating performance and the measure represents the manner in which the Company conducts and views its business.  Management believes that excluding these items that are special in nature or that are not comparable from period to period helps investors and others compare operating performance between two periods.  While the Company considers the non-GAAP measures useful in analyzing its results, it is not intended to replace, or act as a substitute for, any presentation included in the consolidated financial statements prepared in conformity with GAAP.
The Company operates on a global basis, with the majority of its net sales generated outside the United States.  Accordingly, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can affect the Companys results of operations.  Therefore, the Company presents certain net sales information excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations to provide a framework for assessing the performance of its underlying business outside the United States.  Constant currency information compares results between periods as if exchange rates had remained constant period-over-period.  The Company calculates constant currency information by translating current-period results using prior-year period weighted average foreign currency exchange rates.
 
Page 10 of 11
 
 
 
 
 
Page 11 of 11


