Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Performance in 2005 Compared with 2004 Performance Overview Our sales increased 7% to $10.2 billion in 2005 compared to $9.5 billion in 2004. Sales increased 6% due to higher selling prices, primarily in our chemicals and coatings segments, and 1% due to the positive effects of foreign currency translation. The impact of increased volumes in our coatings and glass segments was offset by volume declines in the chemicals segment. The volume decline in the chemicals segment was due in part to lost sales resulting from the impact of Hurricane Rita, as discussed below. Gross profit increased $214 million due to higher sales. The gross profit percentage decreased slightly to 36.5% for 2005 compared to 36.9% in 2004. Inflation, including higher raw material costs, primarily in our coatings segment, and higher energy costs in our chemicals and glass segments decreased our gross profit. The benefits realized from increased selling prices, along with improved manufacturing efficiencies, primarily in our coatings and glass segments, were all factors which increased our gross profit. Selling, general and administrative expense declined slightly as a percentage of sales to 17.4% despite increasing by $56 million in 2005. These costs increased primarily due to increased advertising in our optical products business and higher expenses due to store expansions in our architectural finishes business. Interest expense declined $9 million in 2005, reflecting the year over year reduction in the outstanding debt balance of $80 million. Other charges increased $284 million in 2005 primarily due to pretax charges of $132 million related to the Marvin legal settlement, net of $18 million in insurance recoveries, $61 million for the federal glass class action antitrust legal settlement, $34 million of direct costs related to the impact of hurricanes Rita and Katrina, $27 million for an asset impairment charge in our fine chemicals business, $19 million for debt refinancing costs and an increase of $12 million for environmental remediation costs. Net income and earnings per share assuming dilution for 2005 were $596 million and $3.49 respectively, compared to $683 million and $3.95, respectively, for 2004. Net income in 2005 included aftertax charges of $117 million, or 68 cents a share, for legal settlements net of insurance; $21 million, or 12 cents a share for direct costs related to the impact of hurricanes Katrina and Rita; $17 million, or 10 cents a share related to an asset impairment charge related to our fine chemicals business; and $12 million, or 7 cents a share, for debt refinancing costs. The legal settlements net of insurance include aftertax charges of $80 million for the Marvin legal settlement, net of insurance recoveries, and $37 million for the impact of the federal glass class 17 | 2005 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10 K Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis action antitrust legal settlement. Net income for 2005 and 2004 included an aftertax charge of $13 million, or 8 cents a share, and $19 million, or 11 cents a share, respectively, to reflect the net increase in the current value of the Companys obligation under the PPG Settlement Arrangement relating to asbestos claims. Results of Business Segments Net sales Operating income (Millions) 2005 2004 2005 2004 Coatings $ 5,566 $ 5,275 $ 609 $ 777 Glass 2,237 2,204 56 169 Chemicals 2,398 2,034 451 291 Coatings sales increased $291 million or 5% in 2005. Sales increased 3% due to higher selling prices across all businesses except automotive; 1% due to improved volumes as increases in our aerospace, architectural and original equipment automotive businesses offset volume declines in automotive refinish and industrial coatings; and 1% due to the positive effects of foreign currency translation. Operating income decreased $168 million in 2005. The adverse impact of inflation totaled $315 million, of which $245 million was attributable to higher raw material costs. Higher year over year selling prices increased operating earnings by $169 million. Coatings operating earnings were reduced by the $132 million charge for the cost of the Marvin legal settlement net of insurance recoveries. Other factors increasing coatings operating income in 2005 were the increased sales volumes described above, manufacturing efficiencies, formula cost reductions and higher other income. Glass sales increased $33 million or 1% in 2005. Sales increased 1% due to improved volumes as increases in our automotive replacement glass, insurance and services and performance glazings (flat glass) businesses offset volume declines in our fiber glass and automotive original equipment glass businesses. The positive effects of foreign currency translation were largely offset by lower selling prices primarily in our automotive replacement glass and automotive original equipment businesses. Operating income decreased $113 million in 2005. The federal glass class action antitrust legal settlement of $61 million, the $49 million impact of rising natural gas costs and the absence of the $19 million gain in 2004 from the sale/leaseback of precious metal combined to account for a reduction in operating earnings of $129 million. The remaining year over year increase in glass operating earnings of $16 million resulted primarily from improved manufacturing efficiencies and lower overhead costs exceeding the adverse impact of other inflation. Our continuing efforts in 2005 to position the fiber glass business for future growth in profitability were adversely impacted by the rise in fourth quarter natural gas prices, slightly lower year over year sales, lower equity earnings due to weaker pricing in the Asian electronics market, and the absence of the $19 million gain which occurred in 2004 stemming from the sale/ leaseback of precious metals. Despite high energy costs, we expect fiber glass earnings to improve in 2006 because of price strengthening in the Asian electronics market, which began to occur in the fourth quarter of 2005, increased cost reduction initiatives and the positive impact resulting from the start up of our new joint venture in China. This joint venture will produce high labor content fiber glass reinforcement products and take advantage of lower labor costs, allowing us to refocus our U.S. production capacity on higher margin direct process products. The 2005 operating earnings of our North American automotive OEM glass business declined by $30 million compared with 2004. Significant structural changes continue to occur in the North American automotive industry, including the loss of U.S. market share by General Motors and Ford. This has created a very challenging and competitive environment for all suppliers to the domestic OEMs, including our business. About half of the decline in earnings resulted from the impact of rising natural gas costs, particularly in the fourth quarter, combined with the traditional adverse impact of year over year sales price reductions producing a decline in earnings that exceeded our successful efforts to reduce manufacturing costs. The other half of the 2005 decline was due to lower sales volumes and mix and higher new program launch costs. The challenging competitive environment and high energy prices will continue in 2006. Our business is working in 2006 to improve its performance through increased manufacturing efficiencies, structural cost reduction initiatives, focusing on profitable growth opportunities and improving our sales mix. Chemicals sales increased $364 million or 18% in 2005. Sales increased 21% due to higher selling prices, primarily for chlor alkali products, and 1% due to the combination of an acquisition in our optical products business and the positive effects of foreign currency translation. Total volumes declined 4% as volume increases in optical products were more than offset by volume declines in chlor alkali and fine chemicals. Volume in chlor alkali products and silicas were adversely impacted in the third and fourth quarters by the hurricanes. Operating income increased $160 million in 2005. The primary factor increasing operating income was the record high selling prices in chlor alkali. Factors decreasing operating income were higher inflation, including $136 million due to increased energy and ethylene costs; $34 million of direct costs related to the impact of the hurricanes; $27 million due to the asset impairment charge related to our fine chemicals business; lower sales volumes; higher manufacturing costs and increased environmental expenses. The increase in chemicals operating earnings occurred primarily through the first eight months of 2005. The hurricanes hit in September impacting volumes and costs in September through November and contributing to the rise in natural gas prices which lowered fourth quarter chemicals earnings by $58 million, almost 57% of the full year impact of higher natural gas prices. The damage caused by Hurricane Rita resulted in the shutdown of our Lake Charles, LA chemical plant for a total of eight days in September and an additional five 18 | 2005 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10 K Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis days in October. On Sept. 26, 2005, following Hurricane Rita, PPG declared force majeure for products produced at the Lake Charles facility. On Oct. 6, 2005, the facility resumed production at reduced operating rates, and returned to full production capability in mid November. PPG has recorded a pretax charge in the amount of $34 million in 2005 for direct costs primarily related to hurricane damage to the Lake Charles facility. This charge is included in Other charges in the statement of income under Item 8 of this Form 10 K. The Company also estimates that pretax earnings were reduced by approximately $27 million in 2005 due to lower sales volumes resulting from Hurricane Rita. The Company is engaged in discussions with its insurance providers and is in the process of evaluating whether these losses will result in insurance recoveries. Market conditions, such as fewer new drug approvals, product withdrawals, excess production capacity and increasing share of generic drugs, have continued to put pressure on the pharmaceutical industry and have created a challenging environment for our fine chemicals business, which is included in our chemicals segment. These conditions have produced an operating performance in our fine chemicals business in 2005 that has been disappointing. As a result, in the fourth quarter, the Company evaluated our fine chemicals business for impairment in accordance with SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment of Long Lived Assets, and determined that indicators of impairment were present for certain long lived assets at our manufacturing plant in the United States. In measuring the fair value of these assets, the Company utilized an expected cash flow methodology to determine that the carrying value of these assets exceeded their fair value by $24 million. We have also decided to sell a small fine chemical facility in France and have written the related assets down to their estimated net realizable value. Due to these developments, the Company has recorded an asset impairment charge related to these fine chemicals assets of $27 million pretax, which is included in Other charges in the statement of income. Other Significant Factors The Companys pension and other postretirement benefit costs for 2005 were $12 million lower than in 2004. This decrease represents the impact of market driven growth in pension plan assets that occurred in 2004 and an increased benefit provided by the subsidy offered pursuant to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement Act of 2003 (the Medicare Act) in 2005, offset in part by a decrease in the discount rate. The majority of the Companys defined benefit plans continued to be underfunded on an accumulated benefit obligation (ABO) basis at Dec. 31, 2005. The underfunded amount increased in 2005, resulting in an increase in the minimum pension liability and a decrease in shareholders equity through a decrease in accumulated other comprehensive income of $173 million, aftertax. This increase in the underfunded amount reflects a reduction of 40 basis points in the discount rate and the impact of a change in the mortality assumption for the U.S. plans used to calculate the ABO. See Note 12, Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits, under Item 8 of this Form 10 K for additional information. In October 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (AJCA 2004) was signed into law. Among its many provisions, the AJCA 2004 provided a limited opportunity through 2005 to repatriate the undistributed earnings of non U.S. subsidiaries at a U.S. tax cost that could be lower than the normal tax cost on such distributions. During 2005, we repatriated $114 million of dividends under the provisions of AJCA 2004 resulting in income tax expense of $9 million. In the absence of AJCA 2004, the Company estimates the tax cost to repatriate these dividends would have been $23 million higher. The effective tax rate for 2005 was 29.8% compared to 30.3% for the 2004. The 2005 rate is comprised of a tax benefit of 39% on the $132 million charge for the Marvin legal settlement net of insurance recoveries, the $61 million settlement of the federal glass class action antitrust case, the $27 million asset impairment charge related to our fine chemicals business, the $19 million charge for debt refinancing costs and the adjustment to increase the current value of the Companys obligation related to asbestos litigation under the PPG Settlement Arrangement, as discussed in Note 13, Commitments and Contingent Liabilities under Item 8 of this Form 10 K. The effective tax rate also includes tax expense of $9 million related to dividends repatriated under the AJCA 2004 and tax expense of 31.0% on the remaining pretax earnings. The 2005 effective rate also includes the benefit of the U.S. manufacturing deduction, which was created by AJCA 2004. The 2004 rate is comprised of a tax benefit of 39% on the adjustment to increase the current value of the Companys obligation related to asbestos litigation under the PPG Settlement Arrangement and tax expense of 30.5% on the remaining pretax earnings. Our current estimate of the effective tax rate for 2006 is 31.5%. Outlook In 2005, growth in the U.S. economy moderated throughout the year due, in part, to rising interest rates and higher energy, fuel and other raw material costs. Industrial production, which grew at a rate of about 4% in the beginning of the year, slowed in the second half of the year resulting in a full year growth rate of approximately 3%. Industrial production remains the economic metric that most positively correlates with our volume growth because it reflects activity in PPGs broad end use markets. The commercial construction sector grew at a rate of 2% for the entire year, but showed signs of further improvement during the second half of the year. Housing starts in the U.S. were strong all year. For the full year, North American production of light vehicles was flat with 2004, while European automotive production was slightly down. Inflation remained at low levels overall and the U.S. equity markets ended the year flat. The European economy grew in 2005 at a rate of just under 2%, but industrial production in Europe grew only 0.5% for the year. Western European light vehicle production was down slightly year over year. 19 | 2005 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10 K Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis Growth in Asia was stronger in 2005 than in other parts of the world with GDP, industrial production and light vehicle production posting gains in the range of 6% 9%. Entering 2006, most economists predict continued North American growth, but at a slower pace. Once again, inflation is expected to remain relatively low despite historically high energy costs and raw material prices. This anticipated low level of inflation is due to the impact of increased globalization and productivity. Interest rates are expected to peak this year, with some economists predicting a decline later in the year. Worldwide economic growth is expected to continue in 2006, with all four of the major economies expanding. The Western European economy began to show some positive signs at the end of 2005 and that will likely carry forward into early 2006, at low, but positive levels. Growth in Eastern Europe is expected to continue. In Japan, several economic indicators show that the economic environment has rebounded into positive territory for the first time in several years. Meanwhile, the emerging Asian economies are expected to continue to post high growth rates, especially in both China and India. Chinas infrastructure growth is expected to continue to impact the overall global economy via increased demand for basic goods and commodities. Additionally, China and other low production cost countries will continue to put downward pressure on worldwide pricing of consumer goods. As has been our experience the past few years, we expect Chinas expansion to benefit demand for our coatings, fiber glass and optical businesses, while requiring our glass and commodity chemicals businesses to continue their ongoing focus on reducing costs. In 2006, we will continue our commitment to our heritage values of serving our customers, introducing new technologies and achieving operational excellence through our continuing focus on reducing costs. The outlook for the global economic environment should support our efforts to deliver sales growth in 2006 throughout our businesses. We also expect to face continued cost pressures in 2006 from pensions, healthcare, natural gas and raw materials. The cost pressures that we face in 2006 mean that we will supplement our ongoing initiatives to lower our manufacturing and overhead costs through continuous improvement with additional actions to reduce our workforce and consolidate facilities. We are in the process of finalizing our plans and expect to record pretax charges in the first quarter 2006 in the range of $50 million to $70 million. Our pension and post retirement benefit costs totaled $234 million in 2005 reflecting a decline of $12 million from 2004; however, these costs remain well above their 2000 level as a result of subpar investment returns over this time period, particularly the negative investment returns in the equity market in 2001 and 2002, a reduction in our expected future rate of return on pension plan assets, a lower discount rate environment and rising retiree medical costs, particularly for prescription drugs. Based on our current estimates, our pension and other postretirement benefits costs are expected to rise in 2006 by $40 million. All time high natural gas costs in North America were detrimental to our 2005 earnings, and these costs rose abruptly following the severe hurricanes that impacted the U.S. Gulf Coast in the third quarter. Changes in natural gas prices have a significant impact on the operating performance of our chemicals and glass segments. Each one dollar change in the price of natural gas per million British thermal units (mmbtu) would have a direct impact of approximately $60 million to $70 million on our annual operating costs. It remains difficult to predict future natural gas prices, which continue to be high and volatile as we begin 2006. In order to reduce the risks associated with volatile prices, we use a number of techniques, which include reducing consumption through improved manufacturing processes, switching to alternative fuels and hedging. We currently estimate our average cost for natural gas in the first quarter of 2006 will be at about $10.00 per mmbtu, or $3.50 per mmbtu higher than the first quarter of 2005. This represents an increase of over 50% year over year. Beginning in the second half of 2004 and continuing throughout 2005, we have experienced increases in the prices we pay for raw materials used in many of our businesses, particularly in our coatings businesses. These increases have resulted from the industrial expansion, supply/demand imbalance and increases in supplier costs for oil and other inputs. Year over year coatings raw material costs rose by $245 million in 2005 and, while the pace has slowed, we expect to see a further year over year increase in 2006. We plan to continue to combat the impact of these rising costs by seeking alternate and global supply sources for our raw materials, reformulating our products, improving our production processes and raising our selling prices. These same factors, along with high capacity utilization and industry related hurricane outages, resulted in tight supplies of chlor alkali products. This led to record ECU pricing during all of 2005, with increases recognized throughout the year. ECU prices in the fourth quarter 2005 were up 35% versus the fourth quarter of 2004. We expect these market conditions to continue as we enter 2006, but they may moderate at some point during the year. Significant structural changes continue to occur in the North American automotive industry, including the loss of U.S. market share by General Motors and Ford. This has created a very challenging and competitive environment for all suppliers to this industry. These OEMs are also faced with funding substantial pension and post retirement medical liabilities that place stress on their financial condition. Our 2005 sales in the U.S. and Canada to General Motors, Ford and the automotive tiered suppliers whose Standard & Poors credit rating was BB or lower at Dec. 31, 2005 totaled approximately 5% of our total global sales. These sales were made under normal credit terms and we expect to collect substantially all of the amounts due from these customers at Dec. 31, 20 | 2005 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10 K Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis 2005 during the first quarter of 2006; however, we have increased our focus on the management of this credit risk. We have been working for the past year on a major business process redesign project in our European coatings business with the objectives of improving our competitiveness, supporting our initiatives to grow the business and increasing our margins. The project will standardize our business processes throughout the region on a common IT application platform in a newly defined business model that includes establishing a new European headquarters in Switzerland. We will reach the first key milestone in this project as we move our European refinish business to the new business model over the first half of 2006. The net cost savings in 2006 will not be significant but will increase as project activities continue through 2008. A sharp focus on our capital spending and working capital has enabled us to continue along our track of strong cash generation, as evidenced by the $5 billion in cash generated from operating activities over the 2001 2005 time period. We have continued to fund our portfolio of businesses and prudently manage capital spending while at the same time continuing our trend of increasing dividend payments to shareholders for 34 consecutive years and reducing our debt by $1.7 billion over the past five years. Additionally, we repurchased $100 million of PPG common stock in 2004 and completed another $600 million in purchases of PPG common stock in 2005. We remain confident that PPG is well positioned to benefit from the expected worldwide economic growth in 2006. Accounting Standard Adopted in 2005 In March 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143. FIN No. 47 clarifies the term conditional asset retirement obligation as used in SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, and provides further guidance as to when an entity would have sufficient information to reasonably estimate the fair value of an asset retirement obligation. Effective Dec. 31, 2005, PPG adopted the provisions of FIN No. 47. Our only conditional asset retirement obligation relates to the possible future abatement of asbestos contained in certain PPG production facilities. The asbestos in our production facilities arises from the application of normal and customary building practices in the past when the facilities were constructed. This asbestos is encapsulated in place and, as a result, there is no current legal requirement to abate it. Inasmuch as there is no requirement to abate, we do not have any current plans or an intention to abate and therefore the timing, method and cost of the future abatement, if any, are not known. In accordance with the provisions of FIN No. 47, the Company has not recorded an asset retirement obligation associated with asbestos abatement, given the uncertainty concerning the timing of future abatement, if any. The adoption of FIN No. 47 on Dec. 31, 2005 did not result in any impact to our results of operations or financial position for the year ended Dec. 31, 2005, and we do not expect the adoption to have a material impact on the Companys future results of operations, financial position or liquidity. Accounting Standards to be Adopted in Future Years In November 2004, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 151, Inventory Costs, an Amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4. SFAS No. 151 requires the exclusion of certain costs from inventories and the allocation of fixed production overheads to inventories to be based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. The provisions of this Statement are effective for costs incurred after Dec. 31, 2005. We have evaluated the effect the adoption of this standard will have on PPG, and we do not expect it to have a material effect on PPGs consolidated results of operations or financial position. In December 2004, the FASB issued a revision to SFAS No. 123, Share Based Payments which now requires that stock options be expensed based on their fair value. In April 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission announced that the effective date of the revised SFAS No. 123 was delayed to years beginning after June 15, 2005. As discussed in Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, under Item 8 of this Form 10 K, PPG began expensing stock options effective Jan. 1, 2004, and consequently our adoption of this revised Statement in 2006 is not expected to have a material impact on the Companys results of operations or financial position. Performance in 2004 Compared with 2003 Overall Performance Our sales increased 9% to $9.5 billion in 2004 from $8.8 billion in 2003. Sales increased 7% due to improved volumes across all of our business segments and 3% due to the positive effects of foreign currency translation, primarily from our European operations. These sales increases were offset by a 1% decline due to lower selling prices. Gross profit increased $279 million while the gross profit percentage remained steady at 36.9% in 2004 and 2003. The sales volume increase, favorable impact of currency, improved manufacturing efficiencies, higher selling prices in our chemicals segment and lower pension and other postretirement benefit costs across all of our business segments increased our gross profit. Lower selling prices in our glass and coatings segments and higher natural gas, energy, raw material and labor costs lowered our gross profit. Selling, general and administrative expense, depreciation and research and development costs declined slightly as a percentage of sales to 25% despite increasing $142 million in 2004. These costs increased in part to support sales volume growth in 2004 and also because of the impact of foreign currency, inflation and our decision to begin expensing stock options in 2004. 21 | 2005 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10 K Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis Interest expense was $17 million less in 2004 than in 2003 reflecting the year over year reduction in debt of $316 million. Other charges declined $30 million in 2004 due to a combination of lower environmental remediation, legal and workers compensation expenses and the absence of certain 2003 charges. Other earnings were $28 million higher in 2004 due primarily to higher earnings from our equity affiliates. The effective tax rate for 2004 was 30.29% compared to 34.76% for the full year 2003. The reduction in the rate for 2004 reflects the benefit of the subsidy offered pursuant to the Medicare Act not being subject to tax, the continued improvement in the geographical mix of non U.S. earnings and the favorable resolution during 2004 of matters related to two open U.S. federal income tax years. Net income in 2004 totaled $683 million, an increase of $189 million over 2003, and earnings per share diluted increased $1.06 to $3.95 per share. Results of Business Segments Net sales Operating income (Millions) 2004 2003 2004 2003(1) Coatings $ 5,275 $ 4,835 $ 777 $ 719 Glass 2,204 2,150 169 71 Chemicals 2,034 1,771 291 228 (1) Operating income by segment for 2003 has been revised to reflect a change in the allocation method for certain pension and other postretirement benefit costs in 2004 (See Note 22, Business Segment Information, under Item 8 of this Form 10 K). Coatings sales increased $440 million or 9% in 2004. Sales increased 6% from improved volumes across all our coatings businesses and 4% due to the positive effects of foreign currency translation, primarily from our European operations. Sales declined 1% due to lower selling prices, principally in our automotive business. Operating income increased $58 million in 2004. Factors increasing operating income were the higher sales volume ($135 million) and the favorable effects of currency translation described above and improved manufacturing efficiencies of $20 million. Factors decreasing operating income were inflationary cost increases of $82 million and lower selling prices. Glass sales increased $54 million or 3% in 2004. Sales increased 6% from improved volumes primarily from our performance glazings (flat glass), fiber glass, and automotive original equipment businesses net of lower volumes in our automotive replacement glass business. Sales also increased 2% due to the positive effects of foreign currency translation, primarily from our European fiber glass operations. Sales declined 5% due to lower selling prices across all our glass businesses. Operating income in 2004 increased $98 million. Factors increasing operating income were improved manufacturing efficiencies of $110 million, higher sales volume ($53 million) described above, higher equity earnings and the gains on the sale/leaseback of precious metals of $19 million. The principal factor decreasing operating income was lower selling prices. Fiber glass volumes were up 15% for the year, although pricing declined. With the shift of electronic printed wiring board production to Asia and the volume and pricing gains there, equity earnings from our joint venture serving that region grew in 2004. These factors combined with focused cost reductions and manufacturing efficiencies to improve the operating performance of this business, as we continue to position it for future growth in profitability. Chemicals sales increased $263 million or 15% in 2004. Sales increased 10% from improved volumes in our commodity and specialty businesses and 4% due to higher selling prices for our commodity products. Sales also increased 1% due to the positive effects of foreign currency translation, primarily from our European operations. Operating income increased $63 million in 2004. Factors increasing operating income were the higher selling prices for our commodity products and the higher sales volume ($73 million) described above, improved manufacturing efficiencies of $25 million and lower environmental expenses. Factors decreasing 2004 operating income were inflationary cost increases of $40 million and higher energy costs of $79 million. Other Significant Factors The Companys pension and other postretirement benefit costs for 2004 were $45 million lower than in 2003. This decrease reflects the market driven growth in pension plan assets that occurred in 2003, the impact of the $140 million in cash contributed to the pension plans by the Company in 2004 and the benefit of the subsidy offered pursuant to the Medicare Act, as discussed in Note 12, Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits, under Item 8 of this Form 10 K. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities, including Environmental Matters PPG is involved in a number of lawsuits and claims, both actual and potential, including some that it has asserted against others, in which substantial monetary damages are sought. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings of this Form 10 K and Note 13, Commitments and Contingent Liabilities, under Item 8 of this Form 10 K for a description of certain of these lawsuits, including a description of the proposed PPG Settlement Arrangement for asbestos claims announced on May 14, 2002. As discussed in Item 3 and Note 13, although the result of any future litigation of such lawsuits and claims is inherently unpredictable, management believes that, in the aggregate, the outcome of all lawsuits and claims involving PPG, including asbestos related claims in the event the PPG Settlement Arrangement described in Note 13 does not become effective, will not have a material effect on PPGs consolidated financial position or liquidity; however, any such outcome may be material to the results of operations of any particular period in which costs, if any, are recognized. The Company has been named as a defendant, along with various other co defendants, in a number of antitrust lawsuits filed in federal and state courts. These suits allege that PPG acted with competitors to fix prices and allocate markets in the flat glass and automotive refinish industries. 22 | 2005 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10 K Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis The plaintiffs in these cases are seeking economic and, in certain cases, treble damages and injunctive relief. Twenty nine glass antitrust cases were filed in federal courts, all of which have been consolidated as a class action in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania located in Pittsburgh, Pa. All of the other defendants in the glass class action antitrust case previously settled with the plaintiffs and were dismissed from the case. On May 29, 2003, the Court granted PPGs motion for summary judgment dismissing the claims against PPG in the glass class action antitrust case. The plaintiffs in that case appealed that order to the U.S. Third Circuit Court of Appeals. On Sept. 30, 2004, the U.S. Third Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed in part and reversed in part the dismissal of PPG and remanded the case for further proceedings. PPG petitioned the U.S. Supreme Court for permission to appeal the decision of the U.S. Third Circuit Court of Appeals, however, the U.S. Supreme Court rejected PPGs petition for review. On Oct. 19, 2005, PPG entered into a settlement agreement to settle the federal glass class action antitrust case in order to avoid the ongoing expense of this protracted case, as well as the risks and uncertainties associated with complex litigation involving jury trials. Pursuant to the settlement agreement, PPG agreed to pay $60 million and to bear up to $500,000 in settlement administration costs. The U.S. District Court entered an order on Feb. 7, 2006, approving the settlement. This order is subject to a thirty day appeal period. If no appeals are filed, the settlement will become effective at the expiration of the appeal period. PPG has deposited $60 million in an escrow account as of Dec. 31, 2005 pending the settlement becoming effective. As a result of the settlement, PPG will also pay $900,000 pursuant to a pre existing contractual obligation to a plaintiff that is not participating in the federal glass class action antitrust case. Finally, independent state court cases remain pending in California and Tennessee involving claims that are not included in the settlement of the federal glass class action antitrust case. Notwithstanding that PPG has agreed to settle the federal glass class action antitrust case, PPGs management remains steadfast in its belief that there was no wrongdoing on the part of the Company and also believes that PPG has meritorious defenses to the independent state court cases. Approximately 60 cases alleging antitrust violations in the automotive refinish industry have been filed in various state and federal jurisdictions. The plaintiffs in these cases have not yet specified an amount of alleged damages. The approximately 55 federal cases have been consolidated as a class action in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania located in Philadelphia, Pa. Certain of the defendants in the federal automotive refinish case have settled. This case is still at an early stage and discovery is continuing with the remaining defendants. The automotive refinish cases in state courts have either been stayed pending resolution of the federal proceedings or have been dismissed. Neither PPGs investigation conducted through its counsel of the allegations in these cases nor the discovery conducted to date has identified a basis for the plaintiffs allegations that PPG participated in a price fixing conspiracy in the U.S. automotive refinish industry. PPGs management continues to believe that there was no wrongdoing on the part of the Company and also believes it has meritorious defenses in these automotive refinish antitrust cases. As discovery in the federal class action antitrust case is ongoing, we will continue to evaluate any additional information that becomes available in developing our conclusion on the outcome of this contingent liability. While currently not expected, if future developments in the case are adverse to the company, we could consider a settlement of the automotive refinish antitrust case. We have no present intention of settling any of the automotive refinish antitrust cases. The Company had been a defendant since April 1994 in a suit filed by Marvin Windows and Doors (Marvin) alleging numerous claims, including breach of warranty. All of the plaintiffs claims, other than breach of warranty, were dismissed. However, on Feb. 14, 2002, a federal jury awarded Marvin $136 million on the remaining claim. Subsequently, the court added $20 million for interest bringing the total judgment to $156 million. PPG appealed that judgment and the appeals court heard the parties arguments on June 9, 2003. On March 23, 2005, the appeals court ruled against PPG. Subsequent to the ruling by the court, PPG and Marvin agreed to settle this matter for $150 million and PPG recorded a charge for that amount in the first quarter of 2005, which is included in Other charges in the statement of income under Item 8 of this Form 10 K. PPG paid the settlement on April 28, 2005. In the third quarter of 2005, PPG received $18 million in insurance recoveries related to this settlement. The amount is included in Other charges for the year ended Dec. 31, 2005. The Company continues to pursue additional insurance recoveries related to this matter but is unable to estimate the likelihood or amount of any future recoveries. It is PPGs policy to accrue expenses for environmental contingencies when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Reserves for environmental contingencies are exclusive of claims against third parties and are generally not discounted. As of Dec. 31, 2005 and 2004, PPG had reserves for environmental contingencies totaling $94 million and $81 million, respectively. Pretax charges against income for environmental remediation costs in 2005, 2004 and 2003 totaled $27 million, $15 million and $21 million, respectively, and are included in Other charges in the statement of income. Cash outlays related to such environmental remediation aggregated $14 million, $26 million and $16 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. In addition to the amounts currently reserved, the Company may be subject to loss contingencies related to environmental matters estimated to be as much as $200 million to $400 million, which range is unchanged from the prior year end. Such unreserved losses are reasonably possible but are not currently considered to be probable of 23 | 2005 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10 K Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis occurrence. Management anticipates that the resolution of the Companys environmental contingencies will occur over an extended period of time. Over the past 15 years the pretax charges against income have ranged between $10 million and $49 million per year. We currently expect that charges against income for environmental remediation in 2006 will be within that range; however, it is possible that technological, regulatory and enforcement developments, the results of environmental studies and other factors, particularly as the work at a former chromium manufacturing plant site located in Jersey City, NJ and at the Calcasieu River estuary continues to progress, could alter this expectation and result in higher charges in 2006. See Note 13, Commitments and Contingent Liabilities, under Item 8 of this Form 10 K for an expanded description of certain of these environmental contingencies. In managements opinion, the Company operates in an environmentally sound manner and the outcome of the Companys environmental contingencies will not have a material effect on PPGs financial position or liquidity; however, any such outcome may be material to the results of operations of any particular period in which costs, if any, are recognized. Impact of Inflation In 2005, the increase in our costs due to the negative effects of inflation, including the impact of higher raw material costs in our coatings segment and higher energy costs in our glass and chemicals segments, was more than offset by the impact of higher selling prices in our coatings and chemicals segments and the improved manufacturing efficiencies in our glass and coatings segments. In 2004, the combined impact of lower overall selling prices and higher production costs, due to the negative effects of inflation, including the impact of higher raw material and labor costs across all our segments and higher energy costs in our glass and chemicals segments, was only partially offset through improved manufacturing efficiencies. In 2003, the increase in our costs due to the negative effects of inflation, including the impact of higher energy costs in our glass and chemicals segments, was offset by the impact of higher selling prices in our chemicals segment and the improved manufacturing efficiencies in our coatings and glass segments. We anticipate that the negative impact of inflation on our costs will be less severe in 2006 than in 2005, particularly with respect to raw material costs in our coatings segment and energy costs in our glass and chemicals segments. We expect the combination of continuing improvements in manufacturing efficiencies and an overall increase in our selling prices in 2006 will enable us to fully recoup the negative impact of inflation, other than natural gas costs. Due to the high volatility of natural gas prices it is difficult to predict the related 2006 costs, but if the prices remain at year end 2005 levels, we may not be able to fully offset these higher costs. Liquidity and Capital Resources During the past three years, we had sufficient financial resources to meet our operating requirements, to fund our capital spending, share repurchases and pension plans and to pay increasing dividends to our shareholders. Cash from operating activities was $1,065 million, $1,018 million and $1,123 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Capital spending was $379 million, $311 million and $220 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. This spending related to modernization and productivity improvements, expansion of existing businesses, environmental control projects and business acquisitions, which amounted to $91 million, $67 million and $3 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Capital spending, excluding acquisitions, is expected to be approximately $385 million during 2006. We have an ongoing process that includes a review of our array of businesses in relation to our overall strategic and performance objectives. As part of this review, we may acquire or divest of certain businesses or enter into joint ventures with other companies. During 2006, we anticipate making acquisitions as part of our strategy for accelerating growth. Any acquisitions would be funded through a combination of cash on hand, cash generated from operations or from the sale of other businesses and, to a lesser extent, external funding sources or the issuance of stock. Dividends paid to shareholders totaled $316 million, $307 million and $294 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. PPG has paid uninterrupted dividends since 1899, and 2005 marked the 34th consecutive year of increased dividend payments to shareholders. Over time, our goal is to sustain our dividends at approximately one third of our earnings per share. During 2005, the Company repurchased 9.4 million shares of PPG common stock at a cost of $607 million under previously authorized share repurchase programs. During 2004, the Company repurchased 1.5 million shares of PPG common stock at a cost of $100 million, and during 2003, the Company did not repurchase any shares of its common stock. During June 2005, the Company completed a debt refinancing consisting of tender offers in the United States to retire outstanding debt combined with the issuance of bonds in Europe. As part of this refinancing, the Company issued 300 million of 3.875% Senior Notes due 2015 (the Euro Notes). The proceeds from the Euro Notes were used to repay short term commercial paper obligations incurred in June 2005 in connection with the purchase of $100 million of 6.5% notes due 2007, $159 million of 7.05% notes due 2009 and $16 million of 6.875% notes due 2012, as well as for general corporate purposes. The Company recorded a second quarter pre tax charge of approximately $19 million, ($12 million aftertax or 7 cents per share), for debt refinancing costs. While we have had no mandatory funding contribution required under Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation or Internal Revenue Service (IRS) regulations for our U.S. pension plans, we chose to make voluntary contributions of $4 million in 2005 and $100 million in 2004. These pension contributions will allow the 24 | 2005 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10 K Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis Company more flexibility in determining both the timing and amounts of future mandatory contributions under the complex ERISA and IRS pension funding regulations. These funding regulations are expected to change as a result of pending legislation currently being considered by the U.S. Congress. Notwithstanding the current uncertainty concerning these requirements, we do not expect to have a mandatory contribution in 2006 or 2007. However, the Company may elect to make voluntary contributions to its U.S. pension plans during that time. During 2005, 2004 and 2003, we made contributions to our non U.S. pension plans totaling $26 million, $40 million and $41 million, respectively. We expect to make mandatory contributions to our non U.S. plans in 2006 of approximately $20 million. The ratio of total debt, including capital leases, to total debt and equity increased to 29% at Dec. 31, 2005 from 27% at Dec. 31, 2004. The increase in this ratio is primarily a function of the decline of equity in 2005 which was largely caused by the repurchase of $607 million of PPG common stock. Cash from operations and the Companys debt capacity are expected to continue to be sufficient to fund capital spending, including acquisitions, share repurchases, dividend payments, contributions to pension plans, amounts due under the proposed PPG Settlement Arrangement and operating requirements, including PPGs significant contractual obligations, which are presented in the following table along with amounts due under the proposed PPG Settlement Arrangement: Obligations Due In: (Millions) Total 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Thereafter Contractual Obligations Long term debt $ 1,191 $ 23 $ 62 $ 115 $ 991 Capital lease obligations 2 1 1 Operating leases 257 74 100 56 27 Unconditional purchase obligations 736 177 126 79 354 Total $ 2,186 $ 275 $ 289 $ 250 $ 1,372 Asbestos Settlement(1) Aggregate cash payments $ 998 $ 346 $ 104 $ 64 $ 484 PPG stock and other 126 126 Total $ 1,124 $ 472 $ 104 $ 64 $ 484 (1) We have recorded an obligation equal to the net present value of the aggregate cash payments, along with the PPG stock and other assets to be contributed to the Asbestos Settlement Trust. However, PPG has no obligation to pay any amounts under this settlement until the Effective Date, as more fully discussed in Note 13, Commitments and Contingent Liabilities under Item 8 of this Form 10 K. The unconditional purchase commitments are principally take or pay obligations related to the purchase of certain materials, including industrial gases, natural gas, coal and electricity, consistent with customary industry practice. These also include PPGs commitment to purchase electricity and steam from the RS Cogen joint venture discussed in Note 5, Investments, under Item 8 of this Form 10 K. See Note 7, Debt and Bank Credit Agreements and Leases, under Item 8 of this Form 10 K for details regarding the use and availability of committed and uncommitted lines of credit, letters of credit, guarantees, and debt covenants. In addition to the amounts available under the lines of credit, the Company may issue up to $500 million aggregate principal amount of debt securities under a shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in July 1999. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Companys off balance sheet arrangements include the operating leases and unconditional purchase obligations disclosed in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section in the contractual obligations table as well as letters of credit and guarantees as discussed in Note 7, Debt and Bank Credit Arrangements and Leases, under Item 8 of this Form 10 K. Critical Accounting Estimates Management has evaluated the accounting policies used in the preparation of the financial statements and related notes presented under Item 8 of this Form 10 K and believes those policies to be reasonable and appropriate. We believe that the most critical accounting estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements relate to accounting for contingencies, under which we accrue a loss when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated, and to accounting for pensions, other postretirement benefits, goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets with indefinite lives because of the importance of management judgment in making the estimates necessary to apply these policies. Contingencies, by their nature, relate to uncertainties that require management to exercise judgment both in assessing the likelihood that a liability has been incurred as well as in estimating the amount of potential loss. The most important contingencies impacting our financial statements are those related to the collectibility of accounts receivable, environmental remediation, pending, impending or overtly threatened litigation against the Company and the resolution of matters related to open tax years. For more information on these matters, see Note 3, Working Capital Detail, Note 11, Income Taxes and Note 13, Commitments and Contingent Liabilities under Item 8 of this Form 10 K. Accounting for pensions and other postretirement benefits involves estimating the cost of benefits to be provided well into the future and attributing that cost over the time period each employee works. To accomplish this, extensive use is made of assumptions about inflation, investment returns, mortality, turnover, medical costs and discount rates. These assumptions are reviewed annually. See Note 12, Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits, under Item 8 of this Form 10 K for information on these plans and the assumptions used. The discount rate used in accounting for pensions and other postretirement benefits is determined by considering the timing and amount of projected future benefit payments, evaluating market interest rate indices 25 | 2005 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10 K Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis and using an outside advisor to determine the yield on a diversified portfolio of available high quality fixed income securities that matches our projected future benefit payments. The discount rate assumption for 2006 is 5.65% for our U.S. defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. A reduction in the discount rate of 50 basis points, with all other assumptions held constant, would increase 2006 net periodic benefit expense for our defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans by approximately $9 million and $6 million, respectively. The expected return on plan assets assumption used in accounting for our pension plans is determined by evaluating the mix of investments that comprise plan assets and external forecasts of future long term investment returns. For 2005, the return on plan assets assumption for our U.S. defined benefit pension plans was 8.5%. We expect to use the same assumption for 2006. A reduction in the rate of return of 50 basis points, with other assumptions held constant, would increase 2006 net periodic pension expense by approximately $11 million. Net periodic benefit cost for our U.S. defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans for each of the three years ended Dec. 31, 2005 was calculated using the GAM 83 mortality table, a commonly used mortality table. In 2006, we will begin to use RP 2000, a newer and more relevant mortality table to calculate net periodic benefit costs for these plans. We estimate this change in the mortality assumption in 2006 will increase net periodic benefit costs by approximately $13 million and $4 million for our defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans, respectively. As discussed in Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, under Item 8 of this Form 10 K, the Company tests goodwill and identifiable intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment at least annually by comparing the fair value of the reporting units to their carrying values. Fair values are estimated using discounted cash flow methodologies that are based on projections of the amounts and timing of future revenues and cash flows. Based on this testing, none of our goodwill was impaired as of Dec. 31, 2005; however the fair value of our fiber glass business declined during 2005. As a result, some or all of the related goodwill of $49 million is at risk in 2006 for impairment should our projected recovery in the business not occur. As part of our ongoing financial reporting process, a collaborative effort is undertaken involving PPG managers with functional responsibility for financial, credit, environmental, legal, tax and benefit matters and outside advisors such as consultants, engineers, lawyers and actuaries. The results of this effort provide management with the necessary information on which to base their judgments on these contingencies and to develop the estimates and assumptions used to prepare the financial statements. We believe that the amounts recorded in the financial statements under Item 8 of this Form 10 K related to these contingencies, pensions, other postretirement benefits, goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets with indefinite lives are based on the best estimates and judgments of the appropriate PPG management, although actual outcomes could differ from our estimates. Currency When compared with currency rates of the prior year, on a month to month basis, the U.S. dollar was weaker than the euro and the British pound sterling for most of the first eight months of the year. The U.S. dollar strengthened against these currencies during the last four months of the year. The effects of translating the net assets of our operations denominated in non U.S. currencies to the U.S. dollar decreased consolidated net assets by $215 million for the year ended Dec. 31, 2005. The effect of currency rate changes over the course of the year resulted in a net favorable impact on 2005 pretax earnings as compared with 2004 of approximately $8 million. During 2004 and 2003, the U.S. dollar weakened against the currencies of most of the countries in which PPG operates, most notably against the euro, the British pound sterling and the Canadian dollar. The effects of translating the net assets of our operations denominated in non U.S. currencies to the U.S. dollar increased consolidated net assets by $180 million and $328 million for the years ended Dec. 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. In addition, the weaker U.S. dollar had a favorable impact on 2004 and 2003 pretax earnings of approximately $35 million and $50 million, respectively. Research and Development Innovation and technology have been a hallmark of our Companys success throughout its history. Research and development costs totaled over 3% of sales in each of the past three years, representing a level of expenditure that we expect to continue in 2006. These costs include technology driven improvements to our manufacturing processes and customer technical service, as well as the costs of developing new products and processes. Because of our broad array of products and customers, we are not materially dependent upon any single technology platform. Forward Looking Statements The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. Managements Discussion and Analysis and other sections of this Annual Report contain forward looking statements that reflect the Companys current views with respect to future events and financial performance. Forward looking statements are identified by the use of the words aim, believe, expect, anticipate, intend, estimate and other expressions that indicate future events and trends. Any forward looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made and the Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Also, note the following cautionary statements. 26 | 2005 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10 K Table of Contents Many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the Companys forward looking statements. Such factors include increasing price and product competition by foreign and domestic competitors, fluctuations in cost and availability of raw materials, the ability to maintain favorable supplier relationships and arrangements, economic and political conditions in international markets, the ability to penetrate existing, developing and emerging foreign and domestic markets, which also depends on economic and political conditions, foreign exchange rates and fluctuations in such rates, and the unpredictability of existing and possible future litigation, including litigation that could result if PPGs Settlement Agreement for asbestos claims does not become effective. However, it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, while the list of factors presented here is considered representative, no such list should be considered to be a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. Unlisted factors may present significant additional obstacles to the realization of forward looking statements. Consequences of material differences in the results compared with those anticipated in the forward looking statements could include, among other things, business disruption, operational problems, financial loss, legal liability to third parties and similar risks, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Companys consolidated financial condition, operations or liquidity. Item 7a. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk PPG is exposed to market risks related to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, natural gas prices and PPGs stock price arising from transactions that are entered into in the normal course of business. The Company may enter into derivative financial instrument transactions in order to manage or reduce this market risk. A detailed description of these exposures and the Companys risk management policies are provided in Note 9, Derivative Financial Instruments, under Item 8 of this Form 10 K. The following disclosures summarize PPGs exposure to market risks and information regarding the use of and fair value of derivatives employed to manage our exposure to such risks. Quantitative sensitivity analyses have been provided to reflect how reasonably possible unfavorable changes in market rates can impact PPGs financial results, cash flows and financial condition. Foreign currency forward and option contracts outstanding during 2005 and 2004 were used to hedge PPGs exposure to foreign currency transaction risk. The fair value of these contracts as of Dec. 31, 2005 and 2004 was not material. The potential reduction in PPGs earnings resulting from the impact of adverse changes in exchange rates on the fair value of its outstanding foreign currency hedge contracts of 10% for European currencies and 20% for Asian and South American currencies would also not have been material. PPG had non U.S. dollar denominated debt of $433 million as of Dec. 31, 2005 and $44 million as of Dec. 31, 2004. The increase in these borrowings was primarily due to the issuance of 300 million of notes in June 2005. A weakening of the U.S. dollar by 10% against European currencies and by 20% against Asian and South American currencies would have resulted in unrealized translation losses of approximately $50 million and $11 million as of Dec. 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Interest rate swaps are used to manage a portion of PPGs interest rate risk. The fair value of the interest rate swaps in place as of Dec. 31, 2005 and 2004, was a liability of $7 million and an asset of $4 million, respectively. The fair value of these swaps would have decreased by $3 million and $9 million as of Dec. 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, if variable interest rates increased by 10%. A 10% increase in interest rates in the U.S., Canada, Mexico and Europe and a 20% increase in interest rates in Asia and South America would have affected PPGs variable rate debt obligations by increasing interest expense by approximately $2 million as of Dec. 31, 2005 and 2004. Further, a 10% reduction in interest rates would have increased the present value of the Companys fixed rate debt by approximately $53 million and $36 million as of Dec. 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively; however, such changes would not have had an effect on PPGs annual earnings or cash flows. The fair value of natural gas contracts in place as of Dec. 31, 2005 was an asset of $0.3 million. The fair value of natural gas swap contracts in place as of Dec. 31, 2004 was a liability of $2 million. These contracts were entered into to reduce PPGs exposure to rising prices of natural gas. A 10% reduction in the price of natural gas would result in a loss in the fair value of the underlying natural gas swap contracts outstanding as of Dec. 31, 2005 and 2004 of approximately $3 million and $1 million, respectively. An equity forward arrangement was entered into to hedge the Companys exposure to changes in fair value of its future obligation to contribute PPG stock into an asbestos settlement trust (see Note 9, Derivative Financial Instruments and Note 13, Commitments and Contingent Liabilities, under Item 8 of this Form 10 K). The fair value of this instrument as of Dec. 31, 2005 and 2004 was an asset of $10 million and $19 million, respectively. A 10% decrease in PPGs stock price would have reduced the value of this instrument by $5 million and $6 million, respectively, as of Dec. 31, 2005 and 2004. 27 | 2005 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10 K Table of Contents Financial and Operating Review 
 
