FILE:FDX/FDX-8K-20031217082209.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
        The information in this Report, including the exhibit, is being furnished pursuant to Item 12 of Form 8-K and General Instruction B.6 thereunder. Such information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 7.    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
        (c)    Exhibits. The following exhibit is being furnished as part of this Report.
Item 12.    Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
        Attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference is a copy of FedEx Corporation's press release, dated December 17, 2003, announcing its and its wholly owned subsidiary Federal Express Corporation's financial results for the fiscal quarter ended November 30, 2003.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
QuickLinks
EXPLANATORY NOTE
SIGNATURES
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
        FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
        MEMPHIS, Tenn., December 17, 2003... FedEx Corporation (NYSE: FDX) today reported earnings of $0.30 per diluted share for the quarter ended November 30, including $0.57 per diluted share of costs and $0.05 per diluted share of savings associated with the previously announced business realignment through early retirement and severance programs. Excluding these costs, earnings for the second quarter were $0.87 per diluted share. Earnings were $0.81 per diluted share a year ago.
        FedEx Corp. reported the following consolidated results for the second quarter:
        "There was clear improvement in the Express cost structure this quarter, as evidenced by the higher operating income and margin before business realignment costs," said Alan B. Graf, Jr., executive vice president and chief financial officer. "We expect FedEx Corp. earnings per share for the fiscal second half to be substantially higher than last year's second half. We continue to examine cost reduction opportunities for fiscal 2004 and beyond in order to further improve profitability."
        During the first half of 2004, voluntary early retirement incentives with enhanced pension and postretirement healthcare benefits were offered to certain groups of employees at FedEx Express who were age 50 or older. Voluntary cash severance incentives were also offered to eligible employees at FedEx Express. These programs, which commenced August 1, 2003 and expired during the second quarter, were limited to eligible U.S. salaried staff employees and managers. Approximately 3,600 employees accepted offers under these programs. This response substantially exceeded the company's expectations. Consequently, replacement management and staff will be required and employee departure dates may be deferred up to May 31, 2004. Also, certain management positions were eliminated at FedEx Express and other business units based on the anticipated staff reductions from the voluntary programs and other cost reduction initiatives.
        The second quarter pretax cost of all of these programs was $283 million, including $7 million incurred in the other business units. For the fiscal first half, the cost of all these programs was $415 million. Including the effect of business realignment activities in business units outside of FedEx Express, the company expects second half charges of $15 million to $25 million. Therefore, full-year charges will be slightly higher than previous estimates.
        The company expects the savings from these initiatives to be $135 million to $145 million in fiscal 2004, mostly in the fiscal second half and slightly higher than previous estimates. Approximately $25 million of savings were realized in the second quarter, reflected primarily in lower ongoing salaries, wages and benefit costs. In fiscal 2005 and beyond, the estimated annual savings from all of these programs is expected to be $235 million to $240 million, slightly higher than previous estimates.
        The company generated positive cash flow in the quarter. Cash was used to contribute $320 million to the company's principal pension plan, acquire 0.9 million FedEx shares under the company's share repurchase programs and pay a dividend. The company has also announced a 20% increase to its next quarterly dividend, to $0.06 per share.
Outlook
        Earnings are expected to be $0.60 to $0.70 per diluted share in the third quarter, excluding the costs of our business realignment activities, compared to $0.49 per diluted share a year ago. Fiscal 2004 earnings are expected to be $3.30 to $3.40 per diluted share, excluding business realignment costs and a one-time tax benefit recorded in the first quarter. This is higher than the company's previous fiscal 2004 earnings guidance, as projected savings from the business realignment programs are now included.
FedEx Express Segment
        For the second quarter, the FedEx Express segment reported:
        FedEx Express operating income improved 13% before business realignment costs, benefiting from revenue growth, ongoing cost control efforts and voluntary early retirement and severance savings, partially offset by higher pension, healthcare, intercompany charges and maintenance costs. Intercompany charges from FedEx Services for sales, marketing and IT support rose due to higher salaries, variable compensation and employee benefits costs.
        FedEx International Priority (IP) revenue grew 14% for the quarter, as IP revenue per package grew 10%, primarily due to an increase in weight per package and exchange rate differences. IP average daily package volume grew 4% year over year, led by 11% growth in Asian export volume and improving European and Latin American volume growth rates. U.S. domestic express average daily package volume declined slightly, while package yield was unchanged.
        As part of the company's continued growth in Asia, FedEx recently announced plans to increase its presence in China by establishing a new regional headquarters in Shanghai. In order to increase its market leadership position, the company, which currently serves more than 220 Chinese cities, also plans to expand that number by 100 over the next five years.
FedEx Ground Segment
        For the second quarter, the FedEx Ground segment reported:
 - 
Revenue of $978 million, up 8% from last year's $905 million
 - 
Operating income of $135 million, even with $135 million a year ago
 - 
Operating margin was 13.8%, down from 14.8% the previous year
        Average daily package volume grew 3% in the second quarter, up from 1% growth in the first quarter. FedEx Ground volume growth rates continue to be affected by year-over-year comparison with last year which was boosted by the threat of a UPS work stoppage. Lower than normal customer
inventory levels in the retail sector also affected volumes. Yield per package increased 4%, attributable to last January's rate increase and an increase in extra service and fuel surcharge revenue. The company benefited from an extra day in the quarter.
        Operating income remained flat in the second quarter as intercompany charges increased because Ground utilized a larger portion of allocated sales, marketing, information technology and customer support resources. In addition, intercompany charges increased due to higher salaries, variable compensation and employee benefits costs at FedEx Services. Ground also experienced higher healthcare and pension costs as well as increased expenses related to terminal expansions and relocations.
FedEx Freight Segment
        For the second quarter, the FedEx Freight segment reported:
 - 
Revenue of $664 million, up 5% from last year's $634 million
 - 
Operating income of $66 million, up 6% from $62 million a year ago
 - 
Operating margin was 10.0%, up from 9.9% the previous year
        Average daily less-than-truckload (LTL) shipments decreased 2% compared to last year's second quarter, although November showed favorable year-over-year growth. LTL yield improved 6% year over year due to higher fuel surcharge revenue, the growth of Freight's interregional service, a 5.9% general rate increase on June 30, 2003 and favorable contract renewals.
        During the past quarter, FedEx Freight enhanced its value proposition by improving service performance and by launching a no-fee money-back guarantee.
Corporate Overview
        With annual revenues of $23 billion, FedEx Corp. is the premier global provider of transportation, e-commerce and supply chain management services. The company offers integrated business solutions through a network of subsidiaries operating independently, including: FedEx Express, the world's largest express transportation company; FedEx Ground, North America's second largest provider of small-package ground delivery service; FedEx Freight, the largest U.S. provider of regional less-than-truckload freight services; FedEx Custom Critical, North America's largest provider of expedited time-critical shipments; and FedEx Trade Networks, North America's largest customs broker and a provider of international freight forwarding and trade facilitation services. FedEx ranked highest in the J.D. Power and Associates
2002 Small Package Delivery Service Business Customer Satisfaction Study
SM
in the categories of air, ground and international delivery services.
        Additional information and operating data are contained in the company's annual report, Form 10-K, Form 10-Qs and second quarter FY2004 Statistical Book. These materials, as well as a Webcast of the earnings release conference call to be held at 8:30 a.m. EST on December 17, are available on the company's Web site at www.fedex.com/us/investorrelations. A replay of the conference call Webcast will be posted on our Web site following the call.
        Certain statements in this press release may be considered forward-looking statements, such as statements relating to management's views with respect to future events and financial performance. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from historical experience or from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Potential risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, any impacts on the company's business resulting from the timing, speed and magnitude of the U.S. domestic economic recovery, the number, timing, mix and relocation costs of replacement staff required as a result of the company's early retirement and severance programs, new U.S. domestic or
international government regulation, the impact from any terrorist activities or international conflicts, the impact of rising fuel prices, our ability to match capacity to shifting volume levels, the timing and amount of any money that FedEx is entitled to receive under the Air Transportation Safety and System Stabilization Act and other factors which can be found in FedEx Corp.'s and its subsidiaries' press releases and filings with the SEC.
Media Contact: Shirlee Clark 901-818-7463 Investor Contact: Jim Clippard 901-818-7468 Home Page: fedex.com
        The company believes that meaningful analysis of our financial performance requires an understanding of the factors underlying that performance and our judgments about the likelihood that particular factors will repeat. Excluding the impact of business realignment costs from our second quarter results and from our earnings guidance will allow more accurate comparisons to prior periods of our year-to-date and expected operating performance in fiscal 2004 and beyond. As required by SEC rules, the tables below present a reconciliation of our presented non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures.


