FILE:FDX/FDX-8K-20040610161428.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information in this Report, including the exhibit, is being furnished pursuant to Items 9 and 12 of Form 8-K and General Instructions B.2 and B.6 thereunder.  Such information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
Item 7.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Exhibits.  The following exhibit is being furnished as part of this Report.
(c)
                     
 
 
Item 9.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On June 10, 2004, FedEx Corporation (the "Company") disclosed double-digit revenue growth at FedEx Express, FedEx Ground and FedEx Freight for the fourth quarter ended May 31, 2004.
 
Item 12.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On June 10, 2004, the Company announced expected earnings for the fourth quarter ended May 31, 2004.  A copy of the Company's press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
MEMPHIS, Tenn., June 10, 2004 ... FedEx Corporation (NYSE: FDX) announced that it expects to report earnings of $1.36 per diluted share for the fourth quarter ended May 31 including business realignment costs and a $0.04 per diluted share benefit from a non-recurring reduction in the effective income tax rate.  This compares to $0.92 per diluted share a year ago.  Results before business realignment costs were $1.37 per diluted share, which compares with earlier guidance of $1.20 to $1.30 per diluted share.
 
"We are seeing strong demand across our entire portfolio of services, both domestic and international," said Frederick W. Smith, chairman, president and chief executive officer.  "Our strategy of bundling our portfolio of services to customers both large and small is really paying off for us.  We continue to see strong and sustainable economic recovery across many sectors of the economy that we serve."
 
More information will be available on June 23, 2004 when the company releases a full earnings report at 7:00 a.m. CDT and conducts its quarterly earnings conference call at 7:30 a.m. CDT.
 
Corporate Overview
 
FedEx Corp. (NYSE: FDX) provides customers and businesses worldwide with the broadest portfolio of transportation, e-commerce and business services.  With annual revenues of $25 billion, the company offers integrated business applications through operating companies competing collectively and managed collaboratively, under the
 
respected FedEx and Kinko's brands.  Consistently ranked among the world's most admired and trusted employers, FedEx inspires its more than 240,000 employees and contractors to remain "absolutely, positively" focused on safety, the highest ethical and professional standards and the needs of their customers and communities. For more information, visit fedex.com.
 
Certain statements in this press release concerning FedEx Corp.'s expectations for fourth quarter earnings per share and revenue growth constitute forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations and are subject to various risks and uncertainties which could cause reported results to differ materially from those forecasted. Such risk factors include, but are not limited to, adjustments and entries made in the process of closing our books and reconciling our accounting records, along with other factors which can be found in our press releases and filings with the SEC.
 
Media Contact:  Jess Bunn 901-434-7769
Investor Contact:  Jim Clippard 901-818-7468
Home Page:  fedex.com
 
 
The company believes that meaningful analysis of our financial performance requires an understanding of the factors underlying that performance and our judgments about the likelihood that particular factors will repeat.  Excluding the impact of business realignment costs from our expected fourth quarter results will allow more accurate comparisons of these results to prior periods.  As required by SEC rules, the table below presents a reconciliation of our presented non-GAAP measure to the most directly comparable GAAP measure.
 
 


