FILE:FDX/FDX-8K-20060921080358.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
The information in this Report, including the exhibit, is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and General Instruction B.2 thereunder. Such information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
SECTION 2. FINANCIAL INFORMATION.
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference is a copy of FedEx Corporation's press release, dated September 21, 2006, announcing its and its wholly owned subsidiary Federal Express Corporation's financial results for the fiscal quarter ended August 31, 2006.
SECTION 9. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibit is being furnished as part of this Report.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
MEMPHIS, Tenn., September 21, 2006 ... FedEx Corporation (NYSE: FDX) reported earnings of $1.53 per diluted share for the first quarter ended August 31, compared to $1.10 per diluted share a year ago. Last year's first quarter included a one-time, noncash charge of $79 million to adjust the accounting for certain facility leases, primarily at FedEx Express. Excluding this charge, earnings in last year's first quarter would have been $1.25 per diluted share.
FedEx Corp. reported the following consolidated results for the first quarter:
Last year's first quarter operating margin would have been 8.5% excluding the one-time charge.
"We remain confident in our ability to achieve solid profitable growth by taking advantage of strong international trade trends, increased demand for fast-cycle logistics and the expansion of online purchasing," said Frederick W. Smith, chairman, president and chief executive officer. "The global economy is growing at a healthy pace with the U.S. economy growing at a moderate, sustainable rate."
Total combined average daily package volume at FedEx Express and FedEx Ground grew 5% year over year for the quarter, due to continued growth in ground and international express shipments.
During the quarter, FedEx Express announced two significant agreements. FedEx Express and the U.S. Postal Service entered into a new agreement for domestic air transportation of mail through 2013. The new agreement is
 
expected to generate more than $8 billion in revenue over the life of the seven-year contract, which begins September 25, 2006.
Also, FedEx Express and the Air Line Pilots Association, Int'l. (ALPA), the collective bargaining representative for FedEx Express pilots, jointly announced that they reached a tentative agreement on a new labor contract. The tentative agreement will be subject to a ratification vote during the fiscal second quarter by the FedEx Express pilots and, if ratified, the four-year contract would become amendable in 2010.
Outlook
Management is revising the company's earnings guidance to reflect up-front costs related to the proposed pilot contract. If the contract is ratified, the resulting net impact to second quarter and full-year earnings is expected to be approximately $0.20 per diluted share due to signing bonuses and other up-front compensation. FedEx now expects second quarter earnings to be $1.45 to $1.60 per diluted share, and earnings for the year to be $6.30 to $6.65 per diluted share. Excluding the impact of the up-front pilot compensation, the fiscal 2007 earnings guidance range has been increased $0.05 per share from the company's initial guidance. The capital spending forecast for fiscal 2007 is up slightly to $3.0 billion.
FedEx Express Segment
For the first quarter, the FedEx Express segment reported:
FedEx International Priority (IP) revenue grew 17% for the quarter, as IP revenue per package grew 11%, primarily due to fuel surcharges, an increase in package weights, a higher rate per pound and favorable exchange rates. IP average daily package volume grew 6%. U.S. domestic express package revenue increased 5%. U.S. domestic revenue per package increased 7%, driven by higher fuel surcharges, the January 2006 general rate increase and revenue management actions. U.S. domestic average daily package volume declined 2%, reflecting revenue management actions that began last year.
Operating income and margin during the quarter improved due to revenue growth, revenue management and effective cost controls. Last year's first
 
quarter operating margin was negatively affected by a one-time, noncash charge of $75 million recorded primarily to adjust the accounting for rent escalation terms in certain facility leases, which reduced last year's first quarter operating margin by 1.4 percentage points.
FedEx Ground Segment
For the first quarter, the FedEx Ground segment reported:
FedEx Ground average daily package volume grew 13% year over year in the first quarter due to increased commercial business and the continued growth in the FedEx Home Delivery service. Yield improved 3% primarily due to the January 2006 general rate increase and higher fuel surcharges. Operating margin was negatively affected by higher legal costs.
FedEx Freight Segment
For the first quarter, the FedEx Freight segment reported:
Less-than-truckload (LTL) yield improved 8% year over year reflecting incremental fuel surcharges and higher rates. Average daily LTL shipments increased 8% year over year due to greater demand for FedEx Freight's regional and long-haul services.
On September 3, FedEx Corporation completed the $780 million cash purchase of the LTL assets of Watkins Motor Lines and certain affiliates. The operations of Watkins Motor Lines and Watkins Canada Express are being rebranded FedEx National LTL and FedEx Freight Canada, respectively. These strategic additions broaden the FedEx portfolio to provide a full range of complementary LTL solutions, and offer more flexibility and greater value to shippers in the heavy freight sector. The addition of Watkins is expected to
 
add approximately $900 million to segment revenue in fiscal 2007, with no material effect on this year's earnings.
FedEx Kinko's Segment
For the first quarter, the FedEx Kinko's segment reported:
FedEx Kinko's revenues decreased year over year primarily due to lower copy product revenues attributed to decreased demand and a continued competitive pricing environment for these services.
The operating margin decline was primarily due to the revenue decline, along with services enhancement costs and network expansion initiatives.
In August, FedEx Kinko's announced the details of a multi-year network expansion plan, including the model for new lower-cost centers which will be approximately one-third the size of a traditional center, and will include enhanced pack-and-ship stations and a doubling of the number of office products offered. FedEx Kinko's opened 31 new locations during the first quarter, and plans to open a total of approximately 200 new centers during the fiscal year.
Corporate Overview
FedEx Corp. (NYSE: FDX) provides customers and businesses worldwide with a broad portfolio of transportation, e-commerce and business services. With annual revenues of $33 billion, the company offers integrated business applications through operating companies competing collectively and managed collaboratively, under the respected FedEx brands. Consistently ranked among the world's most admired and trusted employers, FedEx inspires its more than 275,000 employees and contractors to remain "absolutely, positively" focused on safety, the highest ethical and professional standards and the needs of their customers and communities. For more information, visit fedex.com.
Additional information and operating data are contained in the company's annual report, Form 10-K, Form 10-Qs and first quarter FY2007 Statistical Book. These materials, as well as a Webcast of the earnings release
 
conference call to be held at 8:30 a.m. EDT on September 21, are available on the company's Web site at www.fedex.com/us/investorrelations. A replay of the conference call Webcast will be posted on our Web site following the call.
Certain statements in this press release may be considered forward-looking statements, such as statements relating to management's views with respect to future events and financial performance. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from historical experience or from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Potential risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, economic conditions in the global markets in which we operate, new U.S. domestic or international government regulation, the impact from any terrorist activities or international conflicts, our ability to effectively operate, integrate and leverage the FedEx Kinko's and Watkins Motor Lines businesses, the impact of changes in fuel prices and currency exchange rates, our ability to match capacity to shifting volume levels and other factors which can be found in FedEx Corp.'s and its subsidiaries' press releases and filings with the SEC.
Media Contact: Jess Bunn 901-818-7463 Investor Contact: Jim Clippard 901-818-7468 Home Page: fedex.com
 
The company believes that meaningful analysis of our financial performance requires an understanding of the factors underlying that performance and our judgments about the likelihood that particular factors will repeat. Excluding the impact of the one-time, noncash lease accounting charge from last year's first quarter results will allow more accurate comparisons to fiscal 2007. Likewise, excluding the impact of the expected one-time, up-front compensation to the pilots from this year's guidance will allow more accurate comparisons to prior periods of our expected operating performance in fiscal 2007. As required by SEC rules, the tables below present a reconciliation of our presented non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


