FILE:FDX/FDX-8K-20061220082019.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
 
The information in this Report, including the exhibit, is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and General Instruction B.2 thereunder. Such information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
SECTION 2. FINANCIAL INFORMATION.
Attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference is a copy of FedEx Corporation's press release, dated December 20, 2006, announcing its and its wholly owned subsidiary Federal Express Corporation's financial results for the fiscal quarter ended November 30, 2006.
SECTION 9. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibit is being furnished as part of this Report.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
FedEx Corporation
Date: December 20, 2006
By: Marshall W. Witt Staff Vice President and Corporate Controller
/s/ MARSHALL W. WITT
Federal Express Corporation
Date: December 20, 2006
By: Jay L. Cofield Vice President and Worldwide Controller
/s/ JAY L. COFIELD
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
MEMPHIS, Tenn., December 20, 2006 ... FedEx Corporation (NYSE: FDX) today reported earnings of $1.64 per diluted share for the second quarter ended November 30, compared to $1.53 per diluted share a year ago. The quarter's results included costs associated with the new pilot labor contract at FedEx Express. The net effect of this agreement reduced second quarter earnings by approximately $0.25 per diluted share. Excluding these costs, second quarter earnings were $1.89 per diluted share, an increase of 24% from last year's second quarter.
FedEx Corp. reported the following consolidated results for the second quarter:
 -  Revenue of $8.93 billion, up 10% from $8.09 billion the previous year
 -  Operating income of $839 million, up 6% from $790 million a year ago
 -  Operating margin of 9.4%, down from last year's 9.8%
 -  Net income of $511 million, up 8% from $471 million the previous year
Total combined average daily package volume at FedEx Express and FedEx Ground grew 7% year over year for the quarter, led by ground and international express package growth.
"FedEx continues to deliver outstanding financial results, and I am confident about our business going forward," said Frederick W. Smith, chairman, president and chief executive officer of FedEx Corp. "Package volumes are solid this holiday season, and we see continued global economic growth in 2007."
The company has announced a net 3.5% average price increase on U.S. domestic and U.S. export express shipments, and a 4.9% average price increase on FedEx Ground services. These changes will be effective January 1, 2007. The company also announced increases to various shipment surcharges.
 
Outlook
With the better-than-expected second quarter results and an expected strong fourth quarter, management is tightening its annual earnings guidance range to $6.35 to $6.65 per diluted share. Excluding the net impact of the second quarter costs associated with the new pilot labor contract, the updated guidance is $6.60 to $6.90 per diluted share. For the third quarter, earnings are expected to be $1.20 to $1.35 per diluted share. For the fourth quarter, earnings are expected to be $1.98 to $2.13 per diluted share. The capital spending forecast for fiscal 2007 is $3.1 billion.
"Earnings for our second quarter were better than forecast primarily due to lower than expected fuel prices, slightly stronger than anticipated growth at FedEx Ground and insurance proceeds related to Hurricane Katrina," said Alan B. Graf, Jr., executive vice president and chief financial officer. "Our earnings guidance for the third quarter recognizes a difficult year-over-year comparison, as last year's third quarter benefited from the timing lag that exists between when we purchase fuel and when our indexed fuel surcharges automatically adjust. December 2005 fuel surcharges at FedEx Express and FedEx Ground were set during the period fuel prices had spiked following Hurricane Katrina. We remain optimistic that we will continue to improve full-year margins and returns during a period of moderate economic growth."
FedEx Express Segment
For the second quarter, the FedEx Express segment reported:
 -  Revenue of $5.69 billion, up 6% from last year's $5.37 billion
 -  Operating income of $502 million, up 5% from $476 million a year ago
 -  Operating margin of 8.8%, down from 8.9% the previous year
Operating margin was negatively affected by costs associated with the new pilot labor contract. The new contract includes signing bonuses and other upfront compensation of approximately $143 million, as well as pay increases and other benefit enhancements, which were partially mitigated by reductions in variable incentive compensation. These costs more than offset the benefit from revenue growth, declining fuel prices and revenue management actions.
 
FedEx International Priority (IP) revenue grew 12% for the quarter, as IP revenue per package grew 6%, primarily due to favorable exchange rates, a higher rate per pound and an increase in package weight. IP average daily package volume grew 6%. U.S. domestic revenue per package increased 3%, driven by a higher rate per pound, while package volume declined 1%.
FedEx Express continues to grow and strengthen its international network. The company recently acquired ANC Holdings Ltd., a United Kingdom domestic express transportation company, and entered into an agreement to acquire Prakash Air Freight Pvt. Ltd., its Indian express service provider. These strategic investments will expand the company's offering to customers and deliver additional value to shareowners.
FedEx Ground Segment
For the second quarter, the FedEx Ground segment reported:
 -  Revenue of $1.52 billion, up 16% from last year's $1.31 billion
 -  Operating income of $191 million, up 17% from $163 million a year ago
 -  Operating margin of 12.6%, up from 12.5% the previous year
FedEx Ground average daily package volume grew 14% year over year in the second quarter due to increased commercial business and the continued growth in the FedEx Home Delivery service. Yield improved 2% primarily due to a higher rate per pound, higher fuel surcharges and increased extra service revenues.
Operating margin was higher due to revenue growth, improved operating results at FedEx SmartPost and lower fuel costs, which more than offset increased network expansion and legal costs.
FedEx Freight Segment
For the second quarter, the FedEx Freight segment reported:
 -  Revenue of $1.23 billion, up 31% from last year's $932 million
 -  Operating income of $138 million, up 2% from $135 million a year ago
 -  Operating margin of 11.3%, down from 14.5% the previous year
On September 3, FedEx completed the purchase of Watkins Motor Lines. The operations of Watkins Motor Lines are being rebranded as FedEx National LTL. Operating margin declined during the quarter, as the impact of FedEx National LTL, including integration costs, more than offset the benefit from a property sale gain.
 
Less-than-truckload (LTL) shipments increased 28% year over year primarily due to the FedEx National LTL acquisition and demand for FedEx Freight's regional and interregional services. Average daily LTL shipments at FedEx Freight, excluding FedEx National LTL, continued to grow in the second quarter, although growth moderated each month during the quarter. LTL yield improved 11% year over year reflecting higher yields from longer-haul FedEx National LTL shipments and higher rates.
FedEx Kinko's Segment
For the second quarter, the FedEx Kinko's segment reported:
 -  Revenue of $519 million, down 2% from last year's $528 million
 -  Operating income of $8 million, down 50% from $16 million a year ago
 -  Operating margin of 1.5%, down from 3.0% the previous year
FedEx Kinko's revenues decreased year over year primarily due to lower copy product revenues attributed to decreased demand. The operating margin decline was primarily due to the base revenue decline, network expansion costs, employee development and training costs, and sales workforce reorganization expenses.
FedEx Kinko's continues a company-wide effort to refocus resources on core business priorities, including a multi-year network expansion using a lower-cost model. The company opened 86 centers in the first half of the fiscal year with plans for a total of approximately 200 new locations by the end of FY07.
Corporate Overview
FedEx Corp. (NYSE: FDX) provides customers and businesses worldwide with a broad portfolio of transportation, e-commerce and business services. With annual revenues of $34 billion, the company offers integrated business applications through operating companies competing collectively and managed collaboratively, under the respected FedEx brand. Consistently ranked among the world's most admired and trusted employers, FedEx inspires its more than 275,000 employees and contractors to remain "absolutely, positively" focused on safety, the highest ethical and professional standards and the needs of their customers and communities. For more information, visit fedex.com.
 
Additional information and operating data are contained in the company's annual report, Form 10-K, Form 10-Qs and second quarter FY2007 Statistical Book. These materials, as well as a Webcast of the earnings release conference call to be held at 8:30 a.m. EST on December 20, are available on the company's Web site at www.fedex.com/us/investorrelations. A replay of the conference call Webcast will be posted on our Web site following the call.
Certain statements in this press release may be considered forward-looking statements, such as statements relating to management's views with respect to future events and financial performance. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from historical experience or from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Potential risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, economic conditions in the global markets in which we operate, new U.S. domestic or international government regulation, the impact from any terrorist activities or international conflicts, our ability to effectively operate, integrate and leverage the FedEx Kinko's and FedEx National LTL businesses, the impact of changes in fuel prices and currency exchange rates, our ability to match capacity to shifting volume levels and other factors which can be found in FedEx Corp.'s and its subsidiaries' press releases and filings with the SEC.
Media Contact: Howard Clabo 901-818-7463 Investor Contact: Mickey Foster 901-818-7519 Home Page: fedex.com
 
The company believes that meaningful analysis of our financial performance requires an understanding of the factors underlying that performance and our judgments about the likelihood that particular factors will repeat. Excluding the net impact of the costs associated with the new pilot labor contract from this quarter's results and this year's guidance will allow more accurate comparisons to prior periods of our operating performance in fiscal 2007. As required by SEC rules, the tables below present a reconciliation of our presented non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures.
 
 
 
 
 
1  Package statistics exclude FedEx SmartPost.
 
The results of operations for FedEx National LTL are included in our consolidated results from the date of acquisition on September 3, 2006.
 


