FILE:FDX/FDX-8K-20071220080904.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
The information in this Report, including the exhibit, is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and General Instruction B.2 thereunder. Such information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
SECTION 2. FINANCIAL INFORMATION.
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference is a copy of FedEx Corporation's press release, dated December 20, 2007, announcing its and its wholly owned subsidiary Federal Express Corporation's financial results for the fiscal quarter ended November 30, 2007.
SECTION 9. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibit is being furnished as part of this Report.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
MEMPHIS, Tenn., December 20, 2007 .... FedEx Corp. (NYSE: FDX) today reported earnings of $1.54 per diluted share for the second quarter ended November 30, compared to $1.64 per diluted share a year ago.
High fuel prices and weak U.S. economic growth year over year have impacted our business, said Frederick W. Smith, FedEx Corp. chairman, president and chief executive officer. We continue to benefit from solid international growth, which helps mitigate softness in U.S. industrial production. While we see challenging near-term economic trends, we remain confident about long-term prospects in all our business segments.
Second Quarter Results
FedEx Corp. reported the following consolidated results for the second quarter:
 Revenue of $9.45 billion, up 6% from $8.93 billion the previous year
 Operating income of $783 million, down 7% from $839 million a year ago
 Operating margin of 8.3%, down from 9.4% the previous year
 Net income of $479 million, down 6% from last years $511 million
Operating margin declined primarily due to the net impact of substantially higher fuel costs and continued weakness in the U.S. economy, which is limiting demand for the companys U.S. domestic express package and less-than-truckload (LTL) freight services. Last years second quarter results included $0.25 per diluted share net impact of costs associated with the pilot labor contract, mostly offset by the benefits from the timing of net fuel impacts and Hurricane Katrina insurance proceeds.
 
Total combined average daily package volume in the FedEx Express and FedEx Ground segments grew 8% year over year for the quarter, due to growth in ground and FedEx International Priority(IP) shipments and an increase in international domestic express shipments resulting primarily from recent international acquisitions.
Outlook
FedEx expects earnings to be $1.15 to $1.30 per diluted share in the third quarter compared to $1.35 a year ago. For the full year, the company expects earnings of $6.40 to $6.70 per diluted share. This outlook assumes relative stability in fuel prices and no additional weakening in the economy. The capital spending forecast has been reduced from $3.5 billion to $3.1 billion, with additional reductions possible as management continues to review the timing of capital outlays.
As we noted last month, higher fuel prices and continued weak growth in the U.S. economy have hindered profitability, said Alan B. Graf, Jr., FedEx Corp. executive vice president and chief financial officer. While we have indexed fuel surcharges in place, they cannot keep pace in the short-term with rapidly rising fuel prices. We are implementing cost-containment actions to manage near-term expenditures and have reduced our capital spending forecast. We will continue, however, to invest in strategic projects related to our long-term growth plans.
FedEx Express Segment
For the second quarter, the FedEx Express segment reported:
 Revenue of $6.04 billion, up 6% from last years $5.69 billion
 Operating income of $531 million, up 5% from $508 million a year ago
 Operating margin of 8.8%, down from 8.9% the previous year
IP package revenue grew 13% for the quarter, as IP average daily package volume grew 7%, led by increases in volume from Asia and the United States. IP revenue per package grew 5%, primarily due to favorable exchange rates, higher weight per package and higher fuel surcharges. U.S. domestic revenue per package increased 1% due to higher rates, while package volume declined by 1%. International domestic volume sharply increased and revenue per package declined, resulting primarily from recent international acquisitions.
 
Operating income and margin were negatively impacted by higher net fuel costs and continued softness in the U.S. economy. Continued investments in domestic express services in China also negatively impacted this quarters results. Last years second quarter results included upfront costs associated with the pilot labor contract.
FedEx Ground Segment
For the second quarter, the FedEx Ground segment reported:
 Revenue of $1.70 billion, up 12% from last years $1.52 billion
 Operating income of $173 million, down 10% from $193 million a year ago
 Operating margin of 10.2%, down from 12.7% the previous year
FedEx Ground average daily package volume grew 8% year over year in the second quarter due to increased commercial business and the continued strong growth of its FedEx Home Delivery service. Yield improved 3% primarily due to the impact of its general rate increase, including dimensional weight charges and extra service revenues.
Operating income and margin were lower due primarily to independent contractor incentive programs, higher net fuel costs and investments to expand capacity.
FedEx Ground faces increased regulatory and legal uncertainty with respect to its independent contractors. As part of its operations, FedEx Ground has made changes to its relationships with contractors that, among other things, provide incentives for improved service and enhanced regulatory and other compliance by our contractors. In September, FedEx Ground announced a nationwide program which provides greater incentives to certain of its 15,000 contractors who choose to grow their businesses by adding routes. Also, during the second quarter FedEx Ground offered special incentives to encourage California-based single-route contractors to transform their operations into multiple-route businesses or sell their routes to others. The response to the California-based single route contractor program has been exceptional, with virtually all contractors accepting the incentives.
FedEx Ground anticipates continuing changes to its relationships with its contractors, which are expected to increase the cost of operations, and it is reasonably possible that such cost increases could be material. However, management believes the FedEx Ground business remains fundamentally strong and will continue to grow market share and improve the customer experience.
 
 
FedEx Freight Segment
For the second quarter, the FedEx Freight segment reported:
 Revenue of $1.24 billion, up 1% from last years $1.23 billion
 Operating income of $79 million, down 43% from $138 million a year ago
 Operating margin of 6.4%, down from 11.3% the previous year
Less-than-truckload shipments declined 6% year over year, as demand for services in the LTL sector has been restrained by the weak U.S. economy. LTL yield improved 4% year over year, as higher rates and higher yields from longer-haul shipments more than offset the impact of FedEx Freight reducing its fuel surcharges on July 23, 2007.
Operating income and margin declined during the quarter due to the decline in LTL shipments. The net impact of higher fuel costs and the fuel surcharge reduction also negatively affected margins. Last years second quarter results included a gain related to the sale of an operating facility and insurance proceeds associated with Hurricane Katrina. While the reduction in the LTL fuel surcharge is expected to have a negative impact on revenue for the remainder of the fiscal year, this change is expected to strengthen FedEx Freight competitively and drive incremental shipments over the long term.
FedEx Services Segment
FedEx Services segment revenue, which includes the operations of FedEx Kinkos and FedEx Global Supply Chain Services, was up 1% year over year. The growth in package acceptance fees and revenue generated from new FedEx Kinkos locations more than offset lower copy product revenues.
FedEx Kinkos opened 83 new centers during the second quarter as part of its plan to add 300 new centers this fiscal year. However, FedEx Kinkos will slow the rate of expansion of new locations in fiscal 2009, and will balance store expansion efforts with initiatives to improve the customer experience at existing stores. FedEx remains committed to the long-term expansion of its retail network.
 
Corporate Overview
FedEx Corp. (NYSE: FDX) provides customers and businesses worldwide with a broad portfolio of transportation, e-commerce and business services. With annual revenues of $36 billion, the company offers integrated business applications through operating companies competing collectively and managed collaboratively, under the respected FedEx brand. Consistently ranked among the worlds most admired and trusted employers, FedEx inspires its more than 290,000 employees and contractors to remain absolutely, positively focused on safety, the highest ethical and professional standards and the needs of their customers and communities. For more information, visit news.fedex.com.
Additional information and operating data are contained in the companys annual report, Form 10-K, Form 10-Qs and second quarter fiscal 2008 Statistical Book. These materials, as well as a Webcast of the earnings release conference call to be held at 8:30 a.m. EST on December 20 are available on the companys Web site at www.fedex.com/us/investorrelations. A replay of the conference call Webcast will be posted on our Web site following the call.
Certain statements in this press release may be considered forward-looking statements, such as statements relating to managements views with respect to future events and financial performance. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from historical experience or from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Potential risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, economic conditions in the global markets in which we operate, legal challenges or changes related to FedEx Grounds owner-operators, new U.S. domestic or international government regulation, the impact from any terrorist activities or international conflicts, our ability to effectively operate, integrate and leverage acquired businesses, the impact of changes in fuel prices and currency exchange rates, our ability to match capacity to shifting volume levels and other factors which can be found in FedEx Corp.s and its subsidiaries press releases and filings with the SEC.
Media Contact: Jess Bunn 901-818-7463 Investor Contact: Mickey Foster 901-818-7468 Home Page: fedex.com
 
1  The current year includes the DTW Group, ANC Holdings and Prakash Air acquisitions.
2  Prior year amounts have been revised to conform to the current year segment presentation.
 
 
 
1  The current year includes the DTW Group, ANC Holdings and Prakash Air acquisitions.
2  Prior year amounts have been revised to conform to the current year segment presentation.
 
Prior year amounts have been revised to conform to the current year segment presentation.
 
The results of operations for FedEx National LTL are included in our consolidated results from the date of acquisition on September 3, 2006.


