FILE:FDX/FDX-8K-20070321080754.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
The information in this Report, including the exhibit, is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and General thereunder. Such information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Instruction B.2
SECTION 2. FINANCIAL INFORMATION.
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference is a copy of FedEx Corporation's press release, dated March 21, 2007, announcing its and its wholly owned subsidiary Federal Express Corporation's financial results for the fiscal quarter ended February 28, 2007.
SECTION 9. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibit is being furnished as part of this Report.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
MEMPHIS, Tenn., March 21, 2007  FedEx Corp. (NYSE: FDX) today reported earnings of $1.35 per diluted share for the third quarter ended February 28, compared to $1.38 per diluted share a year ago. Third quarter results were negatively impacted by a slowing economic environment, lower fuel surcharges and severe winter storms, with the storm impact estimated to be $0.06 per diluted share. Results for the quarter also include an $0.08 per diluted share benefit from a reduction in the company's effective tax rate.
FedEx Corp. reported the following consolidated results for the third quarter:
Total combined average daily package volume at FedEx Express and FedEx Ground grew 4% year over year for the quarter, led by ground and international express package growth.
"The U.S. economy grew at a lower rate than we expected in the third quarter, and we saw continued adjustments in the automotive and housing markets. I believe, however, this represents a healthy transition for the economy as it phases into a more sustainable growth rate," said Frederick W. Smith, FedEx Corp. chairman, president and chief executive officer. "FedEx is in excellent position to take full advantage of global economic-growth trends and deliver overall outstanding financial results in the long run."
 
Outlook
For the fourth quarter, earnings are expected to be $1.93 to $2.08 per diluted share, while earnings for the full year are expected to be $6.45 to $6.60 per diluted share. Excluding the net impact of the costs associated with the new pilot labor contract, the updated guidance for fiscal 2007 is $6.70 to $6.85 per diluted share, an increase of 12% to 15% year over year excluding the impact of last year's non-cash lease accounting charge. The capital spending forecast for fiscal 2007 is $3.0 billion.
"Long-term we continue to maintain our goal of 10% to 15% annual earnings per share growth," said Alan B. Graf, Jr., executive vice president and chief financial officer. "However, FedEx earnings growth in our upcoming fiscal 2008, excluding the 2007 net impact of the new pilot contract, may be below our long-term earnings target due to slower economic growth and planned investments in our businesses. Regardless, we remain highly focused on improving margins, cash flow and returns and are confident that we can achieve our long-term earnings goals once economic conditions improve."
FedEx Express Segment
For the third quarter, the FedEx Express segment reported:
FedEx International Priority (IP) revenue grew 7% for the quarter, as IP revenue per package grew 4%, primarily due to favorable exchange rates, an increase in package weights and a higher rate per pound, offset by lower fuel surcharge. IP average daily package volume grew 3%. U.S. domestic revenue per package increased slightly, as increases in rate per pound were offset by lower fuel surcharge and changes in product mix. U.S. domestic average daily package volume declined 2%.
Operating margin declined primarily due to lower revenue growth, the timing impact of fuel surcharges and severe winter weather. Last year's third quarter benefited from the timing lag that exists between when the company purchases fuel and when indexed fuel surcharges automatically adjust. December 2005 fuel surcharges were set during the period fuel prices had spiked following Hurricane Katrina.
 
During the quarter, FedEx completed the acquisitions of ANC Holdings Ltd., a United Kingdom domestic express transportation company, and Prakash Air Freight Pvt. Ltd., its Indian express service company. Neither acquisition materially affected segment financial results for the quarter. However, the increase in purchased transportation was primarily driven by these acquisitions. FedEx Express also completed the acquisition of the express business of China's DTW Group on and will initiate a China domestic express service beginning in May 2007. These strategic investments will expand the company's global service offerings and deliver additional value to shareowners.
March 1
FedEx Ground Segment
For the third quarter, the FedEx Ground segment reported:
FedEx Ground average daily package volume grew 9% year over year in the third quarter due to increased commercial business and the continued strong growth in the FedEx Home Delivery service. Yield improved 2% primarily due to the impact of general rate increases and extra service revenues.
Operating margin was lower due to the timing impact of fuel surcharges, increased purchased transportation costs, severe winter weather and higher expenses associated with network expansion, which more than offset improved results at FedEx SmartPost.
FedEx Freight Segment
For the third quarter, the FedEx Freight segment reported:
Less-than-truckload (LTL) shipments increased 20% year over year due to the Watkins acquisition (now rebranded as FedEx National LTL). Excluding FedEx National LTL, average daily LTL shipments at FedEx Freight regional were down slightly year over year. LTL yield improved 12% year over year reflecting higher yields from longer-haul FedEx National LTL shipments and higher rates.
 
Operating margin declined during the quarter primarily due to operating losses at FedEx National LTL, which resulted from softening volumes and ongoing investments to re-engineer its network. Severe winter weather also impacted operating income and margin.
FedEx Kinko's Segment
For the third quarter, the FedEx Kinko's segment reported:
The FedEx Kinko's revenue decrease for the quarter was primarily due to declines in copy product revenues, which more than offset higher package acceptance fees paid by FedEx Express and FedEx Ground. Operating margin was negatively impacted by the copy product revenue decline, network expansion costs and higher employee development and training costs.
FedEx Kinko's continues a company-wide effort to refocus resources on core business priorities, including a multi-year network expansion using a lower-cost model. In the first nine months of the fiscal year, the company opened 150 centers and plans for a total of approximately 200 new locations by the end of FY07. In addition, FedEx Kinko's launched Print Online in October and is excited about the future prospects of this new Web-based, print-on-demand application.
Tax Rate
The company's effective tax rate was reduced to 33.2% for the third quarter and to 36.7% year to date. The rate reduction was primarily attributable to the conclusion of various state and federal audits and appeals. The company's fourth quarter effective tax rate is expected to be approximately 39% due to tax charges we expect to incur as a result of a reorganization in Asia associated with the company's acquisition in China. The company's effective tax rate for all of 2007 is expected to be approximately 37.5%.
 
Corporate Overview
FedEx Corp. (NYSE: FDX) provides customers and businesses worldwide with a broad portfolio of transportation, and business services. With annual revenues of $35 billion, the company offers integrated business applications through operating companies competing collectively and managed collaboratively, under the respected FedEx brand. Consistently ranked among the world's most admired and trusted employers, FedEx inspires its more than 275,000 employees and contractors to remain "absolutely, positively" focused on safety, the highest ethical and professional standards and the needs of their customers and communities. For more information, visit fedex.com.
e-commerce
Additional information and operating data are contained in the company's annual report, Form 10-K, Form 10-Qs and third quarter FY2007 Statistical Book. These materials, as well as a Webcast of the earnings release conference call to be held at 8:30 a.m. EDT on March 21, are available on the company's Web site at www.fedex.com/us/investorrelations. A replay of the conference call Webcast will be posted on our Web site following the call.
Certain statements in this press release may be considered forward-looking statements, such as statements relating to management's views with respect to future events and financial performance. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from historical experience or from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Potential risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, economic conditions in the global markets in which we operate, new U.S. domestic or international government regulation, the impact from any terrorist activities or international conflicts, our ability to effectively operate, integrate and leverage acquired businesses, the impact of changes in fuel prices and currency exchange rates, our ability to match capacity to shifting volume levels and other factors which can be found in FedEx Corp.'s and its subsidiaries' press releases and filings with the SEC.
Media Contact: Jess Bunn 901-818-7463 Investor Contact: Mickey Foster 901-818-7468 Home Page: fedex.com
 
The company believes that meaningful analysis of our financial performance requires an understanding of the factors underlying that performance and our judgments about the likelihood that particular factors will repeat. Excluding the net impact of the costs associated with the new pilot labor contract from this year's guidance and the impact of the non-cash lease accounting charge from last year's results will allow more accurate comparisons to prior periods of our operating performance in fiscal 2007. As required by SEC rules, the tables below present a reconciliation of our presented non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures.
 
 
 
 
 
1  Package statistics exclude FedEx SmartPost.
 
The results of operations for FedEx National LTL are included in our consolidated results from the date of acquisition on September 3, 2006.
 


