FILE:FDX/FDX-8K-20090617080705.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
The information in this Report, including the exhibit, is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and General Instruction B.2 thereunder. Such information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
SECTION 2. FINANCIAL INFORMATION.
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference is a copy of FedEx Corporation's press release, dated June 17, 2009, announcing its and its wholly owned subsidiary Federal Express Corporation's financial results for the fiscal quarter and year ended May 31, 2009.
SECTION 9. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
MEMPHIS, Tenn., June 17, 2009 ... FedEx Corp. (NYSE: FDX) today reported a loss of $2.82 per diluted share for the fourth quarter ended May 31, including $3.46 per diluted share of previously disclosed charges. Excluding these charges, fourth quarter earnings were $0.64 per diluted share. These charges approximate $1.2 billion ($1.1 billion noncash), resulting primarily from the impairment of goodwill related to the acquisitions of Kinko's, Inc. (now known as FedEx Office) and Watkins Motor Lines (now known as FedEx National LTL). These impairment charges reflect a decline in the current fair value of these companies in light of economic conditions and their recent and forecasted performance. The quarter also included costs from actions to align the company's networks to better match demand by removing equipment and facilities from service and reducing personnel.
Last year's fourth quarter loss was $0.78 per diluted share and included a charge of $2.22 per diluted share associated with the decision to minimize the use of the Kinko's trade name and a reduction in the value of the goodwill resulting from the Kinko's acquisition. Excluding this charge, fourth quarter earnings were $1.45 per diluted share a year ago.
"FedEx operations performed well even with strong economic headwinds, thanks to decisive management actions to control costs and committed team members who delivered outstanding service to our customers," said Frederick W. Smith, FedEx Corp. chairman, president and chief executive officer. "There are signs that the worst of the recession is behind us and we remain optimistic that we will see quarter-over-quarter economic improvement later this calendar year."
 
Fourth Quarter Results
FedEx Corp. reported the following consolidated results for the fourth quarter:
In addition to the impairment and other charges, operating performance continues to be restrained by the global recession, which is resulting in lower shipment volumes at FedEx Express and FedEx Freight and a very competitive pricing environment. Revenue was also negatively impacted by reduced fuel surcharges and lower shipment weight. Revenue declines were partially offset by stringent cost control efforts and share gains in the parcel market.
Full Year Results
FedEx Corp. reported the following consolidated results for the full year:
Capital spending for fiscal 2009 was $2.5 billion.
Outlook
FedEx projects earnings to be $0.30 to $0.45 per diluted share in the first quarter, compared to $1.23 per diluted share a year ago. This outlook assumes current fuel prices and a stable economic environment.
 
"The operating environment for our first two quarters in fiscal 2010 is expected to be extremely difficult," said Alan B. Graf, Jr., FedEx Corp. executive vice president and chief financial officer. "Manufacturing activity is expected to be substantially negative year over year through the summer and last year's first quarter results benefited from stronger economic activity, making earnings comparisons difficult. Also, the recent run-up in fuel prices will have a significant negative impact on our first quarter's results. At this time we do not have enough visibility into the economic recovery and jet fuel prices to provide a meaningful annual earnings forecast. However, we believe that FedEx will be poised for growth in our fiscal second half, as our many cost-saving initiatives gain traction and the economy begins to improve."
Total pension costs for fiscal 2010 are expected to increase approximately $125 million year over year. The capital spending forecast for fiscal 2010 is $2.6 billion, which includes significant investments in more fuel-efficient aircraft.
FedEx Express Segment
For the fourth quarter, the FedEx Express segment reported:
Operating income and margin were negatively impacted by charges of $260 million associated with aircraft-related charges and severance programs. These costs are the result of permanently removing ten Airbus A310-200 and four Boeing MD10-10 owned aircraft and certain excess aircraft engines from service, terminating certain aircraft-related leases and contracts and reducing management and staff positions.
U.S. domestic package revenue declined 21%, driven by a 19% drop in revenue per package due to lower fuel surcharges, weight per package and rate per pound. U.S. domestic package volume was down 2%. FedEx International Priority (IP) package revenue declined 27%. IP revenue per package declined 17% primarily due to lower fuel surcharges, unfavorable exchange rates and lower package weights, partially offset by a higher rate per pound. IP package volume fell 12%, with declines in all international regions.
 
The impact of declining revenue and rising fuel prices was partially offset by significant volume-related reductions in flight hours, labor hours, fuel consumption and purchased transportation, and a continued focus on aggressive expense reductions throughout the company.
FedEx Ground Segment
For the fourth quarter, the FedEx Ground segment reported:
FedEx Ground average daily package volume was essentially flat year over year. Yield decreased 1% primarily due to lower fuel surcharges. FedEx SmartPost revenue increased 21%, as average daily volume grew 66% largely due to market share gains, including gains from DHL's exit from the U.S. domestic package market.
FedEx Freight Segment
For the fourth quarter, the FedEx Freight segment reported:
The operating loss reflects a $90 million impairment charge related to the goodwill associated with the September 2006 acquisition of the U.S. and Canadian less-than-truckload freight operations of Watkins Motor Lines (now known as FedEx National LTL). The quarter also includes $10 million of charges primarily related to severance associated with personnel reductions.
Less-than-truckload (LTL) average daily shipments decreased 17% year over year, as a result of the current economic recession, which resulted in the weakest LTL environment in decades. LTL yield declined 11% due to lower fuel surcharges and the continuing effects of a competitive pricing environment resulting from excess capacity in the LTL industry. The revenue decline was partially offset by lower variable incentive compensation and continued stringent cost-containment initiatives.
 
FedEx Services Segment
FedEx Services fourth quarter segment revenue, which includes the operations of FedEx Office and FedEx Global Supply Chain Services, was down 13% year over year primarily due to declines in copy product revenues.
Fourth quarter results for FedEx Services include an $810 million goodwill impairment charge related to the acquisition of Kinko's (now known as FedEx Office). This charge was not allocated to the transportation segments, as the charge was unrelated to the core performance of those businesses.
Corporate Overview
FedEx Corp. (NYSE: FDX) provides customers and businesses worldwide with a broad portfolio of transportation, and business services. With annual revenues of $35 billion, the company offers integrated business applications through operating companies competing collectively and managed collaboratively, under the respected FedEx brand. Consistently ranked among the world's most admired and trusted employers, FedEx inspires its more than 280,000 team members to remain "absolutely, positively" focused on safety, the highest ethical and professional standards and the needs of their customers and communities. For more information, visit news.fedex.com.
e-commerce
Additional information and operating data are contained in the company's annual report, Form 10-K, Form 10-Qs and fourth quarter fiscal 2009 Statistical Book. These materials, as well as a Webcast of the earnings release conference call to be held at 8:30 a.m. EDT on June 17 are available on the company's Web site at www.fedex.com/us/investorrelations. A replay of the conference call Webcast will be posted on our Web site following the call.
 
Certain statements in this press release may be considered forward-looking statements, such as statements relating to management's views with respect to future events and financial performance. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from historical experience or from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Potential risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, economic conditions in the global markets in which we operate, legal challenges or changes related to FedEx Ground's owner-operators, new U.S. domestic or international government regulation, the impact from any terrorist activities or international conflicts, our ability to effectively operate, integrate and leverage acquired businesses, changes in fuel prices and currency exchange rates, our ability to match capacity to shifting volume levels and other factors which can be found in FedEx Corp.'s and its subsidiaries' press releases and filings with the SEC.
Media Contact: Jess Bunn 901-818-7463 Investor Contact: Mickey Foster 901-818-7468 Home Page: fedex.com
 
The company believes that meaningful analysis of our financial performance requires an understanding of the factors underlying that performance and our judgments about the likelihood that particular factors will repeat. Excluding the impact of the fourth quarter impairment and other charges from fiscal 2009 fourth quarter and full year results and Kinko's-related charges from fiscal 2008 fourth quarter and full year results will allow more accurate comparisons of our operating performance during these quarters and years. The tables below present a reconciliation of our presented non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures.
 
 
 
 
 
 


