FILE:FDX/FDX-8K-20090911091213.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
 
The information in Item 2.02 of this Report, including the exhibit, is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and General Instruction B.2 thereunder. Such information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
SECTION 2. FINANCIAL INFORMATION.
Attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference is a copy of FedEx Corporation's press release, dated September 11, 2009, announcing expected earnings for the fiscal quarter ended August 31, 2009.
SECTION 8. OTHER EVENTS.
On September 9, 2009, the Internal Revenue Service's audit team ("Audit Team") fully informed us of the results of their employment tax audit for the 2002 calendar year regarding the classification of independent contractors at FedEx Ground Package System, Inc. ("FedEx Ground"), a wholly owned subsidiary of FedEx Corporation. The Audit Team has proposed that no assessment of federal employment tax be made with respect to FedEx Ground's independent contractors, with the exception of independent contractors providing the FedEx Home Delivery service. With respect to those independent contractors, the Audit Team has notified us that they propose to assess tax and penalties of $14 million plus interest for 2002. Substantially all of the proposed assessment relates to employment and withholding taxes for the 2002 calendar year.
We intend to contest the erroneous conclusions in the audit. We expect that a final resolution may not occur for some time. We believe that we have strong defenses to the proposed assessment and will vigorously defend our position, as we continue to believe that all of FedEx Ground's independent contractors, including those providing the FedEx Home Delivery service, are independent contractors.
Similar issues are under audit by the IRS for calendar years 2004 through 2008. As the IRS is still conducting audit work for calendar years 2004 through 2008, we cannot yet determine the amount or a reasonable range of potential loss for these periods. However, we do not believe that loss is probable for either calendar year 2002 or any subsequent period.
 
SECTION 9. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibit is being furnished as part of this Report.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
FedEx Corporation
Date: September 11, 2009
By: Herbert C. Nappier Staff Vice President and Corporate Controller
s/ HERBERT C. NAPPIER                     
/
Federal Express Corporation
Date: September 11, 2009
By: J. Rick Bateman Vice President and Worldwide Controller
s/ J. RICK BATEMAN                           
/
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
MEMPHIS, Tenn. September 11, 2009... FedEx Corporation (NYSE: FDX) today announced that it expects to report earnings of $0.58 per diluted share for the first quarter ended August 31, down 53% from $1.23 per diluted share a year ago. The company's guidance for the quarter was $0.30 to $0.45 per diluted share.
FedEx expects earnings to be $0.65 to $0.95 per diluted share in the second quarter, which reflects the current outlook for fuel prices and a continued modest recovery in the global economy. A substantial decline is expected from $1.58 per diluted share a year ago, as the company significantly benefited from rapidly declining fuel prices and the timing lag that exists between when fuel prices change and when indexed fuel surcharges automatically adjust.
"FedEx first quarter financial performance exceeded our guidance thanks to better-than-expected FedEx International Priority volume, strict cost management and solid execution of our strategy," said Alan B. Graf, Jr., FedEx Corp. chief financial officer. "Despite some encouraging signs in the global economy, it is difficult to predict the timing and pace of any economic recovery. Revenue per shipment declined year over year in each of our transportation segments, as fuel surcharges declined significantly and we continue to face a very competitive pricing environment combined with significant overcapacity in the LTL freight market."
FedEx will release the details of its first quarter earnings on September 17, 2009.
 
Corporate Overview
FedEx Corp. (NYSE: FDX) provides customers and businesses worldwide with a broad portfolio of transportation, e-commerce and business services. With annual revenues of $35 billion, the company offers integrated business applications through operating companies competing collectively and managed collaboratively, under the respected FedEx brand. Consistently ranked among the world's most admired and trusted employers, FedEx inspires its more than 280,000 team members to remain "absolutely, positively" focused on safety, the highest ethical and professional standards and the needs of their customers and communities. For more information, visit .
news.fedex.com
Certain statements in this press release may be considered forward-looking statements, such as statements relating to management's views with respect to future events and financial performance. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from historical experience or from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Potential risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, economic conditions in the global markets in which we operate, legal challenges or changes related to FedEx Ground's owner-operators, new U.S. domestic or international government regulation, the impact from any terrorist activities or international conflicts, our ability to effectively operate, integrate and leverage acquired businesses, changes in fuel prices and currency exchange rates, our ability to match capacity to shifting volume levels and other factors which can be found in FedEx Corp.'s and its subsidiaries' press releases and filings with the SEC.
Media Contact: Jess Bunn 901-818-7463 Investor Contact: Mickey Foster 901-818-7468 Home Page: fedex.com


