FILE:FDX/FDX-8K-20091217080209.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
The information in this Report, including the exhibit, is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and General Instruction B.2 thereunder. Such information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
SECTION 2. FINANCIAL INFORMATION.
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference is a copy of FedEx Corporation's press release, dated December 17, 2009, announcing its and its wholly owned subsidiary Federal Express Corporation's financial results for the fiscal quarter ended November 30, 2009.
SECTION 9. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibit is being furnished as part of this Report.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
MEMPHIS, Tenn., December 17, 2009 ... FedEx Corp. (NYSE: FDX) today reported earnings of $1.10 per diluted share for the second quarter ended November 30, compared to $1.58 per diluted share a year ago.
"Positive momentum in the global economy and continued execution of our business strategy drove volume growth across all FedEx transportation segments, highlighted by increased international shipments," said Frederick W. Smith, FedEx Corp. chairman, president and chief executive officer. "We have taken decisive actions during the economic downturn to reduce expenses while expanding our networks in growth markets. We are providing outstanding service levels during our busiest shipping season thanks to the dedication of our more than 275,000 team members."
Second Quarter Results
FedEx Corp. reported the following consolidated results for the second quarter:
Revenue and earnings declined as a result of lower yields, primarily due to a substantial decline in fuel surcharges year over year. Shipment growth, particularly in international express and at FedEx Ground, and strict cost controls benefited results.
 
Outlook
FedEx expects earnings per share of $0.50 to $0.70 per diluted share in the third quarter, and $3.45 to $3.75 for fiscal 2010, which reflects the current market outlook for fuel prices and a continued modest recovery in the global economy. The company earned $0.31 per share in last year's third quarter. The company's capital spending forecast remains $2.6 billion.
"Our balance sheet is strong, volumes are growing, and we are encouraged by our performance as we emerge from the worst economic downturn in FedEx history," said Alan B. Graf Jr., FedEx Corp. executive vice president and chief financial officer. "While there is some uncertainty regarding the sustainability of current demand trends after our peak shipping season, we expect our strong operating leverage to provide improved year-over-year profitability in the second half of our fiscal year. Effective cost management remains a priority and should continue to benefit results."
With an outlook for modestly improving economic conditions and business performance, FedEx will resume merit salary increases for calendar 2010 as well as a 50% resumption of the 401(k) company match for most U.S. employees. These programs were suspended a year ago. In addition, second quarter results reflect expenses to accrue for expected payouts under the company's variable incentive compensation programs, which are designed to pay base incentives to most hourly, professional and manager-level employees prior to paying any amounts to senior management. These expected costs are included in the company's earnings guidance.
FedEx Express Segment
For the second quarter, the FedEx Express segment reported:
U.S. domestic average daily package volume increased 4%, while revenue per package dropped 19% due to lower fuel surcharges, rate per pound and weight per package. FedEx International Priority (IP) average daily package volume increased 6%. IP revenue per package declined 14% primarily due to lower fuel surcharges.
 
Operating income and margin declined year over year, as last year's results significantly benefited from falling fuel prices and the related fuel surcharge timing lag. Continued reductions in network operating costs driven by fewer flight hours and improved route efficiencies, along with other aggressive actions to control spending, partially offset the negative impact of fuel price. A one-time adjustment to a self-insurance program also benefited the quarter, but was largely offset by incremental variable compensation accruals.
FedEx Ground Segment
For the second quarter, the FedEx Ground segment reported:
FedEx Ground average daily package volume was up 4%. Yield decreased 2% primarily due to lower fuel surcharges. FedEx SmartPost average daily volume grew 63%, aided by gains from DHL's exit from the U.S. domestic package market. Operating income and margin grew primarily due to increased volume and improved productivity.
Earlier this month, FedEx Ground announced that it will be increasing FedEx Ground and FedEx Home Delivery rates by an average of 4.9%, effective January 4, 2010. FedEx Ground is also making various changes to surcharges, including modifications to its fuel surcharge table.
FedEx Freight Segment
For the second quarter, the FedEx Freight segment reported:
Less-than-truckload (LTL) yield decreased 12% due to the continuing effects of a competitive pricing environment and lower fuel surcharges. Average daily LTL shipments increased 3% year over year and growth rates improved month over month throughout the quarter. Operating income and margin decreased in the quarter due to the competitive pricing environment, partially offset by higher shipments.
 
FedEx Services Segment
FedEx Services segment revenue for the second quarter, which included the operations of FedEx Office, was down 12% year over year, due to declines in copy product revenues and the realignment of FedEx SupplyChain Systems to the FedEx Express reporting segment, effective September 1, 2009. The financial impact of this realignment was immaterial.
Corporate Overview
FedEx Corp. (NYSE: FDX) provides customers and businesses worldwide with a broad portfolio of transportation, e-commerce and business services. With annual revenues of $33 billion, the company offers integrated business applications through operating companies competing collectively and managed collaboratively, under the respected FedEx brand. Consistently ranked among the world's most admired and trusted employers, FedEx inspires its more than 275,000 team members to remain "absolutely, positively" focused on safety, the highest ethical and professional standards and the needs of their customers and communities. For more information, visit .
news.fedex.com
Additional information and operating data are contained in the company's annual report, Form 10-K, Form 10-Qs and second quarter fiscal 2010 Statistical Book. These materials, as well as a Webcast of the earnings release conference call to be held at 8:30 a.m. EST on December 17 are available on the company's Web site at . A replay of the conference call Webcast will be posted on our Web site following the call.
www.fedex.com/us/investorrelations
 
Certain statements in this press release may be considered forward-looking statements, such as statements relating to management's views with respect to future events and financial performance. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from historical experience or from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Potential risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, economic conditions in the global markets in which we operate, legal challenges or changes related to FedEx Ground's owner-operators, new U.S. domestic or international government regulation, the impact from any terrorist activities or international conflicts, our ability to effectively operate, integrate and leverage acquired businesses, changes in fuel prices and currency exchange rates, our ability to match capacity to shifting volume levels and other factors which can be found in FedEx Corp.'s and its subsidiaries' press releases and filings with the SEC.
Media Contact: Jess Bunn 901-818-7463 Investor Contact: Mickey Foster 901-818-7468 Home Page: fedex.com
 
 
 
 
 
 


