FILE:FDX/FDX-8K-20100916080016.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
The information in this Report, including the exhibit, is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and General Instruction B.2 thereunder. Such information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
SECTION 2. FINANCIAL INFORMATION.
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference is a copy of FedEx Corporation's press release, dated September 16, 2010, announcing its and its wholly owned subsidiary Federal Express Corporation's financial results for the fiscal quarter ended August 31, 2010.
SECTION 9. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibit is being furnished as part of this Report.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
MEMPHIS, Tenn., September 16, 2010 ... FedEx Corp. (NYSE: FDX) today reported earnings of $1.20 per diluted share for the first quarter ended August 31, up 107% from $0.58 per diluted share a year ago.
"Strong demand for our services resulted in higher volumes and better revenue per shipment at FedEx Express and FedEx Ground," said Frederick W. Smith, FedEx Corp. chairman, president and chief executive officer. "This increased demand comes from improved global economic conditions and the benefit provided by the strength and flexibility of our unparalleled global networks, which we've improved during the downturn to deliver even more reliability and value to our customers."
First Quarter Results
FedEx Corp. reported the following consolidated results for the first quarter:
Earnings increased as a result of strong FedEx International Priority (IP) growth at FedEx Express, continued growth at FedEx Ground and a benefit from the net impact of higher fuel surcharges. The reinstatement of certain employee compensation programs, higher pension, medical and aircraft maintenance expenses, and an operating loss at FedEx Freight dampened the quarter's solid results.
 
FedEx Freight to Combine Operations
FedEx will combine its FedEx Freight and FedEx National LTL operations effective January 30, 2011. This action will increase efficiencies and reduce operational costs. Additionally, it will provide customers a choice of priority or economy less-than-truckload (LTL) freight services across all lengths of haul from one integrated company. This change, along with the company's ongoing yield management initiatives, is expected to substantially improve the profitability of the FedEx Freight segment in fiscal 2012.
The estimated cost of this program is $150 to $200 million, primarily related to charges that will be recorded in the second and third quarters of fiscal 2011. These charges will include severance costs associated with personnel reductions, lease terminations and certain non-cash charges. The net cash effect from the one-time cost of these actions is expected to be immaterial over time due to anticipated proceeds from asset sales. As a result of this combination, headcount is expected to be reduced by approximately 1,700 full-time employees and approximately 100 facilities will be closed.
Outlook
FedEx projects earnings to be $1.15 to $1.35 per diluted share in the second quarter and $4.80 to $5.25 per diluted share for fiscal 2011, up from the company's previous estimate of $4.60 to $5.20 per diluted share. This guidance excludes any FedEx Freight combination costs, and also assumes the current market outlook for fuel prices and continued moderate growth in the global economy. The company reported earnings of $1.10 per diluted share in last year's second quarter. The capital spending forecast for fiscal 2011 has increased to $3.5 billion, primarily due to anticipated aircraft purchases for continued international growth.
The earnings ranges above exclude the costs from the FedEx Freight combination. Including the expected cost of this program, $0.14 to $0.18 per diluted share for the second quarter and $0.30 to $0.40 per diluted share for fiscal 2011, earnings are expected to be $0.97 to $1.21 per diluted share for the second quarter and $4.40 to $4.95 per diluted share for fiscal 2011. The actual cost will be dependent on the number and timing of employee departures and lease terminations.
 
"We expect continued strong demand for our package transportation services through at least December," said Alan B. Graf, Jr., FedEx Corp. executive vice president and chief financial officer. "Shippers of high value-added goods, especially in the technology sector, know that we have unmatched air express capacity to deliver quickly and reliably for them, even when demand surges. We expect the yield improvement initiatives we have underway, coupled with the current high utilization of our planes, vehicles and facilities, will drive higher earnings, margins and returns."
FedEx Express Segment
For the first quarter, the FedEx Express segment reported:
IP average daily package volume increased 19%, led by exports from Asia. IP revenue per package grew 4% primarily due to higher fuel surcharges and weight per package. IP Freight pounds increased 41%, led by exports from Latin America, Asia and the U.S., with revenue per pound up 10%. U.S. domestic revenue per package grew 7% due to higher fuel surcharges, weight per package and rate per pound, while average daily package volume increased 3%.
Operating profit and margin improvements were driven by volume and yield growth, particularly in higher margin IP package and freight services, along with a benefit from the net impact of higher fuel surcharges. Results also include higher compensation, benefits and aircraft maintenance expenses.
FedEx Express added a tenth daily scheduled transpacific flight in August, and an eleventh such flight earlier this week, providing needed capacity between Asia and the United States. There are currently six Boeing 777Fs operating on strategic, long-range international routes, providing best-in-market cut-off times. Two additional Boeing 777Fs, delivered in August, are scheduled to go into international service in October.
FedEx Ground Segment
For the first quarter, the FedEx Ground segment reported:
 
FedEx Ground average daily package volume grew 7% in the first quarter driven by increases in the business-to-business market and FedEx Home Delivery. Yield increased 5% primarily due to higher fuel surcharges and package weight. FedEx SmartPost average daily volume increased 9%, with net yield increasing 19%. The increase in FedEx SmartPost yield was primarily due to lower postage costs as a result of increased deliveries to U.S. Postal Service final destination facilities and increased fuel surcharges.
Operating income and margin increased due to higher package yield and volume, as well as a benefit from the net impact of higher fuel surcharges and lower self-insurance expenses.
FedEx Freight Segment
For the first quarter, the FedEx Freight segment reported:
LTL average daily shipments increased 29% and yield declined 3% year over year primarily due to the effects of discounted pricing in contracts signed in fiscal 2010. However, yields increased 4% from the fourth quarter as a result of the company's recent yield management initiatives to improve pricing.
Operating losses in the quarter were driven by lower yields and higher volume-related costs, as significantly higher shipment levels required increased purchased transportation and other expenses.
FedEx Services Segment
FedEx Services segment revenue for the first quarter, which included the operations of FedEx Office, was down 8% year over year, due to the September 1, 2009 realignment of FedEx SupplyChain Systems into the FedEx Express segment and declines in copy product revenues.
Corporate Overview
FedEx Corp. (NYSE: FDX) provides customers and businesses worldwide with a broad portfolio of transportation, e-commerce and business services.
 
With annual revenues of $36 billion, the company offers integrated business applications through operating companies competing collectively and managed collaboratively, under the respected FedEx brand. Consistently ranked among the world's most admired and trusted employers, FedEx inspires its more than 280,000 team members to remain "absolutely, positively" focused on safety, the highest ethical and professional standards and the needs of their customers and communities. For more information, visit .
news.fedex.com
Additional information and operating data are contained in the company's annual report, Form 10-K, Form 10-Qs and first quarter fiscal 2011 Statistical Book. These materials, as well as a Webcast of the earnings release conference call to be held at 8:30 a.m. EDT on September 16 are available on the company's Web site at . A replay of the conference call Webcast will be posted on our Web site following the call.
www.fedex.com/us/investorrelations
Certain statements in this press release may be considered forward-looking statements, such as statements relating to management's views with respect to future events and financial performance. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from historical experience or from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Potential risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, economic conditions in the global markets in which we operate, legal challenges or changes related to FedEx Ground's owner-operators, new U.S. domestic or international government regulation, the impact from any terrorist activities or international conflicts, our ability to effectively operate, integrate and leverage acquired businesses, changes in fuel prices and currency exchange rates, our ability to match capacity to shifting volume levels and other factors which can be found in FedEx Corp.'s and its subsidiaries' press releases and filings with the SEC.
Media Contact: Jess Bunn 901-818-7463 Investor Contact: Mickey Foster 901-818-7468 Home Page: fedex.com
 
The company believes that meaningful analysis of our financial performance requires an understanding of the factors underlying that performance and our judgments about the likelihood that particular factors will repeat. Excluding the expected costs of the combination of FedEx Freight and FedEx National LTL operations from our earnings guidance will allow more accurate comparisons to prior periods of our expected operating performance in fiscal 2011. As required by SEC rules, the tables below present a reconciliation of our presented non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures.
 
 
 
 
 
 


