FILE:FDX/FDX-8K-20110622081049.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
The information in this Report, including the exhibit, is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and General Instruction B.2 thereunder. Such information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
SECTION 2. FINANCIAL INFORMATION.
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference is a copy of FedEx Corporation's press release, dated June 22, 2011, announcing its and its wholly owned subsidiary Federal Express Corporation's financial results for the fiscal quarter and year ended May 31, 2011.
SECTION 9. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibit is being furnished as part of this Report.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
MEMPHIS, Tenn., June 22, 2011 ... FedEx Corp. (NYSE: FDX) today reported earnings of $1.75 per diluted share for the fourth quarter ended May 31, compared to $1.33 per diluted share a year ago, a year-over-year increase of 32%.
"During fiscal 2011, an improved economy, strong customer demand and decisive actions to grow our business led to increased volumes and yields across all transportation segments," said Frederick W. Smith, FedEx Corp. chairman, president and chief executive officer. "With this positive momentum, moderate economic growth and subsiding cost headwinds, FedEx is well positioned to deliver strong earnings growth in fiscal 2012."
Fourth Quarter Results
FedEx Corp. reported the following consolidated results for the fourth quarter:
Revenue and earnings increased due to continued strong yield improvement in all transportation segments and volume growth of ground and international express shipments. FedEx Freight's return to profitability also improved operating results.
 
Full Year Results
FedEx Corp. reported the following consolidated results for the full year:
Capital spending for fiscal 2011 was $3.4 billion, of which $2.0 billion was for investments in aircraft and related equipment.
Outlook
FedEx projects earnings to be $1.40 to $1.60 per diluted share in the first quarter and $6.35 to $6.85 per diluted share for fiscal 2012. This guidance assumes the current market outlook for fuel prices and continued moderate growth in the global economy. The company reported earnings of $1.20 per diluted share in last year's first quarter. The capital spending forecast for fiscal 2012 is $4.2 billion, which includes the delivery of aircraft as well as progress payments toward future aircraft deliveries, along with investments in facilities, vehicles and information technology in support of the company's global growth strategy. The company will benefit from the tax expensing/accelerated depreciation provisions included in the Tax Relief Act of 2010 passed last December.
"Our actions to improve yields continue to drive revenue and earnings growth across our transportation segments," said Alan B. Graf, Jr., FedEx Corp. executive vice president and chief financial officer. "FedEx Ground maintained its exceptional performance this quarter, increasing volume, yields and margins, while FedEx Freight returned to profitability. Even with higher planned capital spending in fiscal 2012, margins, cash flows and returns are expected to improve year over year."
 
FedEx Express Segment
For the fourth quarter, the FedEx Express segment reported:
FedEx International Priority (IP) average daily package volume increased 6%, led by exports from Asia. IP revenue per package grew 8% due to higher fuel surcharges, the favorable impact of exchange rates, improved weight per package and yield management actions. IP freight pounds increased 13% with revenue per pound up 6% due to higher fuel surcharges and the favorable impact of exchange rates. In total, IP package and freight revenue increased 15% and pounds increased 9% year-over-year. U.S. domestic revenue per package grew 10% due to higher fuel surcharges, yield management actions and increased weight per package, with slightly lower U.S. domestic average daily package volume.
Operating income improvements were driven by strong yield growth, particularly in U.S. domestic package services, and by volume growth in IP package and freight services. Results were negatively impacted by increased retirement plan expenses and the reinstatement of certain compensation programs.
FedEx Ground Segment
For the fourth quarter, the FedEx Ground segment reported:
FedEx Ground average daily package volume grew 6% in the fourth quarter driven by increases in the business-to-business market and the FedEx Home Delivery service. Revenue per package increased 7% primarily due to yield management actions and higher fuel surcharges. FedEx SmartPost average daily volume increased 24% due to growth in e-commerce and gains in market share. FedEx SmartPost revenue per package increased 8% primarily due to growth in higher-yielding services and increased fuel surcharges.
 
Operating income and margin increased primarily due to higher package yield and volume.
FedEx Freight Segment
For the fourth quarter, the FedEx Freight segment reported:
Less-than-truckload (LTL) yield increased 13% primarily due to yield management actions and higher LTL fuel surcharges. LTL average daily shipments decreased 8% as a result of the yield management actions.
The segment returned to profitability in the quarter due primarily to the higher LTL yield. Last year's results included an $18 million impairment charge related to the goodwill associated with the acquisition of Watkins Motor Lines. Strong yield growth and efficiencies resulting from the January 30, 2011 combination of the FedEx Freight and FedEx National LTL operations are expected to drive a substantial improvement in operating results in fiscal 2012. The net cash effect of the combination was immaterial, as cash proceeds of $88 million from asset sales offset severance and other cash outlays.
Corporate Overview
FedEx Corp. (NYSE: FDX) provides customers and businesses worldwide with a broad portfolio of transportation, e-commerce and business services. With annual revenues of $39 billion, the company offers integrated business applications through operating companies competing collectively and managed collaboratively, under the respected FedEx brand. Consistently ranked among the world's most admired and trusted employers, FedEx inspires its more than 290,000 team members to remain "absolutely, positively" focused on safety, the highest ethical and professional standards and the needs of their customers and communities. For more information, visit .
news.fedex.com
Additional information and operating data are contained in the company's annual report, Form 10-K, Form 10-Qs and fourth quarter fiscal 2011
 
Statistical Book. These materials, as well as a Webcast of the earnings release conference call to be held at 8:30 a.m. EDT on June 22 are available on the company's Web site at . A replay of the conference call Webcast will be posted on our Web site following the call.
www.fedex.com/us/investorrelations
Certain statements in this press release may be considered forward-looking statements, such as statements relating to management's views with respect to future events and financial performance. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from historical experience or from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Potential risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, economic conditions in the global markets in which we operate, legal challenges or changes related to FedEx Ground's owner-operators, new U.S. domestic or international government regulation, the impact from any terrorist activities or international conflicts, our ability to effectively operate, integrate and leverage acquired businesses, changes in fuel prices and currency exchange rates, our ability to match capacity to shifting volume levels and other factors which can be found in FedEx Corp.'s and its subsidiaries' press releases and filings with the SEC.
Media Contact: Jess Bunn 901-818-7463 Investor Contact: Mickey Foster 901-818-7468 Home Page: fedex.com
 
The company believes that meaningful analysis of our financial performance requires an understanding of the factors underlying that performance and our judgments about the likelihood that particular factors will repeat. Excluding a reserve associated with a legal matter in the second quarter and the costs of the combination of FedEx Freight and FedEx National LTL operations from our full-year earnings, net of applicable incentive compensation impacts, will allow more accurate comparisons to prior periods of operating performance for fiscal 2011. As required by SEC rules, the table below presents a reconciliation of our presented non-GAAP measure to the most directly comparable GAAP measure.
 
 
 
 
1  Current year includes a $66 million reserve for a legal matter.
 
 


