FILE:FDX/FDX-8K-20120925125859.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 5. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT.
Item 5.07. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
 
 
: The stockholders elected twelve directors, each of whom will hold office until the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2013 and until his or her successor is duly elected and qualified. Each director received more votes cast "for" than votes cast "against" his or her election. The tabulation of votes with respect to each nominee for director was as follows:
Proposal 1
 
: The Audit Committee's designation of Ernst & Young LLP as FedEx's independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending May 31, 2013 was ratified by stockholders. The tabulation of votes on this matter was as follows:
Proposal 2
 
 
 
 
 
: The compensation of FedEx's named executive officers was approved, on an advisory basis, by stockholders. The tabulation of votes on this matter was as follows:
Proposal 3
 
 
 
 
: A stockholder proposal requesting that the Board of Directors adopt a policy that the Chairman of the Board be an independent director who has not previously served as an executive officer of FedEx was not approved by stockholders. The tabulation of votes on this matter was as follows:
Proposal 4
 
 
 
 
: A stockholder proposal requesting that FedEx publish a report, updated semi-annually, disclosing information about FedEx's political contributions was not approved by stockholders. The tabulation of votes on this matter was as follows:
Proposal 5
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


