Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements and Reclassification of Certain Subsidiaries to held for sale. The impact of the restatement adjustments was an increase to previously reported income from continuing operations and net income of $41 million and $43 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2006. The impact of the restatement adjustments resulted in a decrease to previously reported income from continuing operations and net income of $37 million and $38 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2005. The restatement adjustments also resulted in an increase to previously reported income from continuing operations and a decrease to net loss of $1 million, $8 million and $9 million, for the three, six and nine months ended March 31, June 30 and September 30, 2007, respectively.   THE AES CORPORATION FISCAL YEAR 2007 FORM 10 K TABLE OF CONTENTS Page PART I 1 ITEM 1. BUSINESS 2 Overview 2 Segments 6 Customers 17 Employees 17 Executive Officers 17 How to Contact AES and Sources of Other Information 19 Regulatory Matters 20 Subsequent Events 45 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 47 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 65 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 65 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 66 ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS 74 PART II 75 ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 75 Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities 75 Market Information 75 Holders 77 Dividends 78 ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 78 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 80 Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements and Reclassification of Certain Subsidiaries to Held for Sale 80 Overview of Our Business 85 2007 Performance Highlights 89 Consolidated Results of Operations 91 Critical Accounting Estimates 103 New Accounting Pronouncements 105 Capital Resources and Liquidity 106 Off Balance Sheet Arrangements 117 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 119 Overview Regarding Market Risks 119 Interest Rate Risks 119 Foreign Exchange Rate Risk 119 Commodity Price Risk 119 Value at Risk 120 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. If any of the following events actually occur, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. Risks Associated with our Disclosure Controls and Internal Control over Financial Reporting Due to material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting were determined not to be effective for each fiscal quarter since December 31, 2004 through December 31, 2007. Our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not be effective in future periods as a result of existing or newly identified material weaknesses in internal controls. Our management reported material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting for each of the fiscal quarters since December 31, 2004 through December 31, 2007. A material weakness is a deficiency (within the meaning of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board ("PCAOB") Auditing Standard No. 5), or a combination of deficiencies, that adversely affects a companys ability to initiate, authorize, record, process, or report external financial data reliably in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. Our management concluded that for each of the fiscal quarters since December 31, 2004 through December 31, 2007, we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective to provide reasonable assurance that financial information that we are required to disclose in our reports under the Exchange Act was recorded, processed, summarized and reported accurately. For a discussion of material weaknesses reported by management as of December 31, 2007, see Item 9A Controls and Procedures in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. To address these material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, each time we prepared our annual and quarterly reports we performed additional analyses and other post closing procedures. These additional procedures are costly, time consuming and require us to dedicate a significant amount of our resources, including the time and attention of our senior management, toward the correction of these problems. Nevertheless, even with these additional procedures, the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting caused us to have errors in our financial statements and over the past 3 years we have restated our annual financial statements six times to correct these errors. Although we reported remediation of certain material weaknesses as of December 31, 2007 and continue to execute plans to remediate the remaining material weaknesses in 2008, there can be no assurance as to when the remediation plans will be fully implemented, nor can there be any assurance that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. Due to our decentralized structure and our disparate accounting systems, we have additional work remaining to remediate our material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting. Until our remediation efforts are completed, we will continue to be at an increased risk that our financial statements could contain errors that will be undetected, and we will continue to incur significant expense and management burdens associated with the additional procedures required to prepare the consolidated financial statements. Management, including our CEO and CFO, does not expect that our internal controls will prevent or detect all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. 47 Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Any evaluation of the effectiveness of controls is subject to risks that those internal controls may become inadequate in future periods because of changes in business conditions, changes in accounting practice or policy, or that the degree of compliance with the revised policies or procedures deteriorates. Our identification of material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting caused us to miss deadlines for certain SEC filings and if further filing delays occur, they could result in negative attention and or legal consequences for the Company. Our identification of the material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting caused us to delay the filing of certain quarterly and annual reports with the SEC to dates that went beyond the deadline prescribed by the SECs rules to file such reports. We did not timely file with the SEC our quarterly and annual reports for the year ended December 31, 2005, our quarterly reports for the second and third quarters of 2006, our annual report for the year ended December 31, 2006, and our quarterly report for the quarter ended March 31, 2007. Under SEC rules, failure to timely file these reports prohibits us from offering and selling our securities pursuant to our shelf registration statement on Form S 3, which has impaired and will continue to impair our ability to access the capital markets through the public sale of registered securities in a timely manner. We will regain our S 3 eligibility on June 1, 2008 if we timely file all required reports through that date. The failure to file our annual and quarterly reports with the SEC in a timely fashion also resulted in covenant defaults under our senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing certain of our outstanding debt securities. Such defaults required us to obtain a waiver from the lenders under the senior secured credit facility; however the default under the indentures was cured upon the filing of the reports within the permitted grace period. Until our remediation efforts are completed, there will continue to be an increased risk that we will be unable to timely file future periodic reports with the SEC and that a related default under our senior secured credit facility and indentures could occur. In addition, the material weaknesses in internal controls, the restatements of our financial statements, and the delay in the filing of our annual and quarterly reports and any similar problems in the future could have other adverse effects on our business, including, but not limited to: impairing our ability to access the capital markets, including, but not limited to the inability to offer and sell securities pursuant to a shelf registration statement on Form S 3; litigation or an expansion of the SECs informal inquiry into our restatements or the commencement of formal proceedings by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which could require us to incur significant legal expenses and other costs or to pay damages, fines or other penalties; additional covenant defaults, and potential events of default, under our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing our outstanding debt securities, resulting from our failure to timely file our financial statements; negative publicity; ratings downgrades; or the loss or impairment of investor confidence in the Company. 48 Risks Related to our High Level of Indebtedness We have a significant amount of debt, a large percentage of which is secured, which could adversely affect our business and the ability to fulfill our obligations. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $18.0 billion of outstanding indebtedness on a consolidated basis. All outstanding borrowings under The AES Corporations senior secured credit facility, our Second Priority Senior Secured Notes and certain other indebtedness are secured by certain of our assets, including the pledge of capital stock of many of The AES Corporations directly held subsidiaries. Most of the debt of The AES Corporations subsidiaries is secured by substantially all of the assets of those subsidiaries. Since we have such a high level of debt, a substantial portion of cash flow from operations must be used to make payments on this debt. Furthermore, since a significant percentage of our assets are used to secure this debt, this reduces the amount of collateral that is available for future secured debt or credit support and reduces our flexibility in dealing with these secured assets. This high level of indebtedness and related security could have other important consequences to us and our investors, including: making it more difficult to satisfy debt service and other obligations; increasing the likelihood of a downgrade of our debt, which can cause future debt payments to increase and consume an even greater portion of cash flow; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; reducing the availability of cash flow to fund other corporate purposes and grow our business; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; placing us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that are not as highly leveraged; and limiting, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants relating to such indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds as needed or take advantage of business opportunities as they arise, pay cash dividends or repurchase common stock. The agreements governing our indebtedness, including the indebtedness of our subsidiaries, limit but do not prohibit the incurrence of additional indebtedness. To the extent we become more leveraged, the risks described above would increase. Further, our actual cash requirements in the future may be greater than expected. Accordingly, our cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to repay at maturity all of the outstanding debt as it becomes due and, in that event, we may not be able to borrow money, sell assets or otherwise raise funds on acceptable terms or at all to refinance our debt as it becomes due. The AES Corporation is a holding company and its ability to make payments on its outstanding indebtedness, including its public debt securities, is dependent upon the receipt of funds from its subsidiaries by way of dividends, fees, interest, loans or otherwise. The AES Corporation is a holding company with no material assets, other than the stock of its subsidiaries. All of The AES Corporations revenue is generated through its subsidiaries. Accordingly, almost all of The AES Corporations cash flow is generated by the operating activities of its subsidiaries. Therefore, The AES Corporations ability to make payments on its indebtedness and to fund its other obligations is dependent not only on the ability of its subsidiaries to generate cash, but also on the ability of the subsidiaries to distribute cash to it in the form of dividends, fees, interest, loans or otherwise. However, our subsidiaries face various restrictions in their ability to distribute cash to The AES Corporation. Most of the subsidiaries are obligated, pursuant to loan agreements, indentures or project financing arrangements, to satisfy certain restricted payment covenants or other conditions before they 49 may make distributions to The AES Corporation. In addition, the payment of dividends or the making of loans, advances or other payments to The AES Corporation may be subject to legal or regulatory restrictions. Business performance and local accounting and tax rules may limit the amount of retained earnings, which is in many cases the basis of dividend payments. Subsidiaries in foreign countries may also be prevented from distributing funds to The AES Corporation as a result of restrictions imposed by the foreign government or repatriating funds or converting currencies. Any right The AES Corporation has to receive any assets of any of its subsidiaries upon any liquidation, dissolution, winding up, receivership, reorganization, assignment for the benefit of creditors, marshaling of assets and liabilities or any bankruptcy, insolvency or similar proceedings (and the consequent right of the holders of The AES Corporations indebtedness to participate in the distribution of, or to realize proceeds from, those assets) will be effectively subordinated to the claims of any such subsidiarys creditors (including trade creditors and holders of debt issued by such subsidiary). The AES Corporations subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and, unless they have expressly guaranteed any of The AES Corporations indebtedness, have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay any amounts due pursuant to such debt or to make any funds available whether by dividends, fees, loans or other payments. While some of The AES Corporations subsidiaries guarantee its indebtedness under its Senior Secured Credit Facility and certain other indebtedness, none of its subsidiaries guarantee, or are otherwise obligated with respect to, its outstanding public debt securities. Even though The AES Corporation is a holding company, existing and potential future defaults by subsidiaries or affiliates could adversely affect The AES Corporation. We attempt to finance our domestic and foreign projects primarily under loan agreements and related documents which, except as noted below, require the loans to be repaid solely from the projects revenues and provide that the repayment of the loans (and interest thereon) is secured solely by the capital stock, physical assets, contracts and cash flow of that project subsidiary or affiliate. This type of financing is usually referred to as non recourse debt or "project financing." In some project financings, The AES Corporation has explicitly agreed to undertake certain limited obligations and contingent liabilities, most of which by their terms will only be effective or will be terminated upon the occurrence of future events. These obligations and liabilities take the form of guarantees, indemnities, letter of credit reimbursement agreements and agreements to pay, in certain circumstances, the project lenders or other parties. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $18.0 billion of outstanding indebtedness on a consolidated basis, of which approximately $5.6 billion was recourse debt of The AES Corporation and approximately $12.4 billion was non recourse debt. In addition, at December 31, 2007, The AES Corporation had provided: financial and performance related guarantees or other credit support commitments (excluding letters of credit) to or for the benefit of its subsidiaries, which were limited by the terms of the agreements, to an aggregate of approximately $807 million; and $512 million in letters of credit outstanding and less than $1 million in surety bonds outstanding, which operate to guarantee performance relating to certain project construction and development activities and subsidiary operations. The AES Corporation is also obligated under other commitments, which are limited to amounts, or percentages of amounts, received by The AES Corporation as distributions from its project subsidiaries. In addition, The AES Corporation has commitments to fund its equity in projects currently under development or in construction. Some of our subsidiaries are currently in default with respect to all or a portion of their outstanding indebtedness. The total debt classified as current in our consolidated balance sheets related to such defaults was $118 million at December 31, 2007. While the lenders under our non recourse 50 project financings generally do not have direct recourse to The AES Corporation (other than to the extent of any credit support given by The AES Corporation), defaults there under can still have important consequences for The AES Corporation, including, without limitation: reducing The AES Corporations receipt of subsidiary dividends, fees, interest payments, loans and other sources of cash since the project subsidiary will typically be prohibited from distributing cash to The AES Corporation during the pendancy of any default; triggering The AES Corporations obligation to make payments under any financial guarantee, letter of credit or other credit support which The AES Corporation has provided to or on behalf of such subsidiary; causing The AES Corporation to record a loss in the event the lender forecloses on the assets; triggering defaults in The AES Corporations outstanding debt and trust preferred instruments. For example, The AES Corporations senior secured credit facility and outstanding senior notes include events of default for certain bankruptcy related events involving material subsidiaries. In addition, The AES Corporations senior secured credit facility includes certain events of default relating to accelerations of outstanding debt of material subsidiaries; or the loss or impairment of investor confidence in the Company. None of the projects that are currently in default are owned by subsidiaries that meet the applicable definition of materiality in The AES Corporations senior secured credit facility in order for such defaults to trigger an event of default or permit acceleration under such indebtedness. However, as a result of future write down of assets, dispositions and other matters that affect our financial position and results of operations, it is possible that one or more of these subsidiaries could fall within the definition of a "material subsidiary" and thereby upon an acceleration of such subsidiarys debt, trigger an event of default and possible acceleration of the indebtedness under The AES Corporations senior secured credit facility. Risks Associated with our Ability to Raise Needed Capital The AES Corporation has significant cash requirements and limited sources of liquidity. The AES Corporation requires cash primarily to fund: principal repayments of debt; interest and preferred dividends; acquisitions; construction and other project commitments; other equity commitments, including business development investments; taxes; and parent company overhead costs. The AES Corporations principal sources of liquidity are: dividends and other distributions from its subsidiaries; proceeds from debt and equity financings at the parent company level; and proceeds from asset sales. For a more detailed discussion of The AES Corporations cash requirements and sources of liquidity, please see Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Capital Resources and Liquidity in this 2007 Form 10 K. 51  While we believe that these sources will be adequate to meet our obligations at the parent company level for the foreseeable future, this belief is based on a number of material assumptions, including, without limitation, assumptions about our ability to access the capital or commercial lending markets, the operating and financial performance of our subsidiaries, exchange rates, our ability to sell assets, and the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends. Any number of assumptions could prove to be incorrect and therefore there can be no assurance that these sources will be available when needed or that our actual cash requirements will not be greater than expected. In addition, our cash flow may not be sufficient to repay at maturity the entire principal outstanding under our credit facilities and our debt securities and may have to refinance such obligations. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining such refinancing and any of these events could have a material effect on us. Our ability to grow our business could be materially adversely affected if we were unable to raise capital on favorable terms. Our ability to arrange for financing on either a recourse or non recourse basis and the costs of such capital are dependent on numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: general economic and capital market conditions; the availability of bank credit; investor confidence; the financial condition, performance and prospects of The AES Corporation in general and or that of any subsidiary requiring the financing; and changes in tax and securities laws which are conducive to raising capital. In recent quarters beginning in 2007, credit conditions and credit markets have weakened considerably, which has made it difficult for many companies to arrange for financing on a recourse or non recourse basis. Should future access to capital not be available to us, we may have to sell assets or decide not to build new plants or acquire existing facilities, either of which would affect our future growth. A downgrade in the credit ratings of The AES Corporation or its subsidiaries could adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets which could increase our interest costs or adversely affect our liquidity and cash flow. From time to time, we rely on access to capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by operating cash flows. If any of the credit ratings of The AES Corporation or its subsidiaries were to be downgraded, our ability to raise capital on favorable terms could be impaired and our borrowing costs would increase. Furthermore, depending on The AES Corporations credit ratings and the trading prices of its equity and debt securities, counter parties may no longer be as willing to accept general unsecured commitments by The AES Corporation to provide credit support. Accordingly, with respect to both new and existing commitments, The AES Corporation may be required to provide some other form of assurance, such as a letter of credit, to backstop or replace any credit support by The AES Corporation. There can be no assurance that such counter parties will accept such guarantees in the future. In addition, to the extent The AES Corporation is required and able to provide letters of credit or other collateral to such counter parties; it will limit the amount of credit available to The AES Corporation to meet its other liquidity needs. 52 We may not be able to raise sufficient capital to fund "greenfield" projects in certain less developed economies which could change or in some cases adversely affect our growth strategy. Part of our strategy is to grow our business by developing Generation and Utility businesses in less developed economies where the return on our investment may be greater than projects in more developed economies. Commercial lending institutions sometimes refuse to provide non recourse project financing in certain less developed economies, and in these situations we have sought and will continue to seek direct or indirect (through credit support or guarantees) project financing from a limited number of multilateral or bilateral international financial institutions or agencies. As a precondition to making such project financing available, the lending institutions may also require governmental guarantees of certain project and sovereign related risks. There can be no assurance, however, that project financing from the international financial agencies or that governmental guarantees will be available when needed, and if they are not, we may have to abandon the project or invest more of our own funds which may not be in line with our investment objectives and would leave less funds for other projects. External Risks Associated with Revenue and Earnings Volatility Our financial position and results of operations may fluctuate significantly due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates experienced at our foreign operations. Our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations results primarily from the translation exposure associated with the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as from transaction exposure associated with transactions in currencies other than an entitys functional currency. While the Consolidated Financial Statements are reported in U.S. Dollars, the financial statements of many of our subsidiaries outside the United States are prepared using the local currency as the functional currency and translated into U.S. Dollars by applying appropriate exchange rates. As a result, fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. Dollar relative to the local currencies where our subsidiaries outside the United States report could cause significant fluctuations in our results. In addition, while our expenses with respect to foreign operations are generally denominated in the same currency as corresponding sales, we have transaction exposure to the extent receipts and expenditures are not offsetting in the subsidiarys functional currency. We also experience foreign transaction exposure to the extent monetary assets and liabilities, including debt, are in a different currency than the subsidiarys functional currency. Moreover, the costs of doing business abroad may increase as a result of adverse exchange rate fluctuations. Our financial position and results of operations have been significantly affected by fluctuations in the value of a number of currencies, primarily the Brazilian real and Argentine peso. As our Brazilian and Argentine businesses primarily identify their local currency as its functional currency, recent appreciation of these currencies has resulted in the decrease of deferred translation losses (foreign currency translation adjustments recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss) based on positive net asset positions. Devaluation has also resulted in foreign currency transaction losses primarily associated with U.S. Dollar debt at these businesses. In addition, because it is difficult to estimate the overall impact of foreign exchange fluctuations related to translation exposure on our results of operations, we do not separately quantify the impact on earnings. Our businesses may incur substantial costs and liabilities and be exposed to price volatility as a result of risks associated with the wholesale electricity markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. Some of our Generation businesses sell electricity in the wholesale spot markets in cases where they operate wholly or partially without long term power sales agreements. Our Utility businesses and, to the extent they require additional capacity, our Generation business, also buys electricity in the 53 wholesale spot markets. As a result, we are exposed to the risks of rising and falling prices in those markets. The open market wholesale prices for electricity are very volatile and often reflect the fluctuating cost of coal, natural gas, or oil. Consequently, any changes in the supply and cost of coal, natural gas, and oil may impact the open market wholesale price of electricity. Volatility in market prices for fuel and electricity may result from among other things: plant availability; competition; demand for energy commodities; electricity usage; seasonality; interest rate and foreign exchange rate fluctuation; availability and price of emission credits; input prices; weather; illiquid markets; transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies; availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources; available supplies of natural gas, crude oil and refined products, and coal; generating unit performance; natural disasters, terrorism, wars, embargoes and other catastrophic events; energy, market and environmental regulation, legislation and policies; geopolitical concerns affecting global supply of oil and natural gas; and general economic conditions in areas where we operate which impact energy consumption. The Company has faced gas curtailments in the past. For example, gas supply in the Argentine market is increasingly scarce and exports have been both taxed and curtailed. Gas supply curtailments can be exacerbated during the Argentine winter (May through September) when domestic demand for electricity experiences a seasonal increase. Since substantially all of the gas used in the Chilean power sector is currently imported from Argentina, gas curtailments can impact our Chilean operations through higher fuel costs and higher costs of purchased energy from the spot market. Our natural gas fired plant in Southern Brazil, Uruguaiana, has also been impacted by limited fuel supply. Since 2004, Uruguaiana has had its gas supply interrupted from May to September. During this period, Uruguaiana purchases energy from the spot market and through bilateral contracts to fulfill its sales contracts and has paid higher fuel prices as a result. During the fourth quarter of 2007, the combination of gas curtailments and increases in the spot market price of energy triggered an impairment analysis of Uruguaianas long lived assets for recoverability. As a result of this impairment analysis, a pre tax impairment charge of $352 million was recognized which represents a full impairment of the fixed assets. In addition, our business depends upon transmission facilities owned and operated by others. If transmission is disrupted or capacity is inadequate or unavailable, our ability to sell and deliver power may be limited. Several of our Alternative Energy initiatives may, if we are successful in developing 54 them further, operate without long term sales or fuel supply agreements, and, as a result, may experience significant volatility in their results of operations. We may not be adequately hedged against our exposure to changes in commodity prices. We routinely enter into contracts to hedge a portion of our purchase and sale commitments for electricity, fuel requirements and other commodities to lower our financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations. As part of this strategy, we routinely utilize fixed price forward physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps, and option contracts traded in the over the counter markets or on exchanges. However, we may not cover the entire exposure of our assets or positions to market price volatility, and the coverage will vary over time. Furthermore, the risk management procedures we have in place may not always be followed or may not work as planned. In particular, if prices of commodities significantly deviate from historical prices or if the price volatility or distribution of these changes deviates from historical norms, our risk management system may not protect us from significant losses. As a result, fluctuating commodity prices may negatively impact our financial results to the extent we have unhedged or inadequately hedged positions. In addition, certain types of economic hedging activities may not qualify for hedge accounting under GAAP, resulting in increased volatility in our net income. Certain of our businesses are sensitive to variations in weather. Our energy business is affected by variations in general weather conditions and unusually severe weather. Our businesses forecast electric sales on the basis of normal weather, which represents a long term historical average. While we also consider possible variations in normal weather patterns and potential impacts on our facilities and our businesses, there can be no assurance that such planning can prevent these impacts, which can adversely affect our business. Generally, demand for electricity peaks in winter and summer. Typically, when winters are warmer than expected and summers are cooler than expected, demand for energy is lower, resulting in less electric consumption than forecasted. Significant variations from normal weather where our businesses are located could have a material impact on our results of operations. In addition, we are dependent upon hydrological conditions prevailing from time to time in the broad geographic regions in which our hydroelectric generation facilities are located. If hydrological conditions result in droughts or other conditions that negatively affect our hydroelectric generation business, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In the past, our businesses in Latin America have been negatively impacted by lower than normal rainfall. Risks Associated with our Operations We do a significant amount of business outside the United States which presents significant risks. A significant amount of our revenue is generated outside the United States and a significant portion of our international operations is conducted in developing countries. Part of our growth strategy is to expand our business in developing countries because the growth rates and the opportunity to implement operating improvements and achieve higher operating margins may be greater than those typically achievable in more developed countries. International operations, particularly the operation, financing and development of projects in developing countries, entail significant risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation: economic, social and political instability in any particular country or region; adverse changes in currency exchange rates; government restrictions on converting currencies or repatriating funds; 55 unexpected changes in foreign laws and regulations or in trade, monetary or fiscal policies; high inflation and monetary fluctuations; restrictions on imports of coal, oil, gas or other raw materials required by our generation businesses to operate; threatened or consummated expropriation or nationalization of our assets by foreign governments; difficulties in hiring, training and retaining qualified personnel, particularly finance and accounting personnel with U.S. GAAP expertise; unwillingness of governments, government agencies or similar organizations to honor their contracts; inability to obtain access to fair and equitable political, regulatory, administrative and legal systems; adverse changes in government tax policy; difficulties in enforcing our contractual rights or enforcing judgments or obtaining a just result in local jurisdictions; and potentially adverse tax consequences of operating in multiple jurisdictions. Any of these factors, by itself or in combination with others, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, in the second quarter of 2007, we sold our stake in EDC to Petr&oacute;leos de Venezuela, S.A. ("PDVSA"); the state owned energy company in Venezuela after Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez threatened to expropriate the electricity business in Venezuela. In connection with the sale, we recognized an impairment charge of approximately $680 million. In addition, our Latin American operations experience volatility in revenues and earnings which have caused and are expected to cause significant volatility in our results of operations and cash flows. The volatility is caused by regulatory and economic difficulties, political instability and currency devaluations being experienced in many of these countries. This volatility reduces the predictability and enhances the uncertainty associated with cash flows from these businesses. The operation of power generation and distribution facilities involves significant risks that could adversely affect our financial results. The operation of power generation and distribution facilities involves many risks, including: equipment failure causing unplanned outages; failure of transmission systems; the dependence on a specified fuel source, including the transportation of fuel; catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes and similar occurrences; and environmental compliance. Any of these risks could have an adverse effect on our generation and distribution facilities. In addition, a portion of our generation facilities were constructed many years ago. Older generating equipment may require significant capital expenditures for maintenance. This equipment is also likely to require periodic upgrading and improvement. Breakdown or failure of one of our operating facilities may prevent the facility from performing under applicable power sales agreements which, in certain 56 situations, could result in termination of a power purchase or other agreement or incurring a liability for liquidated damages. As a result of the above risks and other potential hazards associated with the power generation and distribution industries, we may from time to time become exposed to significant liabilities for which we may not have adequate insurance coverage. Power generation involves hazardous activities, including acquiring, transporting and unloading fuel, operating large pieces of rotating equipment and delivering electricity to transmission and distribution systems. In addition to natural risks, such as earthquakes, floods, lightning, hurricanes and wind, hazards, such as fire, explosion, collapse and machinery failure, are inherent risks in our operations which may occur as a result of inadequate internal processes, technological flaws, human error or certain external events. The control and management of these risks are based on adequate development and training of personnel and on the existence of operational procedures, preventative maintenance plans and specific programs supported by quality control systems which minimize the possibility of the occurrence and impact of these risks. The hazards described above can cause significant personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property, plant and equipment, contamination of, or damage to, the environment and suspension of operations. The occurrence of any one of these events may result in us being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting claims for substantial damages, environmental cleanup costs, personal injury and fines and or penalties. We maintain an amount of insurance protection that we believe is adequate, but there can be no assurance that our insurance will be sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which we may be subject. A successful claim for which we are not fully insured could hurt our financial results and materially harm our financial condition. Further, due to rising insurance costs and changes in the insurance markets, we cannot provide assurance that insurance coverage will continue to be available at all or on terms similar to those presently available to us. Any such losses not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our ability to attract and retain skilled people could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our operating success and ability to carry out growth initiatives depends in part on our ability to retain executives and to attract and retain additional qualified personnel who have experience in our industry and in operating a company of our size and complexity, including people in our foreign businesses. The inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, because of the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacements. In particular, we routinely are required to assess the financial and tax impacts of complicated business transactions which occur on a worldwide basis. These assessments are dependent on hiring personnel on a worldwide basis with sufficient expertise in U.S. GAAP to timely and accurately comply with U.S. reporting obligations. An inability to maintain adequate internal accounting and managerial controls and hire and retain qualified personnel could have an adverse affect on our ability to report our financial condition and results of operations. We have contractual obligations to certain customers to provide full requirements service, which makes it difficult to predict and plan for load requirements and may result in increased operating costs to certain of our businesses. We have contractual obligations to certain customers to supply power to satisfy all or a portion of their energy requirements. The uncertainty regarding the amount of power that our power generation and distribution facilities must be prepared to supply to customers may increase our operating costs. A significant under or over estimation of load requirements could result in our facilities not having enough or having too much power to cover their obligations, in which case we would be required to buy or sell power from or to third parties at prevailing market prices. Those prices may not be favorable and thus could increase our operating costs. 57 Much of our generation business is dependent on one or a limited number of customers and a limited number of fuel suppliers. Many of our generation plants conduct business under long term contracts. In these instances we rely on power sales contracts with one or a limited number of customers for the majority of, and in some case all of, the relevant plants output and revenues over the term of the power sales contract. The remaining terms of the power sales contracts range from 1 to 25 years. In many cases, we also limit our exposure to fluctuations in fuel prices by entering into long term contracts for fuel with a limited number of suppliers. In these instances, the cash flows and results of operations are dependent on the continued ability of customers and suppliers to meet their obligations under the relevant power sales contract or fuel supply contract, respectively. Some of our long term power sales agreements are for prices above current spot market prices. The loss of significant power sales contracts or fuel supply contracts, or the failure by any of the parties to such contracts that prevents us from fulfilling our obligations thereunder could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have sought to reduce this counter party credit risk under these contracts in part by entering into power sales contracts with utilities or other customers of strong credit quality and by obtaining guarantees from the sovereign government of the customers obligations. However, many of our customers do not have, or have failed to maintain, an investment grade credit rating, and our Generation business can not always obtain government guarantees and if they do, the government does not always have an investment grade credit rating. We have also sought to reduce our credit risk by locating our plants in different geographic areas in order to mitigate the effects of regional economic downturns. However, there can be no assurance that our efforts to mitigate this risk will be successful. Competition is increasing and could adversely affect us. The power production markets in which we operate are characterized by numerous strong and capable competitors, many of whom may have extensive and diversified developmental or operating experience (including both domestic and international) and financial resources similar to or greater than us. Further, in recent years, the power production industry has been characterized by strong and increasing competition with respect to both obtaining power sales agreements and acquiring existing power generation assets. In certain markets these factors have caused reductions in prices contained in new power sales agreements and, in many cases, have caused higher acquisition prices for existing assets through competitive bidding practices. The evolution of competitive electricity markets and the development of highly efficient gas fired power plants have also caused, or are anticipated to cause, price pressure in certain power markets where we sell or intend to sell power. The foregoing competitive factors could have a material adverse effect on us. Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in our operating performance or cost structure. We are in the business of generating and distributing electricity, which involves certain risks that can adversely affect financial and operating performance, including: changes in the availability of our generation facilities or distribution systems due to increases in scheduled and unscheduled plant outages, equipment failure, labor disputes, disruptions in fuel supply, inability to comply with regulatory or permit requirements or catastrophic events such as fires, floods, storms, hurricanes, earthquakes, explosions, terrorist acts or other similar occurrences; and changes in our operating cost structure including, but not limited to, increases in costs relating to: gas, coal, oil and other fuel; fuel transportation; purchased electricity; operations, maintenance and repair; environmental compliance, including the cost of purchasing emissions 58 offsets and capital expenditures to install environmental emission equipment; transmission access; and insurance. Any of the above risks could adversely affect our business and results of operations, and our ability to meet publicly announced projections or analysts expectations. Our business is subject to substantial development uncertainties. Certain of our subsidiaries and affiliates are in various stages of developing and constructing "greenfield" power plants, some but not all of which have signed long term contracts or made similar arrangements for the sale of electricity. Successful completion depends upon overcoming substantial risks, including, but not limited to, risks relating to failures of siting, financing, construction, permitting, governmental approvals or the potential for termination of the power sales contract as a result of a failure to meet certain milestones. We believe that capitalized costs for projects under development are recoverable; however, there can be no assurance that any individual project will be completed and reach commercial operation. If these development efforts are not successful, we may abandon a project under development and write off the costs incurred in connection with such project. At the time of abandonment, we would expense all capitalized development costs incurred in connection therewith and could incur additional losses associated with any related contingent liabilities. Our acquisitions may not perform as expected. Historically, we have achieved a majority of our growth through acquisitions. We plan to continue to grow our business through acquisitions. Although acquired businesses may have significant operating histories, we will have a limited or no history of owning and operating many of these businesses and possibly limited or no experience operating in the country or region where these businesses are located. Some of these businesses may be government owned and some may be operated as part of a larger integrated utility prior to their acquisition. If we were to acquire any of these types of businesses, there can be no assurance that: we will be successful in transitioning them to private ownership; such businesses will perform as expected; we will not incur unforeseen obligations or liabilities; such business will generate sufficient cash flow to support the indebtedness incurred to acquire them or the capital expenditures needed to develop them; or the rate of return from such businesses will justify our decision to invest our capital to acquire them. In some of our joint venture projects, we have granted protective rights to minority holders or we own less than a majority of the equity in the project and do not manage or otherwise control the project, which entails certain risks. We have invested in some joint ventures where we own less than a majority of the voting equity in the venture. Very often, we seek to exert a degree of influence with respect to the management and operation of projects in which we have less than a majority of the ownership interests by operating the project pursuant to a management contract, negotiating to obtain positions on management committees or to receive certain limited governance rights, such as rights to veto significant actions. However, we do not always have this type of control over the project in every instance; and we may be dependent on our co venturers to operate such projects. Our co venturers may not have the level of experience, technical expertise, human resources, management and other attributes necessary to operate these 59 projects optimally. The approval of co venturers also may be required for us to receive distributions of funds from projects or to transfer our interest in projects. In some joint venture agreements where we do have majority control of the voting securities, we have entered into shareholder agreements granting protective minority rights to the other shareholders. For example, Brasiliana Energia ("Brasiliana") is a holding company in which we have a controlling equity interest and through which we own three of our four Brazilian businesses: Eletropaulo, Tiet&ecirc; and Uruguaiana. We entered into a shareholders agreement with an affiliate the Brazilian National Development Bank ("BNDES") which owns more than 49 percent of the voting equity of Brasiliana. Among other things, the shareholders agreement requires the consent of both parties before taking certain corporate actions, grants both parties rights of first refusal in connection with the sale of interests in Brasiliana and grants drag along rights to BNDES. In May, 2007, BNDES notified us that it intends to sell all of its interest in Brasiliana pursuant to public auction (the "Brasiliana Sale"). BNDES also informed us that if we fail to exercise our right of first refusal to purchase all of its interest in Brasiliana, then BNDES intends to exercise its drag along rights under the shareholders agreement and cause us to sell all of our interests in Brasiliana in the Brasiliana Sale as well. After the auction, if a third party offer has been received in the Brasiliana Sale, we will have 30 days to exercise our right of first refusal to purchase all of BNDESs interest in Brasiliana on the same terms as the third party offer. If we do not exercise this right and BNDES proceeds to exercise its drag along rights, then we may be forced to sell all of our interest in Brasiliana. Due to the uncertainty in the sale price at this point in time, we are uncertain whether we will exercise our right of first refusal should BNDES receive a valid third party offer in the Brasiliana Sale and, if we do, whether we would do it alone or with joint venture partners. Even if we desire to exercise our right of first refusal, we cannot assure that we will have the cash on hand or that debt or equity financing will be available at acceptable terms in order to purchase BNDESs interest in Brasiliana. If we do not exercise our right of first refusal, we cannot be assured that we will not have to record a loss if the sale price is below the book value of our investment in Brasiliana. Our Alternative Energy businesses face uncertain operational risks. In many instances, our Alternative Energy businesses target industries that are created by, or are significantly affected by technological innovation or new lines of business that are outside our core expertise of Generation and Utilities. Given the nascent nature of these industries, our ability to predict actual performance results may be hindered and we ultimately may not be successful in these areas. Our Alternative Energy businesses may experience higher levels of volatility. Our Alternative Energy efforts are, to some degree, focused on new or emerging markets. As these markets develop, long term fixed price contracts for the major cost and revenue components may be unavailable, which may result in these businesses having relatively high levels of volatility. Risks associated with Governmental Regulation and Laws Our operations are subject to significant government regulation and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in the law or regulatory schemes. Our inability to predict, influence or respond appropriately to changes in law or regulatory schemes, including any inability to obtain expected or contracted increases in electricity tariff rates or tariff adjustments for increased expenses, could adversely impact our results of operations or our ability to meet publicly announced projections or analysts expectations. Furthermore, changes in laws or regulations or changes in the application or interpretation of regulatory provisions in jurisdictions 60 where we operate, particularly our Utilities where electricity tariffs are subject to regulatory review or approval, could adversely affect our business, including, but not limited to: changes in the determination, definition or classification of costs to be included as reimbursable or pass through costs, including but not limited to costs incurred to upgrade our power plants to comply with more stringent environmental regulations; changes in the determination of what is an appropriate rate of return on invested capital or a determination that a utilitys operating income or the rates it charges customers is too high, resulting in a reduction of rates or consumer rebates; changes in the definition or determination of controllable or non controllable costs; changes in the definition of events which may or may not qualify as changes in economic equilibrium; changes in the timing of tariff increases; or other changes in the regulatory determinations under the relevant concessions. Any of the above events may result in lower margins for the affected businesses, which can adversely affect our business. In addition, the Company may face actions from regulatory authorities relating to the structure of its business arrangements. As further described in Item 3 Legal Proceedings of this Form 10 K, the Company is facing antimonopoly regulatory actions in Kazahkstan from the Competition Committee. As noted in Item 1 Business Regulatory Matters IPL of this Form 10 K, in December 2007, IPL received a letter from the staff of the IURC, requesting information relevant to its periodic review of its rates and charges. In the letter, IURC staff indicated its concern that higher than usual 2007 earnings may continue in the future. It is not clear what action, if any, the IURC staff will recommend as a result of its review. As noted in Item 1 Business Regulatory Matters Hungary of this Form 10 K, the European Committees Commissioner for Competition has indicated informally that she considers the long term power purchase arrangements between the state owned entity, MVM, and certain power generators, including the contract with AES Tisza II power plant to be contrary to applicable EU laws and has encouraged the Hungarian government to terminate the long term power purchase agreements. If the Hungarian authorities follow the Commissions decision, they may seek to revise the contracts and or require the power generators, including AES Tisza II, to repay certain funds. It is possible that the Company may also face additional regulatory actions of this type and, depending on the outcome, such actions could have a material adverse impact on the Company. In addition, in many countries where we conduct business, the regulatory environment is constantly changing or the regulations can be difficult to interpret. As a result, there is risk that we may not properly interpret certain regulations and may not understand the impact of certain regulations on our business. For example, in October 2006, ANEEL, which regulates our utility operations at Sul and Eletropaulo in Brazil, issued Normative Resolution 234 requiring that utilities begin amortizing a liability called "Special Obligations" beginning with their second tariff reset cycle in 2007 or a later year as an offset to depreciation expense. As of May 23, 2007, the date of the filing of our 2006 Form 10 K, no industry positions or any other consensus had been reached regarding how ANEEL guidance should be applied at that date and accordingly, no adjustments to the financial statements were made relating to Special Obligations in Brazil. Subsequent to May 23, 2007, industry discussions occurred and other Brazilian companies filed Forms 20 F with the SEC reflecting the impact of Resolution 234 in their December 31, 2006 financial statements differently from how the Company accounted for Resolution 234. In the absence of any significant regulatory developments between May 23, 2007 and the date of these other filings, the Company determined that Resolution 234 required us to record an adjustment to our Special Obligations liability as of December 31, 2006. In part, the decision to record the adjustment led to the restatement of our financial statements in the third quarter of 2007. 61  Our Generation business in the United States is subject to the provisions of various laws and regulations administered in whole or in part by the FERC, including the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 ("PURPA") and the Federal Power Act. The recently enacted Energy Policy Act of 2005 ("EPAct 2005") made a number of changes to these and other laws that may affect our business. Actions by the FERC and by state utility commissions can have a material effect on our operations. EPAct 2005 authorizes the FERC to remove the obligation of electric utilities under Section 210 of PURPA to enter into new contracts for the purchase or sale of electricity from or to QFs if certain market conditions are met. Pursuant to this authority, the FERC has instituted a rebuttable presumption that utilities located within the control areas of the Midwest Transmission System Operator, Inc., PJM ("Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Maryland") Interconnection, L.L.C., ISO New England, Inc., the New York Independent System Operator and the Electric Reliability Council of Texas, Inc. are not required to purchase or sell power from or to QFs above a certain size. In addition, the FERC is authorized under the new law to remove the purchase/sale obligations of individual utilities on a case by case basis. While the new law does not affect existing contracts, as a result of the changes to PURPA, our QFs may face a more difficult market environment when their current long term contracts expire. EPAct 2005 repealed PUHCA of 1935 and enacted PUHCA of 2005 in its place. PUHCA 1935 had the effect of requiring utility holding companies to operate in geographically proximate regions and therefore limited the range of potential combinations and mergers among utilities. By comparison PUHCA 2005 has no such restrictions and simply provides the FERC and state utility commissions with enhanced access to the books and records of certain utility holding companies. The repeal of PUHCA 1935 may spur an increased number of mergers and the creation of large, geographically dispersed utility holding companies. These entities may have enhanced financial strength and therefore an increased ability to compete with us in the U.S. generation market. In accordance with Congressional mandates in the EPAct 1992 and now in EPAct 2005, the FERC has strongly encouraged competition in wholesale electric markets. Increased competition may have the effect of lowering our operating margins. Among other steps the FERC has encouraged RTOs and ISOs to develop demand response bidding programs as a mechanism for responding to peak electric demand. These programs may reduce the value of our peaking assets which rely on very high prices during a relatively small number of hours to recover their costs. Similarly, the FERC is encouraging the construction of new transmission infrastructure in accordance with provisions of EPAct 2005. Although new transmission lines may increase market opportunities, they may also increase the competition in our existing markets. While the FERC continues to promote competition, some state utility commissions have reversed course and begun to encourage the construction of generation facilities by traditional utilities to be paid for on a cost of service basis by retail ratepayers. Such actions have the effect of reducing sale opportunities in the competitive wholesale generating markets in which we operate. Our businesses are subject to stringent environmental laws and regulations. Our activities are subject to stringent environmental laws and regulation by many federal, state and local authorities, international treaties and foreign governmental authorities. These regulations generally involve emissions into the air, effluents into the water, use of water, wetlands preservation, remediation of contamination, waste disposal, endangered species and noise regulation, among others. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations or to obtain any necessary environmental permits pursuant to such laws and regulations could result in fines or other sanctions. Environmental laws and regulations affecting power generation and distribution are complex and have tended to become more stringent over time. Congress and other domestic and foreign governmental authorities have either considered or implemented various laws and regulations to restrict or tax certain emissions, particularly those involving air and water emissions. See the various descriptions of these laws and regulations 62 contained in Item 1 Business Regulatory Matters Environmental and Land Use Regulations of this Form 10 K. These laws and regulations have imposed, and proposed laws and regulations could impose in the future, additional costs on the operation of our power plants. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant capital and other expenditures to comply with these and other environmental laws and regulations. Changes in, or new, environmental restrictions may force us to incur significant expenses or that may exceed our estimates. There can be no assurance that we would be able to recover all or any increased environmental costs from our customers or that our business, financial condition or results of operations would not be materially and adversely affected by such expenditures or any changes in domestic or foreign environmental laws and regulations. Regulators, politicians, non governmental organizations and other private parties have expressed concern about greenhouse gas, or GHG, emissions and are taking actions which, in addition to the potential physical risks associated with climate change, could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. As discussed in Item 1 Business Regulatory Matters Environmental and Land Use Regulations, at the international, federal and various regional and state levels, policies are under development to regulate GHG emissions, thereby effectively putting a cost on such emissions in order to create financial incentives to reduce them. In 2006, the Companys subsidiaries operated businesses which had total approximate CO2 emissions of 84 million metric tonnes (ownership adjusted and including approximately 6 million metric tonnes from EDC which the Company sold in 2007). Approximately 38 million metric tonnes of the 84 million metric tonnes were emitted by businesses located in the United States (both figures ownership adjusted). Federal, state or regional regulation of GHG emissions could have a material adverse impact on the Companys financial performance. The actual impact on the Companys financial performance and the financial performance of the Companys subsidiaries will depend on a number of factors, including among others, the GHG reductions required under any such legislation or regulations, the price and availability of offsets, the extent to which market based compliance options are available, the extent to which our subsidiaries would be entitled to receive GHG emissions allowances without having to purchase them in an auction or on the open market and the impact of such legislation or regulation on the ability of our subsidiaries to recover costs incurred. Another factor is the success of our climate solutions business, which may generate credits that will help offset our GHG emissions. However, as set forth in the Risk Factor titled "Our Alternative Energy businesses face uncertain operational risks," there is no guarantee that the climate solutions business will be successful. And even if our climate solutions business is successful, the level of benefit is unclear with regard to the impact of legislation or litigation concerning GHG emissions. In January 2005, based on European Community "Directive 2003/87/EC on Greenhouse Gas Emission Allowance Trading," the European Union Greenhouse Gas Emission Trading Scheme ("EU ETS") commenced operation as the largest multi country GHG emission trading scheme in the world. On February 16, 2005, the "Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change" (the "Kyoto Protocol") became effective. The Kyoto Protocol requires the 40 developed countries that have ratified it to substantially reduce their GHG emissions, including CO2. To date, compliance with the Kyoto Protocol and the EU ETS has not had a material adverse effect on the Companys consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The United States has not ratified the Kyoto Protocol. In the United States, there currently are no federal mandatory GHG emission reduction programs (including CO2) affecting the electric power generation facilities of the Companys subsidiaries. However, there are several proposed GHG legislative initiatives in the United States Congress that would, if enacted, constrain GHG emissions, including CO2, and or make them more costly. On April 2, 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court issued its decision in a case involving the regulation of CO2 emissions from motor vehicles under the U.S. Clean Air Act. The Court ruled that CO2 is a 63 pollutant which potentially could be subject to regulation under the U.S. Clean Air Act and that the U.S. EPA has a duty to determine whether CO2 emissions contribute to climate change or to provide some reasonable explanation why it will not exercise its authority. Since electric power generation facilities, particularly coal fired facilities, are a significant source of CO2 emissions both in the United States and globally, the Courts decision, coupled with stimulus from regulators, politicians, non governmental organizations, private parties, the courts and other factors could result in a determination by the U.S. EPA to regulate CO2 emissions from electric power generation facilities. While the majority of current state, regional and federal initiatives regarding CO2 emissions contemplate market based compliance mechanisms (e.g., cap and trade), such a determination by the U.S. EPA could result in CO2 emission limits on stationary sources that do not include market based compliance mechanisms (e.g., carbon tax, CO2 emission limits, etc.). At the state level, regional initiatives such as the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, or RGGI, a cap and trade program covering CO2 emissions from electric power generation facilities in the Northeast, and the Western Climate Initiative, or WCI, are developing market based programs to address GHG emissions. WCIs conceptual program design to achieve GHG reductions from the electric power generation industry is not expected to be available until August 2008. In addition, several states, including California, have adopted comprehensive legislation that, when implemented, would require mandatory GHG reductions from several industrial sectors, including the electric power generation industry. See "Business Regulatory Matters Environmental and Land Use Regulations" of this 10 K for further discussion about the environmental regulations we face. At this time, other than with regard to RGGI (further described below), the Company cannot estimate the costs of compliance with U.S. federal, regional or state CO2 emissions reductions legislation or initiatives, due to the fact that these proposals are in earlier stages of development and any final regulations, if adopted, could vary drastically from current proposals. The RGGI states are in the process of promulgating regulations needed for implementation, with six of the ten states issuing drafts regulations to implement RGGI for public comment. The program is expected to become effective in January 2009 and the first regional auction of RGGI allowances needed to be acquired by power generators to comply with state programs implementing RGGI could be held sometime in 2008. Our subsidiaries in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and Maryland will be subject to RGGI if the RGGI regulations are duly effectuated in each RGGI state. Of the approximately 38 million metric tonnes of CO2 emitted in the United States by our subsidiaries in 2006 (ownership adjusted), approximately 12 million metric tonnes were emitted in U.S. states participating in RGGI. We believe that due to the absence of allowance allocations, RGGI as currently contemplated could have an adverse impact on the Companys consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. For forecasting purposes, the Company has modeled the impact of CO2 compliance for 2009 2012 for its businesses that are subject to RGGI and that may not be able to pass through compliance costs. The model utilizes an allowance price of $3.05 per metric tonne under RGGI. The source of this per tonne price estimate was the average price of a CO2 emissions voluntary compliance instrument on the Chicago Climate Exchange for the six month period ending November 15, 2007. The model also assumes, among other things, that RGGI will be structured solely on the public auction of allowances and that certain costs will be recovered by our subsidiaries. Based on these assumptions, the Company estimates that the RGGI compliance costs could be approximately $30 million per year in 2009 2012. Given all of the uncertainties surrounding RGGI, including those discussed in Item 1 Business Regulatory Matters Environmental and Land Use Regulations of this 10 K and the fact that the assumptions utilized in the model may prove to be incorrect, there is a significant risk that our actual compliance costs under RGGI will differ from estimates by a material amount. In addition to government regulators, other groups such as politicians, environmentalists and other private parties have expressed increasing concern about GHG emissions. For example, certain financial institutions have recently expressed concern about providing financing for facilities which would emit 64 GHGs, which can affect our ability to obtain capital, or if we can obtain capital, to receive it on commercially viable terms. In addition, rating agencies may decide to downgrade our credit ratings based on the emissions of the businesses operated by our subsidiaries or increased compliance costs which could make financing unattractive. In addition, as disclosed in Item 3 Legal Proceedings of this Form 10 K, the New York Attorney General has issued a subpoena to the Company seeking documents and information concerning the Companys analysis and public disclosure of the potential impacts that GHG legislation and climate change from GHG emissions might have on the Companys operations and results. Environmental groups and other private plaintiffs have brought and may decide to bring additional private lawsuits against the Company because of its subsidiaries GHG emissions. Furthermore, according to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, physical risks from climate change could include, but are not limited to, increased runoff and earlier spring peak discharge in many glacier and snow fed rivers, warming of lakes and rivers, an increase in sea level, changes and variability in precipitation and in the intensity and frequency of extreme weather events. Physical impacts may have the potential to significantly affect the Companys business and operations. For example, extreme weather events could result in increased downtime and operation and maintenance costs at the electric power generation facilities and support facilities of the Companys subsidiaries. Variations in weather conditions, primarily temperature and humidity, attributable to climate change also would be expected to affect the energy needs of customers. A decrease in energy consumption could decrease the revenues of the Companys subsidiaries. In addition, while revenues would be expected to increase if the energy consumption of customers increased, such increase could prompt the need for additional investment in generation capacity. Changes in the temperature of lakes and rivers and changes in precipitation that result in drought could adversely affect the operations of the fossil fuel fired electric power generation facilities of the Companys subsidiaries. Changes in temperature, precipitation and snow pack conditions also could affect the amount and timing of hydroelectric generation. If any of the foregoing risks materialize, costs may increase or revenues may decrease and there could be a material adverse effect on the electric power generation businesses of the Companys subsidiaries and on the Companys consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We and our affiliates are subject to material litigation and regulatory proceedings. We and our affiliates are parties to material litigation and regulatory proceedings. See Business Legal Proceedings below. There can be no assurances that the outcome of such matters will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position. The SEC is conducting an informal inquiry relating to our restatements. We have been cooperating with an informal inquiry by the SEC Staff concerning our restatements and related matters, and have been providing information and documents to the SEC Staff on a voluntary basis. Because we are unable to predict the outcome of this inquiry, the SEC Staff may disagree with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported the financial impact of the adjustments to previously filed financial statements and there may be a risk that the inquiry by the SEC could lead to circumstances in which we may have to further restate previously filed financial statements, amend prior filings or take other actions not currently contemplated. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 65 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES We maintain offices in many places around the world, generally pursuant to the provisions of long and short term leases, none of which are material. With a few exceptions, our facilities, which are described in Item 1 of this Form 10 K, are subject to mortgages or other liens or encumbrances as part of the projects related finance facility. In addition, the majority of our facilities are located on land that is leased. However, in a few instances, no accompanying project financing exists for the facility, and in a few of these cases, the land interest may not be subject to any encumbrance and is owned outright by the subsidiary or affiliate. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS The Company is involved in certain claims, suits and legal proceedings in the normal course of business. The Company has accrued for litigation and claims where it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. The Company believes, based upon information it currently possesses and taking into account established reserves for estimated liabilities and its insurance coverage, that the ultimate outcome of these proceedings and actions is unlikely to have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial statements. However, it is reasonably possible that some matters could be decided unfavorably to the Company, and could require the Company to pay damages or make expenditures in amounts that could be material but cannot be estimated as of December 31, 2007. The Company has evaluated claims, in accordance with SFAS No. 5 Accounting for Contingencies, ("SFAS No. 5"), that it deems both probable and reasonably estimatable and accordingly, has recorded aggregate reserves for all claims for approximately $486 million as of December 31, 2007. In 1989, Centrais El&eacute;tricas Brasileiras S.A. ("Eletrobr&aacute;s") filed suit in the Fifth District Court in the State of Rio de Janeiro against Eletropaulo Eletricidade de S&atilde;o Paulo S.A. ("EEDSP") relating to the methodology for calculating monetary adjustments under the parties financing agreement. In April 1999, the Fifth District Court found for Eletrobr&aacute;s and, in September 2001, Eletrobr&aacute;s initiated an execution suit in the Fifth District Court to collect approximately R$825 million (US$492 million) from Eletropaulo (as estimated by Eletropaulo) and a lesser amount from an unrelated company, Companhia de Transmiss&atilde;o de Energia El&eacute;trica Paulista ("CTEEP") (Eletropaulo and CTEEP were spun off from EEDSP pursuant to its privatization in 1998). Eletropaulo appealed and in September 2003, the Appellate Court of the State of Rio de Janeiro ruled that Eletropaulo was not a proper party to the litigation because any alleged liability was transferred to CTEEP pursuant to the privatization. Subsequently, both Eletrobr&aacute;s and CTEEP filed separate appeals to the Superior Court of Justice ("SCJ"). In June 2006, the SCJ reversed the Appellate Courts decision and remanded the case to the Fifth District Court for further proceedings, holding that Eletropaulos liability, if any, should be determined by the Fifth District Court. Eletropaulo subsequently filed a motion for clarification of that decision, which was denied in February 2007. In April 2007, Eletropaulo filed appeals with the Special Court (the highest court within the SCJ) and the Supreme Court of Brazil. Eletropaulos appeal to the Special Court has been dismissed. However, the Supreme Court has not yet determined whether it will consider Eletropaulos appeal. Eletrobr&aacute;s may resume the execution suit in the Fifth District Court at any time. If Eletrobr&aacute;s does so, Eletropaulo may be required to provide security in the amount of its alleged liability. In addition, in February 2008, CTEEP filed a lawsuit in the Fifth District Court against Eletrobr&aacute;s and Eletropaulo seeking a declaration that CTEEP is not liable for any debt under the financing agreement. Eletropaulo believes it has meritorious defenses to the claims asserted against it and will defend itself vigorously in these proceedings; however, there can be no assurances that it will be successful in its efforts. In September 1999, a state appellate court in Minas Gerais, Brazil, granted a temporary injunction suspending the effectiveness of a shareholders agreement between Southern Electric Brasil Participacoes, Ltda. ("SEB") and the state of Minas Gerais concerning Companhia Energetica de 66 Minas Gerais ("CEMIG"), an integrated utility in Minas Gerais. The Companys investment in CEMIG is through SEB. This shareholders agreement granted SEB certain rights and powers in respect of CEMIG ("Special Rights"). In March 2000, a lower state court in Minas Gerais held the shareholders agreement invalid where it purported to grant SEB the Special Rights and enjoined the exercise of the Special Rights. In August 2001, the state appellate court denied an appeal of the decision and extended the injunction. In October 2001, SEB filed appeals against the state appellate courts decision with the Federal Superior Court and the Supreme Court of Justice. The state appellate court denied access of these appeals to the higher courts, and in August 2002 SEB filed interlocutory appeals against such denial with the Federal Superior Court and the Supreme Court of Justice. In December 2004, the Federal Superior Court declined to hear SEBs appeal. However, the Supreme Court of Justice is considering whether to hear SEBs appeal. SEB intends to vigorously pursue a restoration of the value of its investment in CEMIG by all legal means; however, there can be no assurances that it will be successful in its efforts. Failure to prevail in this matter may limit SEBs influence on the daily operation of CEMIG. In August 2000, the FERC announced an investigation into the organized California wholesale power markets in order to determine whether rates were just and reasonable. Further investigations involved alleged market manipulation. FERC requested documents from each of the AES Southland, LLC plants and AES Placerita, Inc. AES Southland and AES Placerita have cooperated fully with the FERC investigations. AES Southland was not subject to refund liability because it did not sell into the organized spot markets due to the nature of its tolling agreement. AES Placerita is currently subject to refund liability of $588,000 plus interest for spot sales to the California Power Exchange from October 2, 2000 to June 20, 2001 ("Refund Period"). In September 2004, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit issued an order addressing FERCs decision not to impose refunds for the alleged failure to file rates, including transaction specific data, for sales during 2000 and 2001 ("September 2004 Decision"). Although it did not order refunds, the Ninth Circuit remanded the case to FERC for a refund proceeding to consider remedial options. In June 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court declined to review the September 2004 Decision. The Ninth Circuits temporary stay of the remand to FERC expired in November 2007. In addition, in August 2006 in a separate case, the Ninth Circuit confirmed the Refund Period, expanded the transactions subject to refunds to include multi day transactions, expanded the potential liability of sellers to include any pre Refund Period tariff violations, and remanded the matter to FERC ("August 2006 Decision"). After a temporary stay of the proceeding expired, various parties filed petitions for rehearing in November 2007. The August 2006 Decision may allow FERC to reopen closed investigations and order relief. AES Placerita made sales during the periods at issue in the September 2004 and August 2006 Decisions. Both appeals may be subject to further court review, and further FERC proceedings on remand would be required to determine potential liability, if any. Prior to the August 2006 Decision, AES Placeritas potential liability for the Refund and pre Refund Periods could have approximated $23 million plus interest. However, given the September 2004 and August 2006 Decisions, it is unclear whether AES Placeritas potential liability is less than or exceeds that amount. AES Placerita believes it has meritorious defenses to the claims asserted against it and will defend itself vigorously in these proceedings; however, there can be no assurances that it will be successful in its efforts. In August 2001, the Grid Corporation of Orissa, India ("Gridco"), filed a petition against the Central Electricity Supply Company of Orissa Ltd. ("CESCO"), an affiliate of the Company, with the Orissa Electricity Regulatory Commission ("OERC"), alleging that CESCO had defaulted on its obligations as an OERC licensed distribution company, that CESCO management abandoned the management of CESCO, and asking for interim measures of protection, including the appointment of an administrator to manage CESCO. Gridco, a state owned entity, is the sole wholesale energy provider to CESCO. Pursuant to the OERCs August 2001 order, the management of CESCO was replaced with a government administrator who was appointed by the OERC. The OERC later held that the Company and other CESCO shareholders were not necessary or proper parties to the OERC 67 proceeding. In August 2004, the OERC issued a notice to CESCO, the Company and others giving the recipients of the notice until November 2004 to show cause why CESCOs distribution license should not be revoked. In response, CESCO submitted a business plan to the OERC. In February 2005, the OERC issued an order rejecting the proposed business plan. The order also stated that the CESCO distribution license would be revoked if an acceptable business plan for CESCO was not submitted to, and approved by, the OERC prior to March 31, 2005. In its April 2, 2005 order, the OERC revoked the CESCO distribution license. CESCO has filed an appeal against the April 2, 2005 OERC order and that appeal remains pending in the Indian courts. In addition, Gridco asserted that a comfort letter issued by the Company in connection with the Companys indirect investment in CESCO obligates the Company to provide additional financial support to cover all of CESCOs financial obligations to Gridco. In December 2001, Gridco served a notice to arbitrate pursuant to the Indian Arbitration and Conciliation Act of 1996 on the Company, AES Orissa Distribution Private Limited ("AES ODPL"), and Jyoti Structures ("Jyoti") pursuant to the terms of the CESCO Shareholders Agreement between Gridco, the Company, AES ODPL, Jyoti and CESCO (the "CESCO arbitration"). In the arbitration, Gridco appeared to be seeking approximately $189 million in damages, plus undisclosed penalties and interest, but a detailed alleged damage analysis was not filed by Gridco. The Company counterclaimed against Gridco for damages. An arbitration hearing with respect to liability was conducted on August 3 9, 2005 in India. Final written arguments regarding liability were submitted by the parties to the arbitral tribunal in late October 2005. In June 2007, a 2 to 1 majority of the arbitral tribunal rendered its award rejecting Gridcos claims and holding that none of the respondents, the Company, AES ODPL, or Jyoti, had any liability to Gridco. The respondents counterclaims were also rejected. The tribunal declared that the Company was the successful party and invited the parties to file papers on the allocation of costs. Gridco has filed a challenge of the arbitration award with the local Indian court. In January 2008, the Indian Supreme Court ruled that the respondents petition concerning the presiding arbitrators fees and the venue of any future proceedings was moot in light of the arbitration award in the respondents favor. The Company believes that it has meritorious defenses to the claims asserted against it and will defend itself vigorously in these proceedings; however, there can be no assurances that it will be successful in its efforts. In early 2002, Gridco made an application to the OERC requesting that the OERC initiate proceedings regarding the terms of OPGCs existing PPA with Gridco. In response, OPGC filed a petition in the Indian courts to block any such OERC proceedings. In early 2005, the Orissa High Court upheld the OERCs jurisdiction to initiate such proceedings as requested by Gridco. OPGC appealed that High Courts decision to the Supreme Court and sought stays of both the High Courts decision and the underlying OERC proceedings regarding the PPAs terms. In April 2005, the Supreme Court granted OPGCs requests and ordered stays of the High Courts decision and the OERC proceedings with respect to the PPAs terms. The matter is awaiting further hearing. Unless the Supreme Court finds in favor of OPGCs appeal or otherwise prevents the OERCs proceedings regarding the PPA terms, the OERC will likely lower the tariff payable to OPGC under the PPA, which would have an adverse impact on OPGCs financials. OPGC believes that it has meritorious claims and defenses and will assert them vigorously in these proceedings; however, there can be no assurances that it will be successful in its efforts. 68  In April 2002, IPALCO, the pension committee for the Indianapolis Power & Light Company thrift plan ("Pension Committee"), and certain former officers and directors of IPALCO were named as defendants in a purported class action filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Indiana. In May 2002, an amended complaint was filed in the lawsuit. The amended complaint asserts that IPALCO and former members of the Pension Committee breached their fiduciary duties to the plaintiffs under the Employees Retirement Income Security Act by, inter alia, permitting assets of the thrift plan to be invested in the common stock of IPALCO prior to the acquisition of IPALCO by the Company and allegedly failing to disclose directly to each plan participant the individual defendants personal transactions in IPALCO stock prior to the acquisition. In September 2003 the Court granted plaintiffs motion for class certification. A trial addressing only the allegations of breach of fiduciary duty was held in February 2006. In March 2007, the Court issued a decision in favor of defendants and dismissed the lawsuit with prejudice. In April 2007, plaintiffs appealed the Courts decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit as to the former officers and directors of IPALCO, but not as to IPALCO or the Pension Committee. In December 2007, the Seventh Circuit affirmed the judgment in favor of the former officers and directors. In March 2003, the office of the Federal Public Prosecutor for the State of Sao Paulo, Brazil ("MPF") notified AES Eletropaulo that it had commenced an inquiry related to the BNDES financings provided to AES Elpa and AES Transg&aacute;s and the rationing loan provided to Eletropaulo, changes in the control of Eletropaulo, sales of assets by Eletropaulo and the quality of service provided by Eletropaulo to its customers, and requested various documents from Eletropaulo relating to these matters. In July 2004, the MPF filed a public civil lawsuit in federal court alleging that BNDES violated Law 8429/92 (the Administrative Misconduct Act) and BNDESs internal rules by: (1) approving the AES Elpa and AES Transg&aacute;s loans; (2) extending the payment terms on the AES Elpa and AES Transg&aacute;s loans; (3) authorizing the sale of Eletropaulo s preferred shares at a stock market auction; (4) accepting Eletropaulo s preferred shares to secure the loan provided to Eletropaulo; and (5) allowing the restructurings of Light Servi&ccedil;os de Eletricidade S.A. ("Light") and Eletropaulo. The MPF also named AES Elpa and AES Transg&aacute;s as defendants in the lawsuit because they allegedly benefited from BNDESs alleged violations. In June 2005, AES Elpa and AES Transg&aacute;s presented their preliminary answers to the charges. In May 2006, the federal court ruled that the MPF could pursue its claims based on the first, second, and fourth alleged violations noted above. The MPF subsequently filed an interlocutory appeal seeking to require the federal court to consider all five alleged violations. Also, in July 2006, AES Elpa and AES Transg&aacute;s filed an interlocutory appeal seeking to enjoin the federal court from considering any of the alleged violations. The MPFs lawsuit before the federal court has been stayed pending those interlocutory appeals. AES Elpa and AES Transg&aacute;s believe they have meritorious defenses to the allegations asserted against them and will defend themselves vigorously in these proceedings; however, there can be no assurances that they will be successful in their efforts. AES Florestal, Ltd. ("Florestal"), had been operating a pole factory and had other assets, including a wooded area known as "Horto Renner," in the State of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil (collectively, "Property"). AES Florestal had been under the control of AES Sul since October 1997, when Sul was created pursuant to a privatization by the Government of the State of Rio Grande do Sul. After it came under the control of Sul, AES Florestal performed an environmental audit of the entire operational cycle at the pole factory. The audit discovered 200 barrels of solid creosote waste and other contaminants at the pole factory. The audit concluded that the prior operator of the pole factory, Companhia Estadual de Energia El&eacute;trica (CEEE), had been using those contaminants to treat the poles that were manufactured at the factory. Sul and AES Florestal subsequently took the initiative of communicating with Brazilian authorities, as well as CEEE, about the adoption of containment and remediation measures. The Public Attorneys Office has initiated a civil inquiry (Civil Inquiry n. 24/05) to investigate potential civil liability and has requested that the police station of Triunfo institute a police investigation (IP number 1041/05) to investigate potential criminal liability regarding the contamination at the pole factory. The environmental agency ("FEPAM") has also started a procedure 69 (Procedure n. 088200567/059) to analyze the measures that shall be taken to contain and remediate the contamination. Also, in March 2000, Sul filed suit against CEEE in the 2nd Court of Public Treasure of Porto Alegre seeking to register in Suls name the Property that it acquired through the privatization but that remained registered in CEEEs name. During those proceedings, AES subsequently waived its claim to re register the Property and asserted a claim to recover the amounts paid for the Property. That claim is pending. In November 2005, the 7th Court of Public Treasure of Porto Alegre ruled that the Property must be returned to CEEE. CEEE has had sole possession of Horto Renner since September 2006 and of the rest of the Property since April 2006. The measures that must be taken by Sul and CEEE are still under discussion pending receipt of correspondence from FEPAM. In January 2004, the Company received notice of a "Formulation of Charges" filed against the Company by the Superintendence of Electricity of the Dominican Republic. In the "Formulation of Charges," the Superintendence asserts that the existence of three generation companies (Empresa Generadora de Electricidad Itabo, S.A., ("Itabo") Dominican Power Partners, and AES Andres BV) and one distribution company (Empresa Distribuidora de Electricidad del Este, S.A.) in the Dominican Republic, violates certain cross ownership restrictions contained in the General Electricity law of the Dominican Republic. In February 2004, the Company filed in the First Instance Court of the National District of the Dominican Republic an action seeking injunctive relief based on several constitutional due process violations contained in the "Formulation of Charges" ("Constitutional Injunction"). In February 2004, the Court granted the Constitutional Injunction and ordered the immediate cessation of any effects of the "Formulation of Charges," and the enactment by the Superintendence of Electricity of a special procedure to prosecute alleged antitrust complaints under the General Electricity Law. In March 2004, the Superintendence of Electricity appealed the Courts decision. In July 2004, the Company divested any interest in Empresa Distribuidora de Electricidad del Este, S.A. The Superintendence of Electricitys appeal is pending. The Company believes it has meritorious defenses to the claims asserted against it and will defend itself vigorously in these proceedings; however, there can be no assurances that it will be successful in its efforts. In April 2004, BNDES filed a collection suit against SEB, a subsidiary of the Company, to obtain the payment of R$3.3 billion (US$1.6 billion), which includes principal, interest and penalties under the loan agreement between BNDES and SEB, the proceeds of which were used by SEB to acquire shares of CEMIG. In May 2004, the 15th Federal Circuit Court ordered the attachment of SEBs CEMIG shares, which were given as collateral for the loan, as well as dividends paid by CEMIG to SEB. At the time of the attachment, the shares were worth approximately R$762 million (US$247 million). In March 2007, the dividends were determined to be worth approximately R$423 million (US$198 million). SEBs defense was ruled groundless by the Circuit Court in December 2006. In January 2007, SEB filed an appeal to the relevant Federal Court of Appeals. In April 2007, BNDES withdrew the attached dividends. BNDES may attempt to seize the attached CEMIG shares at any time. SEB believes it has meritorious defenses to the claims asserted against it and will defend itself vigorously in these proceedings; however, there can be no assurances that it will be successful in its efforts. In July 2004, the Corporaci&oacute;n Dominicana de Empresas El&eacute;ctricas Estatales ("CDEEE") filed lawsuits against Itabo, an affiliate of the Company, in the First and Fifth Chambers of the Civil and Commercial Court of First Instance for the National District. CDEEE alleges in both lawsuits that Itabo spent more than was necessary to rehabilitate two generation units of an Itabo power plant and, in the Fifth Chamber lawsuit, that those funds were paid to affiliates and subsidiaries of AES Gener and Coastal Itabo, Ltd. ("Coastal"), a former shareholder of Itabo, without the required approval of Itabos board of administration. In the First Chamber lawsuit, CDEEE seeks an accounting of Itabos transactions relating to the rehabilitation. In November 2004, the First Chamber dismissed the case for lack of legal basis. On appeal, in October 2005 the Court of Appeals of Santo Domingo ruled in Itabos favor, reasoning that it lacked jurisdiction over the dispute because the parties contracts 70 mandated arbitration. The Supreme Court of Justice is considering CDEEEs appeal of the Court of Appeals decision. In the Fifth Chamber lawsuit, which also names Itabos former president as a defendant, CDEEE seeks $15 million in damages and the seizure of Itabos assets. In October 2005, the Fifth Chamber held that it lacked jurisdiction to adjudicate the dispute given the arbitration provisions in the parties contracts. The First Chamber of the Court of Appeal ratified that decision in September 2006. In a related proceeding, in May 2005, Itabo filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York seeking to compel CDEEE to arbitrate its claims. The petition was denied in July 2005. Itabos appeal of that decision to the U.S. Court of Appeal for the Second Circuit has been stayed since September 2006. Also, in February 2005, Itabo initiated arbitration against CDEEE and the Fondo Patrimonial de las Empresas Reformadas ("FONPER") in the International Chamber of Commerce ("ICC") seeking, among other relief, to enforce the arbitration provisions in the parties contracts. In March 2006, Itabo and FONPER settled their respective claims. In September 2006, the ICC determined that it lacked jurisdiction to decide the arbitration as to Itabo and CDEEE. Itabo believes it has meritorious claims and defenses and will assert them vigorously in these proceedings; however, there can be no assurances that it will be successful in its efforts. In October 2004, Raytheon Company ("Raytheon") filed a lawsuit against AES Red Oak, LLC ("Red Oak") in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, County of New York. The complaint purports to allege claims for breach of contract, fraud, interference with contractual rights and equitable relief relating to the construction and or performance of the Red Oak project, an 800 MW combined cycle power plant in Sayreville, New Jersey. The complaint seeks the return of approximately $30 million that was drawn by Red Oak under a letter of credit that was posted by Raytheon for the construction and or performance of the Red Oak project. Raytheon also seeks $110 million in purported additional expenses allegedly incurred by Raytheon in connection with the guaranty and construction agreements entered with Red Oak. In December 2004, Red Oak answered the complaint and filed breach of contract and fraud counterclaims against Raytheon. Red Oaks fraud counterclaims were later dismissed from the case. In May 2005, Raytheon filed a related action against Red Oak in the Superior Court of Middlesex County, New Jersey, seeking to foreclose on a construction lien in the amount of approximately $31 million on property allegedly owned by Red Oak. In September 2007 the New Jersey Superior Court denied Red Oaks motion for summary judgment against Raytheons New Jersey action. In December 2007, the parties settled their disputes. In January 2005, the City of Redondo Beach ("City") of California issued an assessment against Williams Power Co., Inc., ("Williams") and AES Redondo Beach, LLC ("AES Redondo"), an indirect subsidiary of the Company, for approximately $72 million in allegedly overdue utility users tax ("UUT"), interest, and penalties relating to the natural gas used at AES Redondos power plant from May 1998 through September 2004 to generate electricity. In September 2005, the City Tax Administrator held AES Redondo and Williams jointly and severally liable for approximately $57 million in UUT, interest, and penalties. In October 2005, AES Redondo and Williams filed respective appeals with the City Manager, who appointed a Hearing Officer to decide the appeal. In December 2006, the Hearing Officer overturned the Citys assessment against AES Redondo (but not Williams). In December 2006, Williams filed a petition for writ of mandate with the Los Angeles Superior Court challenging the Hearing Officers decision. Pursuant to a court order, Williams later prepaid approximately $57 million to the City in order to litigate its petition and filed an amended petition. In March 2007, the City filed a petition for writ of mandate with the Superior Court challenging the Hearing Officers decision as to AES Redondo. The Superior Court has heard final arguments but has not yet issued final decisions on Williams and the Citys respective petitions. In addition, in July 2005, AES Redondo filed a lawsuit in Superior Court seeking a refund of UUT paid since February 2005, and an order that the City cannot charge AES Redondo UUT going forward. Williams later filed a similar complaint that was related to AES Redondos lawsuit. After authorizing limited discovery on disputed jurisdictional and other issues, including whether AES Redondo and Williams must prepay to the City any allegedly owed UUT prior to judicially challenging the merits of 71 the UUT, the Court stayed the cases in December 2006. Furthermore, since December 2005, the Tax Administrator has periodically issued UUT assessments against AES Redondo and Williams for allegedly overdue UUT on the gas used at the power plant since October 2004 ("New UUT Assessments"). AES Redondo has filed objections to those and any future UUT assessments with the Tax Administrator, who has indicated that he will only consider the amount of the New UUT Assessments, not the merits of them, given his September 2005 decision. AES Redondo believes that it has meritorious claims and defenses, and it will assert them vigorously in these proceedings; however, there can be no assurances that it will be successful in its efforts. In June 2006, AES Ekibastuz was found to have breached a local tax law by failing to obtain a license for use of local water for the period of January 1, 2005 through October 3, 2005, in a timely manner. As a result, an additional permit fee was imposed, bringing the total permit fee to approximately US$135,000. The Company has appealed this decision to the Supreme Court. In February 2007, the Competition Committee of the Ministry of Industry and Trade of the Republic of Kazakhstan initiated administrative proceedings against two hydroelectric plants under AES concession, Ust Kamenogorsk HPP and Shulbinsk HPP (collectively, "Hydros") concerning their sales to an AES trading company, Nurenergoservice LLP, and other affiliated companies in alleged violation of Kazakhstans antimonopoly laws. In August 2007, the Competition Committee ordered the Hydros to pay approximately 2.6 billion KZT (US$22 million) in damages for alleged antimonopoly violations in 2005 through January 2007. The damages set forth in orders were affirmed by the headquarters of the Competition Committee, the economic court of first instance, and the court of appeals (first panel). Therefore, in February 2008, the Hydros paid the damages. The court of appeals (second panel) has affirmed the Competition Committees order with respect to Ust Kamenogorsk HPP. The Hydros intend to file appeals with the court of appeals (second panel) (with respect to Shulbinsk HPP) and the supreme court (with respect to Ust Kamenogorsk HPP). In addition, the economic court has issued an injunction to secure the Hydros alleged liability, freezing the Hydros bank accounts and prohibiting the Hydros from transferring or disposing of their property. The economic court later temporarily lifted the injunction to allow the Hydros to pay the damages, which as noted above, the Hydros did in February 2008. In separate but related proceedings, in September 2007, the Competition Committee ordered the Hydros to pay approximately 22 million KZT (US$188,000) in administrative fines for their alleged antimonopoly violations. In December 2007, the administrative court of first instance upheld the fines. Therefore, in February 2008, the Hydros paid the fines. The Competition Committee has indicated that it intends to investigate whether Ust Kamenogorsk HPP has violated antimonopoly laws through November 2007. The Hydros believe they have meritorious claims and defenses; however, there can be no assurances that they will prevail in these proceedings. In June 2007, the Competition Committee ordered AES Ust Kamengorsk TET LLP ("UKT") to pay approximately 835 million KZT (US$7 million) to the state for alleged antimonopoly violations in 2005 through January 2007. The Competition Committee also ordered UKT to pay approximately 235 million KZT (US$2 million), as estimated by the company, to certain customers that allegedly have paid unreasonably high power prices since January 2007. In November 2007, the economic court of first instance upheld the Competition Committees order in part, finding that UKT had violated Kazakhstans antimonopoly laws, but reduced the damages to be paid to the state to 833 million KZT (US$7 million) and rejected the damages to be paid to customers. The economic court later ordered UKT to pay the damages to the state by May 1, 2008. The economic court has also issued an injunction to secure UKTs alleged liability prohibiting UKT from transferring or disposing of its property; however, the injunction does not extend to UKTs bank accounts. The court of appeals (first panel) has affirmed the economic courts decisions with respect to the alleged damages and the injunction. In January 2008, the economic court issued a purported clarification of its November 2007 decision, reducing UKTs tariff as of January 2008, directing UKT to apply that reduced tariff prospectively, and ordering UKT to reimburse an unspecified amount to customers that paid at higher rates in 2007. UKT 72 has appealed the purported clarification to the court of appeals (first panel). In separate but related proceedings in July 2007, the Competition Committee ordered UKT to pay approximately 93 million KZT (US$800,000) in administrative fines as estimated by UKT, for its alleged antimonopoly violations. In February 2008, the administrative court upheld the Competition Committees order in part, reducing the fines to approximately 70 million KZT (US$600,000). The Competition Committee has not indicated whether it intends to assert claims against UKT for alleged antimonopoly violations post January 2007. UKT believes it has meritorious claims and defenses; however, there can be no assurances that it will prevail in these proceedings. As UKT did not prevail in the economic court or the court of appeals (first panel) with respect to the alleged damages, it will have to pay the alleged damages or risk seizure of its assets. Furthermore, as UKT did not prevail in the administrative court with respect to the fines, it will have to pay the fines or risk seizure of its assets. In July 2007 the Competition Committee ordered Nurenergoservice to pay approximately 18 billion KZT (US$150 million) for alleged antimonopoly violations in 2005 through the first quarter of 2007. In September 2007, the headquarters of the Competition Committee upheld the order. Nurenergoservice subsequently appealed to the economic court of first instance. In February 2008, the economic court stayed the case pending the completion of the transfer of the Competition Committees authority and powers to a newly established antimonopoly agency, the Agency on the Protection of Competition. The court of appeals (first panel) has rejected the Competition Committees appeal to lift the stay. Also, the economic court has issued an injunction to secure Nurenergoservice alleged liability, freezing Nurenergoservices bank accounts and prohibiting Nurenergoservice from transferring or disposing of its property. The court of appeals (first panel) has upheld the injunction. Furthermore, in separate but related proceedings in August 2007, the Competition Committee ordered Nurenergoservice to pay approximately 2 billion KZT (approximately US$15 million) in administrative fines for its alleged antimonopoly violations. In September 2007, after the headquarters of the Competition Committee upheld the order, Nurenergoservice appealed to the administrative court of first instance. In October 2007, the administrative court suspended the proceedings pending the resolution of the proceedings in the economic court and any proceedings in the court of appeals (first panel). The Competition Committee has not indicated whether it intends to assert claims against Nurenergoservice for alleged antimonopoly violations post first quarter 2007. Nurenergoservice believes it has meritorious claims and defenses; however, there can be no assurances that it will prevail in these proceedings. If Nurenergoservice does not prevail in the economic court and any proceedings in the court of appeals (first panel) with respect to the alleged damages, it will have to pay the alleged damages or risk seizure of its assets. Furthermore, if Nurenergoservice does not prevail in the administrative court with respect to the fines, it will have to pay the fines or risk seizure of its assets. In August 2007, the Competition Committee ordered Sogrinsk TET to terminate its contracts with Nurenergoservice and Ust Kamenogorsk HPP because of Sogrinsks alleged antimonopoly violations in 2005 through January 2007. The Competition Committee did not order Sogrinsk to pay any damages or fines. In August 2007, the economic court affirmed the order. In October 2007, the court of appeals affirmed the economic courts decision. The Competition Committee has not indicated whether it intends to assert claims against Sogrinsk for alleged antimonopoly violations post January 2007. Sogrinsk believes it has meritorious claims and defenses and will assert them vigorously in these proceedings; however, there can be no assurances that it will be successful in its efforts. In November 2007, the Competition Committee initiated an investigation of allegations that Irtysh Power and Light, LLP ("Irtysh"), an AES company which manages the state owned Ust Kamenogorsk Heat Nets system, had violated Kazakhstans antimonopoly laws in January through November 2007 by selling power at below market prices. In February 2008, the Competition Committee determined that the allegations were baseless. However, the Competition Committee stated that it intends to investigate whether Irtysh has illegally coordinated with other AES companies concerning the sale of power. Irtysh 73 believes it has meritorious claims and defenses and will assert them vigorously in any formal proceeding; however, there can be no assurances that it will be successful in its efforts. In June 2007, the Company received a letter from an outside law firm purportedly representing a shareholder demanding that the Companys Board conduct a review of certain stock option plans, procedures and historical granting and exercise practices, and other matters, and that the Company commence legal proceedings against any officer and or director who may be liable for damages to the Company. The Board has established a Special Committee, which has retained independent counsel, to consider the demands presented in the letter in light of the work undertaken by the Company in its review of share based compensation. In July 2007, AES Energia Cartagena SRL, ("AESEC") initiated arbitration against Initec Energia SA, Mitsubishi Corporation, and MC Power Project Management, SL ("Contractor") to recover damages from the Contractor for its delay in completing the construction of AESECs majority owned power facility in Murcia, Spain. In October 2007, the Contractor denied AESECs claims and asserted counterclaims to recover approximately &euro;12 million (US$19 million) for alleged unpaid milestone and scope change order payments, among other things, and an unspecified amount for an alleged early completion bonus. The final hearing is scheduled to begin in June 2009. AESEC believes that it has meritorious claims and defenses and will assert them vigorously in these proceedings; however, there can be no assurances that it will be successful in its efforts. In November 2007, the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local Union No. 1395, and sixteen individual retirees, (the "Complainants"), filed a complaint at the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission ("IURC") seeking enforcement of their interpretation of the 1995 final order and associated settlement agreement resolving IPLs basic rate case. The Complainants are requesting that the IURC conduct an investigation of IPLs failure to fund the Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association Trust ("VEBA Trust"), at a level of approximately $19 million per year. The VEBA Trust was spun off to an independent trustee in 2001. The complaint seeks an IURC order requiring IPL to make contributions to place the VEBA Trust in the financial position in which it allegedly would have been had IPL not ceased making annual contributions to the VEBA Trust after its spin off. The Complaint also seeks an IURC order requiring IPL to resume making annual contributions to the VEBA Trust. IPL filed a motion to dismiss and both parties are seeking summary judgment in the IURC proceeding. To date, no procedural schedule for this proceeding has been established. IPL believes it has meritorious defenses to the Complainants claims and it will assert them vigorously in response to the complaint; however, there can be no assurances that it will be successful in its efforts. In September 2007, the New York Attorney General issued a subpoena to the Company seeking documents and information concerning the Companys analysis and public disclosure of the potential impacts that GHG legislation and climate change from GHG emissions might have on the Companys operations and results. The Company is responding to the subpoena. In October 2007, the Ekibastuz Tax Committee issued a notice for the assessment of certain taxes against AES Ekibastuz LLP. A portion of the assessment, approximately US$1.7 million, relates to alleged environmental pollution. The review by the Ekibastuz Tax Committee is ongoing and their decision on any assessment, including the portion related to alleged environmental pollution, is not yet final. During December 2007, Maikuben West was audited for the 2005 calendar year by the Tax Committee that oversees ecological payments. The initial results of the audit indicate that Maikuben West will be required to make a payment of approximately US$400,000. Maikuben West is appealing this finding in accordance with applicable law. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth quarter of 2007. 74   PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities None. Market Information Our common stock is currently traded on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") under the symbol "AES." The closing price of our common stock as reported by the NYSE on February 6, 2008, was $19.44, per share. The Company did not repurchase any of its common stock in 2007 or 2006. The following tables set forth the high and low sale prices, and performance trends for our common stock as reported by the NYSE for the periods indicated: 2007 2006 Price Range of Common Stock High Low High Low First Quarter $ 22.61 $ 19.78 $ 17.71 $ 16.20 Second Quarter 23.90 20.87 18.76 16.40 Third Quarter 23.25 17.76 21.24 18.25 Fourth Quarter 22.53 20.21 23.72 20.21 75 Performance Graph  THE AES CORPORATION PEER GROUP INDEX/STOCK PRICE PERFORMANCE COMPARISON OF FIVE YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURNS ASSUMES INITIAL INVESTMENT OF $100 Source: Bloomberg 76  COMPARISON OF THREE YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURNS ASSUMES INITIAL INVESTMENT OF $100 Source: Bloomberg We have selected the Standard and Poors (S&P) 500 Utilities Index as our peer group index. The S&P 500 Utilities Index is a published sector index comprising the 32 electric and gas utilities included in the S&P 500. The five year total return chart assumes $100 invested on December 31, 2002 in AES Common Stock, the S&P 500 Index and the S&P Utilities Index. The three year total return chart assumes $100 invested on December 31, 2004 in the same security and indices. The information included under the heading "Performance Graph" shall not be considered "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Holders As of March 6, 2008, there were approximately 6,460 record holders of our common stock, par value $0.01 per share. 77 Dividends We do not currently pay dividends on our common stock. We intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to finance the future development and operation of our business. Accordingly, we do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Under the terms of our Senior Secured Credit Facilities, which we entered into with a commercial bank syndicate, we are not allowed to pay cash dividends. In addition, under the terms of a guaranty we provided to the utility customer in connection with the AES Thames project, we are precluded from paying cash dividends on our common stock if we do not meet certain net worth and liquidity tests. The terms of the indentures governing our outstanding Second Priority Senior Secured Notes also restrict our ability to pay dividends. Our project subsidiaries ability to declare and pay cash dividends to us is subject to certain limitations contained in the project loans, governmental provisions and other agreements that our project subsidiaries are subject to. See Item 12 (d) of this Form 10 K for information regarding Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans. ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following table sets forth our selected financial data as of the dates and for the periods indicated. You should read this data together with Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in Item 8 in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The selected financial data for each of the years in the five year period ended December 31, 2007 have been derived from our audited Consolidated Financial Statements. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of our future results. Acquisitions, disposals, reclassifications and changes in accounting principles affect the comparability of information included in the tables below. Please refer to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10 K for further explanation of the effect of such activities. Please also refer to Item 1A Risk Factors and Note 23 Risks and Uncertainties to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K for certain risks and uncertainties that may cause the data reflected herein not to be indicative of our future financial condition or results of operations. 78  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Year Ended December 31, Statement of Operations Data 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 (Restated) (Restated) (Restated) (Restated) (in millions, except per share amounts) Revenues $ 13,588 $ 11,576 $ 10,247 $ 8,728 $ 7,676 Income from continuing operations 495 176 365 183 177 Discontinued operations, net of tax (590 ) 50 188 132 (681 ) Extraordinary items, net of tax 21 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, net of tax (4 ) 41 Net (loss) income available to common stockholders $ (95 ) $ 247 $ 549 $ 315 $ (463 ) Basic (loss) earnings per share: Income from continuing operations, net of tax $ 0.74 $ 0.27 $ 0.56 $ 0.29 $ 0.30 Discontinued operations, net of tax (0.88 ) 0.07 0.29 0.20 (1.15 ) Extraordinary items, net of tax 0.03 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, net of tax (0.01 ) 0.07 Basic (loss) earnings per share $ (0.14 ) $ 0.37 $ 0.84 $ 0.49 $ (0.78 ) Diluted (loss) earnings per share: Income from continuing operations, net of tax $ 0.73 $ 0.27 $ 0.56 $ 0.29 $ 0.30 Discontinued operations, net of tax (0.87 ) 0.07 0.28 0.20 (1.14 ) Extraordinary items, net of tax 0.03 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, net of tax (0.01 ) 0.07 Diluted (loss) earnings per share $ (0.14 ) $ 0.37 $ 0.83 $ 0.49 $ (0.77 ) December 31, Balance Sheet Data: 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 (Restated) (Restated) (Restated) (Restated) (in millions) Total assets $ 34,453 $ 31,274 $ 29,025 $ 28,449 $ 29,145 Non recourse debt (long term) $ 11,297 $ 9,840 $ 10,308 $ 10,571 $ 10,038 Non recourse debt (long term) Discontinued operations $ 33 $ 342 $ 467 $ 742 $ 719 Recourse debt (long term) $ 5,332 $ 4,790 $ 4,682 $ 5,010 $ 5,862 Accumulated deficit $ (1,241 ) $ (1,093 ) $ (1,340 )(2) $ (1,889 )(2) $ (2,204 )(1)(2) Stockholders equity (deficit) $ 3,164 $ 2,979 $ 1,583 $ 997 $ (99 ) (1)An $8 million increase to accumulated deficit was recognized as of January 1, 2003 for the cumulative impact of the correction of errors for all periods preceding January 1, 2003. The correction was not material to the financial statement data presented herein as of and for the four years ended December 31, 2003 through December 31, 2006. (2)The impact of the restatement adjustments on accumulated deficit was an increase to accumulated deficit of $40 million, $2 million and $13 million as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. 79  ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements and Reclassification of Certain Subsidiaries to Held for Sale Background The Company has previously identified certain material weaknesses related to its system of internal control over financial reporting. As described in the Companys 2006 Form 10 K/A filed on August 7, 2007, the following five material weaknesses were reported: A Lack of Detailed Accounting Records for Certain Holding Companies; Contract Accounting; A Lack of Controls and Procedures Related to Granting and Reporting of Share Based Compensation; Treatment of Intercompany Loans Denominated in Other Than the Entitys Functional Currency; and Aggregation of Control Deficiencies at our Cameroonian Subsidiary. As of December 31, 2007 the Company has remediated the following three material weaknesses: Treatment of Intercompany Loans Denominated in Other Than the Entitys Functional Currency; A Lack of Controls and Procedures Related to Granting and Reporting of Share Based Compensation; and Aggregation of Control Deficiencies at our Cameroonian Subsidiary. Accordingly, the following two material weaknesses remain unremediated as of December 31, 2007: A Lack of Detailed Accounting Records for Certain Holding Companies; and Contract Accounting. Restatement Discussion In 2005, the Company prepared and documented its accounting analysis of a power purchase agreement ("the Deepwater Agreement") between AES Deepwater, one of our generation businesses in Deepwater, Texas and a third party. The assessment of the Deepwater Agreement included an analysis of whether the contract is a derivative under provisions of SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, ("SFAS No. 133"). Because the penalty clause in the Deepwater Agreement does not contain specific volumes upon which the penalties would be based, the Company concluded that these penalty provisions are not specific enough to be valued. Accordingly, the Company determined that the Deepwater Agreement was not a derivative under SFAS No. 133 and consulted with Deloitte & Touche LLP in reaching this conclusion. As part of the 2007 year end closing process and in connection with the remediation of the Companys material weakness for contract accounting (see Item 9A Controls and Procedures for further discussion of this material weakness), the Company reviewed several hundred contracts relative to the risk of additional errors. The Deepwater Agreement received a second review as part of this process. In that review, the Company determined that there was no intent by the contracting parties to create a derivative contract, that the penalty clause had not changed, and that no penalties had been triggered under the Deepwater Agreement. The Company now believes, and its external auditors agree, 80 that even though there is no explicit formula for calculating penalties in the Deepwater Agreement, a minimum volume could be inferred from certain capacity requirement provisions in the Deepwater Agreement. Under this accounting interpretation, the penalty can be valued, making the contract subject to derivative accounting treatment. Accordingly, the Company has concluded that the Deepwater Agreement will be treated as a derivative under SFAS No. 133, valued and marked to market resulting in an adjustment to previously reported results. The impact of the Deepwater Adjustment resulted in an increase of approximately $30 million and a decrease of approximately $25 million to income from continuing operations and net income in 2006 and 2005, respectively. In addition to the Deepwater Adjustment, the Company has identified a number of smaller non cash adjustments to its prior period financial statements ("Other Adjustments"), none of which is individually material. In the aggregate (excluding the Deepwater Adjustment) these out of period adjustments are not material to the Companys financial statements. Many of these errors were identified during the Companys remediation of previously identified material weaknesses, while others were identified during the year end closing process, including errors relating to depreciation and accounting for judicial deposits in Brazil. We generally recognize these adjustments in the period in which they were identified. Because the Deepwater Adjustment has required a restatement, we also are recording these Other Adjustments in the proper periods. The Company has also entered into an agreement to sell two indirect wholly owned subsidiaries with operations in Kazakhstan, AES Ekibastuz LLP and Maikuben West LLP. As required by SFAS No. 144 [Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets], ("SFAS No. 144"), presentation of the assets and liabilities of these businesses are classified as held for sale. As disclosed in the Companys Form 8 K dated March 3, 2008, as a result of the restatement, the Company was in default under its senior secured credit facility and its senior unsecured credit facility due to a breach of a representation related to its financial statements set forth in the credit agreements related to the facilities. The Company has obtained a waiver of these defaults from its lenders under these facilities. 81 The following table details the impact of the restatement on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005: Year Ended December 31, 2006 Year Ended December 31, 2005 December 31, 2007 Restatement December 31, 2007 Restatement 2006 Form 10 K/A Deepwater Other Adjustments 2007 Form 10 K 2006 Form 10 K/A Deepwater Other Adjustments 2007 Form 10 K Revenues: Regulated $ 6,198 $ $ (44 ) $ 6,154 $ 5,617 $ $ (33 ) $ 5,584 Non Regulated 5,366 52 4 5,422 4,703 (44 ) 4 4,663 Total revenues 11,564 52 (40 ) 11,576 10,320 (44 ) (29 ) 10,247 Cost of Sales: Regulated (4,114 ) 39 (4,075 ) (4,021 ) 18 (4,003 ) Non Regulated (4,052 ) (15 ) (4,067 ) (3,371 ) (3 ) (3,374 ) Total cost of sales (8,166 ) 24 (8,142 ) (7,392 ) 15 (7,377 ) Gross margin 3,398 52 (16 ) 3,434 2,928 (44 ) (14 ) 2,870 General and administrative expenses (305 ) 4 (301 ) (225 ) 4 (221 ) Interest expense (1,763 ) (6 ) (1,769 ) (1,826 ) (2 ) (1,828 ) Interest income 426 8 434 375 6 381 Other expense (449 ) (3 ) (452 ) (110 ) 1 (109 ) Other income 106 10 116 157 157 Gain on sale of investments 98 98 Loss on sale of subsidiary stock (539 ) 4 (535 ) Impairment expense (28 ) 11 (17 ) (16 ) (16 ) Foreign currency transaction losses on net monetary position (88 ) 8 (80 ) (145 ) 2 (143 ) Equity in earnings of affiliates 72 1 73 71 (5 ) 66 INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS BEFORE INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES AND MINORITY INTEREST 928 52 21 1,001 1,209 (44 ) (8 ) 1,157 Income tax expense (334 ) (22 ) (6 ) (362 ) (483 ) 19 (9 ) (473 ) Minority interest expense (459 ) (4 ) (463 ) (324 ) 5 (319 ) INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS 135 30 11 176 402 (25 ) (12 ) 365 Income from operations of discontinued businesses, net of income tax 105 2 107 188 188 Loss from disposal of discontinued businesses, net of income tax (57 ) (57 ) INCOME BEFORE EXTRAORDINARY ITEMS AND CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE 183 30 13 226 590 (25 ) (12 ) 553 Extraordinary items, net of income tax 21 21 INCOME BEFORE CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE 204 30 13 247 590 (25 ) (12 ) 553 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, net of income tax (3 ) (1 ) (4 ) Net income $ 204 $ 30 $ 13 $ 247 $ 587 $ (25 ) $ (13 ) $ 549 BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE: Income from continuing operations, net of tax $ 0.21 $ 0.05 $ 0.01 $ 0.27 $ 0.62 $ (0.04 ) $ (0.02 ) $ 0.56 Discontinued operations, net of tax 0.07 0.07 0.29 0.29 Extraordinary item, net of tax 0.03 0.03 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, net of tax (0.01 ) (0.01 ) BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE $ 0.31 $ 0.05 $ 0.01 $ 0.37 $ 0.90 $ (0.04 ) $ (0.02 ) $ 0.84 82 Year Ended December 31, 2006 Year Ended December 31, 2005 December 31, 2007 Restatement December 31, 2007 Restatement 2006 Form 10 K/A Deepwater Other Adjustments 2007 Form 10 K 2006 Form 10 K/A Deepwater Other Adjustments 2007 Form 10 K DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE: Income from continuing operations, net of tax $ 0.20 $ 0.04 $ 0.03 $ 0.27 $ 0.61 $ (0.04 ) $ (0.01 ) $ 0.56 Discontinued operations, net of tax 0.07 0.07 0.28 0.28 Extraordinary item, net of tax 0.03 0.03 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, net of tax (0.01 ) (0.01 ) DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE $ 0.30 $ 0.04 $ 0.03 $ 0.37 $ 0.88 $ (0.04 ) $ (0.01 ) $ 0.83 The Other Adjustments in the table above include the following: Regulated revenues: We recorded reclass adjustments related to bad debts that were previously written off and subsequently recovered in cash. We originally recorded these recoveries in regulated revenue. The effect of this adjustment was to reclass these bad debt recoveries from regulated revenue to cost of sales. The impact of this adjustment was a decrease to regulated revenue and a decrease to cost of sales of $41 million and $29 million, for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Regulated cost of sales and other income: We recorded adjustments in connection with the correction of errors related to the reconciliation of judicial deposits at Eletropaulo, our business in Brazil. Cash deposits were placed on reserve, as required by Brazilian Courts, as a result of pending civil or labor claims against the business. Upon settlement of the claims, appropriate expense was not recognized by the business. Additionally, related interest income on the deposited funds was not recognized appropriately. The net impact on continuing operations and net income for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 was an increase of $5 million and $1 million, respectively. Impairment expense: We recorded an adjustment of $11 million to reduce impairment expense and increase in non regulated cost of sales in 2006. We originally reported the cost associated with a plant outage to impairment expense instead of cost of sales. Embedded derivatives: In addition to the adjustment related to the Deepwater Agreement, we recorded other adjustments related to contract accounting as a result of the identification of embedded derivatives in two of the contracts that were reviewed. Through our on going remediation efforts related to contract accounting, we identified two additional contracts that contained embedded derivatives that were not identified at the time of the initial contract review. The correction of these errors resulted in an increase of $2 million and a decrease of $8 million to continuing operations and net income for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 83  The following table details the impact of the restatement and certain reclassifications of businesses held for sale on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2006: As of December 31, 2006 Held for Sale 2006 Form 10 K/A 2007 Form 10 K Restatement Maikuben Ekibastuz ASSETS CURRENT ASSETS Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,379 $ $ (2 ) $ (19 ) $ 1,358 Restricted cash 548 548 Short term investments 640 640 Accounts receivable, net of reserves of $232 1,769 (1 ) (1 ) (2 ) 1,765 Inventory 471 (11 ) (3 ) (12 ) 445 Receivable from affiliates 76 15 91 Deferred income taxes current 208 6 214 Prepaid expenses 109 1 (4 ) 106 Other current assets 927 3 (1 ) (2 ) 927 Current assets of held for sale and discontinued businesses 438 7 39 484 Total current assets 6,565 13 6,578 NONCURRENT ASSETS Property, Plant and Equipment: Land 928 (7 ) 921 Electric generation and distribution assets 21,835 (230 ) (69 ) (72 ) 21,464 Accumulated depreciation (6,545 ) 84 14 20 (6,427 ) Construction in progress 979 25 (1 ) (16 ) 987 Property, plant and equipment, net 17,197 (121 ) (56 ) (75 ) 16,945 Other assets: Deferred financing costs, net of accumulated amortization of $188 279 33 (1 ) 311 Investments in and advances to affiliates 595 (4 ) 591 Debt service reserves and other deposits 524 (9 ) 515 Goodwill 1,416 (2 ) 1,414 Other intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization of $228 298 207 (7 ) 498 Deferred income taxes noncurrent 602 (1 ) 601 Other assets 1,634 (46 ) (1 ) 1,587 Noncurrent assets of held for sale and discontinued businesses 2,091 1 57 85 2,234 Total other assets 7,439 181 56 75 7,751 TOTAL ASSETS $ 31,201 $ 73 $ $ $ 31,274 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY CURRENT LIABILITIES Accounts payable $ 795 $ (2 ) $ $ (5 ) $ 788 Accrued interest 404 404 Accrued and other liabilities 2,131 19 (3 ) (4 ) 2,143 Non recourse debt current portion 1,411 4 (3 ) (10 ) 1,402 Current liabilities of held for sale and discontinued businesses 288 6 19 313 Total current liabilities 5,029 21 5,050 LONG TERM LIABILITIES Non recourse debt 9,834 24 (11 ) (7 ) 9,840 Recourse debt 4,790 4,790 Deferred income taxes noncurrent 803 28 (13 ) (9 ) 809 Pension liabilities and other post retirement liabilities 844 844 Other long term liabilities 3,554 6 (1 ) (3 ) 3,556 Long term liabilities of held for sale and discontinued businesses 434 1 25 19 479 Total long term liabilities 20,259 59 20,318 Minority Interest (including discontinued businesses of $175 2,948 (21 ) 2,927 Commitments and Contingent Liabilities (see Notes 12 and 13) STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY Common stock ($.01 par value, 1,200,000,000 shares authorized; 665,126,309 shares issued and outstanding at December 31, 2006 7 7 Additional paid in capital 6,654 5 6,659 Accumulated deficit (1,096 ) 3 (1,093 ) Accumulated other comprehensive loss (2,600 ) 6 (2,594 ) Total stockholders equity 2,965 14 2,979 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY $ 31,201 $ 73 $ $ $ 31,274 84 The discussion below highlights the impact of certain adjustments on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2006. These errors were neither material individually, or in the aggregate. The primary adjustments recorded were as follows: We corrected an error to properly account for one of our transmission leases as a capital lease as opposed to an operating lease. The net impact of this adjustment was an increase to property, plant and equipment, net and non recourse debt of $28 million. We recorded an adjustment to reclassify certain intangible assets that were incorrectly included as property, plant and equipment to other intangible assets, net. The impact of this adjustment was a decrease to property, plant and equipment, net and an increase to other intangible assets $187 million. The impact of the Deepwater Adjustment on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2006 was a decrease to current liabilities of $23 million and a decrease to long term liabilities of $25 million. The impact on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2005 was an increase to current liabilities of $20 million and an increase to long term liabilities of $23 million. We have updated our disclosure in Note 8 Long term Debt regarding our accounting for AES Trust III and AES Trust VII (the TECON Trusts) to properly reflect that these trusts are consolidated in the Companys financial statements. We previously reported that the TECON Trusts were not consolidated. As disclosed, AESs obligations under the Junior Subordinated Debentures and other relevant trust agreements, in aggregate, constitute a full and unconditional guarantee by AES of the TECON Trusts obligations. This change only impacts the aforementioned disclosure and has no impact on any of the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements. The restatement adjustments had no material impact on net cash flows. Overview of Our Business AES is a global power company. We own a portfolio of electricity generation and distribution businesses with generation capacity totaling approximately 43,000 MW and distribution networks serving over 11 million people. Our global footprint includes operations in 28 countries on five continents with 81% of our revenue for 2007 generated outside the United States. We operate two primary lines of businesses. The first is our Generation business, where we own and or operate power plants to generate and sell power to wholesale customers such as utilities and other intermediaries. The second is our Utilities business, where we own and or operate utilities to distribute, transmit and sell electricity to end user customers in the residential, commercial, industrial and governmental sectors within a defined service area. Each of our primary lines of business generates approximately half of our revenues. We are also developing an Alternative Energy business. Alternative Energy includes strategic initiatives such as wind generation and climate solutions, such as the production of emissions credits. Generation. We currently own or operate 121 Generation facilities in 26 countries on five continents. We also have 12 new Generation facilities under construction. Our Generation businesses use a wide range of technologies and fuel types including coal, combined cycle gas turbines, hydroelectric power and biomass. The majority of the electricity produced by our Generation businesses is sold under long term contracts, or power purchase agreements, to wholesale customers. Approximately 62% of the revenues from our Generation businesses during 2007 was derived from plants that operate under power purchase agreements of five years or longer for 75% or more of their output capacity. These businesses 85 often reduce their exposure to fuel supply risks by entering into long term fuel supply contracts or fuel tolling contracts where the customer assumes full responsibility for purchasing and supplying the fuel to the power plant. These long term contractual agreements result in relatively predictable cash flow and earnings and reduce exposure to volatility in the market price for electricity and fuel; however, the amount of earnings and cash flow predictability varies from business to business based on the degree to which its exposure is limited by the contracts that it has negotiated. The balance of our Generation businesses sell power through competitive markets under short term contracts or directly in the spot market. As a result, the cash flows and earnings associated with these businesses are more sensitive to fluctuations in the market price for electricity, natural gas, coal and other fuels. However, for a number of these facilities, including our plants in New York, which include a fleet of low cost coal fired plants, we have hedged the majority of our exposure to fuel, energy and emissions pricing for the next several years Utilities. Our Utilities businesses distribute power to more than 11 million people in eight countries on five continents. Our Utilities business consists primarily of 15 companies owned and or operated under management agreements, all of which operate in a defined service area. These businesses have a variety of structures ranging from pure distribution businesses to fully integrated utilities, which generate, transmit and distribute power. In May 2007, we completed the sale of EDC, our utility in Venezuela, for $739 million net of tax. As a result of the sale, we recognized an impairment charge of $680 million which represented the difference between the net book value of our investment in EDC and the sales price. This impairment charge and the results of the operations for EDC are reflected as discontinued operations for all periods presented in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K. Alternative Energy. Alternative Energy is not currently one of our primary lines of business, but we expect this high growth sector to be a material contributor to our revenue and gross margin in the future. As demand for more sustainable and environmentally friendly sources of energy grows, we continue to invest in Alternative Energy with a current focus on increasing our wind power capacity and building our climate solutions business for GHG reduction. AES entered the wind business in 2005 and today we have ten wind generation facilities with more than 1,000 MW of wind projects in operation. In addition, we are developing initiatives in other countries that are approved for GHG projects under the Kyoto Protocol and marketing the credits created. AES operates in 18 of the developing countries that are eligible for these credits which provides us with a good foundation for this new business. Segments. Our Generation and Utilities businesses are organized within four defined geographic regions: (1) Latin America, (2) North America, (3) Europe & Africa, and (4) Asia and the Middle East, ("Asia"). Three regions, North America, Latin America and Europe & Africa, are engaged in both Generation and Utility businesses. Our Asia region operates only Generation businesses. Accordingly, these businesses and regions account for seven operating segments. "Corporate and Other" includes corporate overhead costs which are not directly associated with the operations of our seven primary operating segments; interest income and expense; other inter company charges such as management fees and self insurance premiums which are fully eliminated in consolidation; and revenue, development costs and operational costs related to our Alternative Energy business, which is currently not material to our operations. Key Drivers of Our Results of Operations. Our Utilities and Generation businesses are distinguished by the nature of their customers, operational differences, cost structure, regulatory environment and risk exposure. As a result, each line of business has slightly different drivers which affect operating results. Performance drivers for our Generation businesses include, among other things, plant availability and reliability, management of fixed and operational costs and the extent to which our plants have hedged their exposure to fuel cost volatility. For our Generation businesses which sell 86 power under short term contract or in the spot market one of the most crucial factors is the market price of electricity and the plants ability to generate electricity at a cost below that price. Growth in our Generation business is largely tied to securing new power purchase agreements, expanding capacity in our existing facilities and building new power plants. Performance drivers for our Utilities businesses include, but are not limited to, reliability of service; negotiation of tariff adjustments; compliance with extensive regulatory requirements; management of working capital; and in developing countries, reduction of commercial and technical losses. The results of operations of our Utilities businesses are sensitive to changes in economic growth and weather conditions in the area in which they operate. One of the key factors which affect both our revenue and costs of sales is changes in the cost of fuel. When fuel costs increase, many of our Generation businesses with long term contracts and our Utilities are able to pass these costs on to the customer through fuel pass through or fuel indexing arrangements in their contracts or through increases in tariff rates. Therefore, in a rising fuel cost environment as was the case in 2007, increases in fuel costs for these businesses often resulted in increases in revenue (though not necessarily on a one for one basis). While these circumstances may not have a large impact on gross margin, they can significantly affect gross margin as a percentage of revenue. Other factors that can affect gross margin include our ability to expand the number of facilities we own; and in our existing plants, to sign up new customers and or purchasing parties, collect receivables from existing customers and operate our plants more efficiently. In 2007, these afforts helped us overcome certain challenges that we face in our business, such as issues related to fuel supplies and forced purchases on the spot market at high prices. Highlights of 2007 Results of Operations. In 2007, management continued to focus its efforts on increasing shareholder value by improving operations, executing our growth strategy and strategically managing our portfolio of businesses. Our 2007 results of operations were positively impacted by a number of factors including, but not limited to: higher tariff rates at certain of our distribution businesses; contributions from recent acquisitions including TEG/TEP in Mexico in February 2007, where significant operational improvements were achieved, and a full year of operations at Itabo in the Dominican Republic; increased usage in both Brazil and the Ukraine; and favorable foreign currency translation at our Utilities businesses in Latin America. However, our business faced numerous challenges as well during 2007. Our results were negatively impacted by increased costs from gas supply curtailments, drier than normal hydrology and high spot prices for electricity at the Companys businesses in the Southern Cone of Latin America. Significantly lower than normal rainfall in Argentina caused our hydro powered generation plant at AES Alicura to operate less. Therefore, we had to rely on our other plants, which use higher cost fuel sources, to deliver energy to our customers. The drier than normal hydrology conditions and other factors in Argentina resulted in significantly increased demand for gas and, in response, the government of Argentina placed restrictions (curtailments) on gas exports to Chile and Brazil. AES Uruguaiana, our gas powered generation plant in Brazil, receives its gas from Argentina and was negatively impacted by the Argentine gas curtailment because AES Uruguaina is obligated under its contract to deliver power to its customers at a contracted price. As a result, AES Uruguaina had to purchase fuel and energy on the open market at higher spot prices, which exceeded the amount that AES Uruguaiana could recover under its existing contracts. In the fourth quarter of 2007, we recognized an impairment charge of approximately $352 million with respect to our investment in AES Uruguaiana. Some of our gas fired generation businesses servicing Chile were similarly impacted by the Argentine gas curtailment resulting in the purchase of higher priced fuel to operate these plants. During 2007, we recognized additional impairment charges of $52 million related to our investment in AgCert, a United Kingdom company that produces carbon emission credits ("CERs"), and $14 million related to prepaid CERs, due to AgCerts potential inability to deliver the CERs or to 87 repay the sums advanced by us; $25 million related to our Placerita subsidiary, a gas fired combined cycle generation plant located in the United States, due to damage sustained to one of the plants gas turbines; and $10 million related to the curtailment of operations at Coal Creek Minerals, LLC, a coal mining company owned by our subsidiary Cavanal Minerals. Our results of operations were also significantly affected by increased fuel costs across all four of our regions; a tariff reduction at Eletropaulo, one of our Latin America Utilities businesses; the sale of EDC; increased interest expense; and higher overhead costs as a result of our financial restatements and continued remediation of the material weaknesses in our internal control of financial reporting. Despite these challenges, we still had strong operating performance as demonstrated by the following financial achievements: highest annual revenue in Company history of $13.6 billion and gross margin of $3.4 billion, or 25% of revenue; income from continuing operations of $495 million, or $0.73 per diluted share; and highest annual cash flow from operations in company history of $2.4 billion, despite a net loss of $95 million in the current year and the loss of cash flow from the operations of EDC subsequent to its sale in May 2007. We were also able to improved the parent companys capital structure by refinancing existing secured debt with unsecured debt at more favorable rates and with longer average maturities, which resulted in a decrease of secured debt as a percentage of total parent company debt from approximately 42% to 17%. Growth Strategy and Portfolio Management. During 2007, we continued to execute our growth strategy. In February 2007, we acquired TEG/TEP, two 230 MW petroleum coke fired power plants in Mexico, for $611 million, including cash and the assumption of debt. We added 427 MW of capacity to our wind operation portfolio, including the start up of commercial operations at Buffalo Gap and the acquisition of Midwest Wind. Additionally, we commenced construction of a 170 MW expansion to Buffalo Gap III, one of our existing wind farms, which is expected to commence commercial operation in 2008. In early 2008, we also announced the Companys acquisition of a coal fired generation facility in the Philippines for $930 million. The Companys growth project backlog (growth projects under construction) as of December 31, 2007 totaled over 2,240 GMW of new generation capacity with a total expected investment of approximately $4 billion through 2011. This includes fossil fueled projects in Chile, Bulgaria and Jordan, hydroelectric projects in Panama and Turkey and a wind project in the United States. We also secured early stage memorandums of understanding to develop power projects in countries such as Vietnam, Indonesia and India. Our business strategy is focused on global growth in our core Generation and Utilities businesses along with growth in related markets such as Alternative Energy, electricity transmission and water desalination. The Company sees growth investments as the most significant contributor to long term shareholder value creation. The Company expects to fund growth investments from available cash, net cash from operating activities and or the proceeds from debt (both recourse and non recourse) and equity financing, asset sales and partner equity contributions. Certain of the Alternative Energy businesses may be considered start up businesses that will need to be funded internally through cash equity contributions, and may have limited non recourse debt financing opportunities initially. We see sufficient attractive investment opportunities that may exceed available cash and net cash from operating activities in future periods. The Companys growth strategies are complemented by an increased emphasis on portfolio management through which AES has and will continue to sell or monetize a portion of certain businesses or assets when market values appear significantly higher than the Companys assessment of 88 its value as part of the AES portfolio. Portfolio management was an important area of focus in 2007 and will be a continuing area of focus in 2008 and beyond. In October 2007, we sold 10% of our interest in Gener, our subsidiary in Chile, for $306 million, which increased the liquidity of those shares and we believe reduced the discount the local Chilean stock market had been placing on Gener shares due to their prior illiquidity. In early 2008, we announced the sale of Ekibastuz and Maikuben, two of our Generation businesses in Kazakhstan, for an upfront price of $1.1 billion and management fees and earn out provisions that could generate additional consideration of up to approximately $380 million. Outlook for the Future Managements strategy is to continue building on our traditional lines of business while expanding into other essential energy related areas, such as Alternative Energy. As part of that mission, AES strives to improve both short and long term profitability while positioning the Company to continue our success in the future. As we look to 2008 and beyond, we will work toward the following goals: continuing to expand our global footprint by leveraging our existing relationships around the world and entering new markets while continuing to grow our operations in our existing markets through capital investment; managing our debt maturity profile and strengthening our capital structure; growing our Alternative Energy businesses and working towards being a leader in the area of renewable energy generation and carbon offsets and become a world class operator; and maintaining our focus on safety. The Company also believes that high oil prices, increasing regulation of greenhouse gases, faster than expected global economic growth and a weak U.S. Dollar present opportunities for value creation, based on the Companys current business portfolio strategies. Slower global economic growth, which will impact demand growth for utilities and some generation businesses, is one of the most significant potential obstacles affecting value creation. Other important scenarios that could impair future value include higher oil prices and a strong U.S. Dollar. 2007 Performance Highlights Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (Restated) (Restated) ($s in millions, except per share amounts) Revenue $ 13,588 $ 11,576 $ 10,247 Gross Margin $ 3,409 $ 3,434 $ 2,870 Gross Margin as a % of Revenue 25.1 % 29.7 % 28.0 % Diluted Earnings Per Share from Continuing Operations $ 0.73 $ 0.27 $ 0.56 Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities $ 2,357 $ 2,351 $ 2,220 The following is a summary discussion of the consolidated revenue, gross margin, earnings per share, and net cash from operating activities. Revenue We achieved record revenues of $13.6 billion, an increase of 17% from $11.6 billion the previous year. The increase in revenues was primarily driven by higher prices across our Generation businesses 89 of approximately $688 million; contributions from new acquisitions such as TEG/TEP and Itabo of approximately $286 million; and favorable currency translation of approximately $636 million primarily at our Utilities businesses in Latin America. Gross margin Gross margin remained relatively flat at $3.4 billion, as improved operations in North America, favorable foreign currency translation in Brazil and contributions from recent acquisitions were offset by tariff reductions at Eletropaulo and ongoing gas supply curtailments and drier than normal hydrology at our businesses in Argentina and Chile. Earnings per share Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations increased $0.46 per share to $0.73 per share compared to $0.27 per share in 2006. This increase was primarily driven by higher revenues as a result of pass through fuel costs and the 2006 impact of our Brasiliana restructuring of approximately $0.76 per share; impairment charges related to Uruguaiana and AgCert of approximately ($0.34) per share; and the impact of the Mexican Tax Law Change of approximately ($0.07) per share. The remaining growth in earnings per share was attributable to the overall growth of the business. 90  Net cash from operating activities Net cash provided by operating activities remained relatively flat at $2.4 billion. Excluding any contribution from EDC, net cash from operating activities would have increased by approximately $119 million, an increase of 6% from $2.1 billion in 2006 to $2.2 billion in 2007. Consolidated Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, Results of operations 2007 2006 (Restated) 2005 (Restated) $ change 2007 vs. 2006 $ change 2006 vs. 2005 (in millions, except per share amounts) Revenue: Latin America Generation $ 3,510 $ 2,615 $ 2,145 $ 895 $ 470 Latin America Utilities 5,172 4,552 4,127 620 425 North America Generation 2,168 1,928 1,745 240 183 North America Utilities 1,052 1,032 951 20 81 Europe & Africa Generation 975 852 735 123 117 Europe & Africa Utilities 660 570 506 90 64 Asia Generation 889 785 600 104 185 Corporate and Other(1) (838 ) (758 ) (562 ) (80 ) (196 ) Total Revenue $ 13,588 $ 11,576 $ 10,247 $ 2,012 $ 1,329 Gross Margin: Latin America Generation $ 955 $ 1,052 $ 857 $ (97 ) $ 195 Latin America Utilities 865 888 584 (23 ) 304 North America Generation 702 610 556 92 54 North America Utilities 313 277 301 36 (24 ) Europe & Africa Generation 275 247 185 28 62 Europe & Africa Utilities 63 103 109 (40 ) (6 ) Asia Generation 193 201 243 (8 ) (42 ) Total Corporate and Other(2) (336 ) (245 ) (186 ) (91 ) (59 ) Interest expense (1,788 ) (1,769 ) (1,828 ) (19 ) 59 Interest income 500 434 381 66 53 Other expense (255 ) (452 ) (109 ) 197 (343 ) Other income 358 116 157 242 (41 ) Gain on sale of investments 134 98 36 98 Loss on sale of subsidiary stock (535 ) 535 (535 ) Impairment expense (408 ) (17 ) (16 ) (391 ) (1 ) Foreign currency transaction gains (losses) on net monetary position 24 (80 ) (143 ) 104 63 Equity in earnings of affiliates 76 73 66 3 7 Other non operating expense (57 ) (57 ) Income tax expense (685 ) (362 ) (473 ) (323 ) 111 Minority interest expense (434 ) (463 ) (319 ) 29 (144 ) Income from continuing operations 495 176 365 319 (189 ) Income from operations of discontinued businesses 71 107 188 (36 ) (81 ) Loss from disposal of discontinued businesses (661 ) (57 ) (604 ) (57 ) Extraordinary items 21 (21 ) 21 Cumulative effect of accounting change (4 ) 4 Net (loss) income $ (95 ) $ 247 $ 549 $ (342 ) $ (302 ) Per share data: Basic income per share from continuing operations $ 0.74 $ 0.27 $ 0.56 $ 0.47 $ (0.29 ) Diluted income per share from continuing operations $ 0.73 $ 0.27 $ 0.56 $ 0.46 $ (0.29 ) (1)Corporate and Other includes revenues from Alternative Energy and inter segment eliminations of revenues related to transfers of electricity from Tiet&ecirc; (generation) to Eletropaulo (utility). (2)Total Corporate and Other expenses include corporate general and administrative expenses as well as certain inter segment eliminations, primarily corporate charges for management fees and self insurance premiums. 91 Segment Analysis Latin America The following table summarizes revenue for our Generation and Utilities segments in Latin America for the periods indicated (in millions): Latin America For the Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (Restated) (Restated) Revenue Revenue % of Total Revenue Revenue % of Total Revenue Revenue % of Total Revenue Latin America Generation $ 3,510 26 % $ 2,615 23 % $ 2,145 21 % Latin America Utilities 5,172 38 % 4,552 39 % 4,127 40 % Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Revenue Generation revenue increased $895 million, or 34%, from the previous year primarily due to higher rates and volume at Gener (in Chile) and Alicura (in Argentina) of approximately $443 million and $95 million, respectively; and increased volume and intercompany sales from Tiet&ecirc; (in Brazil) to Eletropaulo, our Brazilian utility, of approximately $130 million. Our increase in ownership of the controlling shares of Itabo contributed approximately $87 million in revenue. The impact of favorable foreign currency translation was approximately $38 million. Utilities revenue increased $620 million, or 14%, from the previous year. This increase was primarily the result of favorable foreign currency translation of $493 million, and increased rates and volume in Brazil at our Sul facility and at our plants in El Salvador of $58 million and $41 million, respectively, offset by net decreases in tariff of $24 million at Eletropaulo (in Brazil). Fiscal Year 2006 versus 2005 Revenue Generation revenue increased $470 million, or 22%, from the previous year primarily due to higher rates and volume at our Chile and Argentina businesses of $86 million and $99 million, respectively; higher sales offset by intercompany sales from Tiet&ecirc; in Brazil to Eletropaulo of approximately $137 million; and our increase in ownership of the controlling shares of Itabo in the Dominican Republic contributed approximately $115 million in revenue. Utilities revenue increased $425 million, or 10%, from the previous year. This increase was driven by favorable foreign currency translation of $413 million; a net increase of $19 million in rates and volume at Eletropaulo and increased tariff rates at CAESS and Clesa in El Salvador of $62 million, offset by lower intercompany sales at Infoenergy of $40 million. The following table summarizes gross margin for the Generation and Utilities segments in Latin America for the periods indicated (in millions): Latin America For the Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (Restated) (Restated) Gross Margin Gross Margin % of Total Gross Margin Gross Margin % of Total Gross Margin Gross Margin % of Total Gross Margin Latin America Generation $ 955 28 % $ 1,052 31 % $ 857 30 % Latin America Utilities 865 25 % 888 26 % 584 20 % 92 Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Gross Margin Generation gross margin decreased $97 million, or 9%, from the previous year primarily due to increased cost from gas supply curtailments, drier than normal hydrology and higher spot prices for electricity in the Companys businesses in Argentina, Chile and Southern Brazil of approximately $173 million and one time transmission charges at Tiet&ecirc; of $39 million, offset in part, by higher sales at Itabo in the Dominican Republic of $23 million and intercompany sales in Tiet&ecirc; of $103 million. Utilities gross margin decreased $23 million, or 3%, from the previous year primarily due to reduced tariff rates at Eletropaulo of $355 million offset by lower costs, favorable foreign currency translation of $148 million and higher volume of $74 million. Additionally, Sul (in Brazil) had increased rates and volume of $27 million and favorable foreign currency translation of $19 million. Fiscal Year 2006 versus 2005 Gross Margin Generation gross margin increased $195 million, or 23%, from the previous year due to net increases in intercompany and volume sales from Tiet&ecirc; to Eletropaulo in Brazil of $137 million, an increase in spot market and contract energy prices at Gener in Chile of $88 million and $13 million from the acquisition of a controlling interest in Itabo in the Dominican Republic, these were partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency impacts of $30 million. Utilities gross margin increased $304 million, or 52%, from the previous year due to $192 million of additional gross bad debts reserves recognized in the second quarter of 2005 related to the collectibility of certain municipal receivables at Eletropaulo and Sul in Brazil, and favorable foreign currency impacts of $170 million. These increases were partially offset by higher legal reserves at Eletropaulo of $56 million. North America The following table summarizes revenue for our Generation and Utilities segments in North America for the periods indicated (in millions): North America For the Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (Restated) (Restated) Revenue Revenue % of Total Revenue Revenue % of Total Revenue Revenue % of Total Revenue North America Generation $ 2,168 16 % $ 1,928 17 % $ 1,745 17 % North America Utilities 1,052 8 % 1,032 9 % 951 9 % Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Revenue Generation revenue increased $240 million, or 12%, from the previous year primarily due to approximately $200 million in new business as a result of our acquisition of TEG/TEP in Mexico and approximately $96 million in higher rate and volume sales at the Companys New York facilities; offset by mark to market adjustments for embedded derivatives of $51 million at Deepwater in Texas and lower emission sales of $39 million. Utilities revenue increased $20 million, or 2%, from the previous year primarily due to increased volume, offset by a slight decrease in tariff rates at IPL. 93 Fiscal Year 2006 versus 2005 Revenue Generation revenue increased $183 million, or 11%, due to the change in the mark to market adjustment related to Deepwater of approximately $96 million and an increase in revenues of $76 million at the New York facilities due to an increase in rates. Utilities revenue increased $81 million, or 9%, from the previous year primarily attributable to higher pricing at IPL due to the pass through of higher fuel costs. The following table summarizes gross margin for the Generation and Utilities segments in North America for the periods indicated (in millions): North America For the Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (Restated) (Restated) Gross Margin Gross Margin % of Total Gross Margin Gross Margin % of Total Gross Margin Gross Margin % of Total Gross Margin North America Generation $ 702 21 % $ 610 18 % $ 556 19 % North America Utilities 313 9 % 277 8 % 301 10 % Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Gross Margin Generation gross margin increased $92 million, or 15%, from the previous year primarily due to approximately $62 million related to our acquisition of TEG/TEP in Mexico and $90 million related to higher rates and volumes and lower cost at the Companys New York facilities offset by lower sales of excess emissions allowances of approximately $39 million. Utilities gross margin increased $36 million, or 13%, primarily due to increased volume sales and deferred fuel cost recoveries at IPL. Fiscal Year 2006 versus 2005 Gross Margin Generation gross margin increased $54 million, or 10%, from the previous year primarily due to the impact of the marked to market adjustment related to Deepwater of approximately $96 million, offset by a decrease of approximately $38 million related to outages at Warrior Run, Hawaii and Ironwood as well as a scheduled reduction in pricing of the power purchase agreements for our Hawaii plant of $13 million. Utilities gross margin decreased $24 million, or 8%, from the previous year primarily due to higher maintenance costs at IPL of $23 million as part of a scheduled outage on one of its large base load coal fired units that coincided with a project to enhance environmental emission technology to significantly reduce emissions as well as increased emissions allowances. Europe & Africa The following table summarizes revenue for the Generation and Utilities segments in Europe & Africa for the periods indicated (in millions): Europe & Africa For the Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (Restated) (Restated) Revenue Revenue % of Total Revenue Revenue % of Total Revenue Revenue % of Total Revenue Europe & Africa Generation $ 975 7 % $ 852 7 % $ 735 7 % Europe & Africa Utilities 660 5 % 570 5 % 506 5 % 94 Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Revenue Generation revenue increased $123 million, or 14%, from the previous year primarily due to favorable foreign currency translation of $77 million and increased rate and volume sales of approximately $60 million at our businesses in Kazakhstan. Utilities revenue increased $90 million, or 16%, from the previous year primarily due to increased tariff rates and volume of approximately $57 million in the Ukraine and approximately $28 million in favorable foreign currency translation. Fiscal Year 2006 versus 2005 Revenue Generation revenue increased $117 million, or 16%, primarily due to increased volume sales and contract energy prices at Tisza II in Hungary of $73 million offset by decreased volume at Ekibastuz in Kazakhstan of $30 million, increased sales from our centralized trading office in Altai, Kazakhstan of $58 million, and CO2 emission allowance sales in Hungary of $16 million and Bohemia in the Czech Republic of $12 million. Utilities revenue increased $64 million, or 13%, primarily due to increased demand and tariff rates at SONEL in Cameroon of $17 million and $46 million at our businesses in the Ukraine. The following table summarizes gross margin for the Generation and Utilities segments in Europe & Africa for the periods indicated (in millions): Europe & Africa For the Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (Restated) (Restated) Gross Margin Gross Margin % of Total Gross Margin Gross Margin % of Total Gross Margin Gross Margin % of Total Gross Margin Europe & Africa Generation $ 275 8 % $ 247 7 % $ 185 6 % Europe & Africa Utilities 63 2 % 103 3 % 109 4 % Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Gross Margin Generation gross margin increased $28 million, or 11%, from the previous year primarily due to rate and volume increases at our businesses in Kazakhstan and Kilroot of $44 million and $13 million, respectively. These increases were offset by lower emission sales in Hungary and Bohemia in the Czech Republic of approximately $28 million. Utilities gross margin decreased $40 million, or 39%, from the previous year primarily due to higher non fuel operating and maintenance costs as well as higher fuel usage at SONEL in Cameroon. Fiscal Year 2006 versus 2005 Gross Margin Generation gross margin increased $62 million, or 34%, from the previous year, primarily due to higher pricing on improved volumes at Ekibastuz and at our centralized trading office in Altai both in Kazakhstan, margin on CO2 emission allowance sales in Hungary of $16 million and by Bohemia in the Czech Republic of $11 million. Utilities gross margin was flat compared to the prior year primarily due to higher expenses at SONEL in Cameroon, offset by improved volume sales and tariff rates for SONEL and our businesses in the Ukraine. 95 Asia The following table summarizes revenue for the Generation segment in Asia for the periods indicated (in millions): Asia For the Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (Restated) (Restated) Revenue Revenue % of Total Revenue Revenue % of Total Revenue Revenue % of Total Revenue Asia Generation $ 889 7 % $ 785 7 % $ 600 6 % Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Revenue Revenues increased $104 million, or 13%, from the previous year primarily attributable to higher dispatch in Pakistan of $83 million and higher volume and rates at Kelanitissa in Sri Lanka of approximately $30 million offset by volume decreases of approximately $8 million at Chigen in China. Fiscal Year 2006 versus 2005 Revenue Revenues increased $185 million, or 31%, from the previous year primarily due to increased sales of approximately $141 million at the two Pakistan power generation plants, Lal Pir and Pak Gen, as well as $31 million of improvements at Kelanitissa primarily due to favorable sales which was comprised of $16 million from volume increases and $15 million from increased rates. The following table summarizes gross margin for the Generation segment in Asia for the periods indicated (in millions): Asia For the Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (Restated) (Restated) Gross Margin Gross Margin % of Total Gross Margin Gross Margin % of Total Gross Margin Gross Margin % of Total Gross Margin Asia Generation $ 193 6 % $ 201 6 % $ 243 8 % Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Gross Margin Gross margin was generally flat decreasing by $8 million, or 4%, to $193 million in 2007 from $201 million in 2006 primarily attributable to decreased volume at Chigen in China. Fiscal Year 2006 versus 2005 Gross Margin Gross margin decreased $42 million, or 17%, from the previous year primarily due to increases in variable operating and maintenance costs of $16 million, higher rural grid fund taxes of $6 million and approximately $13 million in lease adjustments at Lal Pir and Pak Gen. Corporate and Other Expense Corporate and other expenses include general and administrative expenses related to corporate staff functions and or initiatives, executive management, finance, legal, human resources, information systems and certain development costs which are not allocable to our business segments. In addition, this line item includes net operating results from other businesses which are immaterial for the purposes of separate segment disclosure and, the effects of eliminating transactions, such as management fee arrangements and self insurance charges, between the operating segments and corporate. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, Corporate and other expense was approximately 2 3% of total revenues. 96  Corporate and other expense increased $78 million, or 26%, to $379 million in 2007 from $301 million in 2006. The increase is primarily due to higher spending in professional fees of approximately $24 million primarily to complete the restatement and remediation efforts, higher spending due to headcount increases primarily related to the strengthening of our finance organization of approximately $15 million and higher spending on our SAP implementation projects. Corporate and other expense increased $80 million, or 36%, to $301 million in 2006 from $221 million in 2005. The increase is primarily due to higher spending of approximately $51 million in corporate development spending primarily in support of Alternative Energy, higher spending on corporate headcount due to the development of Regional Presidents and related to the strengthening of our finance organization, and higher spending on our SAP implementation projects. Interest expense Interest expense increased $19 million, or 1%, to $1,788 million in 2007 from $1,769 million in 2006. Interest expense increased primarily due to unfavorable impacts from foreign currency translation in Brazil and interest expense associated with derivatives. These increases were offset by the benefits of debt retirement activity at several of our Latin American subsidiaries and lower interest rates at one of our subsidiaries in Brazil. Interest expense decreased $59 million, or 3%, to $1,769 million in 2006 from $1,828 million in 2005. Interest expense decreased primarily due to the benefits of debt retirements principally in the U.S., Brazil and the Dominican Republic, lower interest rates at certain of our businesses, and decreased amortization of deferred financing costs, offset by negative impacts from foreign currency translation in Brazil. Interest income Interest income increased $66 million, or 15%, to $500 million in 2007 from $434 million in 2006. Interest income increased primarily due to favorable foreign currency translation on the Brazilian Real and higher cash and short term investment balances at certain of our subsidiaries, offset by decreases at two of our Brazilian subsidiaries due to lower interest rates. Interest income increased $53 million, or 14%, to $434 million in 2006 from $381 million in 2005. Interest income increased primarily due to favorable foreign currency translation on the Brazilian Real, higher cash and short term investment balances at certain of our subsidiaries, and an increase in interest income at one of our subsidiaries in the Dominican Republic related to the settlement of certain net receivables with the government. Other income Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (Restated) (Restated) (in millions) Contract settlement gain $ 135 $ $ Gross receipts tax recovery 93 Legal/dispute settlement 26 1 10 Gain on sale of assets 24 18 7 Gain on extinguishment of liabilities 22 45 82 Other 58 52 58 Total other income $ 358 $ 116 $ 157 97 Other income increased $242 million to $358 million in 2007 from $116 million in 2006. Other income increased primarily due to a $135 million contract settlement gain at one of our subsidiaries in New York, a $93 million gross receipts tax recovery at two of our Latin American subsidiaries, and $25 million related to favorable legal settlements at one of our subsidiaries in Brazil and one of our North American subsidiaries. These increases were offset by lower gains on extinguishment of debt, which were driven in 2006 by debt retirement activities at several of our Latin American businesses. Other income decreased $41 million to $116 million in 2006 from $157 million in 2005. Other income decreased primarily due to activity at our Brazilian subsidiaries, including the expiration of a tax liability of $70 million and a gain related to the determination of the collectibility of the Sao Paulo municipality agreement in 2005. Other expense Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (Restated) (Restated) (in millions) Loss on extinguishment of liabilities $ 106 $ 181 $ 3 Regulatory special obligations 139 Loss on sale and disposal of assets 79 23 43 Legal/dispute settlement 36 31 30 Write down of disallowed regulatory assets 16 36 Marked to market loss (gain) on commodity derivatives 1 (2 ) 3 Other 17 44 30 Total other expense $ 255 $ 452 $ 109 Other expense decreased $197 million to $255 million in 2007 from $452 million in 2006. Other expense decreased primarily due to higher losses in 2006 associated with debt retirement activities at several of our Latin American businesses, special obligation charges and the write down of disallowed regulatory assets at one of our subsidiaries in Brazil in 2006. In 2007, there was a loss of $90 million on the retirement of Senior Notes at the Parent Company, as well as higher losses on sales and disposals of assets at two of our Brazilian subsidiaries. Other expense increased $343 million to $452 million in 2006 from $109 million in 2005. Other expense increased primarily due to losses associated with the early extinguishment of debt at several of our Latin American businesses and a loss on the retirement of the parents senior subordinated debentures, as well as special obligation charges and write down of disallowed regulatory assets at one of our subsidiaries in Brazil in 2006. Impairment Expense As discussed in Note 17 Impairment Expense to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of the Form 10 K, impairment expense for the year 2007 was $408 million and consisted primarily of the following: In the fourth quarter of 2007, the Company recognized a pre tax impairment charge of approximately $14 million related to a $52 million prepayment advanced to AgCert for a specified amount of future Certified Emission Reduction ("CER"). AgCert, a United Kingdom based corporation that produces emission reduction credits, notified AES that it was not able to meet its contractual obligations to deliver CERs, which triggered an analysis of the assets recoverability and resulted in the asset impairment charge. Also during the fourth quarter of 2007, there was a pre tax 98 impairment charge of approximately $352 million at Uruguaiana, a thermoelectric plant located in Brazil. The impairment was the result of an analysis of Uruguaianas long lived assets, which was triggered by the combination of gas curtailments and increases in the spot market price of energy. In August 2007, there was a pre tax impairment charge of approximately $25 million at our Placerita subsidiary, a gas fired combined cycle generation plant located in the United States. The fixed asset impairment was caused by damage sustained to one of the plants gas turbines. Also during the third quarter of 2007, a pre tax fixed asset impairment charge of approximately $10 million was recognized related to the curtailment of operations at Coal Creek Minerals, LLC, a coal mining company owned by our subsidiary Cavanal Minerals located in the United States. Impairment expense for the year 2006 was $17 million and consisted primarily of the following: During the fourth quarter of 2006, there was a pre tax impairment charge of $6 million related to AES China Generating Co. Ltd. ("Chigen") equity investment in Wuhu, a coal fired plant located in China. The equity impairment in Wuhu was required as a result of a goodwill impairment analysis at Chigen. During the third quarter of 2006, there was an impairment charge of $5 million related to a decrease in the market value of five held for sale gas turbines at our subsidiary Itabo located in the Dominican Republic. Impairment expense for the year 2005 was $16 million and consisted primarily of the following: During the third quarter of 2005, there was a pre tax impairment charge of $6 million related to Totem Gas Storage, LLC ("Totem"). The investment asset impairment was due to AESs notification from the sole managing members intention to dissolve, liquidate, and terminate Totem. This charge, combined with a $1.5 million impairment recognized in the fourth quarter of 2004, represented a complete write down of AESs investment in Totem. During the first quarter of 2005, there was a pre tax impairment charge of $5 million related to AES Southland ("Southland"). The fixed asset impairment was booked when, in the course of evaluating the impairment of long lived assets in accordance with SFAS No. 144, it was determined that the net book value of the peaker units were not fully realizable. During the fourth quarter of 2005, there was an additional pre tax impairment charge of $2.5 million which represented the remaining carrying value of these units. Gain on sale of investments Gain on sale of investments increased $36 million, or 37%, to $134 million in 2007 from $98 million in 2006. Gain on sale of investments for the year ended 2007 consisted primarily of the following: In May 2007, we sold a 0.91% ownership in Gener for a net gain of $10 million. In October 2007, we sold an additional 10.18% ownership in Gener for a net gain of $124 million. Gain on sale of investments for the year ended 2006 consisted primarily of the following: In March 2006, we sold our equity investment in a power project in Canada (Kingston) for a net gain of $87 million. In September 2006, we transferred Infoenergy, a wholly owned AES subsidiary, to Brasiliana for a net gain of $10 million. Brasiliana is 53.85% owned by BNDES, but controlled by AES. This transaction was part of the Companys agreement with BNDES to terminate the Sul Option. There was no gain on sale of investments for the year ended 2005. 99 Loss on sale of subsidiary stock There was no loss of sale of subsidiary stock for the year ended 2007. As discussed in Note 14 Stockholders Equity to the Consolidated Financial Statements, in September 2006, Brasilianas wholly owned subsidiary, Transg&aacute;s sold a 33% economic ownership in Eletropaulo, a regulated electric utility in Brazil. Despite the reduction in economic ownership, there was no change in Brasilianas voting interest in Eletropaulo and Brasiliana continues to control Eletropaulo. Brasiliana received $522 million in net proceeds on the sale. On October 5, 2006 Transg&aacute;s, sold an additional 5% economic ownership in Eletropaulo for $78 million in net proceeds. For the year ended December 31, 2006, AES recognized a pre tax loss of $535 million primarily as a result of the recognition of previously deferred currency translation losses. There was no loss on sale of subsidiary stock for the year ended 2005. Foreign currency transaction gains (losses) on net monetary position The following table summarizes the gains (losses) on the Companys net monetary position from foreign currency transaction activities: Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (Restated) (Restated) (in millions) AES Corporation $ 31 $ (17 ) $ 10 Argentina (8 ) (3 ) (5 ) Brazil 5 (49 ) (93 ) Dominican Republic 2 Pakistan (4 ) (18 ) (22 ) Chile (4 ) (21 ) Kazakhstan 10 1 (4 ) Columbia (7 ) (1 ) (5 ) Cameroon 1 2 (4 ) Other 5 (1 ) Total(1) $ 24 $ (80 ) $ (143 ) (1)Includes $22 million, $51 million and $117 million of losses on foreign currency derivative contracts for December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The Company recognized $24 million foreign currency transaction gains for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to losses of $80 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. The $104 million increase was primarily due to fluctuations in Brazil, AES Corporation, Pakistan, Kazakhstan, Argentina and Colombia. The decrease in foreign currency transaction losses in Brazil of $54 million is due to a decrease in foreign currency transaction losses of $45 million in Eletropaulo primarily as a result of swap contracts that were fully paid and executed in 2006 as Eletropaulo converted U.S. Dollar debt to Brazilian Real debt. Eletropaulo also experienced higher foreign currency transaction gains of $63 million associated with energy purchases denominated in U.S. Dollar as the Brazilian Real appreciated 21% for the year ended December 31, 2007. Sul extinguished U.S. Dollar denominated debt in the second quarter of 2006, resulting in less foreign currency transaction gains in 2007 of $44 million. The change in the functional currency of Brasiliana Energia, S.A. to Brazilian Real in the fourth quarter of 2006 resulted in less foreign currency transaction losses of $13 million in 2007 as no foreign currency transaction gains or losses were recorded in 2007. Additionally, foreign currency transaction losses decreased by 100 $36 million related to a forward exchange contract at Tiet&ecirc; during the third quarter of 2006 that was fully paid and executed by the end of 2006. The $31 million foreign currency gain at AES Corporation for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to the $17 million loss for the year ended December 31, 2006 is primarily the result of favorable exchange rates for debt denominated in British Pounds and Euros. The reduction of $14 million in foreign currency transaction loss at Pakistan for the year ended December 31, 2007 is primarily due to a repayment of a substantial amount of foreign currency denominated debt and the depreciation of the Pakistani Rupee. The favorable change in foreign currency transaction gains in Kazakhstan of $9 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, is primarily due to $12 million foreign currency transaction gains recorded on debt denominated in currencies other than the Kazakh Tenge functional currency and $3 million foreign currency transaction losses related to energy sales denominated and fixed in the U.S. Dollar. The increase in foreign currency transaction losses in Argentina of $5 million is primarily due to the devaluation of the Argentine Peso by 3% for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to 2006, resulting in foreign currency transaction losses of $11 million in Alicura associated with its U.S. Dollar denominated debt. The increase in foreign currency transaction losses in Colombia of $6 million is primarily due to the appreciation of the Colombian Peso by 11% for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to 2006 at Chivor (a U.S. Dollar functional currency subsidiary). The Company recognized foreign currency transaction losses of $80 million in 2006 compared to losses from foreign currency transactions of $143 million in 2005. The $63 million decrease in losses for 2006 as compared to 2005 was primarily related to lower foreign currency transaction losses in Brazil and Chile offset by increased foreign currency transaction losses at the Parent Company. Foreign currency movements typically result from changes in U.S. Dollar exchange rates at subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the U.S. Dollar, as well as gains or losses on monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity and gains or losses on foreign currency derivatives. The reduction in foreign currency transaction losses in Brazil is primarily due to a reduction in derivative transaction losses as a result of the reduction in U.S. Dollar denominated debt balances at Eletropaulo partially offset by a decrease in foreign currency transaction gains associated with U.S. Dollar denominated debt balances as the Brazilian Real appreciated 13% in 2006 as compared to 2005. The reduction in foreign currency transaction losses in Chile is primarily due to the devaluation of the Chilean Peso by 4% in 2006 versus 2005, resulting in decreased losses on foreign currency derivative contracts at Gener. Equity in earnings of affiliates Equity in earnings of affiliates increased $3 million, or 4%, to $76 million in 2007 from $73 million in 2006. The increase in 2007 is primarily due to Cartagena being operational for the full year and the absence of liquidated damages incurred in 2006 for construction delays. The increase was partially offset by decreased earnings in 2007 at AES Barry due to proceeds received in 2006 from the settlement of a legal claim that did not recur in 2007. Equity in earnings of affiliates increased $7 million, or 11%, to $73 million in 2006 from $66 million in 2005. The increase was primarily due to the settlement of a legal claim in 2006 related to AES Barry, an equity method investment of AES during the first quarter of 2006, and higher earnings at several affiliates in Latin America. The increase was offset by the impact of increased losses at 101 Cartagena, an equity method investment in Spain, in 2006 primarily due to $35 million in liquidated damages incurred in 2006 related to construction delays that were paid to the offtaker. Other non operating expense Other non operating expense was $57 million in 2007 and was due to the other than temporary impairment of the Companys investment in AgCert. The Company acquired a 9.9% investment in AgCert, a U.K. based corporation that produces emission reduction credits, in May 2006 and, as required by GAAP, treated these securities as "available for sale". The market value of these securities, based on traded market prices on the London Stock Exchange, materially declined during 2007. Based on accounting guidance outlined in SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities, ("SFAS No. 115"), management concluded that the decline was "other than temporary" and recognized an impairment charge of $52 million in the year ended December 31, 2007. Additionally, a charge of $5 million was recognized for the decrease in value of the AgCert warrants. At December 31, 2007, the investment balance is zero. Income taxes Income tax expense related to continuing operations increased $323 million to $685 million in 2007 from $362 million in 2006. The Companys effective tax rates were 42% for 2007 and 36% for 2006. The increase in the 2007 effective tax rate was due, in part, to an impairment at Uruguaiana for which no tax benefit was recorded, the impact of an appreciating Real in certain of our Brazilian subsidiaries, and the impact of income tax law changes in Mexico, partially offset by the nontaxable gain on the sales of shares of one of the Companys Chilean subsidiaries and a release of valuation allowance at one of our subsidiaries in Argentina. Income tax expense related to continuing operations decreased $111 million to $362 million in 2006 from $473 million in 2005. The Companys effective tax rates were 36% for 2006 and 41% for 2005. The reduction in the 2006 effective tax rate was due, in part, to the second quarter 2006 release of a $43 million valuation allowance at the Companys Brazilian subsidiary, Eletropaulo, related to its deferred tax assets on certain pension obligations, a decrease in U.S. taxes on distributions from certain non U.S. subsidiaries due to recent changes in tax laws, and the sale of Kingston in the first quarter of 2006, the gain on which was not taxable. The reduction in the 2006 effective tax rate was offset in part by the Special Obligation liabilities recorded at Eletropaulo and Sul. Minority interest Minority interest expense, net of tax, decreased $29 million to $434 million in 2007 from $463 million in 2006. The decrease is primarily due to the recognition of previously deferred currency translation losses associated with the sale of Eletropaulo shares during the third quarter 2006, resulting in a decrease of our economic ownership in Eletropaulo from 34% to 16%. See Note 14 Stockholders Equity to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K for a further discussion of the sale of Eletropaulo shares and the Brasiliana restructuring. The decrease is also attributable to the minority interest impact of the impairment recognized at Uruguaiana, a Brazilian subsidiary, offset by increased earnings at Tiet&ecirc;, another Brazilian subsidiary. Minority interest expense, net of tax, increased $144 million to $463 million in 2006 from $319 million in 2005. The increase is primarily due to higher earnings from our Brazilian companies offset by a decrease in the third quarter of 2006 in our economic ownership in Eletropaulo from 34% to 16%. 102 Discontinued operations As discussed in Note 20 Discontinued Operations and Businesses Held for Sale to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K, on February 22, 2007, the Company entered into a definitive agreement with PDVSA to sell all of its shares of EDC, a distribution business located in Venezuela and reported in the Latin America Utilities segment, for $739 million net of withholding taxes. In addition, the agreement provided for the payment of a $120 million dividend in 2007. In May 2007, the Company reached an agreement to sell 100% of its indirect interest in two biomass fired power plants located in central California (the Delano and Mendota facilities) for $51 million. These facilities, along with an associated management company (together, the "Central Valley Businesses") were included in the North America Generation segment. During 2006, we discontinued certain businesses including Eden, a Latin America Utilities business located in Argentina and AES Indian Queens Power Limited and AES Indian Queens Operations Limited, collectively "IQP", which is an Open Cycle Gas Turbine located in the U.K. In 2007, income from operations of discontinued businesses, net of tax, was $71 million related to the operations of EDC and Central Valley. In 2006, income from operations of discontinued businesses, net of tax, was $107 million related to the operations of EDC, Central Valley, Eden and IQP. In 2005, income from operations of discontinued businesses, net of tax, was $188 million. Income from operations of EDC, Central Valley, Eden and IQP totaled approximately $157 million for 2005. Additionally, a reversal of approximately $31 million was recognized in the third quarter of 2005 at Eden, related to the release of a valuation allowance previously recognized against its net deferred tax assets. Extraordinary item As discussed in Note 6 Investments in and Advances to Affiliates to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K, in May 2006, AES purchased an additional 25% interest in Itabo, a power generation business located in the Dominican Republic for approximately $23 million. Prior to May, the Company held a 25% interest in Itabo, through its Gener subsidiary, and had accounted for the investment using the equity method of accounting with a corresponding investment balance reflected in the "Investments in and advances to affiliates" line item on the consolidated balance sheets. As a result of the transaction, the Company consolidates Itabo and, therefore, the investment balance has been reclassified to the appropriate line items on the consolidated balance sheets with a corresponding minority interest liability for the remaining 50% interest not owned by AES. The Company realized an after tax extraordinary gain of $21 million as a result of the transaction due to an excess of the fair value of the noncurrent assets over the purchase price. Critical Accounting Estimates The Consolidated Financial Statements of AES are prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America, which requires the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. AESs significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 General and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K. An accounting estimate is considered critical if: the estimate requires management to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the estimate was made; 103 different estimates reasonably could have been used; or the impact of the estimates and assumptions on financial condition or operating performance is material. Management believes that the accounting estimates employed are appropriate and the resulting balances are reasonable; however, actual results could differ from the original estimates, requiring adjustments to these balances in future periods. Management has discussed these critical accounting policies with the audit committee, as appropriate. Listed below are certain significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Income Tax Reserves We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our worldwide income tax provision requires significant judgment and is based on calculations and assumptions that are subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service and other taxing authorities. The Company and certain of its subsidiaries are under examination by relevant taxing authorities for various tax years. The Company regularly assesses the potential outcome of these examinations in each of the taxing jurisdictions when determining the adequacy of the provision for income taxes. The Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Interpretation ("FIN") No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, ("FIN No. 48") effective January 1, 2007. The Interpretation prescribes a more likely than not recognition threshold and establishes new measurement requirements for financial statement reporting of an entitys income tax positions. Tax reserves have been established, which the Company believes to be adequate in relation to the potential for additional assessments. Once established, reserves are adjusted only when there is more information available or when an event occurs necessitating a change to the reserves. While the Company believes that the amount of the tax estimates are reasonable, it is possible that the ultimate outcome of current or future examinations may exceed current reserves in amounts that could be material. Goodwill We test goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or circumstances make it more likely than not that impairment may have occurred, such as a significant adverse change in the business climate or a decision to sell or dispose all or a portion of a business unit. Determining whether an impairment has occurred requires valuation of the respective business unit, which we estimate using a discounted cash flow method. In applying this methodology, we rely on a number of factors, including actual operating results, future business plans, economic projections and market data. If this analysis indicates goodwill is impaired, measuring the impairment requires a fair value estimate of each identified tangible and intangible asset. In this case, we supplement the cash flow approach discussed above with appraisals, as appropriate. Regulatory Assets and Liabilities The Company accounts for certain of its regulated operations under the provisions of SFAS No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation, ("SFAS No. 71"). As a result, AES recognizes assets and liabilities that result from the regulated ratemaking process that would not be recognized under GAAP for non regulated entities. Regulatory assets generally represent incurred costs that have been deferred because such costs are probable of future recovery in customer rates. Regulatory liabilities generally represent obligations to make refunds to customers for previous collections for costs that are not likely to be incurred or included in future rate initiatives. Management continually assesses whether the regulatory assets are probable of future recovery by considering factors such as applicable regulatory changes, recent rate orders applicable to other regulated entities and the 104 status of any pending or potential deregulation legislation. If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, the asset write offs would be required to be recognized in operating income. Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities We enter into various derivative transactions in order to hedge our exposure to certain market risks. We primarily use derivative instruments to manage our interest rate, commodity, and foreign currency exposures. We do not enter into derivative transactions for trading purposes. Under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities as amended, ("SFAS No. 133"), we recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the balance sheet and measure those instruments at fair value except where derivatives qualify and are designated as "normal purchase/ normal sale" transactions. Changes in fair value of derivatives are recognized in earnings unless specific hedge criteria are met. Income and expense related to derivative instruments are recognized in the same category as generated by the underlying asset or liability. SFAS No. 133 enables companies to designate qualifying derivatives as hedging instruments based on the exposure being hedged. These hedge designations include fair value hedges and cash flow hedges. Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is highly effective and is designated and qualifies as a fair value hedge, are recognized in earnings as offsets to the changes in fair value of the exposure being hedged. Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is highly effective and is designated as and qualifies as a cash flow hedge, are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income and are recognized into earnings as the hedged transactions occur. Any ineffectiveness is recognized in earnings immediately. For all hedge contracts, the Company provides formal documentation of the hedge and effectiveness testing in accordance with SFAS No. 133. As a result of uncertainty, complexity and judgment, accounting estimates related to derivative accounting could result in material changes to our financial statements under different conditions or utilizing different assumptions. As a part of accounting for these derivatives, we make estimates concerning volatilities, market liquidity, future commodity prices, interest rates, credit ratings, and exchange rates. AES generally uses quoted exchange prices to the extent they are available to determine the fair value of derivatives. In the absence of actively quoted market prices, we seek indicative price information from external sources, including broker quotes and industry publications. If pricing information from external sources is not available, AES will estimate prices, when possible, based on available historical and near term future price information as well as utilizing statistical methods. When external valuation models are not available, the Company utilizes internal models for valuation. For individual contracts, the use of different valuation models or assumptions could have a material effect on the calculated fair value. New Accounting Pronouncements SFAS No. 157: Fair Value Measurements In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurement, ("SFAS No. 157"). SFAS No. 157 provides enhanced guidance for using fair value to measure assets and liabilities. The standard applies whenever other standards require (or permit) assets or liabilities to be measured at fair value. The standard does not expand the use of fair value in any new circumstances. The standard clarifies that for items that are not actively traded, such as certain kinds of derivatives, fair value should reflect the price in a transaction with a market participant, including an adjustment for risk, not just the Companys mark to model value. The standard establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the information used to develop assumptions. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets and the lowest priority to unobservable data. Under the standard, fair value measurements would be separately disclosed by level within the fair value hierarchy with expanded disclosure for those measurements based on unobservable data. 105  SFAS No. 157 will apply to our interim and annual financial statements for periods beginning after January 1, 2008. There is no cumulative impact of the adoption of SFAS No. 157 for AES. In February 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position ("FSP") No. 157 1, Application of FASB Statement No. 157 to FASB Statement No. 13 and Other Accounting Pronouncements That Address Fair Value Measurements for Purposes of Lease Classification or Measurement Under Statement 13, ("FSP No. 157 1") and FSP No. 157 2, Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157, ("FSP No. 157 2".) FSP No. 157 1 excludes SFAS No. 13, Accounting for Leases, ("SFAS No. 13") and most other accounting pronouncements that address fair value measurement of leases from the scope of SFAS No. 157. The FSP was issued because the FASB had not intended SFAS No. 157 to change lease accounting. FSP No. 157 2 delays the effective date of SFAS No. 157 for all nonrecurring fair value measurements of nonfinancial assets and liabilities until fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008, or January 1, 2009 for AES. SFAS No. 159: The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities including an amendment of FAS 115 In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities including an amendment of FAS 115, ("SFAS No. 159"), which allows entities to choose, at specified election dates, to measure eligible financial assets and liabilities at fair value that are not otherwise required to be measured at fair value. If a company elects the fair value option for an eligible item, changes in that items fair value in subsequent reporting periods must be recognized in current earnings. SFAS No. 159 also establishes presentation and disclosure requirements designed to draw comparison between entities that elect different measurement attributes for similar assets and liabilities. SFAS No. 159 is effective for the Company on January 1, 2008. As allowed by the standard, the Company has elected not to adopt SFAS No.159 for the measurement of any eligible assets or liabilities. SFAS No. 141(R): Business Combinations and SFAS No. 160: Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, an amendment of ARB No. 51 In December 2007 the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations, ("SFAS No. 141(R)") and SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of ARB No. 51, ("SFAS No. 160"). SFAS No. 141(R) will significantly change how business acquisitions are accounted for at the acquisition date and in subsequent periods. The standard changes the accounting at the acquisition date to a fair value based approach rather than the cost allocation approach currently used. Other differences include changes in the accounting for acquisition related costs, contingencies and income taxes and other relevant items. SFAS No. 160 changes the accounting and reporting for minority interests, which will now be classified as a component of equity and will be referred to as noncontrolling interests. SFAS No. 141(R) and SFAS No. 160 will be effective for public and private companies for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008, which is the year beginning January 1, 2009 for AES. SFAS No. 141(R) and SFAS No. 160 will be applied prospectively, except for the presentation and disclosure requirements in SFAS No. 160 for existing minority interests which will require retroactive adoption. Early adoption is prohibited. AES has not begun its analysis of the potential future impact of SFAS No. 141(R) and SFAS No. 160. Capital Resources and Liquidity Overview The AES Corporation is a holding company that conducts all of its operations through subsidiaries. We have, to the extent achievable, utilized non recourse debt to fund a significant portion of the capital expenditures and investments required to construct and acquire our electric power plants, distribution companies and related assets. This type of financing is non recourse to other subsidiaries, affiliates and to us (as the "Parent Company"), and is generally secured by the capital stock, physical 106 assets, contracts and cash flow of the related subsidiary or affiliate. At December 31, 2007, we had $5.6 billion of recourse debt and $12.4 billion of non recourse debt outstanding. For more information on our long term debt see Note 8 Long Term Debt to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K. In addition to non recourse debt, if available, we, as the Parent Company, provide a portion, or in certain instances all, of the remaining long term financing or credit required to fund development, construction or acquisition. These investments have generally taken the form of equity investments or loans, which are subordinated to the projects non recourse loans. The AES Corporation generally obtains the funds for these investments from our cash flows from operations and or the proceeds from our issuances of debt, common stock, and other securities as well as proceeds from the sales of assets. Similarly, in certain of our businesses, the AES Corporation may provide financial guarantees or other credit support for the benefit of lenders or counterparties who have entered into contracts for the purchase or sale of electricity with our subsidiaries. In such circumstances, if a subsidiary defaults on its payment or supply obligation, the AES Corporation is responsible for the subsidiarys obligations up to the amount provided for in the relevant guarantee or other credit support. We expect to continue to seek, where possible, non recourse debt financing in connection with the assets or businesses that our affiliates or we may develop, construct or acquire. However, depending on market conditions and the unique characteristics of individual businesses, non recourse debt may not be available or may not be available on economically attractive terms. If we decide not to provide any additional funding or credit support to the subsidiary that is under construction or has near term debt payment obligations and that subsidiary is unable to obtain additional non recourse debt, our investment may become impaired, or such subsidiary may become insolvent and we may lose our investment in such subsidiary. Additionally, if any of our subsidiaries lose a significant customer, the subsidiary may need to restructure the non recourse debt financing. If such subsidiary is unable to successfully complete a restructuring of the non recourse debt, our investment may become impaired, or we may lose our investment in such subsidiary. At December 31, 2007, we had provided outstanding financial and performance related guarantees or other credit support commitments to or for the benefit of our subsidiaries, which were limited by the terms of the agreements, in an aggregate of approximately $807 million (excluding those collateralized by letters of credit and other obligations discussed below). As a result of the AES Corporations below investment grade rating, counter parties may be unwilling to accept our general unsecured commitments to provide credit support. Accordingly, with respect to both new and existing commitments, we may be required to provide some other form of assurance, such as a letter of credit, to backstop or replace our credit support. We may not be able to provide adequate assurances to such counterparties. In addition, to the extent we are required and able to provide letters of credit or other collateral to such counterparties; this will reduce the amount of credit available to us to meet our other liquidity needs. At December 31, 2007, we had $512 million in letters of credit outstanding, which operate to guarantee performance relating to certain project construction and development activities and subsidiary operations. All of these letters of credit were provided under our revolving credit facility and senior unsecured credit facility. We pay letter of credit fees ranging from 1.63% to 3.94% per annum on the outstanding amounts. In addition, we had less than $1 million in surety bonds outstanding at December 31, 2007. Management believes that cash on hand, along with cash generated through operations, and our financing availability will be sufficient to fund normal operations, capital expenditures, and debt service requirements. Many of our subsidiaries depend on timely and continued access to capital markets to manage their liquidity needs. The inability to raise capital on favorable terms, to refinance existing indebtedness or to fund operations and other commitments during times of political or economic uncertainty may adversely affect those subsidiaries financial condition and results of operations. In addition, changes in 107 the timing of tariff increases or delays in the regulatory determinations under the relevant concessions could affect the cash flows and results of operations in our regulated utility businesses. Capital Expenditures The Company spent $2.5 billion, $1.5 billion and $0.8 billion on capital expenditures in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We anticipate capital expenditures during 2008 to be approximately $3.3 billion. Planned capital expenditures include new project construction costs, environmental pollution control construction and expenditures for existing assets to extend their useful lives. Capital expenditures for 2008 are expected to be financed using internally generated cash provided by operations, project level financing and possibly debt or equity financing at the AES parent company level. The Company continues to assess the possible need for capital expenditures associated with international, federal, regional and state regulation of GHG emissions from electric power generation facilities. Legislation and regulations regarding GHG emissions, if enacted, may place significant costs on GHG emissions from fossil fuel fired electric power generation facilities, particularly coal fired facilities, and in order to comply CO2 emitting facilities may purchase additional GHG emissions allowances or offsets under cap and trade programs or install new pollution control equipment to capture and reduce the amount of GHG emitted from the facilities, in the event that reliable technology to do so is developed. The capital expenditures required to comply with any future GHG legislation and regulations could be significant and unless such costs can be passed on to customers, such regulations could impair the profitability of some of the electric power generation facilities operated by our subsidiaries or render certain of them uneconomical to operate, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. With respect to our operations outside the United States, certain of the businesses operated by the Companys subsidiaries are subject to compliance with EV ETS and the Kyoto Protocol in certain countries and other country specific programs to regulate GHG emissions. To date, compliance with the Kyoto Protocol and EU ETS has not had a material adverse effect on the Companys consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows because of, among other factors, the cost of GHG emission allowances and or the ability of our businesses to pass the cost of purchasing such allowances on to counterparties. As discussed in Item 1 Business Regulatory Matters Environmental and Land Use Regulations, in the United States there presently are no federal laws or regulations regulating GHG emissions, although several legislative proposals are currently under consideration. In 2006, the Companys subsidiaries operated businesses which had total approximate CO2 emissions of 84 million metric tonnes (ownership adjusted and including approximately 6 million metric tonnes from EDC which the Company sold in 2007). Approximately 38 million metric tonnes of the 84 million metric tonnes were emitted in the United States (both figures ownership adjusted). Approximately 12 million metric tonnes were emitted in U.S. states participating in the Regional Green House Gas Initiative (RGGI). At this time, the federal legislative proposals under consideration applicable to electric power generation facilities incorporate market based cap and trade programs which authorize facilities to comply through the acquisition of emissions allowances in lieu of capital expenditures. Certain of the states, either alone or as part of a regional initiative, in which our subsidiaries operate are in the process of developing programs to reduce GHG emissions, primarily CO2, from the electric power generation facilities through cap and trade programs, which would allow CO2 emitting facilities to comply by purchase additional GHG emissions allowances or offsets under cap and trade programs or by installing new pollution control equipment to capture and reduce the amount of GHG emitted from the facilities, in the event that reliable technology to do so is developed. We believe that legislative or regulatory actions, if enacted, may require a material increase in capital expenditures at our subsidiaries. 108 The actual impact on our subsidiaries capital expenditures from any potential federal program to regulate and reduce GHG emissions, if enacted, and the state and regional programs in the process of development, will depend on a number of factors, including among others, the GHG reductions required under any such legislation or regulations, the price and availability of offsets, the extent to which our subsidiaries would be entitled to receive GHG emissions allowances without having to purchase them, the quantity of allowances which our subsidiaries would have to purchase, the price of allowances, our subsidiaries ability to recover or pass through costs incurred to comply with any legislative or regulatory requirements that are ultimately imposed and the use of market based compliance options such as cap and trade programs. Another factor is the success of our climate solutions business, which may generate credits that will help offset our GHG emissions. However, as set forth in the Risk Factor titled "Our Alternative Energy businesses face uncertain operational risks," there is no guarantee that the climate solutions business will be successful. And even if our climate solutions business is successful, the level of benefit is unclear with regard to the impact of legislation or litigation concerning GHG emissions. Cash Flows Favorable/(Unfavorable) Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 07 vs. 06 06 vs. 05 (in millions) (Restated) (Restated) Operating $ 2,357 $ 2,351 $ 2,220 $ 6 $ 131 Investing (1,970 ) (907 ) (653 ) (1,063 ) (254 ) Financing 244 (1,317 ) (1,339 ) 1,561 22 At December 31, 2007, cash and cash equivalents increased by $700 million from December 31, 2006 to a total of $2.1 billion. The change in cash was due to $2.4 billion of cash provided by operating activities, $2.0 billion of cash used for investing activities, $244 million of cash provided by financing activities and the positive effect of exchange rates on cash of $69 million. Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $6 million to $2,357 million during 2007 compared to $2,351 million during 2006. Excluding the decrease in net cash provided by operating activities from EDC, which was sold in May 2007, net cash provided by operating activities would have increased $119 million. This increase of $6 million was primarily due to: $251 million increase in net earnings (adjusted for non cash items); $61 million decrease in payments related to an energy price swap in 2006 at New York in the U.S. and derivatives in 2006 at Eletropaulo in Brazil; $50 million decrease in pension payments; $47 million increase as a result of settlements paid in the prior year; offset by $150 million increase in cash used for working capital; $142 million increase in cash taxes paid; $43 million decrease as a result of settlements received in the prior year; $44 million increase in interest paid; and other changes in accrued liabilities. 109 The $594 million increase in "adjustments to net income" was primarily due to the reversal of non cash adjustments for: $470 million loss in 2006 on the sale by Transg&aacute;s of Eletropaulo shares; $135 million settlement gain in 2007 for a lease buyout at New York; $133 million increase in gain on sale of investments due to the 11.09% sale of ownership in Gener in Chile in 2007; $55 million decrease in loss on extinguishment of debt compared to 2006 at several of our Latin American businesses, offset by an increase in 2007 at the Parent Company. These increases were offset by $493 million of non cash adjustments attributable to EDC, including asset impairment expense of $680 million; $391 million increase in asset impairment expense primarily at Uruguaiana in Brazil; $220 million increase in provision for deferred taxes; and $9 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense. The following table includes details of changes in operating assets and liabilities on the face of the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows: 2007 2006 Change (Restated) (in millions) (Increase) decrease in accounts receivable $ (306 ) $ 94 $ (400 ) Increase in inventory (26 ) (3 ) (23 ) Decrease (increase) in prepaid expenses and other current assets 335 (69 ) 404 (Increase) decrease in other assets (134 ) 149 (283 ) Decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities (398 ) (385 ) (13 ) Increase in other liabilities 121 52 69 Total $ (408 ) $ (162 ) $ (246 ) Accounts receivable increased in the current year primarily due to the increase of receivables from distributors without contracts associated with the governments resolution Resoluci&oacute;n Ministerial No. 88, ("RM 88") at Gener. This resolution requires the generation companies to sell electricity at spot price to small or medium size distribution companies that could not contract its required energy and allows these distributors to pay the regulated price at the following month of delivery and defer the payment of the difference between the spot price and the regulated price. Accounts receivable also increased as a result of increased sales due to higher pricing at Eastern Energy and IPL in the U.S. and increased volume at our Panama subsidiary. Inventory increased in the current year primarily due to a plant outage which resulted in a lack of consumption at Andres in the Dominican Republic. This increase was offset by a decrease in inventory at Eastern Energy due to higher production driven by higher pricing. Prepaid expenses and other current assets decreased in the current year due to a decrease in regulatory assets at Eletropaulo associated with an annual tariff readjustment, offset by an increase in value added taxes at Gener as a result of higher fuel oil consumption and an increase in income tax receivables. Other assets increased in the current year primarily due to the increase in recoverable taxes at Eletropaulo. 110 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities decreased in the current year mainly due to a decrease in regulatory liabilities related to free energy reductions and a decrease in efficiency energy costs at Eletropaulo. Other liabilities increased in the current year mainly due to an increase in regulatory liabilities at Eletropaulo. Investing Activities Net cash used for investing activities in 2007 totaled $1,970 million compared to $907 million during 2006, an increase of $1,063 million. This increase was primarily attributable to the following: Capital expenditures totaled $2,425 million during 2007, a $965 million increase over the $1,460 million balance for 2006. This was mainly due to increased spending of $254 million for the Maritza East 1 lignite fired power plant in Bulgaria, $109 million for the Changuinola project in Panama, $89 million for the Ventanas coal plant and $44 million for the Santa Lidia project, both at Gener in Chile, $72 million for the flue gas desulphurization plant at Kilroot in Ireland, $54 million at Eletropaulo in Brazil primarily for grid expansion and maintenance projects, $48 million related to our facility in Jordan and $39 million at New York in the U.S. related to Somerset and Cayuga facilities. In addition, there was increased spending related to wind development projects of $233 million at our Alternative Energy Group businesses. These increases were offset by a decrease of $53 million due to the sale of EDC in Venezuela. Acquisitions, net of cash acquired totaled $315 million in 2007, a $296 million increase over the $19 million during 2006. This increase was mainly due to the purchase of two 230 MW petroleum coke fired power plants at TEG/TEP in Mexico in the first quarter of 2007 for approximately $195 million, the purchase of a 51% interest in a joint venture with 26 MW existing capacity and a 390 MW development pipeline of hydroelectric projects in Turkey for approximately $76 million and the purchase of Storm Lake and Lake Benton at Mid West Wind in the U.S. for approximately $60 million. Proceeds from the sales of businesses totaled $1,136 million in 2007 and $898 million in 2006. The proceeds in 2007 included $739 million for the sale of EDC, $331 million for the proceeds from the sale of approximately 11.09% of our shares in AES Gener, $51 million for the sale of Central Valley in the U.S. and $17 million for the sale of Eden in Argentina. In 2006 proceeds included $522 million from the sale by Transg&aacute;s of Eletropaulo preferred shares and $80 million in a related sale by Brasiliana of its preferred shares in Eletropaulo, $123 million from the sale of approximately 7.6% of our shares in AES Gener, $110 million from the sale of our Kingston business in Canada, $33 million from the sale of unissued shares at EDC and $28 million from the sale of Indian Queens in England. The purchase of short term investments, net of sales totaled $490 million in 2007, a $142 million increase compared to 2006. These transactions included a $167 million increase in net purchases at Uruguaiana in Brazil due to new investments, $166 million increase in net purchases at Eletropaulo due to the restructuring of Eletropaulo shares held by AES Transg&aacute;s as well as the acquisition of public debt and securities and $96 million increase in net purchases at Ekibastuz in Kazakhstan for loan collateral. This was offset by a $149 million decrease in net purchases at Tiet&ecirc; in Brazil as the result of a change in investment strategy in 2006 from investing in cash equivalents to investing in Brazilian government bonds, $84 million increase in net sales at Brasiliana primarily due to redemptions to provide dividends and the accrued interest on debentures and a $62 million decrease in net purchases at Gener. Restricted cash balances increased $28 million in 2007. Restricted cash balances increased $59 million at New York, $30 million at Maritza, $27 million at Mid West Wind and $21 million at Red Oak in the U.S. These were offset by decreases of $43 million at Kilroot, $33 million at IPL and $16 million at Hawaii. 111 Proceeds from the sale of emission allowances totaled $17 million in 2007, a $65 million decrease from 2006. These sales occurred primarily at our businesses located in the U.S. and in Europe in 2006. Purchases of emission allowances totaled $13 million in 2007, a $64 million decrease from 2006. These purchases were primarily at our businesses located in the U.S. in 2006. Included in the purchases during 2006 is a $45 million commitment to purchase CER credits from AgCert. AgCert is an Ireland based company which uses agricultural sources to produce GHG emission offsets under the Kyoto protocol. Debt service reserves and other assets decreased $122 million in 2007. This was mainly due to decreases of $113 million at Kilroot, $12 million at Pak Gen and $10 million at Lal Pir, both located in Pakistan, and $11 million at Hawaii. These decreases were offset by an increase of $43 million at Eletropaulo. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities totaled $244 million during 2007 compared to net cash used of $1,317 million during 2006. This $1,561 million change was primarily attributable to a decrease in cash used for debt, net of repayments of $1,686 million, an increase in contributions from minority interests of $249 million offset by an increase in payments for deferred financing for $11 million and an increase in distributions to minority interests for $364 million. Issuances of recourse debt and non recourse debt during 2007 were $4,297 million compared to issuances of recourse debt, non recourse debt and revolving credit facilities, net of $3,169 million during 2006. This increase of $1,128 million was primarily due to an increase in recourse debt at the Parent Company of $2 billion; and increases in non recourse debt at TEG/TEP in Mexico of $454 million and at Eletropaulo in Brazil of $301 million. These increases were offset by a decrease in non recourse debt at Brasiliana in Brazil for $744 million; at Sul in Brazil for $494 million; at Panama for $293 million, net; at CAESS in El Salvador for $223 million and at Itabo in Dominican Republic for $153 million, net. Repayments of recourse debt, non recourse debt and revolving credit facilities, net during 2007 were $3,651 million compared to repayments of recourse debt and non recourse debt of $4,209 million during 2006. The decrease of $558 million was primarily due to a decrease in repayments at Brasiliana of $1,032 million; at Sul of $483 million; at Panama of $386 million, net; at Tiet&ecirc; in Brazil of $321 million; and at CAESS of $192 million, net. These decreases were offset by an increase in repayments at the Parent Company for $1,164 million, net and at TEG/TEP for $457 million. Minority distributions were $699 million during 2007 compared to $335 million during 2006. This increase of $364 million includes dividends paid to minority shareholders primarily by Eletropaulo for $212 million and by Brasiliana for $141 million and a $26 million return of capital by Barka in Oman to its minority partner. Minority contributions were $374 million during 2007 compared to $125 million during 2006. This increase of $249 million was primarily due to contributions received from the tax equity partners in 2007 of $313 million at Buffalo Gap II and $31 million at Mid West Wind, both located in the U.S., offset by a decrease of $117 million at Buffalo Gap in the U.S in 2006. 112 Contractual Obligations A summary of our contractual obligations, commitments and other liabilities as of December 31, 2007 is presented in the table below (in millions): Contractual Obligations Total Less than 1 year 1 3 years 4 5 years 5 years and more Other Footnote Reference Debt Obligations(1) $ 17,946 $ 1,359 $ 2,588 $ 2,597 $ 11,402 $ 8 Interest Payments on Long Term Debt(2) 10,904 1,466 2,627 2,058 4,753 n/a Capital Lease Obligations(3) 173 11 18 15 129 10 Operating Lease Obligations(4) 677 66 127 126 358 10 Sale Leaseback Obligations(5) 783 39 80 87 577 10 Electricity Obligations(6) 46,224 2,881 5,586 5,525 32,232 10 Fuel Obligations(7) 10,905 1,325 1,878 1,695 6,007 10 Other Purchase Obligations(8) 26,085 1,459 1,646 1,661 21,319 10 Other Long term Liabilities Reflected on AESs Consolidated Balance Sheet under GAAP(9) 1,373 148 239 122 677 187 n/a Total $ 115,070 $ 8,754 $ 14,789 $ 13,886 $ 77,454 $ 187 (1)Includes recourse and non recourse debt presented on the Consolidated Financial Statements. Non recourse debt borrowings are not a direct obligation of AES, the Parent Company. Recourse debt represents the direct borrowings of AES, the Parent Company. See Note 8 Long Term Debt to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K which provides additional disclosure regarding these obligations. These amounts exclude capital lease obligations which are included in the capital lease category,(3) below. (2)Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2007 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or new debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2007. (3)Several AES subsidiaries have leases for operating and office equipment and vehicles that are classified as capital leases within Property, Plant and Equipment. Minimum contractual obligations include $111 million of imputed interest. (4)The Company was obligated under long term non cancelable operating leases, primarily for office rental and site leases. These amounts exclude amounts related to the sale/leaseback discussed below in item(5). (5)Sale/Leaseback Obligations represent a sales/leaseback with operating lease treatment at one of our New York Subsidiaries. (6)Operating subsidiaries of the Company have entered into contracts for the purchase of electricity from third parties. (7)Operating subsidiaries of the Company have entered into fuel purchase contracts subject to termination only in certain limited circumstances. (8)Amounts relate to other contractual obligations where the Company has an enforceable and legally binding agreement to purchase goods or services that specifies all significant terms, including: quantity, pricing, and approximate timing. These amounts include planned capital expenditures that are contractually obligated. (9)These amounts do not include current liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet except for the current portion of FIN No. 48 obligations. See the indicated notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K for additional information on the items excluded. Derivatives (See Note 9 Derivative Instruments) and incentive compensation are excluded as the Company is not able to reasonably estimate the timing or amount of the future payments. In addition, the amounts do not include: (1) regulatory liabilities (See Note 4 Regulatory Assets and Liabilities), (2) contingencies (See Note 11 Contingencies), (3) pension and other post retirement employee benefit liabilities (see Note 12 Benefit Plans) or (4) any taxes (See Note 18 Income Taxes) except for FIN No. 48 obligations. Noncurrent FIN No. 48 obligations are reflected in the "Other" column of the table above as the Company is not able to reasonably estimate the timing of the future payments. 113  Parent Company Liquidity The following discussion of "parent company liquidity" has been included because we believe it is a useful measure of the liquidity available to the AES Corporation, or the Parent Company, given the non recourse nature of most of our indebtedness. Parent company liquidity as outlined below is a non GAAP measure and should not be construed as an alternative to cash and cash equivalents which are determined in accordance with GAAP, as a measure of liquidity. Cash and cash equivalents are disclosed in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and the parent only unconsolidated statements of cash flows in Schedule I of this Form 10 K. Parent company liquidity may differ from that, of similarly titled measures used by other companies. The principal sources of liquidity at the parent company level are: dividends and other distributions from our subsidiaries, including refinancing proceeds; proceeds from debt and equity financings at the parent company level, including borrowings under our credit facilities; and proceeds from asset sales. Cash requirements at the parent company level are primarily to fund: interest and preferred dividends; principal repayments of debt; acquisitions; construction commitments; other equity commitments; taxes; and parent company overhead and development costs. On October 15, 2007, the Company issued $2.0 billion of Senior Unsecured Notes ("Senior Notes") at par. The private placement of Senior Notes consisted of $500 million principal amount of 7.75% Senior Notes due 2015 and $1.5 billion principal amount of 8.0% senior notes due 2017. On December 7, 2007, the Company exchanged the previously issued private placement $2.0 billion senior unsecured notes for registered securities with the same terms through our Form S 4 declared effective on December 19, 2007 filed with the SEC. The Company used the net proceeds from the sale of the senior notes primarily to refinance a portion of its recourse debt as discussed below and plans to use the remainder to support near term investments and for general corporate purposes. On October 16, 2007, the Company made an offer to repurchase for cash up to $1.24 billion aggregate principal amount of our 8.75% Senior Notes due 2008 (the "2008 Notes"), the 9.00% Second Priority Senior Secured Notes due 2015 (the "2015 Notes") and the 8.75% Second Priority Senior Secured Notes due 2013 (the "2013 Notes" and together with the 2015 Notes, the "Second Priority Notes"). Early settlement for the tender offer was provided on October 30, 2007 with final settlement on November 14, 2007. Pursuant to the terms of the tender offer, the Company repurchased $193 million of the principal amount of the 2008 Notes, the entire $600 million principal amount of the 2015 Notes and $447 million principal amount of the 2013 Notes. The total purchase price for the tender offer was $1.36 billion which included tender premiums and accrued interest of approximately $73 million and $51 million, respectively. The Company recognized a pre tax loss on the retirement of this debt for the year ended December 31, 2007 of $90 million which included $73 million of tender consideration and a $17 million write off of unamortized deferred financing costs relating to the 2008, 114 2013 and 2015 Notes. As a result of the final settlement, none of the 2015 Notes, approximately $9.3 million principal amount of the 2008 Notes and approximately $752.6 million principal amount of the 2013 Notes remained outstanding as of December 31, 2007. In December 2006, the AES Corporation exercised its right to increase the revolving credit facility by $100 million to a total of $750 million. As of December 31, 2007, there were no outstanding borrowings against the revolving credit facility. The Parent Company had $230 million of letters of credit outstanding against the revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2007. The Parent Company entered into a $500 million senior unsecured credit facility agreement effective March 31, 2006. On May 1, 2006, the Parent Company exercised its option to extend the total amount of the senior unsecured credit facility by an additional $100 million to a total of $600 million. At December 31, 2007, the Parent Company had no outstanding borrowings under the senior unsecured credit facility. The Parent Company had $282 million of letters of credit outstanding against the senior unsecured credit facility as of December 31, 2007. The credit facility is being used to support our ongoing share of construction obligation for AES Maritza East 1 and for general corporate purposes. The Company defines Parent Company Liquidity as cash available to the parent company plus available borrowings under existing credit facilities. Parent Company Liquidity is reconciled to its most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, "cash and cash equivalents" at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 as follows: Parent Company Liquidity 2007 2006 2005 (Restated) (Restated) (in millions) Cash and cash equivalents $ 2,058 $ 1,358 $ 1,169 Less: Cash and cash equivalents at subsidiaries 743 1,101 901 Parent and qualified holding companies cash and cash equivalents 1,315 257 268 Borrowing available under revolving credit facility 520 662 356 Borrowing available under senior unsecured credit facility 318 227 Total parent company liquidity $ 2,153 $ 1,146 $ 624 Our recourse debt at year end was approximately $5.6 billion, $4.8 billion, and $4.9 billion in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Our contingent contractual obligations were $1.3 billion, $995 million, and 115 $802 million at the end of 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. The following table sets forth our Parent Company contingent contractual obligations as of December 31, 2007: Contingent Contractual Obligations Amount Number of Agreements Maximum Exposure Range for Each Agreement (in millions) (in millions) Guarantees $ 807 32 &lt;$1$167 Letters of credit under the revolving credit facility 230 16 &lt;$1$178 Letters of credit under the senior unsecured credit facility 282 13 &lt;$1$196 Surety bonds(1) 1 &lt;$1 Total $ 1,319 62 (1)Less than $1 million in surety bonds outstanding We have a varied portfolio of performance related contingent contractual obligations. These obligations are designed to cover potential risks and only require payment if certain targets are not met or certain contingencies occur. The risks associated with these obligations include change of control, construction cost overruns, subsidiary default, political risk, tax indemnities, spot market power prices, supplies support and liquidated damages under power sales agreements for projects in development, in operation and under construction. While we do not expect that we will be required to fund any material amounts under these contingent contractual obligations during 2008 or beyond, many of the events which would give rise to such obligations are beyond our control. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to fund our obligations under these contingent contractual obligations if we are required to make substantial payments there under. While we believe that our sources of liquidity will be adequate to meet our needs through the end of 2008, this belief is based on a number of material assumptions, including, without limitation, assumptions about our ability to access the capital markets, the operating and financial performance of our subsidiaries, exchange rates, power market pool prices, and the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends. In addition, our subsidiaries ability to declare and pay cash dividends to us (at the parent company level) is subject to certain limitations contained in loans, governmental provisions and other agreements. We can provide no assurance that these sources will be available when needed or that the actual cash requirements will not be greater than anticipated. We have met our interim needs for shorter term and working capital financing at the parent company level with our revolving credit facility and senior unsecured credit facility. See Item 1A Risk Factors, the AES Corporation is a holding company and its ability to make payments on its outstanding indebtedness, including its public debt securities, is dependent upon the receipt of funds from its subsidiaries by way of dividends, fees, interest, loans or otherwise. Various debt instruments at the parent company level, including our senior secured credit facilities, contain certain restrictive covenants. The covenants provide for, among other items: limitations on other indebtedness, liens, investments and guarantees; restrictions on dividends, redemptions, and payments of unsecured and subordinated debt and the use of proceeds; restrictions on mergers and acquisitions, sales of assets, leases, transactions with affiliates and off balance sheet and derivative arrangements; maintenance of certain financial ratios; and 116 financial and other reporting requirements. Non Recourse Debt Financing While the lenders under our non recourse debt financings generally do not have direct recourse to the Parent Company, defaults thereunder can still have important consequences for our results of operations and liquidity, including, without limitation: reducing our cash flows as the subsidiary will typically be prohibited from distributing cash to the parent level during the time period of any default; triggering our obligation to make payments under any financial guarantee, letter of credit or other credit support we have provided to or on behalf of such subsidiary; causing us to record a loss in the event the lender forecloses on the assets; and triggering defaults in our outstanding debt at the parent level. For example, our senior secured credit facilities and outstanding debt securities at the parent level include events of default for certain bankruptcy related events involving material subsidiaries. In addition, our revolving credit agreement at the parent level includes events of default related to payment defaults and accelerations of outstanding debt of material subsidiaries. Some of our subsidiaries are currently in default with respect to all or a portion of their outstanding indebtedness. The total debt classified as current in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets related to such defaults was $118 million at December 31, 2007, all of which was non recourse debt. None of the subsidiaries that are currently in default are subsidiaries that currently meet the applicable definition of materiality in AESs corporate debt agreements in order for such defaults to trigger an event of default or permit acceleration under such indebtedness. However, as a result of additional dispositions of assets, other significant reductions in asset carrying values or other matters in the future that may impact our financial position and results of operations, it is possible that one or more of these subsidiaries could fall within the definition of a "material subsidiary" and thereby upon an acceleration trigger an event of default and possible acceleration of the indebtedness under the AES parent companys outstanding debt securities. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In May 1999, one of our subsidiaries acquired six electric generating plants from New York State Electric and Gas. Concurrently, the subsidiary sold two of the plants to an unrelated third party for $666 million and simultaneously entered into a leasing arrangement with the unrelated party. In May 2007, the subsidiary purchased a portion of the lessors interest in a trust estate that holds the leased plants. Future minimum lease commitments under the lease agreement have been reduced by the subsidiarys interest in the plants. We have accounted for this transaction as a sale/leaseback transaction with operating lease treatment. We expense periodic lease payments as incurred, which amounted to $42 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 and $54 million for each of the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. We are not subject to any additional liabilities or contingencies if the arrangement terminates and we believe that the dissolution of the off balance sheet arrangement would have minimal effects on our operating cash flows. The terms of the lease include restrictive covenants such as the maintenance of certain coverage ratios. Historically, the plants have satisfied the restrictive covenants of the lease and there are no known trends or uncertainties that would indicate that the lease will be terminated early. See Note 10 Commitments to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K for a more complete discussion of this transaction. 117 IPL, a consolidated subsidiary of the Company, formed IPL Funding Corporation ("IPL Funding") in 1996 as a special purpose entity to purchase retail receivables originated by IPL pursuant to a receivables sale agreement entered into with IPL. At the same time, IPL Funding entered into a purchase facility (the "Purchase Facility") with unrelated parties (the "Purchasers") pursuant to which the Purchasers agree to purchase from IPL Funding, on a revolving basis, up to $50 million, of interests in the pool of receivables purchased from IPL. As collections reduce accounts receivable included in the pool, IPL Funding sells ownership interests in additional receivables acquired from IPL to return the ownership interests sold up to a maximum of $50 million, as permitted by the Purchase Facility. During 2007, the Purchase Facility was extended through May 27, 2008. IPL Funding is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements of IPL. Accounts receivable on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets are stated net of the $50 million sold. IPL retains servicing responsibilities for its role as a collection agent on the amounts due on the sold receivables. However, the Purchasers assume the risk of collection on the purchased receivables without recourse to IPL in the event of a loss. While no direct recourse to IPL exists, it risks loss in the event collections are not sufficient to allow for full recovery of its retained interests. No servicing asset or liability is recognized since the servicing fee paid to IPL approximates a market rate. The carrying values of the retained interest is determined by allocating the carrying value of the receivables between the assets sold and the interests retained based on relative fair value. The key assumptions in estimating fair value are credit losses, the selection of discount rates, and expected receivables turnover rate. As a result of short accounts receivable turnover periods and historically low credit losses, the impact of these assumptions have not been significant to the fair value. The hypothetical effect on the fair value of the retained interests assuming both a 10% and a 20% unfavorable variation in credit losses or discount rates is not material due to the short turnover of receivables and historically low credit loss history. The losses recognized on the sales of receivables were $3 million, $3 million and $2 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. These losses are included in other operating expense on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The amount of the losses recognized depends on the previous carrying amount of the financial assets involved in the transfer, allocated between the assets sold and the interests that continue to be held by the transferor based on their relative fair value at the date of transfer, and the proceeds received. IPLs retained interest in the receivables sold was $64 million and $63 million as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. There were no proceeds from new securitizations for each of the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. Servicing fees of $0.6 million were paid for each of the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. IPL and IPL Funding provide certain indemnities to the Purchasers, including indemnification in the event that there is a breach of representations and warranties made with respect to the purchased receivables. IPL Funding and IPL each have agreed to indemnify the Purchasers on an after tax basis for any and all damages, losses, claims, liabilities, penalties, taxes, costs and expenses at any time imposed on or incurred by the indemnified parties arising out of or otherwise relating to the purchase facility, subject to certain limitations as defined in the Purchase Facility. Under the Purchase Facility, if IPL fails to maintain certain financial covenants regarding interest coverage and debt to capital ratios, it would constitute a "termination event." As of December 31, 2007, IPL was in compliance with such covenants. As a result of IPLs current credit rating, the facility agent has the ability to (i) replace IPL as the collection agent; and (ii) declare a "lock box" event. Under a lock box event or a termination event, the facility agent has the ability to require all proceeds of purchased receivables of IPL to be directed to lock box accounts within 45 days of notifying IPL. A termination event would also (i) give the facility 118 agent the option to take control of the lock box account, and (ii) give the Purchasers the option to discontinue the purchase of additional interests in receivables and cause all proceeds of the purchased interests to be used to reduce the Purchasers investment and to pay other amounts owed to the Purchasers and the facility agent. This would have the effect of reducing the operating capital available to IPL by the aggregate amount of such purchased interests in receivables (currently $50 million). ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Overview Regarding Market Risks We are exposed to market risks associated with interest rates, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices. We often utilize financial instruments and other contracts to hedge against such fluctuations. We also utilize financial derivatives for the purpose of hedging exposures to market risk. Interest Rate Risks We are exposed to risk resulting from changes in interest rates as a result of our issuance of variable rate debt, fixed rate debt and trust preferred securities, as well as interest rate swap, cap and floor and option agreements. Decisions on the fixed floating debt ratio are made to be consistent with the risk factors faced by individual businesses or plants. Depending on whether a plants capacity payments or revenue stream is fixed or varies with inflation, we partially hedge against interest rate fluctuations by arranging fixed rate or variable rate financing. In certain cases, particularly for non recourse financing, we execute interest rate swap, cap and floor agreements to effectively fix or limit the interest rate exposure on the underlying financing. Foreign Exchange Rate Risk In the normal course of business, we are exposed to foreign currency risk and other foreign operations risk that arise from investments in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. A key component of this risk stems from the fact that some of our foreign subsidiaries and affiliates utilize currencies other than our consolidated reporting currency, the U.S. Dollar. Additionally, certain of our foreign subsidiaries and affiliates have entered into monetary obligations in U.S. Dollars or currencies other than their own functional currencies. Primarily, we are exposed to changes in the exchange rate between the U.S. Dollar and the following currencies: Brazilian Real, Argentine Peso, Kazakhstani Tenge, British Pound, Euro, Colombian Peso, and Chilean Peso. These subsidiaries and affiliates have attempted to limit potential foreign exchange exposure by entering into revenue contracts that adjust to changes in foreign exchange rates. We also use foreign currency forwards, swaps and options, where possible, to manage our risk related to certain foreign currency fluctuations. Commodity Price Risk We are exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the price of electricity, fuels and environmental credits. Although we primarily consist of businesses with long term contracts or retail sales concessions, a portion of our current and expected future revenues are derived from businesses without significant long term revenue or supply contracts. These businesses subject our results of operations to the volatility of prices for electricity, fuels and environmental credits in competitive markets. We have used a hedging strategy, where appropriate, to hedge our financial performance against the effects of fluctuations in energy commodity prices. The implementation of this strategy can involve the use of commodity forward contracts, futures, swaps and options. Some businesses hedge certain aspects of their commodity risks using financial hedge instruments. We also enter into short term contracts for the supply of electricity and fuel in other competitive markets in which we operate. 119 Value at Risk One approach we use to assess our risk and our subsidiaries risk is value at risk ("VaR"). VaR measures the potential loss in a portfolios value due to market volatility, over a specified time horizon, stated with a specific degree of probability. In particular, we measure Analytic VaR, which is calculated based on the volatilities and correlations of the different risk exposures of the portfolio. The quantification of market risk using VaR provides a consistent measure of risk across diverse markets and instruments. We adopted the VaR approach because we feel that statistical models of risk measurement, such as VaR, provide an objective, independent assessment of a component of our risk exposure. Our use of VaR requires a number of key assumptions, including the selection of a confidence level for expected losses, the holding period for liquidation and the treatment of risks outside the VaR methodology, including liquidity risk and event risk. VaR, therefore, is not necessarily indicative of actual results that may occur. Additionally, VaR represents changes in fair value of financial instruments and not the economic exposure to AES and its affiliates. Because of the inherent limitations of VaR, including those specific to Analytic VaR, in particular the assumption that values or returns are normally distributed, we rely on VaR as only one component in our risk assessment process. In addition to using VaR measures, we perform stress and scenario analyses to estimate the economic impact of market changes to our portfolio of businesses. We use these results to complement the VaR methodology. In addition, the relevance of the VaR described herein as a measure of economic risk, is limited and needs to be considered in light of the underlying business structure. The interest rate component of VaR is due to changes in the fair value of our fixed rate debt instruments and interest rate swaps. These instruments themselves would expose a holder to market risk; however, utilizing these fixed rate debt instruments as part of a fixed price contract generation business mitigates the overall exposure to interest rates. Similarly, our foreign exchange rate sensitive instruments are often part of businesses which have revenues denominated in the same currency, thus offsetting the exposure. We have performed a company wide VaR analysis of all of our material financial assets, liabilities and derivative instruments. Embedded derivatives are not appropriately measured here and are excluded since VaR is not representative of the overall contract valuation. The VaR calculation incorporates numerous variables that could impact the fair value of our instruments, including interest rates, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices, as well as correlation within and across these variables. We express Analytic VaR herein as a dollar amount of the potential loss in the fair value of our portfolio based on a 95% confidence level and a one day holding period. Our commodity analysis is an Analytic VaR utilizing a variance covariance analysis within the commodity transaction management system. Average Daily VAR 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) Foreign Exchange $ 45 $ 36 $ 34 Interest Rate $ 98 $ 76 $ 114 Commodity $ 14 $ 24 $ 19 For the year ended December 31, 2007, our average one day VaR at quarter end for foreign exchange rate sensitive instruments was $45 million. The one day VaR for foreign exchange rate sensitive instruments was highest at the end of the third quarter, and equaled $61 million. The one day VaR for foreign exchange rate sensitive instruments was lowest at the end of the second quarter, and equaled $28 million. These amounts include foreign currency denominated debt and hedge instruments. AES has increased the percentage of its portfolio of Brazilian Real and Euro denominated floating rate debt. This increase in notionals, along with higher currency market volatilities, particularly for the Brazilian Real, has led to the increase in the average one day quarter end VaR for foreign exchange rate sensitive instruments from $36 million in 2006 to $45 million in 2007. 120 For the year ended December 31, 2007, our average one day VaR at quarter end for interest rate sensitive instruments was $98 million. The one day VaR for interest rate sensitive instruments was highest at the end of the fourth quarter, and equaled $137 million. The one day VaR for interest rate sensitive instruments was lowest at the end of the second quarter and equaled $67 million. These amounts include the financial instruments that serve as hedges and the underlying hedged items. AES has increased its fixed rate dollar denominated debt in 2007. This, along with higher market volatilities, led to an increase in our average one day quarter end VaR for interest rate sensitive instruments from $76 million in 2006 to $98 million in 2007. For the year ended December 31, 2007, our average one day VaR at quarter end for commodity price sensitive instruments was $14 million. The one day VaR for commodity price sensitive instruments was highest at the end of the first quarter end, and equaled $18 million. The one day VaR for commodity price sensitive instruments was lowest at the end of the second and third quarters, and equaled $12 million. These amounts include the financial instruments that serve as hedges and do not include the underlying physical assets or contracts that are not permitted to be settled in cash. The one day VaR for commodity price sensitive instruments is reported for financially settled derivative products at our Eastern Energy business in the state of New York. From 2006 to 2007 there has been a decrease in term and magnitude of hedging activity which has led to the decrease in the one day quarter end VaR from $24 million in 2006 to $14 million in 2007. 121  
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in Item 8 in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The selected financial data for each of the years in the five year period ended December 31, 2007 have been derived from our audited Consolidated Financial Statements. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of our future results. Acquisitions, disposals, reclassifications and changes in accounting principles affect the comparability of information included in the tables below. Please refer to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10 K for further explanation of the effect of such activities. Please also refer to Item 1A Risk Factors and Note 23 Risks and Uncertainties to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K for certain risks and uncertainties that may cause the data reflected herein not to be indicative of our future financial condition or results of operations. 78  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Year Ended December 31, Statement of Operations Data 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 (Restated) (Restated) (Restated) (Restated) (in millions, except per share amounts) Revenues $ 13,588 $ 11,576 $ 10,247 $ 8,728 $ 7,676 Income from continuing operations 495 176 365 183 177 Discontinued operations, net of tax (590 ) 50 188 132 (681 ) Extraordinary items, net of tax 21 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, net of tax (4 ) 41 Net (loss) income available to common stockholders $ (95 ) $ 247 $ 549 $ 315 $ (463 ) Basic (loss) earnings per share: Income from continuing operations, net of tax $ 0.74 $ 0.27 $ 0.56 $ 0.29 $ 0.30 Discontinued operations, net of tax (0.88 ) 0.07 0.29 0.20 (1.15 ) Extraordinary items, net of tax 0.03 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, net of tax (0.01 ) 0.07 Basic (loss) earnings per share $ (0.14 ) $ 0.37 $ 0.84 $ 0.49 $ (0.78 ) Diluted (loss) earnings per share: Income from continuing operations, net of tax $ 0.73 $ 0.27 $ 0.56 $ 0.29 $ 0.30 Discontinued operations, net of tax (0.87 ) 0.07 0.28 0.20 (1.14 ) Extraordinary items, net of tax 0.03 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, net of tax (0.01 ) 0.07 Diluted (loss) earnings per share $ (0.14 ) $ 0.37 $ 0.83 $ 0.49 $ (0.77 ) December 31, Balance Sheet Data: 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 (Restated) (Restated) (Restated) (Restated) (in millions) Total assets $ 34,453 $ 31,274 $ 29,025 $ 28,449 $ 29,145 Non recourse debt (long term) $ 11,297 $ 9,840 $ 10,308 $ 10,571 $ 10,038 Non recourse debt (long term) Discontinued operations $ 33 $ 342 $ 467 $ 742 $ 719 Recourse debt (long term) $ 5,332 $ 4,790 $ 4,682 $ 5,010 $ 5,862 Accumulated deficit $ (1,241 ) $ (1,093 ) $ (1,340 )(2) $ (1,889 )(2) $ (2,204 )(1)(2) Stockholders equity (deficit) $ 3,164 $ 2,979 $ 1,583 $ 997 $ (99 ) (1)An $8 million increase to accumulated deficit was recognized as of January 1, 2003 for the cumulative impact of the correction of errors for all periods preceding January 1, 2003. The correction was not material to the financial statement data presented herein as of and for the four years ended December 31, 2003 through December 31, 2006. (2)The impact of the restatement adjustments on accumulated deficit was an increase to accumulated deficit of $40 million, $2 million and $13 million as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. 79  ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements and Reclassification of Certain Subsidiaries to Held for Sale Background The Company has previously identified certain material weaknesses related to its system of internal control over financial reporting. As described in the Companys 2006 Form 10 K/A filed on August 7, 2007, the following five material weaknesses were reported: A Lack of Detailed Accounting Records for Certain Holding Companies; Contract Accounting; A Lack of Controls and Procedures Related to Granting and Reporting of Share Based Compensation; Treatment of Intercompany Loans Denominated in Other Than the Entitys Functional Currency; and Aggregation of Control Deficiencies at our Cameroonian Subsidiary. As of December 31, 2007 the Company has remediated the following three material weaknesses: Treatment of Intercompany Loans Denominated in Other Than the Entitys Functional Currency; A Lack of Controls and Procedures Related to Granting and Reporting of Share Based Compensation; and Aggregation of Control Deficiencies at our Cameroonian Subsidiary. Accordingly, the following two material weaknesses remain unremediated as of December 31, 2007: A Lack of Detailed Accounting Records for Certain Holding Companies; and Contract Accounting. Restatement Discussion In 2005, the Company prepared and documented its accounting analysis of a power purchase agreement ("the Deepwater Agreement") between AES Deepwater, one of our generation businesses in Deepwater, Texas and a third party. The assessment of the Deepwater Agreement included an analysis of whether the contract is a derivative under provisions of SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, ("SFAS No. 133"). Because the penalty clause in the Deepwater Agreement does not contain specific volumes upon which the penalties would be based, the Company concluded that these penalty provisions are not specific enough to be valued. Accordingly, the Company determined that the Deepwater Agreement was not a derivative under SFAS No. 133 and consulted with Deloitte & Touche LLP in reaching this conclusion. As part of the 2007 year end closing process and in connection with the remediation of the Companys material weakness for contract accounting (see Item 9A Controls and Procedures for further discussion of this material weakness), the Company reviewed several hundred contracts relative to the risk of additional errors. The Deepwater Agreement received a second review as part of this process. In that review, the Company determined that there was no intent by the contracting parties to create a derivative contract, that the penalty clause had not changed, and that no penalties had been triggered under the Deepwater Agreement. The Company now believes, and its external auditors agree, 80 that even though there is no explicit formula for calculating penalties in the Deepwater Agreement, a minimum volume could be inferred from certain capacity requirement provisions in the Deepwater Agreement. Under this accounting interpretation, the penalty can be valued, making the contract subject to derivative accounting treatment. Accordingly, the Company has concluded that the Deepwater Agreement will be treated as a derivative under SFAS No. 133, valued and marked to market resulting in an adjustment to previously reported results. The impact of the Deepwater Adjustment resulted in an increase of approximately $30 million and a decrease of approximately $25 million to income from continuing operations and net income in 2006 and 2005, respectively. In addition to the Deepwater Adjustment, the Company has identified a number of smaller non cash adjustments to its prior period financial statements ("Other Adjustments"), none of which is individually material. In the aggregate (excluding the Deepwater Adjustment) these out of period adjustments are not material to the Companys financial statements. Many of these errors were identified during the Companys remediation of previously identified material weaknesses, while others were identified during the year end closing process, including errors relating to depreciation and accounting for judicial deposits in Brazil. We generally recognize these adjustments in the period in which they were identified. Because the Deepwater Adjustment has required a restatement, we also are recording these Other Adjustments in the proper periods. The Company has also entered into an agreement to sell two indirect wholly owned subsidiaries with operations in Kazakhstan, AES Ekibastuz LLP and Maikuben West LLP. As required by SFAS No. 144 [Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets], ("SFAS No. 144"), presentation of the assets and liabilities of these businesses are classified as held for sale. As disclosed in the Companys Form 8 K dated March 3, 2008, as a result of the restatement, the Company was in default under its senior secured credit facility and its senior unsecured credit facility due to a breach of a representation related to its financial statements set forth in the credit agreements related to the facilities. The Company has obtained a waiver of these defaults from its lenders under these facilities. 81 The following table details the impact of the restatement on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005: Year Ended December 31, 2006 Year Ended December 31, 2005 December 31, 2007 Restatement December 31, 2007 Restatement 2006 Form 10 K/A Deepwater Other Adjustments 2007 Form 10 K 2006 Form 10 K/A Deepwater Other Adjustments 2007 Form 10 K Revenues: Regulated $ 6,198 $ $ (44 ) $ 6,154 $ 5,617 $ $ (33 ) $ 5,584 Non Regulated 5,366 52 4 5,422 4,703 (44 ) 4 4,663 Total revenues 11,564 52 (40 ) 11,576 10,320 (44 ) (29 ) 10,247 Cost of Sales: Regulated (4,114 ) 39 (4,075 ) (4,021 ) 18 (4,003 ) Non Regulated (4,052 ) (15 ) (4,067 ) (3,371 ) (3 ) (3,374 ) Total cost of sales (8,166 ) 24 (8,142 ) (7,392 ) 15 (7,377 ) Gross margin 3,398 52 (16 ) 3,434 2,928 (44 ) (14 ) 2,870 General and administrative expenses (305 ) 4 (301 ) (225 ) 4 (221 ) Interest expense (1,763 ) (6 ) (1,769 ) (1,826 ) (2 ) (1,828 ) Interest income 426 8 434 375 6 381 Other expense (449 ) (3 ) (452 ) (110 ) 1 (109 ) Other income 106 10 116 157 157 Gain on sale of investments 98 98 Loss on sale of subsidiary stock (539 ) 4 (535 ) Impairment expense (28 ) 11 (17 ) (16 ) (16 ) Foreign currency transaction losses on net monetary position (88 ) 8 (80 ) (145 ) 2 (143 ) Equity in earnings of affiliates 72 1 73 71 (5 ) 66 INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS BEFORE INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES AND MINORITY INTEREST 928 52 21 1,001 1,209 (44 ) (8 ) 1,157 Income tax expense (334 ) (22 ) (6 ) (362 ) (483 ) 19 (9 ) (473 ) Minority interest expense (459 ) (4 ) (463 ) (324 ) 5 (319 ) INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS 135 30 11 176 402 (25 ) (12 ) 365 Income from operations of discontinued businesses, net of income tax 105 2 107 188 188 Loss from disposal of discontinued businesses, net of income tax (57 ) (57 ) INCOME BEFORE EXTRAORDINARY ITEMS AND CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE 183 30 13 226 590 (25 ) (12 ) 553 Extraordinary items, net of income tax 21 21 INCOME BEFORE CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE 204 30 13 247 590 (25 ) (12 ) 553 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, net of income tax (3 ) (1 ) (4 ) Net income $ 204 $ 30 $ 13 $ 247 $ 587 $ (25 ) $ (13 ) $ 549 BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE: Income from continuing operations, net of tax $ 0.21 $ 0.05 $ 0.01 $ 0.27 $ 0.62 $ (0.04 ) $ (0.02 ) $ 0.56 Discontinued operations, net of tax 0.07 0.07 0.29 0.29 Extraordinary item, net of tax 0.03 0.03 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, net of tax (0.01 ) (0.01 ) BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE $ 0.31 $ 0.05 $ 0.01 $ 0.37 $ 0.90 $ (0.04 ) $ (0.02 ) $ 0.84 82 Year Ended December 31, 2006 Year Ended December 31, 2005 December 31, 2007 Restatement December 31, 2007 Restatement 2006 Form 10 K/A Deepwater Other Adjustments 2007 Form 10 K 2006 Form 10 K/A Deepwater Other Adjustments 2007 Form 10 K DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE: Income from continuing operations, net of tax $ 0.20 $ 0.04 $ 0.03 $ 0.27 $ 0.61 $ (0.04 ) $ (0.01 ) $ 0.56 Discontinued operations, net of tax 0.07 0.07 0.28 0.28 Extraordinary item, net of tax 0.03 0.03 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, net of tax (0.01 ) (0.01 ) DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE $ 0.30 $ 0.04 $ 0.03 $ 0.37 $ 0.88 $ (0.04 ) $ (0.01 ) $ 0.83 The Other Adjustments in the table above include the following: Regulated revenues: We recorded reclass adjustments related to bad debts that were previously written off and subsequently recovered in cash. We originally recorded these recoveries in regulated revenue. The effect of this adjustment was to reclass these bad debt recoveries from regulated revenue to cost of sales. The impact of this adjustment was a decrease to regulated revenue and a decrease to cost of sales of $41 million and $29 million, for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Regulated cost of sales and other income: We recorded adjustments in connection with the correction of errors related to the reconciliation of judicial deposits at Eletropaulo, our business in Brazil. Cash deposits were placed on reserve, as required by Brazilian Courts, as a result of pending civil or labor claims against the business. Upon settlement of the claims, appropriate expense was not recognized by the business. Additionally, related interest income on the deposited funds was not recognized appropriately. The net impact on continuing operations and net income for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 was an increase of $5 million and $1 million, respectively. Impairment expense: We recorded an adjustment of $11 million to reduce impairment expense and increase in non regulated cost of sales in 2006. We originally reported the cost associated with a plant outage to impairment expense instead of cost of sales. Embedded derivatives: In addition to the adjustment related to the Deepwater Agreement, we recorded other adjustments related to contract accounting as a result of the identification of embedded derivatives in two of the contracts that were reviewed. Through our on going remediation efforts related to contract accounting, we identified two additional contracts that contained embedded derivatives that were not identified at the time of the initial contract review. The correction of these errors resulted in an increase of $2 million and a decrease of $8 million to continuing operations and net income for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 83  The following table details the impact of the restatement and certain reclassifications of businesses held for sale on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2006: As of December 31, 2006 Held for Sale 2006 Form 10 K/A 2007 Form 10 K Restatement Maikuben Ekibastuz ASSETS CURRENT ASSETS Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,379 $ $ (2 ) $ (19 ) $ 1,358 Restricted cash 548 548 Short term investments 640 640 Accounts receivable, net of reserves of $232 1,769 (1 ) (1 ) (2 ) 1,765 Inventory 471 (11 ) (3 ) (12 ) 445 Receivable from affiliates 76 15 91 Deferred income taxes current 208 6 214 Prepaid expenses 109 1 (4 ) 106 Other current assets 927 3 (1 ) (2 ) 927 Current assets of held for sale and discontinued businesses 438 7 39 484 Total current assets 6,565 13 6,578 NONCURRENT ASSETS Property, Plant and Equipment: Land 928 (7 ) 921 Electric generation and distribution assets 21,835 (230 ) (69 ) (72 ) 21,464 Accumulated depreciation (6,545 ) 84 14 20 (6,427 ) Construction in progress 979 25 (1 ) (16 ) 987 Property, plant and equipment, net 17,197 (121 ) (56 ) (75 ) 16,945 Other assets: Deferred financing costs, net of accumulated amortization of $188 279 33 (1 ) 311 Investments in and advances to affiliates 595 (4 ) 591 Debt service reserves and other deposits 524 (9 ) 515 Goodwill 1,416 (2 ) 1,414 Other intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization of $228 298 207 (7 ) 498 Deferred income taxes noncurrent 602 (1 ) 601 Other assets 1,634 (46 ) (1 ) 1,587 Noncurrent assets of held for sale and discontinued businesses 2,091 1 57 85 2,234 Total other assets 7,439 181 56 75 7,751 TOTAL ASSETS $ 31,201 $ 73 $ $ $ 31,274 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY CURRENT LIABILITIES Accounts payable $ 795 $ (2 ) $ $ (5 ) $ 788 Accrued interest 404 404 Accrued and other liabilities 2,131 19 (3 ) (4 ) 2,143 Non recourse debt current portion 1,411 4 (3 ) (10 ) 1,402 Current liabilities of held for sale and discontinued businesses 288 6 19 313 Total current liabilities 5,029 21 5,050 LONG TERM LIABILITIES Non recourse debt 9,834 24 (11 ) (7 ) 9,840 Recourse debt 4,790 4,790 Deferred income taxes noncurrent 803 28 (13 ) (9 ) 809 Pension liabilities and other post retirement liabilities 844 844 Other long term liabilities 3,554 6 (1 ) (3 ) 3,556 Long term liabilities of held for sale and discontinued businesses 434 1 25 19 479 Total long term liabilities 20,259 59 20,318 Minority Interest (including discontinued businesses of $175 2,948 (21 ) 2,927 Commitments and Contingent Liabilities (see Notes 12 and 13) STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY Common stock ($.01 par value, 1,200,000,000 shares authorized; 665,126,309 shares issued and outstanding at December 31, 2006 7 7 Additional paid in capital 6,654 5 6,659 Accumulated deficit (1,096 ) 3 (1,093 ) Accumulated other comprehensive loss (2,600 ) 6 (2,594 ) Total stockholders equity 2,965 14 2,979 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY $ 31,201 $ 73 $ $ $ 31,274 84 The discussion below highlights the impact of certain adjustments on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2006. These errors were neither material individually, or in the aggregate. The primary adjustments recorded were as follows: We corrected an error to properly account for one of our transmission leases as a capital lease as opposed to an operating lease. The net impact of this adjustment was an increase to property, plant and equipment, net and non recourse debt of $28 million. We recorded an adjustment to reclassify certain intangible assets that were incorrectly included as property, plant and equipment to other intangible assets, net. The impact of this adjustment was a decrease to property, plant and equipment, net and an increase to other intangible assets $187 million. The impact of the Deepwater Adjustment on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2006 was a decrease to current liabilities of $23 million and a decrease to long term liabilities of $25 million. The impact on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2005 was an increase to current liabilities of $20 million and an increase to long term liabilities of $23 million. We have updated our disclosure in Note 8 Long term Debt regarding our accounting for AES Trust III and AES Trust VII (the TECON Trusts) to properly reflect that these trusts are consolidated in the Companys financial statements. We previously reported that the TECON Trusts were not consolidated. As disclosed, AESs obligations under the Junior Subordinated Debentures and other relevant trust agreements, in aggregate, constitute a full and unconditional guarantee by AES of the TECON Trusts obligations. This change only impacts the aforementioned disclosure and has no impact on any of the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements. The restatement adjustments had no material impact on net cash flows. Overview of Our Business AES is a global power company. We own a portfolio of electricity generation and distribution businesses with generation capacity totaling approximately 43,000 MW and distribution networks serving over 11 million people. Our global footprint includes operations in 28 countries on five continents with 81% of our revenue for 2007 generated outside the United States. We operate two primary lines of businesses. The first is our Generation business, where we own and or operate power plants to generate and sell power to wholesale customers such as utilities and other intermediaries. The second is our Utilities business, where we own and or operate utilities to distribute, transmit and sell electricity to end user customers in the residential, commercial, industrial and governmental sectors within a defined service area. Each of our primary lines of business generates approximately half of our revenues. We are also developing an Alternative Energy business. Alternative Energy includes strategic initiatives such as wind generation and climate solutions, such as the production of emissions credits. Generation. We currently own or operate 121 Generation facilities in 26 countries on five continents. We also have 12 new Generation facilities under construction. Our Generation businesses use a wide range of technologies and fuel types including coal, combined cycle gas turbines, hydroelectric power and biomass. The majority of the electricity produced by our Generation businesses is sold under long term contracts, or power purchase agreements, to wholesale customers. Approximately 62% of the revenues from our Generation businesses during 2007 was derived from plants that operate under power purchase agreements of five years or longer for 75% or more of their output capacity. These businesses 85 often reduce their exposure to fuel supply risks by entering into long term fuel supply contracts or fuel tolling contracts where the customer assumes full responsibility for purchasing and supplying the fuel to the power plant. These long term contractual agreements result in relatively predictable cash flow and earnings and reduce exposure to volatility in the market price for electricity and fuel; however, the amount of earnings and cash flow predictability varies from business to business based on the degree to which its exposure is limited by the contracts that it has negotiated. The balance of our Generation businesses sell power through competitive markets under short term contracts or directly in the spot market. As a result, the cash flows and earnings associated with these businesses are more sensitive to fluctuations in the market price for electricity, natural gas, coal and other fuels. However, for a number of these facilities, including our plants in New York, which include a fleet of low cost coal fired plants, we have hedged the majority of our exposure to fuel, energy and emissions pricing for the next several years Utilities. Our Utilities businesses distribute power to more than 11 million people in eight countries on five continents. Our Utilities business consists primarily of 15 companies owned and or operated under management agreements, all of which operate in a defined service area. These businesses have a variety of structures ranging from pure distribution businesses to fully integrated utilities, which generate, transmit and distribute power. In May 2007, we completed the sale of EDC, our utility in Venezuela, for $739 million net of tax. As a result of the sale, we recognized an impairment charge of $680 million which represented the difference between the net book value of our investment in EDC and the sales price. This impairment charge and the results of the operations for EDC are reflected as discontinued operations for all periods presented in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K. Alternative Energy. Alternative Energy is not currently one of our primary lines of business, but we expect this high growth sector to be a material contributor to our revenue and gross margin in the future. As demand for more sustainable and environmentally friendly sources of energy grows, we continue to invest in Alternative Energy with a current focus on increasing our wind power capacity and building our climate solutions business for GHG reduction. AES entered the wind business in 2005 and today we have ten wind generation facilities with more than 1,000 MW of wind projects in operation. In addition, we are developing initiatives in other countries that are approved for GHG projects under the Kyoto Protocol and marketing the credits created. AES operates in 18 of the developing countries that are eligible for these credits which provides us with a good foundation for this new business. Segments. Our Generation and Utilities businesses are organized within four defined geographic regions: (1) Latin America, (2) North America, (3) Europe & Africa, and (4) Asia and the Middle East, ("Asia"). Three regions, North America, Latin America and Europe & Africa, are engaged in both Generation and Utility businesses. Our Asia region operates only Generation businesses. Accordingly, these businesses and regions account for seven operating segments. "Corporate and Other" includes corporate overhead costs which are not directly associated with the operations of our seven primary operating segments; interest income and expense; other inter company charges such as management fees and self insurance premiums which are fully eliminated in consolidation; and revenue, development costs and operational costs related to our Alternative Energy business, which is currently not material to our operations. Key Drivers of Our Results of Operations. Our Utilities and Generation businesses are distinguished by the nature of their customers, operational differences, cost structure, regulatory environment and risk exposure. As a result, each line of business has slightly different drivers which affect operating results. Performance drivers for our Generation businesses include, among other things, plant availability and reliability, management of fixed and operational costs and the extent to which our plants have hedged their exposure to fuel cost volatility. For our Generation businesses which sell 86 power under short term contract or in the spot market one of the most crucial factors is the market price of electricity and the plants ability to generate electricity at a cost below that price. Growth in our Generation business is largely tied to securing new power purchase agreements, expanding capacity in our existing facilities and building new power plants. Performance drivers for our Utilities businesses include, but are not limited to, reliability of service; negotiation of tariff adjustments; compliance with extensive regulatory requirements; management of working capital; and in developing countries, reduction of commercial and technical losses. The results of operations of our Utilities businesses are sensitive to changes in economic growth and weather conditions in the area in which they operate. One of the key factors which affect both our revenue and costs of sales is changes in the cost of fuel. When fuel costs increase, many of our Generation businesses with long term contracts and our Utilities are able to pass these costs on to the customer through fuel pass through or fuel indexing arrangements in their contracts or through increases in tariff rates. Therefore, in a rising fuel cost environment as was the case in 2007, increases in fuel costs for these businesses often resulted in increases in revenue (though not necessarily on a one for one basis). While these circumstances may not have a large impact on gross margin, they can significantly affect gross margin as a percentage of revenue. Other factors that can affect gross margin include our ability to expand the number of facilities we own; and in our existing plants, to sign up new customers and or purchasing parties, collect receivables from existing customers and operate our plants more efficiently. In 2007, these afforts helped us overcome certain challenges that we face in our business, such as issues related to fuel supplies and forced purchases on the spot market at high prices. Highlights of 2007 Results of Operations. In 2007, management continued to focus its efforts on increasing shareholder value by improving operations, executing our growth strategy and strategically managing our portfolio of businesses. Our 2007 results of operations were positively impacted by a number of factors including, but not limited to: higher tariff rates at certain of our distribution businesses; contributions from recent acquisitions including TEG/TEP in Mexico in February 2007, where significant operational improvements were achieved, and a full year of operations at Itabo in the Dominican Republic; increased usage in both Brazil and the Ukraine; and favorable foreign currency translation at our Utilities businesses in Latin America. However, our business faced numerous challenges as well during 2007. Our results were negatively impacted by increased costs from gas supply curtailments, drier than normal hydrology and high spot prices for electricity at the Companys businesses in the Southern Cone of Latin America. Significantly lower than normal rainfall in Argentina caused our hydro powered generation plant at AES Alicura to operate less. Therefore, we had to rely on our other plants, which use higher cost fuel sources, to deliver energy to our customers. The drier than normal hydrology conditions and other factors in Argentina resulted in significantly increased demand for gas and, in response, the government of Argentina placed restrictions (curtailments) on gas exports to Chile and Brazil. AES Uruguaiana, our gas powered generation plant in Brazil, receives its gas from Argentina and was negatively impacted by the Argentine gas curtailment because AES Uruguaina is obligated under its contract to deliver power to its customers at a contracted price. As a result, AES Uruguaina had to purchase fuel and energy on the open market at higher spot prices, which exceeded the amount that AES Uruguaiana could recover under its existing contracts. In the fourth quarter of 2007, we recognized an impairment charge of approximately $352 million with respect to our investment in AES Uruguaiana. Some of our gas fired generation businesses servicing Chile were similarly impacted by the Argentine gas curtailment resulting in the purchase of higher priced fuel to operate these plants. During 2007, we recognized additional impairment charges of $52 million related to our investment in AgCert, a United Kingdom company that produces carbon emission credits ("CERs"), and $14 million related to prepaid CERs, due to AgCerts potential inability to deliver the CERs or to 87 repay the sums advanced by us; $25 million related to our Placerita subsidiary, a gas fired combined cycle generation plant located in the United States, due to damage sustained to one of the plants gas turbines; and $10 million related to the curtailment of operations at Coal Creek Minerals, LLC, a coal mining company owned by our subsidiary Cavanal Minerals. Our results of operations were also significantly affected by increased fuel costs across all four of our regions; a tariff reduction at Eletropaulo, one of our Latin America Utilities businesses; the sale of EDC; increased interest expense; and higher overhead costs as a result of our financial restatements and continued remediation of the material weaknesses in our internal control of financial reporting. Despite these challenges, we still had strong operating performance as demonstrated by the following financial achievements: highest annual revenue in Company history of $13.6 billion and gross margin of $3.4 billion, or 25% of revenue; income from continuing operations of $495 million, or $0.73 per diluted share; and highest annual cash flow from operations in company history of $2.4 billion, despite a net loss of $95 million in the current year and the loss of cash flow from the operations of EDC subsequent to its sale in May 2007. We were also able to improved the parent companys capital structure by refinancing existing secured debt with unsecured debt at more favorable rates and with longer average maturities, which resulted in a decrease of secured debt as a percentage of total parent company debt from approximately 42% to 17%. Growth Strategy and Portfolio Management. During 2007, we continued to execute our growth strategy. In February 2007, we acquired TEG/TEP, two 230 MW petroleum coke fired power plants in Mexico, for $611 million, including cash and the assumption of debt. We added 427 MW of capacity to our wind operation portfolio, including the start up of commercial operations at Buffalo Gap and the acquisition of Midwest Wind. Additionally, we commenced construction of a 170 MW expansion to Buffalo Gap III, one of our existing wind farms, which is expected to commence commercial operation in 2008. In early 2008, we also announced the Companys acquisition of a coal fired generation facility in the Philippines for $930 million. The Companys growth project backlog (growth projects under construction) as of December 31, 2007 totaled over 2,240 GMW of new generation capacity with a total expected investment of approximately $4 billion through 2011. This includes fossil fueled projects in Chile, Bulgaria and Jordan, hydroelectric projects in Panama and Turkey and a wind project in the United States. We also secured early stage memorandums of understanding to develop power projects in countries such as Vietnam, Indonesia and India. Our business strategy is focused on global growth in our core Generation and Utilities businesses along with growth in related markets such as Alternative Energy, electricity transmission and water desalination. The Company sees growth investments as the most significant contributor to long term shareholder value creation. The Company expects to fund growth investments from available cash, net cash from operating activities and or the proceeds from debt (both recourse and non recourse) and equity financing, asset sales and partner equity contributions. Certain of the Alternative Energy businesses may be considered start up businesses that will need to be funded internally through cash equity contributions, and may have limited non recourse debt financing opportunities initially. We see sufficient attractive investment opportunities that may exceed available cash and net cash from operating activities in future periods. The Companys growth strategies are complemented by an increased emphasis on portfolio management through which AES has and will continue to sell or monetize a portion of certain businesses or assets when market values appear significantly higher than the Companys assessment of 88 its value as part of the AES portfolio. Portfolio management was an important area of focus in 2007 and will be a continuing area of focus in 2008 and beyond. In October 2007, we sold 10% of our interest in Gener, our subsidiary in Chile, for $306 million, which increased the liquidity of those shares and we believe reduced the discount the local Chilean stock market had been placing on Gener shares due to their prior illiquidity. In early 2008, we announced the sale of Ekibastuz and Maikuben, two of our Generation businesses in Kazakhstan, for an upfront price of $1.1 billion and management fees and earn out provisions that could generate additional consideration of up to approximately $380 million. Outlook for the Future Managements strategy is to continue building on our traditional lines of business while expanding into other essential energy related areas, such as Alternative Energy. As part of that mission, AES strives to improve both short and long term profitability while positioning the Company to continue our success in the future. As we look to 2008 and beyond, we will work toward the following goals: continuing to expand our global footprint by leveraging our existing relationships around the world and entering new markets while continuing to grow our operations in our existing markets through capital investment; managing our debt maturity profile and strengthening our capital structure; growing our Alternative Energy businesses and working towards being a leader in the area of renewable energy generation and carbon offsets and become a world class operator; and maintaining our focus on safety. The Company also believes that high oil prices, increasing regulation of greenhouse gases, faster than expected global economic growth and a weak U.S. Dollar present opportunities for value creation, based on the Companys current business portfolio strategies. Slower global economic growth, which will impact demand growth for utilities and some generation businesses, is one of the most significant potential obstacles affecting value creation. Other important scenarios that could impair future value include higher oil prices and a strong U.S. Dollar. 2007 Performance Highlights Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (Restated) (Restated) ($s in millions, except per share amounts) Revenue $ 13,588 $ 11,576 $ 10,247 Gross Margin $ 3,409 $ 3,434 $ 2,870 Gross Margin as a % of Revenue 25.1 % 29.7 % 28.0 % Diluted Earnings Per Share from Continuing Operations $ 0.73 $ 0.27 $ 0.56 Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities $ 2,357 $ 2,351 $ 2,220 The following is a summary discussion of the consolidated revenue, gross margin, earnings per share, and net cash from operating activities. Revenue We achieved record revenues of $13.6 billion, an increase of 17% from $11.6 billion the previous year. The increase in revenues was primarily driven by higher prices across our Generation businesses 89 of approximately $688 million; contributions from new acquisitions such as TEG/TEP and Itabo of approximately $286 million; and favorable currency translation of approximately $636 million primarily at our Utilities businesses in Latin America. Gross margin Gross margin remained relatively flat at $3.4 billion, as improved operations in North America, favorable foreign currency translation in Brazil and contributions from recent acquisitions were offset by tariff reductions at Eletropaulo and ongoing gas supply curtailments and drier than normal hydrology at our businesses in Argentina and Chile. Earnings per share Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations increased $0.46 per share to $0.73 per share compared to $0.27 per share in 2006. This increase was primarily driven by higher revenues as a result of pass through fuel costs and the 2006 impact of our Brasiliana restructuring of approximately $0.76 per share; impairment charges related to Uruguaiana and AgCert of approximately ($0.34) per share; and the impact of the Mexican Tax Law Change of approximately ($0.07) per share. The remaining growth in earnings per share was attributable to the overall growth of the business. 90  Net cash from operating activities Net cash provided by operating activities remained relatively flat at $2.4 billion. Excluding any contribution from EDC, net cash from operating activities would have increased by approximately $119 million, an increase of 6% from $2.1 billion in 2006 to $2.2 billion in 2007. Consolidated Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, Results of operations 2007 2006 (Restated) 2005 (Restated) $ change 2007 vs. 2006 $ change 2006 vs. 2005 (in millions, except per share amounts) Revenue: Latin America Generation $ 3,510 $ 2,615 $ 2,145 $ 895 $ 470 Latin America Utilities 5,172 4,552 4,127 620 425 North America Generation 2,168 1,928 1,745 240 183 North America Utilities 1,052 1,032 951 20 81 Europe & Africa Generation 975 852 735 123 117 Europe & Africa Utilities 660 570 506 90 64 Asia Generation 889 785 600 104 185 Corporate and Other(1) (838 ) (758 ) (562 ) (80 ) (196 ) Total Revenue $ 13,588 $ 11,576 $ 10,247 $ 2,012 $ 1,329 Gross Margin: Latin America Generation $ 955 $ 1,052 $ 857 $ (97 ) $ 195 Latin America Utilities 865 888 584 (23 ) 304 North America Generation 702 610 556 92 54 North America Utilities 313 277 301 36 (24 ) Europe & Africa Generation 275 247 185 28 62 Europe & Africa Utilities 63 103 109 (40 ) (6 ) Asia Generation 193 201 243 (8 ) (42 ) Total Corporate and Other(2) (336 ) (245 ) (186 ) (91 ) (59 ) Interest expense (1,788 ) (1,769 ) (1,828 ) (19 ) 59 Interest income 500 434 381 66 53 Other expense (255 ) (452 ) (109 ) 197 (343 ) Other income 358 116 157 242 (41 ) Gain on sale of investments 134 98 36 98 Loss on sale of subsidiary stock (535 ) 535 (535 ) Impairment expense (408 ) (17 ) (16 ) (391 ) (1 ) Foreign currency transaction gains (losses) on net monetary position 24 (80 ) (143 ) 104 63 Equity in earnings of affiliates 76 73 66 3 7 Other non operating expense (57 ) (57 ) Income tax expense (685 ) (362 ) (473 ) (323 ) 111 Minority interest expense (434 ) (463 ) (319 ) 29 (144 ) Income from continuing operations 495 176 365 319 (189 ) Income from operations of discontinued businesses 71 107 188 (36 ) (81 ) Loss from disposal of discontinued businesses (661 ) (57 ) (604 ) (57 ) Extraordinary items 21 (21 ) 21 Cumulative effect of accounting change (4 ) 4 Net (loss) income $ (95 ) $ 247 $ 549 $ (342 ) $ (302 ) Per share data: Basic income per share from continuing operations $ 0.74 $ 0.27 $ 0.56 $ 0.47 $ (0.29 ) Diluted income per share from continuing operations $ 0.73 $ 0.27 $ 0.56 $ 0.46 $ (0.29 ) (1)Corporate and Other includes revenues from Alternative Energy and inter segment eliminations of revenues related to transfers of electricity from Tiet&ecirc; (generation) to Eletropaulo (utility). (2)Total Corporate and Other expenses include corporate general and administrative expenses as well as certain inter segment eliminations, primarily corporate charges for management fees and self insurance premiums. 91 Segment Analysis Latin America The following table summarizes revenue for our Generation and Utilities segments in Latin America for the periods indicated (in millions): Latin America For the Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (Restated) (Restated) Revenue Revenue % of Total Revenue Revenue % of Total Revenue Revenue % of Total Revenue Latin America Generation $ 3,510 26 % $ 2,615 23 % $ 2,145 21 % Latin America Utilities 5,172 38 % 4,552 39 % 4,127 40 % Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Revenue Generation revenue increased $895 million, or 34%, from the previous year primarily due to higher rates and volume at Gener (in Chile) and Alicura (in Argentina) of approximately $443 million and $95 million, respectively; and increased volume and intercompany sales from Tiet&ecirc; (in Brazil) to Eletropaulo, our Brazilian utility, of approximately $130 million. Our increase in ownership of the controlling shares of Itabo contributed approximately $87 million in revenue. The impact of favorable foreign currency translation was approximately $38 million. Utilities revenue increased $620 million, or 14%, from the previous year. This increase was primarily the result of favorable foreign currency translation of $493 million, and increased rates and volume in Brazil at our Sul facility and at our plants in El Salvador of $58 million and $41 million, respectively, offset by net decreases in tariff of $24 million at Eletropaulo (in Brazil). Fiscal Year 2006 versus 2005 Revenue Generation revenue increased $470 million, or 22%, from the previous year primarily due to higher rates and volume at our Chile and Argentina businesses of $86 million and $99 million, respectively; higher sales offset by intercompany sales from Tiet&ecirc; in Brazil to Eletropaulo of approximately $137 million; and our increase in ownership of the controlling shares of Itabo in the Dominican Republic contributed approximately $115 million in revenue. Utilities revenue increased $425 million, or 10%, from the previous year. This increase was driven by favorable foreign currency translation of $413 million; a net increase of $19 million in rates and volume at Eletropaulo and increased tariff rates at CAESS and Clesa in El Salvador of $62 million, offset by lower intercompany sales at Infoenergy of $40 million. The following table summarizes gross margin for the Generation and Utilities segments in Latin America for the periods indicated (in millions): Latin America For the Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (Restated) (Restated) Gross Margin Gross Margin % of Total Gross Margin Gross Margin % of Total Gross Margin Gross Margin % of Total Gross Margin Latin America Generation $ 955 28 % $ 1,052 31 % $ 857 30 % Latin America Utilities 865 25 % 888 26 % 584 20 % 92 Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Gross Margin Generation gross margin decreased $97 million, or 9%, from the previous year primarily due to increased cost from gas supply curtailments, drier than normal hydrology and higher spot prices for electricity in the Companys businesses in Argentina, Chile and Southern Brazil of approximately $173 million and one time transmission charges at Tiet&ecirc; of $39 million, offset in part, by higher sales at Itabo in the Dominican Republic of $23 million and intercompany sales in Tiet&ecirc; of $103 million. Utilities gross margin decreased $23 million, or 3%, from the previous year primarily due to reduced tariff rates at Eletropaulo of $355 million offset by lower costs, favorable foreign currency translation of $148 million and higher volume of $74 million. Additionally, Sul (in Brazil) had increased rates and volume of $27 million and favorable foreign currency translation of $19 million. Fiscal Year 2006 versus 2005 Gross Margin Generation gross margin increased $195 million, or 23%, from the previous year due to net increases in intercompany and volume sales from Tiet&ecirc; to Eletropaulo in Brazil of $137 million, an increase in spot market and contract energy prices at Gener in Chile of $88 million and $13 million from the acquisition of a controlling interest in Itabo in the Dominican Republic, these were partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency impacts of $30 million. Utilities gross margin increased $304 million, or 52%, from the previous year due to $192 million of additional gross bad debts reserves recognized in the second quarter of 2005 related to the collectibility of certain municipal receivables at Eletropaulo and Sul in Brazil, and favorable foreign currency impacts of $170 million. These increases were partially offset by higher legal reserves at Eletropaulo of $56 million. North America The following table summarizes revenue for our Generation and Utilities segments in North America for the periods indicated (in millions): North America For the Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (Restated) (Restated) Revenue Revenue % of Total Revenue Revenue % of Total Revenue Revenue % of Total Revenue North America Generation $ 2,168 16 % $ 1,928 17 % $ 1,745 17 % North America Utilities 1,052 8 % 1,032 9 % 951 9 % Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Revenue Generation revenue increased $240 million, or 12%, from the previous year primarily due to approximately $200 million in new business as a result of our acquisition of TEG/TEP in Mexico and approximately $96 million in higher rate and volume sales at the Companys New York facilities; offset by mark to market adjustments for embedded derivatives of $51 million at Deepwater in Texas and lower emission sales of $39 million. Utilities revenue increased $20 million, or 2%, from the previous year primarily due to increased volume, offset by a slight decrease in tariff rates at IPL. 93 Fiscal Year 2006 versus 2005 Revenue Generation revenue increased $183 million, or 11%, due to the change in the mark to market adjustment related to Deepwater of approximately $96 million and an increase in revenues of $76 million at the New York facilities due to an increase in rates. Utilities revenue increased $81 million, or 9%, from the previous year primarily attributable to higher pricing at IPL due to the pass through of higher fuel costs. The following table summarizes gross margin for the Generation and Utilities segments in North America for the periods indicated (in millions): North America For the Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (Restated) (Restated) Gross Margin Gross Margin % of Total Gross Margin Gross Margin % of Total Gross Margin Gross Margin % of Total Gross Margin North America Generation $ 702 21 % $ 610 18 % $ 556 19 % North America Utilities 313 9 % 277 8 % 301 10 % Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Gross Margin Generation gross margin increased $92 million, or 15%, from the previous year primarily due to approximately $62 million related to our acquisition of TEG/TEP in Mexico and $90 million related to higher rates and volumes and lower cost at the Companys New York facilities offset by lower sales of excess emissions allowances of approximately $39 million. Utilities gross margin increased $36 million, or 13%, primarily due to increased volume sales and deferred fuel cost recoveries at IPL. Fiscal Year 2006 versus 2005 Gross Margin Generation gross margin increased $54 million, or 10%, from the previous year primarily due to the impact of the marked to market adjustment related to Deepwater of approximately $96 million, offset by a decrease of approximately $38 million related to outages at Warrior Run, Hawaii and Ironwood as well as a scheduled reduction in pricing of the power purchase agreements for our Hawaii plant of $13 million. Utilities gross margin decreased $24 million, or 8%, from the previous year primarily due to higher maintenance costs at IPL of $23 million as part of a scheduled outage on one of its large base load coal fired units that coincided with a project to enhance environmental emission technology to significantly reduce emissions as well as increased emissions allowances. Europe & Africa The following table summarizes revenue for the Generation and Utilities segments in Europe & Africa for the periods indicated (in millions): Europe & Africa For the Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (Restated) (Restated) Revenue Revenue % of Total Revenue Revenue % of Total Revenue Revenue % of Total Revenue Europe & Africa Generation $ 975 7 % $ 852 7 % $ 735 7 % Europe & Africa Utilities 660 5 % 570 5 % 506 5 % 94 Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Revenue Generation revenue increased $123 million, or 14%, from the previous year primarily due to favorable foreign currency translation of $77 million and increased rate and volume sales of approximately $60 million at our businesses in Kazakhstan. Utilities revenue increased $90 million, or 16%, from the previous year primarily due to increased tariff rates and volume of approximately $57 million in the Ukraine and approximately $28 million in favorable foreign currency translation. Fiscal Year 2006 versus 2005 Revenue Generation revenue increased $117 million, or 16%, primarily due to increased volume sales and contract energy prices at Tisza II in Hungary of $73 million offset by decreased volume at Ekibastuz in Kazakhstan of $30 million, increased sales from our centralized trading office in Altai, Kazakhstan of $58 million, and CO2 emission allowance sales in Hungary of $16 million and Bohemia in the Czech Republic of $12 million. Utilities revenue increased $64 million, or 13%, primarily due to increased demand and tariff rates at SONEL in Cameroon of $17 million and $46 million at our businesses in the Ukraine. The following table summarizes gross margin for the Generation and Utilities segments in Europe & Africa for the periods indicated (in millions): Europe & Africa For the Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (Restated) (Restated) Gross Margin Gross Margin % of Total Gross Margin Gross Margin % of Total Gross Margin Gross Margin % of Total Gross Margin Europe & Africa Generation $ 275 8 % $ 247 7 % $ 185 6 % Europe & Africa Utilities 63 2 % 103 3 % 109 4 % Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Gross Margin Generation gross margin increased $28 million, or 11%, from the previous year primarily due to rate and volume increases at our businesses in Kazakhstan and Kilroot of $44 million and $13 million, respectively. These increases were offset by lower emission sales in Hungary and Bohemia in the Czech Republic of approximately $28 million. Utilities gross margin decreased $40 million, or 39%, from the previous year primarily due to higher non fuel operating and maintenance costs as well as higher fuel usage at SONEL in Cameroon. Fiscal Year 2006 versus 2005 Gross Margin Generation gross margin increased $62 million, or 34%, from the previous year, primarily due to higher pricing on improved volumes at Ekibastuz and at our centralized trading office in Altai both in Kazakhstan, margin on CO2 emission allowance sales in Hungary of $16 million and by Bohemia in the Czech Republic of $11 million. Utilities gross margin was flat compared to the prior year primarily due to higher expenses at SONEL in Cameroon, offset by improved volume sales and tariff rates for SONEL and our businesses in the Ukraine. 95 Asia The following table summarizes revenue for the Generation segment in Asia for the periods indicated (in millions): Asia For the Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (Restated) (Restated) Revenue Revenue % of Total Revenue Revenue % of Total Revenue Revenue % of Total Revenue Asia Generation $ 889 7 % $ 785 7 % $ 600 6 % Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Revenue Revenues increased $104 million, or 13%, from the previous year primarily attributable to higher dispatch in Pakistan of $83 million and higher volume and rates at Kelanitissa in Sri Lanka of approximately $30 million offset by volume decreases of approximately $8 million at Chigen in China. Fiscal Year 2006 versus 2005 Revenue Revenues increased $185 million, or 31%, from the previous year primarily due to increased sales of approximately $141 million at the two Pakistan power generation plants, Lal Pir and Pak Gen, as well as $31 million of improvements at Kelanitissa primarily due to favorable sales which was comprised of $16 million from volume increases and $15 million from increased rates. The following table summarizes gross margin for the Generation segment in Asia for the periods indicated (in millions): Asia For the Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (Restated) (Restated) Gross Margin Gross Margin % of Total Gross Margin Gross Margin % of Total Gross Margin Gross Margin % of Total Gross Margin Asia Generation $ 193 6 % $ 201 6 % $ 243 8 % Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Gross Margin Gross margin was generally flat decreasing by $8 million, or 4%, to $193 million in 2007 from $201 million in 2006 primarily attributable to decreased volume at Chigen in China. Fiscal Year 2006 versus 2005 Gross Margin Gross margin decreased $42 million, or 17%, from the previous year primarily due to increases in variable operating and maintenance costs of $16 million, higher rural grid fund taxes of $6 million and approximately $13 million in lease adjustments at Lal Pir and Pak Gen. Corporate and Other Expense Corporate and other expenses include general and administrative expenses related to corporate staff functions and or initiatives, executive management, finance, legal, human resources, information systems and certain development costs which are not allocable to our business segments. In addition, this line item includes net operating results from other businesses which are immaterial for the purposes of separate segment disclosure and, the effects of eliminating transactions, such as management fee arrangements and self insurance charges, between the operating segments and corporate. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, Corporate and other expense was approximately 2 3% of total revenues. 96  Corporate and other expense increased $78 million, or 26%, to $379 million in 2007 from $301 million in 2006. The increase is primarily due to higher spending in professional fees of approximately $24 million primarily to complete the restatement and remediation efforts, higher spending due to headcount increases primarily related to the strengthening of our finance organization of approximately $15 million and higher spending on our SAP implementation projects. Corporate and other expense increased $80 million, or 36%, to $301 million in 2006 from $221 million in 2005. The increase is primarily due to higher spending of approximately $51 million in corporate development spending primarily in support of Alternative Energy, higher spending on corporate headcount due to the development of Regional Presidents and related to the strengthening of our finance organization, and higher spending on our SAP implementation projects. Interest expense Interest expense increased $19 million, or 1%, to $1,788 million in 2007 from $1,769 million in 2006. Interest expense increased primarily due to unfavorable impacts from foreign currency translation in Brazil and interest expense associated with derivatives. These increases were offset by the benefits of debt retirement activity at several of our Latin American subsidiaries and lower interest rates at one of our subsidiaries in Brazil. Interest expense decreased $59 million, or 3%, to $1,769 million in 2006 from $1,828 million in 2005. Interest expense decreased primarily due to the benefits of debt retirements principally in the U.S., Brazil and the Dominican Republic, lower interest rates at certain of our businesses, and decreased amortization of deferred financing costs, offset by negative impacts from foreign currency translation in Brazil. Interest income Interest income increased $66 million, or 15%, to $500 million in 2007 from $434 million in 2006. Interest income increased primarily due to favorable foreign currency translation on the Brazilian Real and higher cash and short term investment balances at certain of our subsidiaries, offset by decreases at two of our Brazilian subsidiaries due to lower interest rates. Interest income increased $53 million, or 14%, to $434 million in 2006 from $381 million in 2005. Interest income increased primarily due to favorable foreign currency translation on the Brazilian Real, higher cash and short term investment balances at certain of our subsidiaries, and an increase in interest income at one of our subsidiaries in the Dominican Republic related to the settlement of certain net receivables with the government. Other income Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (Restated) (Restated) (in millions) Contract settlement gain $ 135 $ $ Gross receipts tax recovery 93 Legal/dispute settlement 26 1 10 Gain on sale of assets 24 18 7 Gain on extinguishment of liabilities 22 45 82 Other 58 52 58 Total other income $ 358 $ 116 $ 157 97 Other income increased $242 million to $358 million in 2007 from $116 million in 2006. Other income increased primarily due to a $135 million contract settlement gain at one of our subsidiaries in New York, a $93 million gross receipts tax recovery at two of our Latin American subsidiaries, and $25 million related to favorable legal settlements at one of our subsidiaries in Brazil and one of our North American subsidiaries. These increases were offset by lower gains on extinguishment of debt, which were driven in 2006 by debt retirement activities at several of our Latin American businesses. Other income decreased $41 million to $116 million in 2006 from $157 million in 2005. Other income decreased primarily due to activity at our Brazilian subsidiaries, including the expiration of a tax liability of $70 million and a gain related to the determination of the collectibility of the Sao Paulo municipality agreement in 2005. Other expense Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (Restated) (Restated) (in millions) Loss on extinguishment of liabilities $ 106 $ 181 $ 3 Regulatory special obligations 139 Loss on sale and disposal of assets 79 23 43 Legal/dispute settlement 36 31 30 Write down of disallowed regulatory assets 16 36 Marked to market loss (gain) on commodity derivatives 1 (2 ) 3 Other 17 44 30 Total other expense $ 255 $ 452 $ 109 Other expense decreased $197 million to $255 million in 2007 from $452 million in 2006. Other expense decreased primarily due to higher losses in 2006 associated with debt retirement activities at several of our Latin American businesses, special obligation charges and the write down of disallowed regulatory assets at one of our subsidiaries in Brazil in 2006. In 2007, there was a loss of $90 million on the retirement of Senior Notes at the Parent Company, as well as higher losses on sales and disposals of assets at two of our Brazilian subsidiaries. Other expense increased $343 million to $452 million in 2006 from $109 million in 2005. Other expense increased primarily due to losses associated with the early extinguishment of debt at several of our Latin American businesses and a loss on the retirement of the parents senior subordinated debentures, as well as special obligation charges and write down of disallowed regulatory assets at one of our subsidiaries in Brazil in 2006. Impairment Expense As discussed in Note 17 Impairment Expense to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of the Form 10 K, impairment expense for the year 2007 was $408 million and consisted primarily of the following: In the fourth quarter of 2007, the Company recognized a pre tax impairment charge of approximately $14 million related to a $52 million prepayment advanced to AgCert for a specified amount of future Certified Emission Reduction ("CER"). AgCert, a United Kingdom based corporation that produces emission reduction credits, notified AES that it was not able to meet its contractual obligations to deliver CERs, which triggered an analysis of the assets recoverability and resulted in the asset impairment charge. Also during the fourth quarter of 2007, there was a pre tax 98 impairment charge of approximately $352 million at Uruguaiana, a thermoelectric plant located in Brazil. The impairment was the result of an analysis of Uruguaianas long lived assets, which was triggered by the combination of gas curtailments and increases in the spot market price of energy. In August 2007, there was a pre tax impairment charge of approximately $25 million at our Placerita subsidiary, a gas fired combined cycle generation plant located in the United States. The fixed asset impairment was caused by damage sustained to one of the plants gas turbines. Also during the third quarter of 2007, a pre tax fixed asset impairment charge of approximately $10 million was recognized related to the curtailment of operations at Coal Creek Minerals, LLC, a coal mining company owned by our subsidiary Cavanal Minerals located in the United States. Impairment expense for the year 2006 was $17 million and consisted primarily of the following: During the fourth quarter of 2006, there was a pre tax impairment charge of $6 million related to AES China Generating Co. Ltd. ("Chigen") equity investment in Wuhu, a coal fired plant located in China. The equity impairment in Wuhu was required as a result of a goodwill impairment analysis at Chigen. During the third quarter of 2006, there was an impairment charge of $5 million related to a decrease in the market value of five held for sale gas turbines at our subsidiary Itabo located in the Dominican Republic. Impairment expense for the year 2005 was $16 million and consisted primarily of the following: During the third quarter of 2005, there was a pre tax impairment charge of $6 million related to Totem Gas Storage, LLC ("Totem"). The investment asset impairment was due to AESs notification from the sole managing members intention to dissolve, liquidate, and terminate Totem. This charge, combined with a $1.5 million impairment recognized in the fourth quarter of 2004, represented a complete write down of AESs investment in Totem. During the first quarter of 2005, there was a pre tax impairment charge of $5 million related to AES Southland ("Southland"). The fixed asset impairment was booked when, in the course of evaluating the impairment of long lived assets in accordance with SFAS No. 144, it was determined that the net book value of the peaker units were not fully realizable. During the fourth quarter of 2005, there was an additional pre tax impairment charge of $2.5 million which represented the remaining carrying value of these units. Gain on sale of investments Gain on sale of investments increased $36 million, or 37%, to $134 million in 2007 from $98 million in 2006. Gain on sale of investments for the year ended 2007 consisted primarily of the following: In May 2007, we sold a 0.91% ownership in Gener for a net gain of $10 million. In October 2007, we sold an additional 10.18% ownership in Gener for a net gain of $124 million. Gain on sale of investments for the year ended 2006 consisted primarily of the following: In March 2006, we sold our equity investment in a power project in Canada (Kingston) for a net gain of $87 million. In September 2006, we transferred Infoenergy, a wholly owned AES subsidiary, to Brasiliana for a net gain of $10 million. Brasiliana is 53.85% owned by BNDES, but controlled by AES. This transaction was part of the Companys agreement with BNDES to terminate the Sul Option. There was no gain on sale of investments for the year ended 2005. 99 Loss on sale of subsidiary stock There was no loss of sale of subsidiary stock for the year ended 2007. As discussed in Note 14 Stockholders Equity to the Consolidated Financial Statements, in September 2006, Brasilianas wholly owned subsidiary, Transg&aacute;s sold a 33% economic ownership in Eletropaulo, a regulated electric utility in Brazil. Despite the reduction in economic ownership, there was no change in Brasilianas voting interest in Eletropaulo and Brasiliana continues to control Eletropaulo. Brasiliana received $522 million in net proceeds on the sale. On October 5, 2006 Transg&aacute;s, sold an additional 5% economic ownership in Eletropaulo for $78 million in net proceeds. For the year ended December 31, 2006, AES recognized a pre tax loss of $535 million primarily as a result of the recognition of previously deferred currency translation losses. There was no loss on sale of subsidiary stock for the year ended 2005. Foreign currency transaction gains (losses) on net monetary position The following table summarizes the gains (losses) on the Companys net monetary position from foreign currency transaction activities: Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (Restated) (Restated) (in millions) AES Corporation $ 31 $ (17 ) $ 10 Argentina (8 ) (3 ) (5 ) Brazil 5 (49 ) (93 ) Dominican Republic 2 Pakistan (4 ) (18 ) (22 ) Chile (4 ) (21 ) Kazakhstan 10 1 (4 ) Columbia (7 ) (1 ) (5 ) Cameroon 1 2 (4 ) Other 5 (1 ) Total(1) $ 24 $ (80 ) $ (143 ) (1)Includes $22 million, $51 million and $117 million of losses on foreign currency derivative contracts for December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The Company recognized $24 million foreign currency transaction gains for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to losses of $80 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. The $104 million increase was primarily due to fluctuations in Brazil, AES Corporation, Pakistan, Kazakhstan, Argentina and Colombia. The decrease in foreign currency transaction losses in Brazil of $54 million is due to a decrease in foreign currency transaction losses of $45 million in Eletropaulo primarily as a result of swap contracts that were fully paid and executed in 2006 as Eletropaulo converted U.S. Dollar debt to Brazilian Real debt. Eletropaulo also experienced higher foreign currency transaction gains of $63 million associated with energy purchases denominated in U.S. Dollar as the Brazilian Real appreciated 21% for the year ended December 31, 2007. Sul extinguished U.S. Dollar denominated debt in the second quarter of 2006, resulting in less foreign currency transaction gains in 2007 of $44 million. The change in the functional currency of Brasiliana Energia, S.A. to Brazilian Real in the fourth quarter of 2006 resulted in less foreign currency transaction losses of $13 million in 2007 as no foreign currency transaction gains or losses were recorded in 2007. Additionally, foreign currency transaction losses decreased by 100 $36 million related to a forward exchange contract at Tiet&ecirc; during the third quarter of 2006 that was fully paid and executed by the end of 2006. The $31 million foreign currency gain at AES Corporation for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to the $17 million loss for the year ended December 31, 2006 is primarily the result of favorable exchange rates for debt denominated in British Pounds and Euros. The reduction of $14 million in foreign currency transaction loss at Pakistan for the year ended December 31, 2007 is primarily due to a repayment of a substantial amount of foreign currency denominated debt and the depreciation of the Pakistani Rupee. The favorable change in foreign currency transaction gains in Kazakhstan of $9 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, is primarily due to $12 million foreign currency transaction gains recorded on debt denominated in currencies other than the Kazakh Tenge functional currency and $3 million foreign currency transaction losses related to energy sales denominated and fixed in the U.S. Dollar. The increase in foreign currency transaction losses in Argentina of $5 million is primarily due to the devaluation of the Argentine Peso by 3% for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to 2006, resulting in foreign currency transaction losses of $11 million in Alicura associated with its U.S. Dollar denominated debt. The increase in foreign currency transaction losses in Colombia of $6 million is primarily due to the appreciation of the Colombian Peso by 11% for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to 2006 at Chivor (a U.S. Dollar functional currency subsidiary). The Company recognized foreign currency transaction losses of $80 million in 2006 compared to losses from foreign currency transactions of $143 million in 2005. The $63 million decrease in losses for 2006 as compared to 2005 was primarily related to lower foreign currency transaction losses in Brazil and Chile offset by increased foreign currency transaction losses at the Parent Company. Foreign currency movements typically result from changes in U.S. Dollar exchange rates at subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the U.S. Dollar, as well as gains or losses on monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity and gains or losses on foreign currency derivatives. The reduction in foreign currency transaction losses in Brazil is primarily due to a reduction in derivative transaction losses as a result of the reduction in U.S. Dollar denominated debt balances at Eletropaulo partially offset by a decrease in foreign currency transaction gains associated with U.S. Dollar denominated debt balances as the Brazilian Real appreciated 13% in 2006 as compared to 2005. The reduction in foreign currency transaction losses in Chile is primarily due to the devaluation of the Chilean Peso by 4% in 2006 versus 2005, resulting in decreased losses on foreign currency derivative contracts at Gener. Equity in earnings of affiliates Equity in earnings of affiliates increased $3 million, or 4%, to $76 million in 2007 from $73 million in 2006. The increase in 2007 is primarily due to Cartagena being operational for the full year and the absence of liquidated damages incurred in 2006 for construction delays. The increase was partially offset by decreased earnings in 2007 at AES Barry due to proceeds received in 2006 from the settlement of a legal claim that did not recur in 2007. Equity in earnings of affiliates increased $7 million, or 11%, to $73 million in 2006 from $66 million in 2005. The increase was primarily due to the settlement of a legal claim in 2006 related to AES Barry, an equity method investment of AES during the first quarter of 2006, and higher earnings at several affiliates in Latin America. The increase was offset by the impact of increased losses at 101 Cartagena, an equity method investment in Spain, in 2006 primarily due to $35 million in liquidated damages incurred in 2006 related to construction delays that were paid to the offtaker. Other non operating expense Other non operating expense was $57 million in 2007 and was due to the other than temporary impairment of the Companys investment in AgCert. The Company acquired a 9.9% investment in AgCert, a U.K. based corporation that produces emission reduction credits, in May 2006 and, as required by GAAP, treated these securities as "available for sale". The market value of these securities, based on traded market prices on the London Stock Exchange, materially declined during 2007. Based on accounting guidance outlined in SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities, ("SFAS No. 115"), management concluded that the decline was "other than temporary" and recognized an impairment charge of $52 million in the year ended December 31, 2007. Additionally, a charge of $5 million was recognized for the decrease in value of the AgCert warrants. At December 31, 2007, the investment balance is zero. Income taxes Income tax expense related to continuing operations increased $323 million to $685 million in 2007 from $362 million in 2006. The Companys effective tax rates were 42% for 2007 and 36% for 2006. The increase in the 2007 effective tax rate was due, in part, to an impairment at Uruguaiana for which no tax benefit was recorded, the impact of an appreciating Real in certain of our Brazilian subsidiaries, and the impact of income tax law changes in Mexico, partially offset by the nontaxable gain on the sales of shares of one of the Companys Chilean subsidiaries and a release of valuation allowance at one of our subsidiaries in Argentina. Income tax expense related to continuing operations decreased $111 million to $362 million in 2006 from $473 million in 2005. The Companys effective tax rates were 36% for 2006 and 41% for 2005. The reduction in the 2006 effective tax rate was due, in part, to the second quarter 2006 release of a $43 million valuation allowance at the Companys Brazilian subsidiary, Eletropaulo, related to its deferred tax assets on certain pension obligations, a decrease in U.S. taxes on distributions from certain non U.S. subsidiaries due to recent changes in tax laws, and the sale of Kingston in the first quarter of 2006, the gain on which was not taxable. The reduction in the 2006 effective tax rate was offset in part by the Special Obligation liabilities recorded at Eletropaulo and Sul. Minority interest Minority interest expense, net of tax, decreased $29 million to $434 million in 2007 from $463 million in 2006. The decrease is primarily due to the recognition of previously deferred currency translation losses associated with the sale of Eletropaulo shares during the third quarter 2006, resulting in a decrease of our economic ownership in Eletropaulo from 34% to 16%. See Note 14 Stockholders Equity to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K for a further discussion of the sale of Eletropaulo shares and the Brasiliana restructuring. The decrease is also attributable to the minority interest impact of the impairment recognized at Uruguaiana, a Brazilian subsidiary, offset by increased earnings at Tiet&ecirc;, another Brazilian subsidiary. Minority interest expense, net of tax, increased $144 million to $463 million in 2006 from $319 million in 2005. The increase is primarily due to higher earnings from our Brazilian companies offset by a decrease in the third quarter of 2006 in our economic ownership in Eletropaulo from 34% to 16%. 102 Discontinued operations As discussed in Note 20 Discontinued Operations and Businesses Held for Sale to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K, on February 22, 2007, the Company entered into a definitive agreement with PDVSA to sell all of its shares of EDC, a distribution business located in Venezuela and reported in the Latin America Utilities segment, for $739 million net of withholding taxes. In addition, the agreement provided for the payment of a $120 million dividend in 2007. In May 2007, the Company reached an agreement to sell 100% of its indirect interest in two biomass fired power plants located in central California (the Delano and Mendota facilities) for $51 million. These facilities, along with an associated management company (together, the "Central Valley Businesses") were included in the North America Generation segment. During 2006, we discontinued certain businesses including Eden, a Latin America Utilities business located in Argentina and AES Indian Queens Power Limited and AES Indian Queens Operations Limited, collectively "IQP", which is an Open Cycle Gas Turbine located in the U.K. In 2007, income from operations of discontinued businesses, net of tax, was $71 million related to the operations of EDC and Central Valley. In 2006, income from operations of discontinued businesses, net of tax, was $107 million related to the operations of EDC, Central Valley, Eden and IQP. In 2005, income from operations of discontinued businesses, net of tax, was $188 million. Income from operations of EDC, Central Valley, Eden and IQP totaled approximately $157 million for 2005. Additionally, a reversal of approximately $31 million was recognized in the third quarter of 2005 at Eden, related to the release of a valuation allowance previously recognized against its net deferred tax assets. Extraordinary item As discussed in Note 6 Investments in and Advances to Affiliates to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K, in May 2006, AES purchased an additional 25% interest in Itabo, a power generation business located in the Dominican Republic for approximately $23 million. Prior to May, the Company held a 25% interest in Itabo, through its Gener subsidiary, and had accounted for the investment using the equity method of accounting with a corresponding investment balance reflected in the "Investments in and advances to affiliates" line item on the consolidated balance sheets. As a result of the transaction, the Company consolidates Itabo and, therefore, the investment balance has been reclassified to the appropriate line items on the consolidated balance sheets with a corresponding minority interest liability for the remaining 50% interest not owned by AES. The Company realized an after tax extraordinary gain of $21 million as a result of the transaction due to an excess of the fair value of the noncurrent assets over the purchase price. Critical Accounting Estimates The Consolidated Financial Statements of AES are prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America, which requires the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. AESs significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 General and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K. An accounting estimate is considered critical if: the estimate requires management to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the estimate was made; 103 different estimates reasonably could have been used; or the impact of the estimates and assumptions on financial condition or operating performance is material. Management believes that the accounting estimates employed are appropriate and the resulting balances are reasonable; however, actual results could differ from the original estimates, requiring adjustments to these balances in future periods. Management has discussed these critical accounting policies with the audit committee, as appropriate. Listed below are certain significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Income Tax Reserves We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our worldwide income tax provision requires significant judgment and is based on calculations and assumptions that are subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service and other taxing authorities. The Company and certain of its subsidiaries are under examination by relevant taxing authorities for various tax years. The Company regularly assesses the potential outcome of these examinations in each of the taxing jurisdictions when determining the adequacy of the provision for income taxes. The Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Interpretation ("FIN") No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, ("FIN No. 48") effective January 1, 2007. The Interpretation prescribes a more likely than not recognition threshold and establishes new measurement requirements for financial statement reporting of an entitys income tax positions. Tax reserves have been established, which the Company believes to be adequate in relation to the potential for additional assessments. Once established, reserves are adjusted only when there is more information available or when an event occurs necessitating a change to the reserves. While the Company believes that the amount of the tax estimates are reasonable, it is possible that the ultimate outcome of current or future examinations may exceed current reserves in amounts that could be material. Goodwill We test goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or circumstances make it more likely than not that impairment may have occurred, such as a significant adverse change in the business climate or a decision to sell or dispose all or a portion of a business unit. Determining whether an impairment has occurred requires valuation of the respective business unit, which we estimate using a discounted cash flow method. In applying this methodology, we rely on a number of factors, including actual operating results, future business plans, economic projections and market data. If this analysis indicates goodwill is impaired, measuring the impairment requires a fair value estimate of each identified tangible and intangible asset. In this case, we supplement the cash flow approach discussed above with appraisals, as appropriate. Regulatory Assets and Liabilities The Company accounts for certain of its regulated operations under the provisions of SFAS No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation, ("SFAS No. 71"). As a result, AES recognizes assets and liabilities that result from the regulated ratemaking process that would not be recognized under GAAP for non regulated entities. Regulatory assets generally represent incurred costs that have been deferred because such costs are probable of future recovery in customer rates. Regulatory liabilities generally represent obligations to make refunds to customers for previous collections for costs that are not likely to be incurred or included in future rate initiatives. Management continually assesses whether the regulatory assets are probable of future recovery by considering factors such as applicable regulatory changes, recent rate orders applicable to other regulated entities and the 104 status of any pending or potential deregulation legislation. If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, the asset write offs would be required to be recognized in operating income. Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities We enter into various derivative transactions in order to hedge our exposure to certain market risks. We primarily use derivative instruments to manage our interest rate, commodity, and foreign currency exposures. We do not enter into derivative transactions for trading purposes. Under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities as amended, ("SFAS No. 133"), we recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the balance sheet and measure those instruments at fair value except where derivatives qualify and are designated as "normal purchase/ normal sale" transactions. Changes in fair value of derivatives are recognized in earnings unless specific hedge criteria are met. Income and expense related to derivative instruments are recognized in the same category as generated by the underlying asset or liability. SFAS No. 133 enables companies to designate qualifying derivatives as hedging instruments based on the exposure being hedged. These hedge designations include fair value hedges and cash flow hedges. Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is highly effective and is designated and qualifies as a fair value hedge, are recognized in earnings as offsets to the changes in fair value of the exposure being hedged. Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is highly effective and is designated as and qualifies as a cash flow hedge, are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income and are recognized into earnings as the hedged transactions occur. Any ineffectiveness is recognized in earnings immediately. For all hedge contracts, the Company provides formal documentation of the hedge and effectiveness testing in accordance with SFAS No. 133. As a result of uncertainty, complexity and judgment, accounting estimates related to derivative accounting could result in material changes to our financial statements under different conditions or utilizing different assumptions. As a part of accounting for these derivatives, we make estimates concerning volatilities, market liquidity, future commodity prices, interest rates, credit ratings, and exchange rates. AES generally uses quoted exchange prices to the extent they are available to determine the fair value of derivatives. In the absence of actively quoted market prices, we seek indicative price information from external sources, including broker quotes and industry publications. If pricing information from external sources is not available, AES will estimate prices, when possible, based on available historical and near term future price information as well as utilizing statistical methods. When external valuation models are not available, the Company utilizes internal models for valuation. For individual contracts, the use of different valuation models or assumptions could have a material effect on the calculated fair value. New Accounting Pronouncements SFAS No. 157: Fair Value Measurements In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurement, ("SFAS No. 157"). SFAS No. 157 provides enhanced guidance for using fair value to measure assets and liabilities. The standard applies whenever other standards require (or permit) assets or liabilities to be measured at fair value. The standard does not expand the use of fair value in any new circumstances. The standard clarifies that for items that are not actively traded, such as certain kinds of derivatives, fair value should reflect the price in a transaction with a market participant, including an adjustment for risk, not just the Companys mark to model value. The standard establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the information used to develop assumptions. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets and the lowest priority to unobservable data. Under the standard, fair value measurements would be separately disclosed by level within the fair value hierarchy with expanded disclosure for those measurements based on unobservable data. 105  SFAS No. 157 will apply to our interim and annual financial statements for periods beginning after January 1, 2008. There is no cumulative impact of the adoption of SFAS No. 157 for AES. In February 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position ("FSP") No. 157 1, Application of FASB Statement No. 157 to FASB Statement No. 13 and Other Accounting Pronouncements That Address Fair Value Measurements for Purposes of Lease Classification or Measurement Under Statement 13, ("FSP No. 157 1") and FSP No. 157 2, Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157, ("FSP No. 157 2".) FSP No. 157 1 excludes SFAS No. 13, Accounting for Leases, ("SFAS No. 13") and most other accounting pronouncements that address fair value measurement of leases from the scope of SFAS No. 157. The FSP was issued because the FASB had not intended SFAS No. 157 to change lease accounting. FSP No. 157 2 delays the effective date of SFAS No. 157 for all nonrecurring fair value measurements of nonfinancial assets and liabilities until fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008, or January 1, 2009 for AES. SFAS No. 159: The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities including an amendment of FAS 115 In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities including an amendment of FAS 115, ("SFAS No. 159"), which allows entities to choose, at specified election dates, to measure eligible financial assets and liabilities at fair value that are not otherwise required to be measured at fair value. If a company elects the fair value option for an eligible item, changes in that items fair value in subsequent reporting periods must be recognized in current earnings. SFAS No. 159 also establishes presentation and disclosure requirements designed to draw comparison between entities that elect different measurement attributes for similar assets and liabilities. SFAS No. 159 is effective for the Company on January 1, 2008. As allowed by the standard, the Company has elected not to adopt SFAS No.159 for the measurement of any eligible assets or liabilities. SFAS No. 141(R): Business Combinations and SFAS No. 160: Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, an amendment of ARB No. 51 In December 2007 the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations, ("SFAS No. 141(R)") and SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of ARB No. 51, ("SFAS No. 160"). SFAS No. 141(R) will significantly change how business acquisitions are accounted for at the acquisition date and in subsequent periods. The standard changes the accounting at the acquisition date to a fair value based approach rather than the cost allocation approach currently used. Other differences include changes in the accounting for acquisition related costs, contingencies and income taxes and other relevant items. SFAS No. 160 changes the accounting and reporting for minority interests, which will now be classified as a component of equity and will be referred to as noncontrolling interests. SFAS No. 141(R) and SFAS No. 160 will be effective for public and private companies for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008, which is the year beginning January 1, 2009 for AES. SFAS No. 141(R) and SFAS No. 160 will be applied prospectively, except for the presentation and disclosure requirements in SFAS No. 160 for existing minority interests which will require retroactive adoption. Early adoption is prohibited. AES has not begun its analysis of the potential future impact of SFAS No. 141(R) and SFAS No. 160. Capital Resources and Liquidity Overview The AES Corporation is a holding company that conducts all of its operations through subsidiaries. We have, to the extent achievable, utilized non recourse debt to fund a significant portion of the capital expenditures and investments required to construct and acquire our electric power plants, distribution companies and related assets. This type of financing is non recourse to other subsidiaries, affiliates and to us (as the "Parent Company"), and is generally secured by the capital stock, physical 106 assets, contracts and cash flow of the related subsidiary or affiliate. At December 31, 2007, we had $5.6 billion of recourse debt and $12.4 billion of non recourse debt outstanding. For more information on our long term debt see Note 8 Long Term Debt to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K. In addition to non recourse debt, if available, we, as the Parent Company, provide a portion, or in certain instances all, of the remaining long term financing or credit required to fund development, construction or acquisition. These investments have generally taken the form of equity investments or loans, which are subordinated to the projects non recourse loans. The AES Corporation generally obtains the funds for these investments from our cash flows from operations and or the proceeds from our issuances of debt, common stock, and other securities as well as proceeds from the sales of assets. Similarly, in certain of our businesses, the AES Corporation may provide financial guarantees or other credit support for the benefit of lenders or counterparties who have entered into contracts for the purchase or sale of electricity with our subsidiaries. In such circumstances, if a subsidiary defaults on its payment or supply obligation, the AES Corporation is responsible for the subsidiarys obligations up to the amount provided for in the relevant guarantee or other credit support. We expect to continue to seek, where possible, non recourse debt financing in connection with the assets or businesses that our affiliates or we may develop, construct or acquire. However, depending on market conditions and the unique characteristics of individual businesses, non recourse debt may not be available or may not be available on economically attractive terms. If we decide not to provide any additional funding or credit support to the subsidiary that is under construction or has near term debt payment obligations and that subsidiary is unable to obtain additional non recourse debt, our investment may become impaired, or such subsidiary may become insolvent and we may lose our investment in such subsidiary. Additionally, if any of our subsidiaries lose a significant customer, the subsidiary may need to restructure the non recourse debt financing. If such subsidiary is unable to successfully complete a restructuring of the non recourse debt, our investment may become impaired, or we may lose our investment in such subsidiary. At December 31, 2007, we had provided outstanding financial and performance related guarantees or other credit support commitments to or for the benefit of our subsidiaries, which were limited by the terms of the agreements, in an aggregate of approximately $807 million (excluding those collateralized by letters of credit and other obligations discussed below). As a result of the AES Corporations below investment grade rating, counter parties may be unwilling to accept our general unsecured commitments to provide credit support. Accordingly, with respect to both new and existing commitments, we may be required to provide some other form of assurance, such as a letter of credit, to backstop or replace our credit support. We may not be able to provide adequate assurances to such counterparties. In addition, to the extent we are required and able to provide letters of credit or other collateral to such counterparties; this will reduce the amount of credit available to us to meet our other liquidity needs. At December 31, 2007, we had $512 million in letters of credit outstanding, which operate to guarantee performance relating to certain project construction and development activities and subsidiary operations. All of these letters of credit were provided under our revolving credit facility and senior unsecured credit facility. We pay letter of credit fees ranging from 1.63% to 3.94% per annum on the outstanding amounts. In addition, we had less than $1 million in surety bonds outstanding at December 31, 2007. Management believes that cash on hand, along with cash generated through operations, and our financing availability will be sufficient to fund normal operations, capital expenditures, and debt service requirements. Many of our subsidiaries depend on timely and continued access to capital markets to manage their liquidity needs. The inability to raise capital on favorable terms, to refinance existing indebtedness or to fund operations and other commitments during times of political or economic uncertainty may adversely affect those subsidiaries financial condition and results of operations. In addition, changes in 107 the timing of tariff increases or delays in the regulatory determinations under the relevant concessions could affect the cash flows and results of operations in our regulated utility businesses. Capital Expenditures The Company spent $2.5 billion, $1.5 billion and $0.8 billion on capital expenditures in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We anticipate capital expenditures during 2008 to be approximately $3.3 billion. Planned capital expenditures include new project construction costs, environmental pollution control construction and expenditures for existing assets to extend their useful lives. Capital expenditures for 2008 are expected to be financed using internally generated cash provided by operations, project level financing and possibly debt or equity financing at the AES parent company level. The Company continues to assess the possible need for capital expenditures associated with international, federal, regional and state regulation of GHG emissions from electric power generation facilities. Legislation and regulations regarding GHG emissions, if enacted, may place significant costs on GHG emissions from fossil fuel fired electric power generation facilities, particularly coal fired facilities, and in order to comply CO2 emitting facilities may purchase additional GHG emissions allowances or offsets under cap and trade programs or install new pollution control equipment to capture and reduce the amount of GHG emitted from the facilities, in the event that reliable technology to do so is developed. The capital expenditures required to comply with any future GHG legislation and regulations could be significant and unless such costs can be passed on to customers, such regulations could impair the profitability of some of the electric power generation facilities operated by our subsidiaries or render certain of them uneconomical to operate, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. With respect to our operations outside the United States, certain of the businesses operated by the Companys subsidiaries are subject to compliance with EV ETS and the Kyoto Protocol in certain countries and other country specific programs to regulate GHG emissions. To date, compliance with the Kyoto Protocol and EU ETS has not had a material adverse effect on the Companys consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows because of, among other factors, the cost of GHG emission allowances and or the ability of our businesses to pass the cost of purchasing such allowances on to counterparties. As discussed in Item 1 Business Regulatory Matters Environmental and Land Use Regulations, in the United States there presently are no federal laws or regulations regulating GHG emissions, although several legislative proposals are currently under consideration. In 2006, the Companys subsidiaries operated businesses which had total approximate CO2 emissions of 84 million metric tonnes (ownership adjusted and including approximately 6 million metric tonnes from EDC which the Company sold in 2007). Approximately 38 million metric tonnes of the 84 million metric tonnes were emitted in the United States (both figures ownership adjusted). Approximately 12 million metric tonnes were emitted in U.S. states participating in the Regional Green House Gas Initiative (RGGI). At this time, the federal legislative proposals under consideration applicable to electric power generation facilities incorporate market based cap and trade programs which authorize facilities to comply through the acquisition of emissions allowances in lieu of capital expenditures. Certain of the states, either alone or as part of a regional initiative, in which our subsidiaries operate are in the process of developing programs to reduce GHG emissions, primarily CO2, from the electric power generation facilities through cap and trade programs, which would allow CO2 emitting facilities to comply by purchase additional GHG emissions allowances or offsets under cap and trade programs or by installing new pollution control equipment to capture and reduce the amount of GHG emitted from the facilities, in the event that reliable technology to do so is developed. We believe that legislative or regulatory actions, if enacted, may require a material increase in capital expenditures at our subsidiaries. 108 The actual impact on our subsidiaries capital expenditures from any potential federal program to regulate and reduce GHG emissions, if enacted, and the state and regional programs in the process of development, will depend on a number of factors, including among others, the GHG reductions required under any such legislation or regulations, the price and availability of offsets, the extent to which our subsidiaries would be entitled to receive GHG emissions allowances without having to purchase them, the quantity of allowances which our subsidiaries would have to purchase, the price of allowances, our subsidiaries ability to recover or pass through costs incurred to comply with any legislative or regulatory requirements that are ultimately imposed and the use of market based compliance options such as cap and trade programs. Another factor is the success of our climate solutions business, which may generate credits that will help offset our GHG emissions. However, as set forth in the Risk Factor titled "Our Alternative Energy businesses face uncertain operational risks," there is no guarantee that the climate solutions business will be successful. And even if our climate solutions business is successful, the level of benefit is unclear with regard to the impact of legislation or litigation concerning GHG emissions. Cash Flows Favorable/(Unfavorable) Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 07 vs. 06 06 vs. 05 (in millions) (Restated) (Restated) Operating $ 2,357 $ 2,351 $ 2,220 $ 6 $ 131 Investing (1,970 ) (907 ) (653 ) (1,063 ) (254 ) Financing 244 (1,317 ) (1,339 ) 1,561 22 At December 31, 2007, cash and cash equivalents increased by $700 million from December 31, 2006 to a total of $2.1 billion. The change in cash was due to $2.4 billion of cash provided by operating activities, $2.0 billion of cash used for investing activities, $244 million of cash provided by financing activities and the positive effect of exchange rates on cash of $69 million. Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $6 million to $2,357 million during 2007 compared to $2,351 million during 2006. Excluding the decrease in net cash provided by operating activities from EDC, which was sold in May 2007, net cash provided by operating activities would have increased $119 million. This increase of $6 million was primarily due to: $251 million increase in net earnings (adjusted for non cash items); $61 million decrease in payments related to an energy price swap in 2006 at New York in the U.S. and derivatives in 2006 at Eletropaulo in Brazil; $50 million decrease in pension payments; $47 million increase as a result of settlements paid in the prior year; offset by $150 million increase in cash used for working capital; $142 million increase in cash taxes paid; $43 million decrease as a result of settlements received in the prior year; $44 million increase in interest paid; and other changes in accrued liabilities. 109 The $594 million increase in "adjustments to net income" was primarily due to the reversal of non cash adjustments for: $470 million loss in 2006 on the sale by Transg&aacute;s of Eletropaulo shares; $135 million settlement gain in 2007 for a lease buyout at New York; $133 million increase in gain on sale of investments due to the 11.09% sale of ownership in Gener in Chile in 2007; $55 million decrease in loss on extinguishment of debt compared to 2006 at several of our Latin American businesses, offset by an increase in 2007 at the Parent Company. These increases were offset by $493 million of non cash adjustments attributable to EDC, including asset impairment expense of $680 million; $391 million increase in asset impairment expense primarily at Uruguaiana in Brazil; $220 million increase in provision for deferred taxes; and $9 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense. The following table includes details of changes in operating assets and liabilities on the face of the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows: 2007 2006 Change (Restated) (in millions) (Increase) decrease in accounts receivable $ (306 ) $ 94 $ (400 ) Increase in inventory (26 ) (3 ) (23 ) Decrease (increase) in prepaid expenses and other current assets 335 (69 ) 404 (Increase) decrease in other assets (134 ) 149 (283 ) Decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities (398 ) (385 ) (13 ) Increase in other liabilities 121 52 69 Total $ (408 ) $ (162 ) $ (246 ) Accounts receivable increased in the current year primarily due to the increase of receivables from distributors without contracts associated with the governments resolution Resoluci&oacute;n Ministerial No. 88, ("RM 88") at Gener. This resolution requires the generation companies to sell electricity at spot price to small or medium size distribution companies that could not contract its required energy and allows these distributors to pay the regulated price at the following month of delivery and defer the payment of the difference between the spot price and the regulated price. Accounts receivable also increased as a result of increased sales due to higher pricing at Eastern Energy and IPL in the U.S. and increased volume at our Panama subsidiary. Inventory increased in the current year primarily due to a plant outage which resulted in a lack of consumption at Andres in the Dominican Republic. This increase was offset by a decrease in inventory at Eastern Energy due to higher production driven by higher pricing. Prepaid expenses and other current assets decreased in the current year due to a decrease in regulatory assets at Eletropaulo associated with an annual tariff readjustment, offset by an increase in value added taxes at Gener as a result of higher fuel oil consumption and an increase in income tax receivables. Other assets increased in the current year primarily due to the increase in recoverable taxes at Eletropaulo. 110 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities decreased in the current year mainly due to a decrease in regulatory liabilities related to free energy reductions and a decrease in efficiency energy costs at Eletropaulo. Other liabilities increased in the current year mainly due to an increase in regulatory liabilities at Eletropaulo. Investing Activities Net cash used for investing activities in 2007 totaled $1,970 million compared to $907 million during 2006, an increase of $1,063 million. This increase was primarily attributable to the following: Capital expenditures totaled $2,425 million during 2007, a $965 million increase over the $1,460 million balance for 2006. This was mainly due to increased spending of $254 million for the Maritza East 1 lignite fired power plant in Bulgaria, $109 million for the Changuinola project in Panama, $89 million for the Ventanas coal plant and $44 million for the Santa Lidia project, both at Gener in Chile, $72 million for the flue gas desulphurization plant at Kilroot in Ireland, $54 million at Eletropaulo in Brazil primarily for grid expansion and maintenance projects, $48 million related to our facility in Jordan and $39 million at New York in the U.S. related to Somerset and Cayuga facilities. In addition, there was increased spending related to wind development projects of $233 million at our Alternative Energy Group businesses. These increases were offset by a decrease of $53 million due to the sale of EDC in Venezuela. Acquisitions, net of cash acquired totaled $315 million in 2007, a $296 million increase over the $19 million during 2006. This increase was mainly due to the purchase of two 230 MW petroleum coke fired power plants at TEG/TEP in Mexico in the first quarter of 2007 for approximately $195 million, the purchase of a 51% interest in a joint venture with 26 MW existing capacity and a 390 MW development pipeline of hydroelectric projects in Turkey for approximately $76 million and the purchase of Storm Lake and Lake Benton at Mid West Wind in the U.S. for approximately $60 million. Proceeds from the sales of businesses totaled $1,136 million in 2007 and $898 million in 2006. The proceeds in 2007 included $739 million for the sale of EDC, $331 million for the proceeds from the sale of approximately 11.09% of our shares in AES Gener, $51 million for the sale of Central Valley in the U.S. and $17 million for the sale of Eden in Argentina. In 2006 proceeds included $522 million from the sale by Transg&aacute;s of Eletropaulo preferred shares and $80 million in a related sale by Brasiliana of its preferred shares in Eletropaulo, $123 million from the sale of approximately 7.6% of our shares in AES Gener, $110 million from the sale of our Kingston business in Canada, $33 million from the sale of unissued shares at EDC and $28 million from the sale of Indian Queens in England. The purchase of short term investments, net of sales totaled $490 million in 2007, a $142 million increase compared to 2006. These transactions included a $167 million increase in net purchases at Uruguaiana in Brazil due to new investments, $166 million increase in net purchases at Eletropaulo due to the restructuring of Eletropaulo shares held by AES Transg&aacute;s as well as the acquisition of public debt and securities and $96 million increase in net purchases at Ekibastuz in Kazakhstan for loan collateral. This was offset by a $149 million decrease in net purchases at Tiet&ecirc; in Brazil as the result of a change in investment strategy in 2006 from investing in cash equivalents to investing in Brazilian government bonds, $84 million increase in net sales at Brasiliana primarily due to redemptions to provide dividends and the accrued interest on debentures and a $62 million decrease in net purchases at Gener. Restricted cash balances increased $28 million in 2007. Restricted cash balances increased $59 million at New York, $30 million at Maritza, $27 million at Mid West Wind and $21 million at Red Oak in the U.S. These were offset by decreases of $43 million at Kilroot, $33 million at IPL and $16 million at Hawaii. 111 Proceeds from the sale of emission allowances totaled $17 million in 2007, a $65 million decrease from 2006. These sales occurred primarily at our businesses located in the U.S. and in Europe in 2006. Purchases of emission allowances totaled $13 million in 2007, a $64 million decrease from 2006. These purchases were primarily at our businesses located in the U.S. in 2006. Included in the purchases during 2006 is a $45 million commitment to purchase CER credits from AgCert. AgCert is an Ireland based company which uses agricultural sources to produce GHG emission offsets under the Kyoto protocol. Debt service reserves and other assets decreased $122 million in 2007. This was mainly due to decreases of $113 million at Kilroot, $12 million at Pak Gen and $10 million at Lal Pir, both located in Pakistan, and $11 million at Hawaii. These decreases were offset by an increase of $43 million at Eletropaulo. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities totaled $244 million during 2007 compared to net cash used of $1,317 million during 2006. This $1,561 million change was primarily attributable to a decrease in cash used for debt, net of repayments of $1,686 million, an increase in contributions from minority interests of $249 million offset by an increase in payments for deferred financing for $11 million and an increase in distributions to minority interests for $364 million. Issuances of recourse debt and non recourse debt during 2007 were $4,297 million compared to issuances of recourse debt, non recourse debt and revolving credit facilities, net of $3,169 million during 2006. This increase of $1,128 million was primarily due to an increase in recourse debt at the Parent Company of $2 billion; and increases in non recourse debt at TEG/TEP in Mexico of $454 million and at Eletropaulo in Brazil of $301 million. These increases were offset by a decrease in non recourse debt at Brasiliana in Brazil for $744 million; at Sul in Brazil for $494 million; at Panama for $293 million, net; at CAESS in El Salvador for $223 million and at Itabo in Dominican Republic for $153 million, net. Repayments of recourse debt, non recourse debt and revolving credit facilities, net during 2007 were $3,651 million compared to repayments of recourse debt and non recourse debt of $4,209 million during 2006. The decrease of $558 million was primarily due to a decrease in repayments at Brasiliana of $1,032 million; at Sul of $483 million; at Panama of $386 million, net; at Tiet&ecirc; in Brazil of $321 million; and at CAESS of $192 million, net. These decreases were offset by an increase in repayments at the Parent Company for $1,164 million, net and at TEG/TEP for $457 million. Minority distributions were $699 million during 2007 compared to $335 million during 2006. This increase of $364 million includes dividends paid to minority shareholders primarily by Eletropaulo for $212 million and by Brasiliana for $141 million and a $26 million return of capital by Barka in Oman to its minority partner. Minority contributions were $374 million during 2007 compared to $125 million during 2006. This increase of $249 million was primarily due to contributions received from the tax equity partners in 2007 of $313 million at Buffalo Gap II and $31 million at Mid West Wind, both located in the U.S., offset by a decrease of $117 million at Buffalo Gap in the U.S in 2006. 112 Contractual Obligations A summary of our contractual obligations, commitments and other liabilities as of December 31, 2007 is presented in the table below (in millions): Contractual Obligations Total Less than 1 year 1 3 years 4 5 years 5 years and more Other Footnote Reference Debt Obligations(1) $ 17,946 $ 1,359 $ 2,588 $ 2,597 $ 11,402 $ 8 Interest Payments on Long Term Debt(2) 10,904 1,466 2,627 2,058 4,753 n/a Capital Lease Obligations(3) 173 11 18 15 129 10 Operating Lease Obligations(4) 677 66 127 126 358 10 Sale Leaseback Obligations(5) 783 39 80 87 577 10 Electricity Obligations(6) 46,224 2,881 5,586 5,525 32,232 10 Fuel Obligations(7) 10,905 1,325 1,878 1,695 6,007 10 Other Purchase Obligations(8) 26,085 1,459 1,646 1,661 21,319 10 Other Long term Liabilities Reflected on AESs Consolidated Balance Sheet under GAAP(9) 1,373 148 239 122 677 187 n/a Total $ 115,070 $ 8,754 $ 14,789 $ 13,886 $ 77,454 $ 187 (1)Includes recourse and non recourse debt presented on the Consolidated Financial Statements. Non recourse debt borrowings are not a direct obligation of AES, the Parent Company. Recourse debt represents the direct borrowings of AES, the Parent Company. See Note 8 Long Term Debt to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K which provides additional disclosure regarding these obligations. These amounts exclude capital lease obligations which are included in the capital lease category,(3) below. (2)Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2007 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or new debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2007. (3)Several AES subsidiaries have leases for operating and office equipment and vehicles that are classified as capital leases within Property, Plant and Equipment. Minimum contractual obligations include $111 million of imputed interest. (4)The Company was obligated under long term non cancelable operating leases, primarily for office rental and site leases. These amounts exclude amounts related to the sale/leaseback discussed below in item(5). (5)Sale/Leaseback Obligations represent a sales/leaseback with operating lease treatment at one of our New York Subsidiaries. (6)Operating subsidiaries of the Company have entered into contracts for the purchase of electricity from third parties. (7)Operating subsidiaries of the Company have entered into fuel purchase contracts subject to termination only in certain limited circumstances. (8)Amounts relate to other contractual obligations where the Company has an enforceable and legally binding agreement to purchase goods or services that specifies all significant terms, including: quantity, pricing, and approximate timing. These amounts include planned capital expenditures that are contractually obligated. (9)These amounts do not include current liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet except for the current portion of FIN No. 48 obligations. See the indicated notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K for additional information on the items excluded. Derivatives (See Note 9 Derivative Instruments) and incentive compensation are excluded as the Company is not able to reasonably estimate the timing or amount of the future payments. In addition, the amounts do not include: (1) regulatory liabilities (See Note 4 Regulatory Assets and Liabilities), (2) contingencies (See Note 11 Contingencies), (3) pension and other post retirement employee benefit liabilities (see Note 12 Benefit Plans) or (4) any taxes (See Note 18 Income Taxes) except for FIN No. 48 obligations. Noncurrent FIN No. 48 obligations are reflected in the "Other" column of the table above as the Company is not able to reasonably estimate the timing of the future payments. 113  Parent Company Liquidity The following discussion of "parent company liquidity" has been included because we believe it is a useful measure of the liquidity available to the AES Corporation, or the Parent Company, given the non recourse nature of most of our indebtedness. Parent company liquidity as outlined below is a non GAAP measure and should not be construed as an alternative to cash and cash equivalents which are determined in accordance with GAAP, as a measure of liquidity. Cash and cash equivalents are disclosed in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and the parent only unconsolidated statements of cash flows in Schedule I of this Form 10 K. Parent company liquidity may differ from that, of similarly titled measures used by other companies. The principal sources of liquidity at the parent company level are: dividends and other distributions from our subsidiaries, including refinancing proceeds; proceeds from debt and equity financings at the parent company level, including borrowings under our credit facilities; and proceeds from asset sales. Cash requirements at the parent company level are primarily to fund: interest and preferred dividends; principal repayments of debt; acquisitions; construction commitments; other equity commitments; taxes; and parent company overhead and development costs. On October 15, 2007, the Company issued $2.0 billion of Senior Unsecured Notes ("Senior Notes") at par. The private placement of Senior Notes consisted of $500 million principal amount of 7.75% Senior Notes due 2015 and $1.5 billion principal amount of 8.0% senior notes due 2017. On December 7, 2007, the Company exchanged the previously issued private placement $2.0 billion senior unsecured notes for registered securities with the same terms through our Form S 4 declared effective on December 19, 2007 filed with the SEC. The Company used the net proceeds from the sale of the senior notes primarily to refinance a portion of its recourse debt as discussed below and plans to use the remainder to support near term investments and for general corporate purposes. On October 16, 2007, the Company made an offer to repurchase for cash up to $1.24 billion aggregate principal amount of our 8.75% Senior Notes due 2008 (the "2008 Notes"), the 9.00% Second Priority Senior Secured Notes due 2015 (the "2015 Notes") and the 8.75% Second Priority Senior Secured Notes due 2013 (the "2013 Notes" and together with the 2015 Notes, the "Second Priority Notes"). Early settlement for the tender offer was provided on October 30, 2007 with final settlement on November 14, 2007. Pursuant to the terms of the tender offer, the Company repurchased $193 million of the principal amount of the 2008 Notes, the entire $600 million principal amount of the 2015 Notes and $447 million principal amount of the 2013 Notes. The total purchase price for the tender offer was $1.36 billion which included tender premiums and accrued interest of approximately $73 million and $51 million, respectively. The Company recognized a pre tax loss on the retirement of this debt for the year ended December 31, 2007 of $90 million which included $73 million of tender consideration and a $17 million write off of unamortized deferred financing costs relating to the 2008, 114 2013 and 2015 Notes. As a result of the final settlement, none of the 2015 Notes, approximately $9.3 million principal amount of the 2008 Notes and approximately $752.6 million principal amount of the 2013 Notes remained outstanding as of December 31, 2007. In December 2006, the AES Corporation exercised its right to increase the revolving credit facility by $100 million to a total of $750 million. As of December 31, 2007, there were no outstanding borrowings against the revolving credit facility. The Parent Company had $230 million of letters of credit outstanding against the revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2007. The Parent Company entered into a $500 million senior unsecured credit facility agreement effective March 31, 2006. On May 1, 2006, the Parent Company exercised its option to extend the total amount of the senior unsecured credit facility by an additional $100 million to a total of $600 million. At December 31, 2007, the Parent Company had no outstanding borrowings under the senior unsecured credit facility. The Parent Company had $282 million of letters of credit outstanding against the senior unsecured credit facility as of December 31, 2007. The credit facility is being used to support our ongoing share of construction obligation for AES Maritza East 1 and for general corporate purposes. The Company defines Parent Company Liquidity as cash available to the parent company plus available borrowings under existing credit facilities. Parent Company Liquidity is reconciled to its most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, "cash and cash equivalents" at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 as follows: Parent Company Liquidity 2007 2006 2005 (Restated) (Restated) (in millions) Cash and cash equivalents $ 2,058 $ 1,358 $ 1,169 Less: Cash and cash equivalents at subsidiaries 743 1,101 901 Parent and qualified holding companies cash and cash equivalents 1,315 257 268 Borrowing available under revolving credit facility 520 662 356 Borrowing available under senior unsecured credit facility 318 227 Total parent company liquidity $ 2,153 $ 1,146 $ 624 Our recourse debt at year end was approximately $5.6 billion, $4.8 billion, and $4.9 billion in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Our contingent contractual obligations were $1.3 billion, $995 million, and 115 $802 million at the end of 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. The following table sets forth our Parent Company contingent contractual obligations as of December 31, 2007: Contingent Contractual Obligations Amount Number of Agreements Maximum Exposure Range for Each Agreement (in millions) (in millions) Guarantees $ 807 32 &lt;$1$167 Letters of credit under the revolving credit facility 230 16 &lt;$1$178 Letters of credit under the senior unsecured credit facility 282 13 &lt;$1$196 Surety bonds(1) 1 &lt;$1 Total $ 1,319 62 (1)Less than $1 million in surety bonds outstanding We have a varied portfolio of performance related contingent contractual obligations. These obligations are designed to cover potential risks and only require payment if certain targets are not met or certain contingencies occur. The risks associated with these obligations include change of control, construction cost overruns, subsidiary default, political risk, tax indemnities, spot market power prices, supplies support and liquidated damages under power sales agreements for projects in development, in operation and under construction. While we do not expect that we will be required to fund any material amounts under these contingent contractual obligations during 2008 or beyond, many of the events which would give rise to such obligations are beyond our control. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to fund our obligations under these contingent contractual obligations if we are required to make substantial payments there under. While we believe that our sources of liquidity will be adequate to meet our needs through the end of 2008, this belief is based on a number of material assumptions, including, without limitation, assumptions about our ability to access the capital markets, the operating and financial performance of our subsidiaries, exchange rates, power market pool prices, and the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends. In addition, our subsidiaries ability to declare and pay cash dividends to us (at the parent company level) is subject to certain limitations contained in loans, governmental provisions and other agreements. We can provide no assurance that these sources will be available when needed or that the actual cash requirements will not be greater than anticipated. We have met our interim needs for shorter term and working capital financing at the parent company level with our revolving credit facility and senior unsecured credit facility. See Item 1A Risk Factors, the AES Corporation is a holding company and its ability to make payments on its outstanding indebtedness, including its public debt securities, is dependent upon the receipt of funds from its subsidiaries by way of dividends, fees, interest, loans or otherwise. Various debt instruments at the parent company level, including our senior secured credit facilities, contain certain restrictive covenants. The covenants provide for, among other items: limitations on other indebtedness, liens, investments and guarantees; restrictions on dividends, redemptions, and payments of unsecured and subordinated debt and the use of proceeds; restrictions on mergers and acquisitions, sales of assets, leases, transactions with affiliates and off balance sheet and derivative arrangements; maintenance of certain financial ratios; and 116 financial and other reporting requirements. Non Recourse Debt Financing While the lenders under our non recourse debt financings generally do not have direct recourse to the Parent Company, defaults thereunder can still have important consequences for our results of operations and liquidity, including, without limitation: reducing our cash flows as the subsidiary will typically be prohibited from distributing cash to the parent level during the time period of any default; triggering our obligation to make payments under any financial guarantee, letter of credit or other credit support we have provided to or on behalf of such subsidiary; causing us to record a loss in the event the lender forecloses on the assets; and triggering defaults in our outstanding debt at the parent level. For example, our senior secured credit facilities and outstanding debt securities at the parent level include events of default for certain bankruptcy related events involving material subsidiaries. In addition, our revolving credit agreement at the parent level includes events of default related to payment defaults and accelerations of outstanding debt of material subsidiaries. Some of our subsidiaries are currently in default with respect to all or a portion of their outstanding indebtedness. The total debt classified as current in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets related to such defaults was $118 million at December 31, 2007, all of which was non recourse debt. None of the subsidiaries that are currently in default are subsidiaries that currently meet the applicable definition of materiality in AESs corporate debt agreements in order for such defaults to trigger an event of default or permit acceleration under such indebtedness. However, as a result of additional dispositions of assets, other significant reductions in asset carrying values or other matters in the future that may impact our financial position and results of operations, it is possible that one or more of these subsidiaries could fall within the definition of a "material subsidiary" and thereby upon an acceleration trigger an event of default and possible acceleration of the indebtedness under the AES parent companys outstanding debt securities. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In May 1999, one of our subsidiaries acquired six electric generating plants from New York State Electric and Gas. Concurrently, the subsidiary sold two of the plants to an unrelated third party for $666 million and simultaneously entered into a leasing arrangement with the unrelated party. In May 2007, the subsidiary purchased a portion of the lessors interest in a trust estate that holds the leased plants. Future minimum lease commitments under the lease agreement have been reduced by the subsidiarys interest in the plants. We have accounted for this transaction as a sale/leaseback transaction with operating lease treatment. We expense periodic lease payments as incurred, which amounted to $42 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 and $54 million for each of the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. We are not subject to any additional liabilities or contingencies if the arrangement terminates and we believe that the dissolution of the off balance sheet arrangement would have minimal effects on our operating cash flows. The terms of the lease include restrictive covenants such as the maintenance of certain coverage ratios. Historically, the plants have satisfied the restrictive covenants of the lease and there are no known trends or uncertainties that would indicate that the lease will be terminated early. See Note 10 Commitments to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K for a more complete discussion of this transaction. 117 IPL, a consolidated subsidiary of the Company, formed IPL Funding Corporation ("IPL Funding") in 1996 as a special purpose entity to purchase retail receivables originated by IPL pursuant to a receivables sale agreement entered into with IPL. At the same time, IPL Funding entered into a purchase facility (the "Purchase Facility") with unrelated parties (the "Purchasers") pursuant to which the Purchasers agree to purchase from IPL Funding, on a revolving basis, up to $50 million, of interests in the pool of receivables purchased from IPL. As collections reduce accounts receivable included in the pool, IPL Funding sells ownership interests in additional receivables acquired from IPL to return the ownership interests sold up to a maximum of $50 million, as permitted by the Purchase Facility. During 2007, the Purchase Facility was extended through May 27, 2008. IPL Funding is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements of IPL. Accounts receivable on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets are stated net of the $50 million sold. IPL retains servicing responsibilities for its role as a collection agent on the amounts due on the sold receivables. However, the Purchasers assume the risk of collection on the purchased receivables without recourse to IPL in the event of a loss. While no direct recourse to IPL exists, it risks loss in the event collections are not sufficient to allow for full recovery of its retained interests. No servicing asset or liability is recognized since the servicing fee paid to IPL approximates a market rate. The carrying values of the retained interest is determined by allocating the carrying value of the receivables between the assets sold and the interests retained based on relative fair value. The key assumptions in estimating fair value are credit losses, the selection of discount rates, and expected receivables turnover rate. As a result of short accounts receivable turnover periods and historically low credit losses, the impact of these assumptions have not been significant to the fair value. The hypothetical effect on the fair value of the retained interests assuming both a 10% and a 20% unfavorable variation in credit losses or discount rates is not material due to the short turnover of receivables and historically low credit loss history. The losses recognized on the sales of receivables were $3 million, $3 million and $2 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. These losses are included in other operating expense on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The amount of the losses recognized depends on the previous carrying amount of the financial assets involved in the transfer, allocated between the assets sold and the interests that continue to be held by the transferor based on their relative fair value at the date of transfer, and the proceeds received. IPLs retained interest in the receivables sold was $64 million and $63 million as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. There were no proceeds from new securitizations for each of the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. Servicing fees of $0.6 million were paid for each of the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. IPL and IPL Funding provide certain indemnities to the Purchasers, including indemnification in the event that there is a breach of representations and warranties made with respect to the purchased receivables. IPL Funding and IPL each have agreed to indemnify the Purchasers on an after tax basis for any and all damages, losses, claims, liabilities, penalties, taxes, costs and expenses at any time imposed on or incurred by the indemnified parties arising out of or otherwise relating to the purchase facility, subject to certain limitations as defined in the Purchase Facility. Under the Purchase Facility, if IPL fails to maintain certain financial covenants regarding interest coverage and debt to capital ratios, it would constitute a "termination event." As of December 31, 2007, IPL was in compliance with such covenants. As a result of IPLs current credit rating, the facility agent has the ability to (i) replace IPL as the collection agent; and (ii) declare a "lock box" event. Under a lock box event or a termination event, the facility agent has the ability to require all proceeds of purchased receivables of IPL to be directed to lock box accounts within 45 days of notifying IPL. A termination event would also (i) give the facility 118 agent the option to take control of the lock box account, and (ii) give the Purchasers the option to discontinue the purchase of additional interests in receivables and cause all proceeds of the purchased interests to be used to reduce the Purchasers investment and to pay other amounts owed to the Purchasers and the facility agent. This would have the effect of reducing the operating capital available to IPL by the aggregate amount of such purchased interests in receivables (currently $50 million). ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Overview Regarding Market Risks We are exposed to market risks associated with interest rates, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices. We often utilize financial instruments and other contracts to hedge against such fluctuations. We also utilize financial derivatives for the purpose of hedging exposures to market risk. Interest Rate Risks We are exposed to risk resulting from changes in interest rates as a result of our issuance of variable rate debt, fixed rate debt and trust preferred securities, as well as interest rate swap, cap and floor and option agreements. Decisions on the fixed floating debt ratio are made to be consistent with the risk factors faced by individual businesses or plants. Depending on whether a plants capacity payments or revenue stream is fixed or varies with inflation, we partially hedge against interest rate fluctuations by arranging fixed rate or variable rate financing. In certain cases, particularly for non recourse financing, we execute interest rate swap, cap and floor agreements to effectively fix or limit the interest rate exposure on the underlying financing. Foreign Exchange Rate Risk In the normal course of business, we are exposed to foreign currency risk and other foreign operations risk that arise from investments in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. A key component of this risk stems from the fact that some of our foreign subsidiaries and affiliates utilize currencies other than our consolidated reporting currency, the U.S. Dollar. Additionally, certain of our foreign subsidiaries and affiliates have entered into monetary obligations in U.S. Dollars or currencies other than their own functional currencies. Primarily, we are exposed to changes in the exchange rate between the U.S. Dollar and the following currencies: Brazilian Real, Argentine Peso, Kazakhstani Tenge, British Pound, Euro, Colombian Peso, and Chilean Peso. These subsidiaries and affiliates have attempted to limit potential foreign exchange exposure by entering into revenue contracts that adjust to changes in foreign exchange rates. We also use foreign currency forwards, swaps and options, where possible, to manage our risk related to certain foreign currency fluctuations. Commodity Price Risk We are exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the price of electricity, fuels and environmental credits. Although we primarily consist of businesses with long term contracts or retail sales concessions, a portion of our current and expected future revenues are derived from businesses without significant long term revenue or supply contracts. These businesses subject our results of operations to the volatility of prices for electricity, fuels and environmental credits in competitive markets. We have used a hedging strategy, where appropriate, to hedge our financial performance against the effects of fluctuations in energy commodity prices. The implementation of this strategy can involve the use of commodity forward contracts, futures, swaps and options. Some businesses hedge certain aspects of their commodity risks using financial hedge instruments. We also enter into short term contracts for the supply of electricity and fuel in other competitive markets in which we operate. 119 Value at Risk One approach we use to assess our risk and our subsidiaries risk is value at risk ("VaR"). VaR measures the potential loss in a portfolios value due to market volatility, over a specified time horizon, stated with a specific degree of probability. In particular, we measure Analytic VaR, which is calculated based on the volatilities and correlations of the different risk exposures of the portfolio. The quantification of market risk using VaR provides a consistent measure of risk across diverse markets and instruments. We adopted the VaR approach because we feel that statistical models of risk measurement, such as VaR, provide an objective, independent assessment of a component of our risk exposure. Our use of VaR requires a number of key assumptions, including the selection of a confidence level for expected losses, the holding period for liquidation and the treatment of risks outside the VaR methodology, including liquidity risk and event risk. VaR, therefore, is not necessarily indicative of actual results that may occur. Additionally, VaR represents changes in fair value of financial instruments and not the economic exposure to AES and its affiliates. Because of the inherent limitations of VaR, including those specific to Analytic VaR, in particular the assumption that values or returns are normally distributed, we rely on VaR as only one component in our risk assessment process. In addition to using VaR measures, we perform stress and scenario analyses to estimate the economic impact of market changes to our portfolio of businesses. We use these results to complement the VaR methodology. In addition, the relevance of the VaR described herein as a measure of economic risk, is limited and needs to be considered in light of the underlying business structure. The interest rate component of VaR is due to changes in the fair value of our fixed rate debt instruments and interest rate swaps. These instruments themselves would expose a holder to market risk; however, utilizing these fixed rate debt instruments as part of a fixed price contract generation business mitigates the overall exposure to interest rates. Similarly, our foreign exchange rate sensitive instruments are often part of businesses which have revenues denominated in the same currency, thus offsetting the exposure. We have performed a company wide VaR analysis of all of our material financial assets, liabilities and derivative instruments. Embedded derivatives are not appropriately measured here and are excluded since VaR is not representative of the overall contract valuation. The VaR calculation incorporates numerous variables that could impact the fair value of our instruments, including interest rates, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices, as well as correlation within and across these variables. We express Analytic VaR herein as a dollar amount of the potential loss in the fair value of our portfolio based on a 95% confidence level and a one day holding period. Our commodity analysis is an Analytic VaR utilizing a variance covariance analysis within the commodity transaction management system. Average Daily VAR 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) Foreign Exchange $ 45 $ 36 $ 34 Interest Rate $ 98 $ 76 $ 114 Commodity $ 14 $ 24 $ 19 For the year ended December 31, 2007, our average one day VaR at quarter end for foreign exchange rate sensitive instruments was $45 million. The one day VaR for foreign exchange rate sensitive instruments was highest at the end of the third quarter, and equaled $61 million. The one day VaR for foreign exchange rate sensitive instruments was lowest at the end of the second quarter, and equaled $28 million. These amounts include foreign currency denominated debt and hedge instruments. AES has increased the percentage of its portfolio of Brazilian Real and Euro denominated floating rate debt. This increase in notionals, along with higher currency market volatilities, particularly for the Brazilian Real, has led to the increase in the average one day quarter end VaR for foreign exchange rate sensitive instruments from $36 million in 2006 to $45 million in 2007. 120 For the year ended December 31, 2007, our average one day VaR at quarter end for interest rate sensitive instruments was $98 million. The one day VaR for interest rate sensitive instruments was highest at the end of the fourth quarter, and equaled $137 million. The one day VaR for interest rate sensitive instruments was lowest at the end of the second quarter and equaled $67 million. These amounts include the financial instruments that serve as hedges and the underlying hedged items. AES has increased its fixed rate dollar denominated debt in 2007. This, along with higher market volatilities, led to an increase in our average one day quarter end VaR for interest rate sensitive instruments from $76 million in 2006 to $98 million in 2007. For the year ended December 31, 2007, our average one day VaR at quarter end for commodity price sensitive instruments was $14 million. The one day VaR for commodity price sensitive instruments was highest at the end of the first quarter end, and equaled $18 million. The one day VaR for commodity price sensitive instruments was lowest at the end of the second and third quarters, and equaled $12 million. These amounts include the financial instruments that serve as hedges and do not include the underlying physical assets or contracts that are not permitted to be settled in cash. The one day VaR for commodity price sensitive instruments is reported for financially settled derivative products at our Eastern Energy business in the state of New York. From 2006 to 2007 there has been a decrease in term and magnitude of hedging activity which has led to the decrease in the one day quarter end VaR from $24 million in 2006 to $14 million in 2007. 121  
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements and Reclassification of Certain Subsidiaries to Held for Sale Background The Company has previously identified certain material weaknesses related to its system of internal control over financial reporting. As described in the Companys 2006 Form 10 K/A filed on August 7, 2007, the following five material weaknesses were reported: A Lack of Detailed Accounting Records for Certain Holding Companies; Contract Accounting; A Lack of Controls and Procedures Related to Granting and Reporting of Share Based Compensation; Treatment of Intercompany Loans Denominated in Other Than the Entitys Functional Currency; and Aggregation of Control Deficiencies at our Cameroonian Subsidiary. As of December 31, 2007 the Company has remediated the following three material weaknesses: Treatment of Intercompany Loans Denominated in Other Than the Entitys Functional Currency; A Lack of Controls and Procedures Related to Granting and Reporting of Share Based Compensation; and Aggregation of Control Deficiencies at our Cameroonian Subsidiary. Accordingly, the following two material weaknesses remain unremediated as of December 31, 2007: A Lack of Detailed Accounting Records for Certain Holding Companies; and Contract Accounting. Restatement Discussion In 2005, the Company prepared and documented its accounting analysis of a power purchase agreement ("the Deepwater Agreement") between AES Deepwater, one of our generation businesses in Deepwater, Texas and a third party. The assessment of the Deepwater Agreement included an analysis of whether the contract is a derivative under provisions of SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, ("SFAS No. 133"). Because the penalty clause in the Deepwater Agreement does not contain specific volumes upon which the penalties would be based, the Company concluded that these penalty provisions are not specific enough to be valued. Accordingly, the Company determined that the Deepwater Agreement was not a derivative under SFAS No. 133 and consulted with Deloitte & Touche LLP in reaching this conclusion. As part of the 2007 year end closing process and in connection with the remediation of the Companys material weakness for contract accounting (see Item 9A Controls and Procedures for further discussion of this material weakness), the Company reviewed several hundred contracts relative to the risk of additional errors. The Deepwater Agreement received a second review as part of this process. In that review, the Company determined that there was no intent by the contracting parties to create a derivative contract, that the penalty clause had not changed, and that no penalties had been triggered under the Deepwater Agreement. The Company now believes, and its external auditors agree, 80 that even though there is no explicit formula for calculating penalties in the Deepwater Agreement, a minimum volume could be inferred from certain capacity requirement provisions in the Deepwater Agreement. Under this accounting interpretation, the penalty can be valued, making the contract subject to derivative accounting treatment. Accordingly, the Company has concluded that the Deepwater Agreement will be treated as a derivative under SFAS No. 133, valued and marked to market resulting in an adjustment to previously reported results. The impact of the Deepwater Adjustment resulted in an increase of approximately $30 million and a decrease of approximately $25 million to income from continuing operations and net income in 2006 and 2005, respectively. In addition to the Deepwater Adjustment, the Company has identified a number of smaller non cash adjustments to its prior period financial statements ("Other Adjustments"), none of which is individually material. In the aggregate (excluding the Deepwater Adjustment) these out of period adjustments are not material to the Companys financial statements. Many of these errors were identified during the Companys remediation of previously identified material weaknesses, while others were identified during the year end closing process, including errors relating to depreciation and accounting for judicial deposits in Brazil. We generally recognize these adjustments in the period in which they were identified. Because the Deepwater Adjustment has required a restatement, we also are recording these Other Adjustments in the proper periods. The Company has also entered into an agreement to sell two indirect wholly owned subsidiaries with operations in Kazakhstan, AES Ekibastuz LLP and Maikuben West LLP. As required by SFAS No. 144 [Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets], ("SFAS No. 144"), presentation of the assets and liabilities of these businesses are classified as held for sale. As disclosed in the Companys Form 8 K dated March 3, 2008, as a result of the restatement, the Company was in default under its senior secured credit facility and its senior unsecured credit facility due to a breach of a representation related to its financial statements set forth in the credit agreements related to the facilities. The Company has obtained a waiver of these defaults from its lenders under these facilities. 81 The following table details the impact of the restatement on the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005: Year Ended December 31, 2006 Year Ended December 31, 2005 December 31, 2007 Restatement December 31, 2007 Restatement 2006 Form 10 K/A Deepwater Other Adjustments 2007 Form 10 K 2006 Form 10 K/A Deepwater Other Adjustments 2007 Form 10 K Revenues: Regulated $ 6,198 $ $ (44 ) $ 6,154 $ 5,617 $ $ (33 ) $ 5,584 Non Regulated 5,366 52 4 5,422 4,703 (44 ) 4 4,663 Total revenues 11,564 52 (40 ) 11,576 10,320 (44 ) (29 ) 10,247 Cost of Sales: Regulated (4,114 ) 39 (4,075 ) (4,021 ) 18 (4,003 ) Non Regulated (4,052 ) (15 ) (4,067 ) (3,371 ) (3 ) (3,374 ) Total cost of sales (8,166 ) 24 (8,142 ) (7,392 ) 15 (7,377 ) Gross margin 3,398 52 (16 ) 3,434 2,928 (44 ) (14 ) 2,870 General and administrative expenses (305 ) 4 (301 ) (225 ) 4 (221 ) Interest expense (1,763 ) (6 ) (1,769 ) (1,826 ) (2 ) (1,828 ) Interest income 426 8 434 375 6 381 Other expense (449 ) (3 ) (452 ) (110 ) 1 (109 ) Other income 106 10 116 157 157 Gain on sale of investments 98 98 Loss on sale of subsidiary stock (539 ) 4 (535 ) Impairment expense (28 ) 11 (17 ) (16 ) (16 ) Foreign currency transaction losses on net monetary position (88 ) 8 (80 ) (145 ) 2 (143 ) Equity in earnings of affiliates 72 1 73 71 (5 ) 66 INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS BEFORE INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES AND MINORITY INTEREST 928 52 21 1,001 1,209 (44 ) (8 ) 1,157 Income tax expense (334 ) (22 ) (6 ) (362 ) (483 ) 19 (9 ) (473 ) Minority interest expense (459 ) (4 ) (463 ) (324 ) 5 (319 ) INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS 135 30 11 176 402 (25 ) (12 ) 365 Income from operations of discontinued businesses, net of income tax 105 2 107 188 188 Loss from disposal of discontinued businesses, net of income tax (57 ) (57 ) INCOME BEFORE EXTRAORDINARY ITEMS AND CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE 183 30 13 226 590 (25 ) (12 ) 553 Extraordinary items, net of income tax 21 21 INCOME BEFORE CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE 204 30 13 247 590 (25 ) (12 ) 553 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, net of income tax (3 ) (1 ) (4 ) Net income $ 204 $ 30 $ 13 $ 247 $ 587 $ (25 ) $ (13 ) $ 549 BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE: Income from continuing operations, net of tax $ 0.21 $ 0.05 $ 0.01 $ 0.27 $ 0.62 $ (0.04 ) $ (0.02 ) $ 0.56 Discontinued operations, net of tax 0.07 0.07 0.29 0.29 Extraordinary item, net of tax 0.03 0.03 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, net of tax (0.01 ) (0.01 ) BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE $ 0.31 $ 0.05 $ 0.01 $ 0.37 $ 0.90 $ (0.04 ) $ (0.02 ) $ 0.84 82 Year Ended December 31, 2006 Year Ended December 31, 2005 December 31, 2007 Restatement December 31, 2007 Restatement 2006 Form 10 K/A Deepwater Other Adjustments 2007 Form 10 K 2006 Form 10 K/A Deepwater Other Adjustments 2007 Form 10 K DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE: Income from continuing operations, net of tax $ 0.20 $ 0.04 $ 0.03 $ 0.27 $ 0.61 $ (0.04 ) $ (0.01 ) $ 0.56 Discontinued operations, net of tax 0.07 0.07 0.28 0.28 Extraordinary item, net of tax 0.03 0.03 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, net of tax (0.01 ) (0.01 ) DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE $ 0.30 $ 0.04 $ 0.03 $ 0.37 $ 0.88 $ (0.04 ) $ (0.01 ) $ 0.83 The Other Adjustments in the table above include the following: Regulated revenues: We recorded reclass adjustments related to bad debts that were previously written off and subsequently recovered in cash. We originally recorded these recoveries in regulated revenue. The effect of this adjustment was to reclass these bad debt recoveries from regulated revenue to cost of sales. The impact of this adjustment was a decrease to regulated revenue and a decrease to cost of sales of $41 million and $29 million, for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Regulated cost of sales and other income: We recorded adjustments in connection with the correction of errors related to the reconciliation of judicial deposits at Eletropaulo, our business in Brazil. Cash deposits were placed on reserve, as required by Brazilian Courts, as a result of pending civil or labor claims against the business. Upon settlement of the claims, appropriate expense was not recognized by the business. Additionally, related interest income on the deposited funds was not recognized appropriately. The net impact on continuing operations and net income for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 was an increase of $5 million and $1 million, respectively. Impairment expense: We recorded an adjustment of $11 million to reduce impairment expense and increase in non regulated cost of sales in 2006. We originally reported the cost associated with a plant outage to impairment expense instead of cost of sales. Embedded derivatives: In addition to the adjustment related to the Deepwater Agreement, we recorded other adjustments related to contract accounting as a result of the identification of embedded derivatives in two of the contracts that were reviewed. Through our on going remediation efforts related to contract accounting, we identified two additional contracts that contained embedded derivatives that were not identified at the time of the initial contract review. The correction of these errors resulted in an increase of $2 million and a decrease of $8 million to continuing operations and net income for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 83  The following table details the impact of the restatement and certain reclassifications of businesses held for sale on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2006: As of December 31, 2006 Held for Sale 2006 Form 10 K/A 2007 Form 10 K Restatement Maikuben Ekibastuz ASSETS CURRENT ASSETS Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,379 $ $ (2 ) $ (19 ) $ 1,358 Restricted cash 548 548 Short term investments 640 640 Accounts receivable, net of reserves of $232 1,769 (1 ) (1 ) (2 ) 1,765 Inventory 471 (11 ) (3 ) (12 ) 445 Receivable from affiliates 76 15 91 Deferred income taxes current 208 6 214 Prepaid expenses 109 1 (4 ) 106 Other current assets 927 3 (1 ) (2 ) 927 Current assets of held for sale and discontinued businesses 438 7 39 484 Total current assets 6,565 13 6,578 NONCURRENT ASSETS Property, Plant and Equipment: Land 928 (7 ) 921 Electric generation and distribution assets 21,835 (230 ) (69 ) (72 ) 21,464 Accumulated depreciation (6,545 ) 84 14 20 (6,427 ) Construction in progress 979 25 (1 ) (16 ) 987 Property, plant and equipment, net 17,197 (121 ) (56 ) (75 ) 16,945 Other assets: Deferred financing costs, net of accumulated amortization of $188 279 33 (1 ) 311 Investments in and advances to affiliates 595 (4 ) 591 Debt service reserves and other deposits 524 (9 ) 515 Goodwill 1,416 (2 ) 1,414 Other intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization of $228 298 207 (7 ) 498 Deferred income taxes noncurrent 602 (1 ) 601 Other assets 1,634 (46 ) (1 ) 1,587 Noncurrent assets of held for sale and discontinued businesses 2,091 1 57 85 2,234 Total other assets 7,439 181 56 75 7,751 TOTAL ASSETS $ 31,201 $ 73 $ $ $ 31,274 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY CURRENT LIABILITIES Accounts payable $ 795 $ (2 ) $ $ (5 ) $ 788 Accrued interest 404 404 Accrued and other liabilities 2,131 19 (3 ) (4 ) 2,143 Non recourse debt current portion 1,411 4 (3 ) (10 ) 1,402 Current liabilities of held for sale and discontinued businesses 288 6 19 313 Total current liabilities 5,029 21 5,050 LONG TERM LIABILITIES Non recourse debt 9,834 24 (11 ) (7 ) 9,840 Recourse debt 4,790 4,790 Deferred income taxes noncurrent 803 28 (13 ) (9 ) 809 Pension liabilities and other post retirement liabilities 844 844 Other long term liabilities 3,554 6 (1 ) (3 ) 3,556 Long term liabilities of held for sale and discontinued businesses 434 1 25 19 479 Total long term liabilities 20,259 59 20,318 Minority Interest (including discontinued businesses of $175 2,948 (21 ) 2,927 Commitments and Contingent Liabilities (see Notes 12 and 13) STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY Common stock ($.01 par value, 1,200,000,000 shares authorized; 665,126,309 shares issued and outstanding at December 31, 2006 7 7 Additional paid in capital 6,654 5 6,659 Accumulated deficit (1,096 ) 3 (1,093 ) Accumulated other comprehensive loss (2,600 ) 6 (2,594 ) Total stockholders equity 2,965 14 2,979 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY $ 31,201 $ 73 $ $ $ 31,274 84 The discussion below highlights the impact of certain adjustments on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2006. These errors were neither material individually, or in the aggregate. The primary adjustments recorded were as follows: We corrected an error to properly account for one of our transmission leases as a capital lease as opposed to an operating lease. The net impact of this adjustment was an increase to property, plant and equipment, net and non recourse debt of $28 million. We recorded an adjustment to reclassify certain intangible assets that were incorrectly included as property, plant and equipment to other intangible assets, net. The impact of this adjustment was a decrease to property, plant and equipment, net and an increase to other intangible assets $187 million. The impact of the Deepwater Adjustment on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2006 was a decrease to current liabilities of $23 million and a decrease to long term liabilities of $25 million. The impact on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2005 was an increase to current liabilities of $20 million and an increase to long term liabilities of $23 million. We have updated our disclosure in Note 8 Long term Debt regarding our accounting for AES Trust III and AES Trust VII (the TECON Trusts) to properly reflect that these trusts are consolidated in the Companys financial statements. We previously reported that the TECON Trusts were not consolidated. As disclosed, AESs obligations under the Junior Subordinated Debentures and other relevant trust agreements, in aggregate, constitute a full and unconditional guarantee by AES of the TECON Trusts obligations. This change only impacts the aforementioned disclosure and has no impact on any of the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements. The restatement adjustments had no material impact on net cash flows. Overview of Our Business AES is a global power company. We own a portfolio of electricity generation and distribution businesses with generation capacity totaling approximately 43,000 MW and distribution networks serving over 11 million people. Our global footprint includes operations in 28 countries on five continents with 81% of our revenue for 2007 generated outside the United States. We operate two primary lines of businesses. The first is our Generation business, where we own and or operate power plants to generate and sell power to wholesale customers such as utilities and other intermediaries. The second is our Utilities business, where we own and or operate utilities to distribute, transmit and sell electricity to end user customers in the residential, commercial, industrial and governmental sectors within a defined service area. Each of our primary lines of business generates approximately half of our revenues. We are also developing an Alternative Energy business. Alternative Energy includes strategic initiatives such as wind generation and climate solutions, such as the production of emissions credits. Generation. We currently own or operate 121 Generation facilities in 26 countries on five continents. We also have 12 new Generation facilities under construction. Our Generation businesses use a wide range of technologies and fuel types including coal, combined cycle gas turbines, hydroelectric power and biomass. The majority of the electricity produced by our Generation businesses is sold under long term contracts, or power purchase agreements, to wholesale customers. Approximately 62% of the revenues from our Generation businesses during 2007 was derived from plants that operate under power purchase agreements of five years or longer for 75% or more of their output capacity. These businesses 85 often reduce their exposure to fuel supply risks by entering into long term fuel supply contracts or fuel tolling contracts where the customer assumes full responsibility for purchasing and supplying the fuel to the power plant. These long term contractual agreements result in relatively predictable cash flow and earnings and reduce exposure to volatility in the market price for electricity and fuel; however, the amount of earnings and cash flow predictability varies from business to business based on the degree to which its exposure is limited by the contracts that it has negotiated. The balance of our Generation businesses sell power through competitive markets under short term contracts or directly in the spot market. As a result, the cash flows and earnings associated with these businesses are more sensitive to fluctuations in the market price for electricity, natural gas, coal and other fuels. However, for a number of these facilities, including our plants in New York, which include a fleet of low cost coal fired plants, we have hedged the majority of our exposure to fuel, energy and emissions pricing for the next several years Utilities. Our Utilities businesses distribute power to more than 11 million people in eight countries on five continents. Our Utilities business consists primarily of 15 companies owned and or operated under management agreements, all of which operate in a defined service area. These businesses have a variety of structures ranging from pure distribution businesses to fully integrated utilities, which generate, transmit and distribute power. In May 2007, we completed the sale of EDC, our utility in Venezuela, for $739 million net of tax. As a result of the sale, we recognized an impairment charge of $680 million which represented the difference between the net book value of our investment in EDC and the sales price. This impairment charge and the results of the operations for EDC are reflected as discontinued operations for all periods presented in the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K. Alternative Energy. Alternative Energy is not currently one of our primary lines of business, but we expect this high growth sector to be a material contributor to our revenue and gross margin in the future. As demand for more sustainable and environmentally friendly sources of energy grows, we continue to invest in Alternative Energy with a current focus on increasing our wind power capacity and building our climate solutions business for GHG reduction. AES entered the wind business in 2005 and today we have ten wind generation facilities with more than 1,000 MW of wind projects in operation. In addition, we are developing initiatives in other countries that are approved for GHG projects under the Kyoto Protocol and marketing the credits created. AES operates in 18 of the developing countries that are eligible for these credits which provides us with a good foundation for this new business. Segments. Our Generation and Utilities businesses are organized within four defined geographic regions: (1) Latin America, (2) North America, (3) Europe & Africa, and (4) Asia and the Middle East, ("Asia"). Three regions, North America, Latin America and Europe & Africa, are engaged in both Generation and Utility businesses. Our Asia region operates only Generation businesses. Accordingly, these businesses and regions account for seven operating segments. "Corporate and Other" includes corporate overhead costs which are not directly associated with the operations of our seven primary operating segments; interest income and expense; other inter company charges such as management fees and self insurance premiums which are fully eliminated in consolidation; and revenue, development costs and operational costs related to our Alternative Energy business, which is currently not material to our operations. Key Drivers of Our Results of Operations. Our Utilities and Generation businesses are distinguished by the nature of their customers, operational differences, cost structure, regulatory environment and risk exposure. As a result, each line of business has slightly different drivers which affect operating results. Performance drivers for our Generation businesses include, among other things, plant availability and reliability, management of fixed and operational costs and the extent to which our plants have hedged their exposure to fuel cost volatility. For our Generation businesses which sell 86 power under short term contract or in the spot market one of the most crucial factors is the market price of electricity and the plants ability to generate electricity at a cost below that price. Growth in our Generation business is largely tied to securing new power purchase agreements, expanding capacity in our existing facilities and building new power plants. Performance drivers for our Utilities businesses include, but are not limited to, reliability of service; negotiation of tariff adjustments; compliance with extensive regulatory requirements; management of working capital; and in developing countries, reduction of commercial and technical losses. The results of operations of our Utilities businesses are sensitive to changes in economic growth and weather conditions in the area in which they operate. One of the key factors which affect both our revenue and costs of sales is changes in the cost of fuel. When fuel costs increase, many of our Generation businesses with long term contracts and our Utilities are able to pass these costs on to the customer through fuel pass through or fuel indexing arrangements in their contracts or through increases in tariff rates. Therefore, in a rising fuel cost environment as was the case in 2007, increases in fuel costs for these businesses often resulted in increases in revenue (though not necessarily on a one for one basis). While these circumstances may not have a large impact on gross margin, they can significantly affect gross margin as a percentage of revenue. Other factors that can affect gross margin include our ability to expand the number of facilities we own; and in our existing plants, to sign up new customers and or purchasing parties, collect receivables from existing customers and operate our plants more efficiently. In 2007, these afforts helped us overcome certain challenges that we face in our business, such as issues related to fuel supplies and forced purchases on the spot market at high prices. Highlights of 2007 Results of Operations. In 2007, management continued to focus its efforts on increasing shareholder value by improving operations, executing our growth strategy and strategically managing our portfolio of businesses. Our 2007 results of operations were positively impacted by a number of factors including, but not limited to: higher tariff rates at certain of our distribution businesses; contributions from recent acquisitions including TEG/TEP in Mexico in February 2007, where significant operational improvements were achieved, and a full year of operations at Itabo in the Dominican Republic; increased usage in both Brazil and the Ukraine; and favorable foreign currency translation at our Utilities businesses in Latin America. However, our business faced numerous challenges as well during 2007. Our results were negatively impacted by increased costs from gas supply curtailments, drier than normal hydrology and high spot prices for electricity at the Companys businesses in the Southern Cone of Latin America. Significantly lower than normal rainfall in Argentina caused our hydro powered generation plant at AES Alicura to operate less. Therefore, we had to rely on our other plants, which use higher cost fuel sources, to deliver energy to our customers. The drier than normal hydrology conditions and other factors in Argentina resulted in significantly increased demand for gas and, in response, the government of Argentina placed restrictions (curtailments) on gas exports to Chile and Brazil. AES Uruguaiana, our gas powered generation plant in Brazil, receives its gas from Argentina and was negatively impacted by the Argentine gas curtailment because AES Uruguaina is obligated under its contract to deliver power to its customers at a contracted price. As a result, AES Uruguaina had to purchase fuel and energy on the open market at higher spot prices, which exceeded the amount that AES Uruguaiana could recover under its existing contracts. In the fourth quarter of 2007, we recognized an impairment charge of approximately $352 million with respect to our investment in AES Uruguaiana. Some of our gas fired generation businesses servicing Chile were similarly impacted by the Argentine gas curtailment resulting in the purchase of higher priced fuel to operate these plants. During 2007, we recognized additional impairment charges of $52 million related to our investment in AgCert, a United Kingdom company that produces carbon emission credits ("CERs"), and $14 million related to prepaid CERs, due to AgCerts potential inability to deliver the CERs or to 87 repay the sums advanced by us; $25 million related to our Placerita subsidiary, a gas fired combined cycle generation plant located in the United States, due to damage sustained to one of the plants gas turbines; and $10 million related to the curtailment of operations at Coal Creek Minerals, LLC, a coal mining company owned by our subsidiary Cavanal Minerals. Our results of operations were also significantly affected by increased fuel costs across all four of our regions; a tariff reduction at Eletropaulo, one of our Latin America Utilities businesses; the sale of EDC; increased interest expense; and higher overhead costs as a result of our financial restatements and continued remediation of the material weaknesses in our internal control of financial reporting. Despite these challenges, we still had strong operating performance as demonstrated by the following financial achievements: highest annual revenue in Company history of $13.6 billion and gross margin of $3.4 billion, or 25% of revenue; income from continuing operations of $495 million, or $0.73 per diluted share; and highest annual cash flow from operations in company history of $2.4 billion, despite a net loss of $95 million in the current year and the loss of cash flow from the operations of EDC subsequent to its sale in May 2007. We were also able to improved the parent companys capital structure by refinancing existing secured debt with unsecured debt at more favorable rates and with longer average maturities, which resulted in a decrease of secured debt as a percentage of total parent company debt from approximately 42% to 17%. Growth Strategy and Portfolio Management. During 2007, we continued to execute our growth strategy. In February 2007, we acquired TEG/TEP, two 230 MW petroleum coke fired power plants in Mexico, for $611 million, including cash and the assumption of debt. We added 427 MW of capacity to our wind operation portfolio, including the start up of commercial operations at Buffalo Gap and the acquisition of Midwest Wind. Additionally, we commenced construction of a 170 MW expansion to Buffalo Gap III, one of our existing wind farms, which is expected to commence commercial operation in 2008. In early 2008, we also announced the Companys acquisition of a coal fired generation facility in the Philippines for $930 million. The Companys growth project backlog (growth projects under construction) as of December 31, 2007 totaled over 2,240 GMW of new generation capacity with a total expected investment of approximately $4 billion through 2011. This includes fossil fueled projects in Chile, Bulgaria and Jordan, hydroelectric projects in Panama and Turkey and a wind project in the United States. We also secured early stage memorandums of understanding to develop power projects in countries such as Vietnam, Indonesia and India. Our business strategy is focused on global growth in our core Generation and Utilities businesses along with growth in related markets such as Alternative Energy, electricity transmission and water desalination. The Company sees growth investments as the most significant contributor to long term shareholder value creation. The Company expects to fund growth investments from available cash, net cash from operating activities and or the proceeds from debt (both recourse and non recourse) and equity financing, asset sales and partner equity contributions. Certain of the Alternative Energy businesses may be considered start up businesses that will need to be funded internally through cash equity contributions, and may have limited non recourse debt financing opportunities initially. We see sufficient attractive investment opportunities that may exceed available cash and net cash from operating activities in future periods. The Companys growth strategies are complemented by an increased emphasis on portfolio management through which AES has and will continue to sell or monetize a portion of certain businesses or assets when market values appear significantly higher than the Companys assessment of 88 its value as part of the AES portfolio. Portfolio management was an important area of focus in 2007 and will be a continuing area of focus in 2008 and beyond. In October 2007, we sold 10% of our interest in Gener, our subsidiary in Chile, for $306 million, which increased the liquidity of those shares and we believe reduced the discount the local Chilean stock market had been placing on Gener shares due to their prior illiquidity. In early 2008, we announced the sale of Ekibastuz and Maikuben, two of our Generation businesses in Kazakhstan, for an upfront price of $1.1 billion and management fees and earn out provisions that could generate additional consideration of up to approximately $380 million. Outlook for the Future Managements strategy is to continue building on our traditional lines of business while expanding into other essential energy related areas, such as Alternative Energy. As part of that mission, AES strives to improve both short and long term profitability while positioning the Company to continue our success in the future. As we look to 2008 and beyond, we will work toward the following goals: continuing to expand our global footprint by leveraging our existing relationships around the world and entering new markets while continuing to grow our operations in our existing markets through capital investment; managing our debt maturity profile and strengthening our capital structure; growing our Alternative Energy businesses and working towards being a leader in the area of renewable energy generation and carbon offsets and become a world class operator; and maintaining our focus on safety. The Company also believes that high oil prices, increasing regulation of greenhouse gases, faster than expected global economic growth and a weak U.S. Dollar present opportunities for value creation, based on the Companys current business portfolio strategies. Slower global economic growth, which will impact demand growth for utilities and some generation businesses, is one of the most significant potential obstacles affecting value creation. Other important scenarios that could impair future value include higher oil prices and a strong U.S. Dollar. 2007 Performance Highlights Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (Restated) (Restated) ($s in millions, except per share amounts) Revenue $ 13,588 $ 11,576 $ 10,247 Gross Margin $ 3,409 $ 3,434 $ 2,870 Gross Margin as a % of Revenue 25.1 % 29.7 % 28.0 % Diluted Earnings Per Share from Continuing Operations $ 0.73 $ 0.27 $ 0.56 Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities $ 2,357 $ 2,351 $ 2,220 The following is a summary discussion of the consolidated revenue, gross margin, earnings per share, and net cash from operating activities. Revenue We achieved record revenues of $13.6 billion, an increase of 17% from $11.6 billion the previous year. The increase in revenues was primarily driven by higher prices across our Generation businesses 89 of approximately $688 million; contributions from new acquisitions such as TEG/TEP and Itabo of approximately $286 million; and favorable currency translation of approximately $636 million primarily at our Utilities businesses in Latin America. Gross margin Gross margin remained relatively flat at $3.4 billion, as improved operations in North America, favorable foreign currency translation in Brazil and contributions from recent acquisitions were offset by tariff reductions at Eletropaulo and ongoing gas supply curtailments and drier than normal hydrology at our businesses in Argentina and Chile. Earnings per share Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations increased $0.46 per share to $0.73 per share compared to $0.27 per share in 2006. This increase was primarily driven by higher revenues as a result of pass through fuel costs and the 2006 impact of our Brasiliana restructuring of approximately $0.76 per share; impairment charges related to Uruguaiana and AgCert of approximately ($0.34) per share; and the impact of the Mexican Tax Law Change of approximately ($0.07) per share. The remaining growth in earnings per share was attributable to the overall growth of the business. 90  Net cash from operating activities Net cash provided by operating activities remained relatively flat at $2.4 billion. Excluding any contribution from EDC, net cash from operating activities would have increased by approximately $119 million, an increase of 6% from $2.1 billion in 2006 to $2.2 billion in 2007. Consolidated Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, Results of operations 2007 2006 (Restated) 2005 (Restated) $ change 2007 vs. 2006 $ change 2006 vs. 2005 (in millions, except per share amounts) Revenue: Latin America Generation $ 3,510 $ 2,615 $ 2,145 $ 895 $ 470 Latin America Utilities 5,172 4,552 4,127 620 425 North America Generation 2,168 1,928 1,745 240 183 North America Utilities 1,052 1,032 951 20 81 Europe & Africa Generation 975 852 735 123 117 Europe & Africa Utilities 660 570 506 90 64 Asia Generation 889 785 600 104 185 Corporate and Other(1) (838 ) (758 ) (562 ) (80 ) (196 ) Total Revenue $ 13,588 $ 11,576 $ 10,247 $ 2,012 $ 1,329 Gross Margin: Latin America Generation $ 955 $ 1,052 $ 857 $ (97 ) $ 195 Latin America Utilities 865 888 584 (23 ) 304 North America Generation 702 610 556 92 54 North America Utilities 313 277 301 36 (24 ) Europe & Africa Generation 275 247 185 28 62 Europe & Africa Utilities 63 103 109 (40 ) (6 ) Asia Generation 193 201 243 (8 ) (42 ) Total Corporate and Other(2) (336 ) (245 ) (186 ) (91 ) (59 ) Interest expense (1,788 ) (1,769 ) (1,828 ) (19 ) 59 Interest income 500 434 381 66 53 Other expense (255 ) (452 ) (109 ) 197 (343 ) Other income 358 116 157 242 (41 ) Gain on sale of investments 134 98 36 98 Loss on sale of subsidiary stock (535 ) 535 (535 ) Impairment expense (408 ) (17 ) (16 ) (391 ) (1 ) Foreign currency transaction gains (losses) on net monetary position 24 (80 ) (143 ) 104 63 Equity in earnings of affiliates 76 73 66 3 7 Other non operating expense (57 ) (57 ) Income tax expense (685 ) (362 ) (473 ) (323 ) 111 Minority interest expense (434 ) (463 ) (319 ) 29 (144 ) Income from continuing operations 495 176 365 319 (189 ) Income from operations of discontinued businesses 71 107 188 (36 ) (81 ) Loss from disposal of discontinued businesses (661 ) (57 ) (604 ) (57 ) Extraordinary items 21 (21 ) 21 Cumulative effect of accounting change (4 ) 4 Net (loss) income $ (95 ) $ 247 $ 549 $ (342 ) $ (302 ) Per share data: Basic income per share from continuing operations $ 0.74 $ 0.27 $ 0.56 $ 0.47 $ (0.29 ) Diluted income per share from continuing operations $ 0.73 $ 0.27 $ 0.56 $ 0.46 $ (0.29 ) (1)Corporate and Other includes revenues from Alternative Energy and inter segment eliminations of revenues related to transfers of electricity from Tiet&ecirc; (generation) to Eletropaulo (utility). (2)Total Corporate and Other expenses include corporate general and administrative expenses as well as certain inter segment eliminations, primarily corporate charges for management fees and self insurance premiums. 91 Segment Analysis Latin America The following table summarizes revenue for our Generation and Utilities segments in Latin America for the periods indicated (in millions): Latin America For the Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (Restated) (Restated) Revenue Revenue % of Total Revenue Revenue % of Total Revenue Revenue % of Total Revenue Latin America Generation $ 3,510 26 % $ 2,615 23 % $ 2,145 21 % Latin America Utilities 5,172 38 % 4,552 39 % 4,127 40 % Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Revenue Generation revenue increased $895 million, or 34%, from the previous year primarily due to higher rates and volume at Gener (in Chile) and Alicura (in Argentina) of approximately $443 million and $95 million, respectively; and increased volume and intercompany sales from Tiet&ecirc; (in Brazil) to Eletropaulo, our Brazilian utility, of approximately $130 million. Our increase in ownership of the controlling shares of Itabo contributed approximately $87 million in revenue. The impact of favorable foreign currency translation was approximately $38 million. Utilities revenue increased $620 million, or 14%, from the previous year. This increase was primarily the result of favorable foreign currency translation of $493 million, and increased rates and volume in Brazil at our Sul facility and at our plants in El Salvador of $58 million and $41 million, respectively, offset by net decreases in tariff of $24 million at Eletropaulo (in Brazil). Fiscal Year 2006 versus 2005 Revenue Generation revenue increased $470 million, or 22%, from the previous year primarily due to higher rates and volume at our Chile and Argentina businesses of $86 million and $99 million, respectively; higher sales offset by intercompany sales from Tiet&ecirc; in Brazil to Eletropaulo of approximately $137 million; and our increase in ownership of the controlling shares of Itabo in the Dominican Republic contributed approximately $115 million in revenue. Utilities revenue increased $425 million, or 10%, from the previous year. This increase was driven by favorable foreign currency translation of $413 million; a net increase of $19 million in rates and volume at Eletropaulo and increased tariff rates at CAESS and Clesa in El Salvador of $62 million, offset by lower intercompany sales at Infoenergy of $40 million. The following table summarizes gross margin for the Generation and Utilities segments in Latin America for the periods indicated (in millions): Latin America For the Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (Restated) (Restated) Gross Margin Gross Margin % of Total Gross Margin Gross Margin % of Total Gross Margin Gross Margin % of Total Gross Margin Latin America Generation $ 955 28 % $ 1,052 31 % $ 857 30 % Latin America Utilities 865 25 % 888 26 % 584 20 % 92 Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Gross Margin Generation gross margin decreased $97 million, or 9%, from the previous year primarily due to increased cost from gas supply curtailments, drier than normal hydrology and higher spot prices for electricity in the Companys businesses in Argentina, Chile and Southern Brazil of approximately $173 million and one time transmission charges at Tiet&ecirc; of $39 million, offset in part, by higher sales at Itabo in the Dominican Republic of $23 million and intercompany sales in Tiet&ecirc; of $103 million. Utilities gross margin decreased $23 million, or 3%, from the previous year primarily due to reduced tariff rates at Eletropaulo of $355 million offset by lower costs, favorable foreign currency translation of $148 million and higher volume of $74 million. Additionally, Sul (in Brazil) had increased rates and volume of $27 million and favorable foreign currency translation of $19 million. Fiscal Year 2006 versus 2005 Gross Margin Generation gross margin increased $195 million, or 23%, from the previous year due to net increases in intercompany and volume sales from Tiet&ecirc; to Eletropaulo in Brazil of $137 million, an increase in spot market and contract energy prices at Gener in Chile of $88 million and $13 million from the acquisition of a controlling interest in Itabo in the Dominican Republic, these were partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency impacts of $30 million. Utilities gross margin increased $304 million, or 52%, from the previous year due to $192 million of additional gross bad debts reserves recognized in the second quarter of 2005 related to the collectibility of certain municipal receivables at Eletropaulo and Sul in Brazil, and favorable foreign currency impacts of $170 million. These increases were partially offset by higher legal reserves at Eletropaulo of $56 million. North America The following table summarizes revenue for our Generation and Utilities segments in North America for the periods indicated (in millions): North America For the Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (Restated) (Restated) Revenue Revenue % of Total Revenue Revenue % of Total Revenue Revenue % of Total Revenue North America Generation $ 2,168 16 % $ 1,928 17 % $ 1,745 17 % North America Utilities 1,052 8 % 1,032 9 % 951 9 % Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Revenue Generation revenue increased $240 million, or 12%, from the previous year primarily due to approximately $200 million in new business as a result of our acquisition of TEG/TEP in Mexico and approximately $96 million in higher rate and volume sales at the Companys New York facilities; offset by mark to market adjustments for embedded derivatives of $51 million at Deepwater in Texas and lower emission sales of $39 million. Utilities revenue increased $20 million, or 2%, from the previous year primarily due to increased volume, offset by a slight decrease in tariff rates at IPL. 93 Fiscal Year 2006 versus 2005 Revenue Generation revenue increased $183 million, or 11%, due to the change in the mark to market adjustment related to Deepwater of approximately $96 million and an increase in revenues of $76 million at the New York facilities due to an increase in rates. Utilities revenue increased $81 million, or 9%, from the previous year primarily attributable to higher pricing at IPL due to the pass through of higher fuel costs. The following table summarizes gross margin for the Generation and Utilities segments in North America for the periods indicated (in millions): North America For the Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (Restated) (Restated) Gross Margin Gross Margin % of Total Gross Margin Gross Margin % of Total Gross Margin Gross Margin % of Total Gross Margin North America Generation $ 702 21 % $ 610 18 % $ 556 19 % North America Utilities 313 9 % 277 8 % 301 10 % Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Gross Margin Generation gross margin increased $92 million, or 15%, from the previous year primarily due to approximately $62 million related to our acquisition of TEG/TEP in Mexico and $90 million related to higher rates and volumes and lower cost at the Companys New York facilities offset by lower sales of excess emissions allowances of approximately $39 million. Utilities gross margin increased $36 million, or 13%, primarily due to increased volume sales and deferred fuel cost recoveries at IPL. Fiscal Year 2006 versus 2005 Gross Margin Generation gross margin increased $54 million, or 10%, from the previous year primarily due to the impact of the marked to market adjustment related to Deepwater of approximately $96 million, offset by a decrease of approximately $38 million related to outages at Warrior Run, Hawaii and Ironwood as well as a scheduled reduction in pricing of the power purchase agreements for our Hawaii plant of $13 million. Utilities gross margin decreased $24 million, or 8%, from the previous year primarily due to higher maintenance costs at IPL of $23 million as part of a scheduled outage on one of its large base load coal fired units that coincided with a project to enhance environmental emission technology to significantly reduce emissions as well as increased emissions allowances. Europe & Africa The following table summarizes revenue for the Generation and Utilities segments in Europe & Africa for the periods indicated (in millions): Europe & Africa For the Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (Restated) (Restated) Revenue Revenue % of Total Revenue Revenue % of Total Revenue Revenue % of Total Revenue Europe & Africa Generation $ 975 7 % $ 852 7 % $ 735 7 % Europe & Africa Utilities 660 5 % 570 5 % 506 5 % 94 Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Revenue Generation revenue increased $123 million, or 14%, from the previous year primarily due to favorable foreign currency translation of $77 million and increased rate and volume sales of approximately $60 million at our businesses in Kazakhstan. Utilities revenue increased $90 million, or 16%, from the previous year primarily due to increased tariff rates and volume of approximately $57 million in the Ukraine and approximately $28 million in favorable foreign currency translation. Fiscal Year 2006 versus 2005 Revenue Generation revenue increased $117 million, or 16%, primarily due to increased volume sales and contract energy prices at Tisza II in Hungary of $73 million offset by decreased volume at Ekibastuz in Kazakhstan of $30 million, increased sales from our centralized trading office in Altai, Kazakhstan of $58 million, and CO2 emission allowance sales in Hungary of $16 million and Bohemia in the Czech Republic of $12 million. Utilities revenue increased $64 million, or 13%, primarily due to increased demand and tariff rates at SONEL in Cameroon of $17 million and $46 million at our businesses in the Ukraine. The following table summarizes gross margin for the Generation and Utilities segments in Europe & Africa for the periods indicated (in millions): Europe & Africa For the Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (Restated) (Restated) Gross Margin Gross Margin % of Total Gross Margin Gross Margin % of Total Gross Margin Gross Margin % of Total Gross Margin Europe & Africa Generation $ 275 8 % $ 247 7 % $ 185 6 % Europe & Africa Utilities 63 2 % 103 3 % 109 4 % Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Gross Margin Generation gross margin increased $28 million, or 11%, from the previous year primarily due to rate and volume increases at our businesses in Kazakhstan and Kilroot of $44 million and $13 million, respectively. These increases were offset by lower emission sales in Hungary and Bohemia in the Czech Republic of approximately $28 million. Utilities gross margin decreased $40 million, or 39%, from the previous year primarily due to higher non fuel operating and maintenance costs as well as higher fuel usage at SONEL in Cameroon. Fiscal Year 2006 versus 2005 Gross Margin Generation gross margin increased $62 million, or 34%, from the previous year, primarily due to higher pricing on improved volumes at Ekibastuz and at our centralized trading office in Altai both in Kazakhstan, margin on CO2 emission allowance sales in Hungary of $16 million and by Bohemia in the Czech Republic of $11 million. Utilities gross margin was flat compared to the prior year primarily due to higher expenses at SONEL in Cameroon, offset by improved volume sales and tariff rates for SONEL and our businesses in the Ukraine. 95 Asia The following table summarizes revenue for the Generation segment in Asia for the periods indicated (in millions): Asia For the Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (Restated) (Restated) Revenue Revenue % of Total Revenue Revenue % of Total Revenue Revenue % of Total Revenue Asia Generation $ 889 7 % $ 785 7 % $ 600 6 % Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Revenue Revenues increased $104 million, or 13%, from the previous year primarily attributable to higher dispatch in Pakistan of $83 million and higher volume and rates at Kelanitissa in Sri Lanka of approximately $30 million offset by volume decreases of approximately $8 million at Chigen in China. Fiscal Year 2006 versus 2005 Revenue Revenues increased $185 million, or 31%, from the previous year primarily due to increased sales of approximately $141 million at the two Pakistan power generation plants, Lal Pir and Pak Gen, as well as $31 million of improvements at Kelanitissa primarily due to favorable sales which was comprised of $16 million from volume increases and $15 million from increased rates. The following table summarizes gross margin for the Generation segment in Asia for the periods indicated (in millions): Asia For the Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (Restated) (Restated) Gross Margin Gross Margin % of Total Gross Margin Gross Margin % of Total Gross Margin Gross Margin % of Total Gross Margin Asia Generation $ 193 6 % $ 201 6 % $ 243 8 % Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Gross Margin Gross margin was generally flat decreasing by $8 million, or 4%, to $193 million in 2007 from $201 million in 2006 primarily attributable to decreased volume at Chigen in China. Fiscal Year 2006 versus 2005 Gross Margin Gross margin decreased $42 million, or 17%, from the previous year primarily due to increases in variable operating and maintenance costs of $16 million, higher rural grid fund taxes of $6 million and approximately $13 million in lease adjustments at Lal Pir and Pak Gen. Corporate and Other Expense Corporate and other expenses include general and administrative expenses related to corporate staff functions and or initiatives, executive management, finance, legal, human resources, information systems and certain development costs which are not allocable to our business segments. In addition, this line item includes net operating results from other businesses which are immaterial for the purposes of separate segment disclosure and, the effects of eliminating transactions, such as management fee arrangements and self insurance charges, between the operating segments and corporate. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, Corporate and other expense was approximately 2 3% of total revenues. 96  Corporate and other expense increased $78 million, or 26%, to $379 million in 2007 from $301 million in 2006. The increase is primarily due to higher spending in professional fees of approximately $24 million primarily to complete the restatement and remediation efforts, higher spending due to headcount increases primarily related to the strengthening of our finance organization of approximately $15 million and higher spending on our SAP implementation projects. Corporate and other expense increased $80 million, or 36%, to $301 million in 2006 from $221 million in 2005. The increase is primarily due to higher spending of approximately $51 million in corporate development spending primarily in support of Alternative Energy, higher spending on corporate headcount due to the development of Regional Presidents and related to the strengthening of our finance organization, and higher spending on our SAP implementation projects. Interest expense Interest expense increased $19 million, or 1%, to $1,788 million in 2007 from $1,769 million in 2006. Interest expense increased primarily due to unfavorable impacts from foreign currency translation in Brazil and interest expense associated with derivatives. These increases were offset by the benefits of debt retirement activity at several of our Latin American subsidiaries and lower interest rates at one of our subsidiaries in Brazil. Interest expense decreased $59 million, or 3%, to $1,769 million in 2006 from $1,828 million in 2005. Interest expense decreased primarily due to the benefits of debt retirements principally in the U.S., Brazil and the Dominican Republic, lower interest rates at certain of our businesses, and decreased amortization of deferred financing costs, offset by negative impacts from foreign currency translation in Brazil. Interest income Interest income increased $66 million, or 15%, to $500 million in 2007 from $434 million in 2006. Interest income increased primarily due to favorable foreign currency translation on the Brazilian Real and higher cash and short term investment balances at certain of our subsidiaries, offset by decreases at two of our Brazilian subsidiaries due to lower interest rates. Interest income increased $53 million, or 14%, to $434 million in 2006 from $381 million in 2005. Interest income increased primarily due to favorable foreign currency translation on the Brazilian Real, higher cash and short term investment balances at certain of our subsidiaries, and an increase in interest income at one of our subsidiaries in the Dominican Republic related to the settlement of certain net receivables with the government. Other income Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (Restated) (Restated) (in millions) Contract settlement gain $ 135 $ $ Gross receipts tax recovery 93 Legal/dispute settlement 26 1 10 Gain on sale of assets 24 18 7 Gain on extinguishment of liabilities 22 45 82 Other 58 52 58 Total other income $ 358 $ 116 $ 157 97 Other income increased $242 million to $358 million in 2007 from $116 million in 2006. Other income increased primarily due to a $135 million contract settlement gain at one of our subsidiaries in New York, a $93 million gross receipts tax recovery at two of our Latin American subsidiaries, and $25 million related to favorable legal settlements at one of our subsidiaries in Brazil and one of our North American subsidiaries. These increases were offset by lower gains on extinguishment of debt, which were driven in 2006 by debt retirement activities at several of our Latin American businesses. Other income decreased $41 million to $116 million in 2006 from $157 million in 2005. Other income decreased primarily due to activity at our Brazilian subsidiaries, including the expiration of a tax liability of $70 million and a gain related to the determination of the collectibility of the Sao Paulo municipality agreement in 2005. Other expense Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (Restated) (Restated) (in millions) Loss on extinguishment of liabilities $ 106 $ 181 $ 3 Regulatory special obligations 139 Loss on sale and disposal of assets 79 23 43 Legal/dispute settlement 36 31 30 Write down of disallowed regulatory assets 16 36 Marked to market loss (gain) on commodity derivatives 1 (2 ) 3 Other 17 44 30 Total other expense $ 255 $ 452 $ 109 Other expense decreased $197 million to $255 million in 2007 from $452 million in 2006. Other expense decreased primarily due to higher losses in 2006 associated with debt retirement activities at several of our Latin American businesses, special obligation charges and the write down of disallowed regulatory assets at one of our subsidiaries in Brazil in 2006. In 2007, there was a loss of $90 million on the retirement of Senior Notes at the Parent Company, as well as higher losses on sales and disposals of assets at two of our Brazilian subsidiaries. Other expense increased $343 million to $452 million in 2006 from $109 million in 2005. Other expense increased primarily due to losses associated with the early extinguishment of debt at several of our Latin American businesses and a loss on the retirement of the parents senior subordinated debentures, as well as special obligation charges and write down of disallowed regulatory assets at one of our subsidiaries in Brazil in 2006. Impairment Expense As discussed in Note 17 Impairment Expense to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of the Form 10 K, impairment expense for the year 2007 was $408 million and consisted primarily of the following: In the fourth quarter of 2007, the Company recognized a pre tax impairment charge of approximately $14 million related to a $52 million prepayment advanced to AgCert for a specified amount of future Certified Emission Reduction ("CER"). AgCert, a United Kingdom based corporation that produces emission reduction credits, notified AES that it was not able to meet its contractual obligations to deliver CERs, which triggered an analysis of the assets recoverability and resulted in the asset impairment charge. Also during the fourth quarter of 2007, there was a pre tax 98 impairment charge of approximately $352 million at Uruguaiana, a thermoelectric plant located in Brazil. The impairment was the result of an analysis of Uruguaianas long lived assets, which was triggered by the combination of gas curtailments and increases in the spot market price of energy. In August 2007, there was a pre tax impairment charge of approximately $25 million at our Placerita subsidiary, a gas fired combined cycle generation plant located in the United States. The fixed asset impairment was caused by damage sustained to one of the plants gas turbines. Also during the third quarter of 2007, a pre tax fixed asset impairment charge of approximately $10 million was recognized related to the curtailment of operations at Coal Creek Minerals, LLC, a coal mining company owned by our subsidiary Cavanal Minerals located in the United States. Impairment expense for the year 2006 was $17 million and consisted primarily of the following: During the fourth quarter of 2006, there was a pre tax impairment charge of $6 million related to AES China Generating Co. Ltd. ("Chigen") equity investment in Wuhu, a coal fired plant located in China. The equity impairment in Wuhu was required as a result of a goodwill impairment analysis at Chigen. During the third quarter of 2006, there was an impairment charge of $5 million related to a decrease in the market value of five held for sale gas turbines at our subsidiary Itabo located in the Dominican Republic. Impairment expense for the year 2005 was $16 million and consisted primarily of the following: During the third quarter of 2005, there was a pre tax impairment charge of $6 million related to Totem Gas Storage, LLC ("Totem"). The investment asset impairment was due to AESs notification from the sole managing members intention to dissolve, liquidate, and terminate Totem. This charge, combined with a $1.5 million impairment recognized in the fourth quarter of 2004, represented a complete write down of AESs investment in Totem. During the first quarter of 2005, there was a pre tax impairment charge of $5 million related to AES Southland ("Southland"). The fixed asset impairment was booked when, in the course of evaluating the impairment of long lived assets in accordance with SFAS No. 144, it was determined that the net book value of the peaker units were not fully realizable. During the fourth quarter of 2005, there was an additional pre tax impairment charge of $2.5 million which represented the remaining carrying value of these units. Gain on sale of investments Gain on sale of investments increased $36 million, or 37%, to $134 million in 2007 from $98 million in 2006. Gain on sale of investments for the year ended 2007 consisted primarily of the following: In May 2007, we sold a 0.91% ownership in Gener for a net gain of $10 million. In October 2007, we sold an additional 10.18% ownership in Gener for a net gain of $124 million. Gain on sale of investments for the year ended 2006 consisted primarily of the following: In March 2006, we sold our equity investment in a power project in Canada (Kingston) for a net gain of $87 million. In September 2006, we transferred Infoenergy, a wholly owned AES subsidiary, to Brasiliana for a net gain of $10 million. Brasiliana is 53.85% owned by BNDES, but controlled by AES. This transaction was part of the Companys agreement with BNDES to terminate the Sul Option. There was no gain on sale of investments for the year ended 2005. 99 Loss on sale of subsidiary stock There was no loss of sale of subsidiary stock for the year ended 2007. As discussed in Note 14 Stockholders Equity to the Consolidated Financial Statements, in September 2006, Brasilianas wholly owned subsidiary, Transg&aacute;s sold a 33% economic ownership in Eletropaulo, a regulated electric utility in Brazil. Despite the reduction in economic ownership, there was no change in Brasilianas voting interest in Eletropaulo and Brasiliana continues to control Eletropaulo. Brasiliana received $522 million in net proceeds on the sale. On October 5, 2006 Transg&aacute;s, sold an additional 5% economic ownership in Eletropaulo for $78 million in net proceeds. For the year ended December 31, 2006, AES recognized a pre tax loss of $535 million primarily as a result of the recognition of previously deferred currency translation losses. There was no loss on sale of subsidiary stock for the year ended 2005. Foreign currency transaction gains (losses) on net monetary position The following table summarizes the gains (losses) on the Companys net monetary position from foreign currency transaction activities: Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (Restated) (Restated) (in millions) AES Corporation $ 31 $ (17 ) $ 10 Argentina (8 ) (3 ) (5 ) Brazil 5 (49 ) (93 ) Dominican Republic 2 Pakistan (4 ) (18 ) (22 ) Chile (4 ) (21 ) Kazakhstan 10 1 (4 ) Columbia (7 ) (1 ) (5 ) Cameroon 1 2 (4 ) Other 5 (1 ) Total(1) $ 24 $ (80 ) $ (143 ) (1)Includes $22 million, $51 million and $117 million of losses on foreign currency derivative contracts for December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The Company recognized $24 million foreign currency transaction gains for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to losses of $80 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. The $104 million increase was primarily due to fluctuations in Brazil, AES Corporation, Pakistan, Kazakhstan, Argentina and Colombia. The decrease in foreign currency transaction losses in Brazil of $54 million is due to a decrease in foreign currency transaction losses of $45 million in Eletropaulo primarily as a result of swap contracts that were fully paid and executed in 2006 as Eletropaulo converted U.S. Dollar debt to Brazilian Real debt. Eletropaulo also experienced higher foreign currency transaction gains of $63 million associated with energy purchases denominated in U.S. Dollar as the Brazilian Real appreciated 21% for the year ended December 31, 2007. Sul extinguished U.S. Dollar denominated debt in the second quarter of 2006, resulting in less foreign currency transaction gains in 2007 of $44 million. The change in the functional currency of Brasiliana Energia, S.A. to Brazilian Real in the fourth quarter of 2006 resulted in less foreign currency transaction losses of $13 million in 2007 as no foreign currency transaction gains or losses were recorded in 2007. Additionally, foreign currency transaction losses decreased by 100 $36 million related to a forward exchange contract at Tiet&ecirc; during the third quarter of 2006 that was fully paid and executed by the end of 2006. The $31 million foreign currency gain at AES Corporation for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to the $17 million loss for the year ended December 31, 2006 is primarily the result of favorable exchange rates for debt denominated in British Pounds and Euros. The reduction of $14 million in foreign currency transaction loss at Pakistan for the year ended December 31, 2007 is primarily due to a repayment of a substantial amount of foreign currency denominated debt and the depreciation of the Pakistani Rupee. The favorable change in foreign currency transaction gains in Kazakhstan of $9 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, is primarily due to $12 million foreign currency transaction gains recorded on debt denominated in currencies other than the Kazakh Tenge functional currency and $3 million foreign currency transaction losses related to energy sales denominated and fixed in the U.S. Dollar. The increase in foreign currency transaction losses in Argentina of $5 million is primarily due to the devaluation of the Argentine Peso by 3% for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to 2006, resulting in foreign currency transaction losses of $11 million in Alicura associated with its U.S. Dollar denominated debt. The increase in foreign currency transaction losses in Colombia of $6 million is primarily due to the appreciation of the Colombian Peso by 11% for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to 2006 at Chivor (a U.S. Dollar functional currency subsidiary). The Company recognized foreign currency transaction losses of $80 million in 2006 compared to losses from foreign currency transactions of $143 million in 2005. The $63 million decrease in losses for 2006 as compared to 2005 was primarily related to lower foreign currency transaction losses in Brazil and Chile offset by increased foreign currency transaction losses at the Parent Company. Foreign currency movements typically result from changes in U.S. Dollar exchange rates at subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the U.S. Dollar, as well as gains or losses on monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity and gains or losses on foreign currency derivatives. The reduction in foreign currency transaction losses in Brazil is primarily due to a reduction in derivative transaction losses as a result of the reduction in U.S. Dollar denominated debt balances at Eletropaulo partially offset by a decrease in foreign currency transaction gains associated with U.S. Dollar denominated debt balances as the Brazilian Real appreciated 13% in 2006 as compared to 2005. The reduction in foreign currency transaction losses in Chile is primarily due to the devaluation of the Chilean Peso by 4% in 2006 versus 2005, resulting in decreased losses on foreign currency derivative contracts at Gener. Equity in earnings of affiliates Equity in earnings of affiliates increased $3 million, or 4%, to $76 million in 2007 from $73 million in 2006. The increase in 2007 is primarily due to Cartagena being operational for the full year and the absence of liquidated damages incurred in 2006 for construction delays. The increase was partially offset by decreased earnings in 2007 at AES Barry due to proceeds received in 2006 from the settlement of a legal claim that did not recur in 2007. Equity in earnings of affiliates increased $7 million, or 11%, to $73 million in 2006 from $66 million in 2005. The increase was primarily due to the settlement of a legal claim in 2006 related to AES Barry, an equity method investment of AES during the first quarter of 2006, and higher earnings at several affiliates in Latin America. The increase was offset by the impact of increased losses at 101 Cartagena, an equity method investment in Spain, in 2006 primarily due to $35 million in liquidated damages incurred in 2006 related to construction delays that were paid to the offtaker. Other non operating expense Other non operating expense was $57 million in 2007 and was due to the other than temporary impairment of the Companys investment in AgCert. The Company acquired a 9.9% investment in AgCert, a U.K. based corporation that produces emission reduction credits, in May 2006 and, as required by GAAP, treated these securities as "available for sale". The market value of these securities, based on traded market prices on the London Stock Exchange, materially declined during 2007. Based on accounting guidance outlined in SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities, ("SFAS No. 115"), management concluded that the decline was "other than temporary" and recognized an impairment charge of $52 million in the year ended December 31, 2007. Additionally, a charge of $5 million was recognized for the decrease in value of the AgCert warrants. At December 31, 2007, the investment balance is zero. Income taxes Income tax expense related to continuing operations increased $323 million to $685 million in 2007 from $362 million in 2006. The Companys effective tax rates were 42% for 2007 and 36% for 2006. The increase in the 2007 effective tax rate was due, in part, to an impairment at Uruguaiana for which no tax benefit was recorded, the impact of an appreciating Real in certain of our Brazilian subsidiaries, and the impact of income tax law changes in Mexico, partially offset by the nontaxable gain on the sales of shares of one of the Companys Chilean subsidiaries and a release of valuation allowance at one of our subsidiaries in Argentina. Income tax expense related to continuing operations decreased $111 million to $362 million in 2006 from $473 million in 2005. The Companys effective tax rates were 36% for 2006 and 41% for 2005. The reduction in the 2006 effective tax rate was due, in part, to the second quarter 2006 release of a $43 million valuation allowance at the Companys Brazilian subsidiary, Eletropaulo, related to its deferred tax assets on certain pension obligations, a decrease in U.S. taxes on distributions from certain non U.S. subsidiaries due to recent changes in tax laws, and the sale of Kingston in the first quarter of 2006, the gain on which was not taxable. The reduction in the 2006 effective tax rate was offset in part by the Special Obligation liabilities recorded at Eletropaulo and Sul. Minority interest Minority interest expense, net of tax, decreased $29 million to $434 million in 2007 from $463 million in 2006. The decrease is primarily due to the recognition of previously deferred currency translation losses associated with the sale of Eletropaulo shares during the third quarter 2006, resulting in a decrease of our economic ownership in Eletropaulo from 34% to 16%. See Note 14 Stockholders Equity to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K for a further discussion of the sale of Eletropaulo shares and the Brasiliana restructuring. The decrease is also attributable to the minority interest impact of the impairment recognized at Uruguaiana, a Brazilian subsidiary, offset by increased earnings at Tiet&ecirc;, another Brazilian subsidiary. Minority interest expense, net of tax, increased $144 million to $463 million in 2006 from $319 million in 2005. The increase is primarily due to higher earnings from our Brazilian companies offset by a decrease in the third quarter of 2006 in our economic ownership in Eletropaulo from 34% to 16%. 102 Discontinued operations As discussed in Note 20 Discontinued Operations and Businesses Held for Sale to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K, on February 22, 2007, the Company entered into a definitive agreement with PDVSA to sell all of its shares of EDC, a distribution business located in Venezuela and reported in the Latin America Utilities segment, for $739 million net of withholding taxes. In addition, the agreement provided for the payment of a $120 million dividend in 2007. In May 2007, the Company reached an agreement to sell 100% of its indirect interest in two biomass fired power plants located in central California (the Delano and Mendota facilities) for $51 million. These facilities, along with an associated management company (together, the "Central Valley Businesses") were included in the North America Generation segment. During 2006, we discontinued certain businesses including Eden, a Latin America Utilities business located in Argentina and AES Indian Queens Power Limited and AES Indian Queens Operations Limited, collectively "IQP", which is an Open Cycle Gas Turbine located in the U.K. In 2007, income from operations of discontinued businesses, net of tax, was $71 million related to the operations of EDC and Central Valley. In 2006, income from operations of discontinued businesses, net of tax, was $107 million related to the operations of EDC, Central Valley, Eden and IQP. In 2005, income from operations of discontinued businesses, net of tax, was $188 million. Income from operations of EDC, Central Valley, Eden and IQP totaled approximately $157 million for 2005. Additionally, a reversal of approximately $31 million was recognized in the third quarter of 2005 at Eden, related to the release of a valuation allowance previously recognized against its net deferred tax assets. Extraordinary item As discussed in Note 6 Investments in and Advances to Affiliates to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K, in May 2006, AES purchased an additional 25% interest in Itabo, a power generation business located in the Dominican Republic for approximately $23 million. Prior to May, the Company held a 25% interest in Itabo, through its Gener subsidiary, and had accounted for the investment using the equity method of accounting with a corresponding investment balance reflected in the "Investments in and advances to affiliates" line item on the consolidated balance sheets. As a result of the transaction, the Company consolidates Itabo and, therefore, the investment balance has been reclassified to the appropriate line items on the consolidated balance sheets with a corresponding minority interest liability for the remaining 50% interest not owned by AES. The Company realized an after tax extraordinary gain of $21 million as a result of the transaction due to an excess of the fair value of the noncurrent assets over the purchase price. Critical Accounting Estimates The Consolidated Financial Statements of AES are prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America, which requires the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. AESs significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 General and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K. An accounting estimate is considered critical if: the estimate requires management to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the estimate was made; 103 different estimates reasonably could have been used; or the impact of the estimates and assumptions on financial condition or operating performance is material. Management believes that the accounting estimates employed are appropriate and the resulting balances are reasonable; however, actual results could differ from the original estimates, requiring adjustments to these balances in future periods. Management has discussed these critical accounting policies with the audit committee, as appropriate. Listed below are certain significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Income Tax Reserves We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our worldwide income tax provision requires significant judgment and is based on calculations and assumptions that are subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service and other taxing authorities. The Company and certain of its subsidiaries are under examination by relevant taxing authorities for various tax years. The Company regularly assesses the potential outcome of these examinations in each of the taxing jurisdictions when determining the adequacy of the provision for income taxes. The Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Interpretation ("FIN") No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, ("FIN No. 48") effective January 1, 2007. The Interpretation prescribes a more likely than not recognition threshold and establishes new measurement requirements for financial statement reporting of an entitys income tax positions. Tax reserves have been established, which the Company believes to be adequate in relation to the potential for additional assessments. Once established, reserves are adjusted only when there is more information available or when an event occurs necessitating a change to the reserves. While the Company believes that the amount of the tax estimates are reasonable, it is possible that the ultimate outcome of current or future examinations may exceed current reserves in amounts that could be material. Goodwill We test goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or circumstances make it more likely than not that impairment may have occurred, such as a significant adverse change in the business climate or a decision to sell or dispose all or a portion of a business unit. Determining whether an impairment has occurred requires valuation of the respective business unit, which we estimate using a discounted cash flow method. In applying this methodology, we rely on a number of factors, including actual operating results, future business plans, economic projections and market data. If this analysis indicates goodwill is impaired, measuring the impairment requires a fair value estimate of each identified tangible and intangible asset. In this case, we supplement the cash flow approach discussed above with appraisals, as appropriate. Regulatory Assets and Liabilities The Company accounts for certain of its regulated operations under the provisions of SFAS No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation, ("SFAS No. 71"). As a result, AES recognizes assets and liabilities that result from the regulated ratemaking process that would not be recognized under GAAP for non regulated entities. Regulatory assets generally represent incurred costs that have been deferred because such costs are probable of future recovery in customer rates. Regulatory liabilities generally represent obligations to make refunds to customers for previous collections for costs that are not likely to be incurred or included in future rate initiatives. Management continually assesses whether the regulatory assets are probable of future recovery by considering factors such as applicable regulatory changes, recent rate orders applicable to other regulated entities and the 104 status of any pending or potential deregulation legislation. If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, the asset write offs would be required to be recognized in operating income. Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities We enter into various derivative transactions in order to hedge our exposure to certain market risks. We primarily use derivative instruments to manage our interest rate, commodity, and foreign currency exposures. We do not enter into derivative transactions for trading purposes. Under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities as amended, ("SFAS No. 133"), we recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the balance sheet and measure those instruments at fair value except where derivatives qualify and are designated as "normal purchase/ normal sale" transactions. Changes in fair value of derivatives are recognized in earnings unless specific hedge criteria are met. Income and expense related to derivative instruments are recognized in the same category as generated by the underlying asset or liability. SFAS No. 133 enables companies to designate qualifying derivatives as hedging instruments based on the exposure being hedged. These hedge designations include fair value hedges and cash flow hedges. Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is highly effective and is designated and qualifies as a fair value hedge, are recognized in earnings as offsets to the changes in fair value of the exposure being hedged. Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is highly effective and is designated as and qualifies as a cash flow hedge, are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income and are recognized into earnings as the hedged transactions occur. Any ineffectiveness is recognized in earnings immediately. For all hedge contracts, the Company provides formal documentation of the hedge and effectiveness testing in accordance with SFAS No. 133. As a result of uncertainty, complexity and judgment, accounting estimates related to derivative accounting could result in material changes to our financial statements under different conditions or utilizing different assumptions. As a part of accounting for these derivatives, we make estimates concerning volatilities, market liquidity, future commodity prices, interest rates, credit ratings, and exchange rates. AES generally uses quoted exchange prices to the extent they are available to determine the fair value of derivatives. In the absence of actively quoted market prices, we seek indicative price information from external sources, including broker quotes and industry publications. If pricing information from external sources is not available, AES will estimate prices, when possible, based on available historical and near term future price information as well as utilizing statistical methods. When external valuation models are not available, the Company utilizes internal models for valuation. For individual contracts, the use of different valuation models or assumptions could have a material effect on the calculated fair value. New Accounting Pronouncements SFAS No. 157: Fair Value Measurements In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurement, ("SFAS No. 157"). SFAS No. 157 provides enhanced guidance for using fair value to measure assets and liabilities. The standard applies whenever other standards require (or permit) assets or liabilities to be measured at fair value. The standard does not expand the use of fair value in any new circumstances. The standard clarifies that for items that are not actively traded, such as certain kinds of derivatives, fair value should reflect the price in a transaction with a market participant, including an adjustment for risk, not just the Companys mark to model value. The standard establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the information used to develop assumptions. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets and the lowest priority to unobservable data. Under the standard, fair value measurements would be separately disclosed by level within the fair value hierarchy with expanded disclosure for those measurements based on unobservable data. 105  SFAS No. 157 will apply to our interim and annual financial statements for periods beginning after January 1, 2008. There is no cumulative impact of the adoption of SFAS No. 157 for AES. In February 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position ("FSP") No. 157 1, Application of FASB Statement No. 157 to FASB Statement No. 13 and Other Accounting Pronouncements That Address Fair Value Measurements for Purposes of Lease Classification or Measurement Under Statement 13, ("FSP No. 157 1") and FSP No. 157 2, Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157, ("FSP No. 157 2".) FSP No. 157 1 excludes SFAS No. 13, Accounting for Leases, ("SFAS No. 13") and most other accounting pronouncements that address fair value measurement of leases from the scope of SFAS No. 157. The FSP was issued because the FASB had not intended SFAS No. 157 to change lease accounting. FSP No. 157 2 delays the effective date of SFAS No. 157 for all nonrecurring fair value measurements of nonfinancial assets and liabilities until fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008, or January 1, 2009 for AES. SFAS No. 159: The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities including an amendment of FAS 115 In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities including an amendment of FAS 115, ("SFAS No. 159"), which allows entities to choose, at specified election dates, to measure eligible financial assets and liabilities at fair value that are not otherwise required to be measured at fair value. If a company elects the fair value option for an eligible item, changes in that items fair value in subsequent reporting periods must be recognized in current earnings. SFAS No. 159 also establishes presentation and disclosure requirements designed to draw comparison between entities that elect different measurement attributes for similar assets and liabilities. SFAS No. 159 is effective for the Company on January 1, 2008. As allowed by the standard, the Company has elected not to adopt SFAS No.159 for the measurement of any eligible assets or liabilities. SFAS No. 141(R): Business Combinations and SFAS No. 160: Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, an amendment of ARB No. 51 In December 2007 the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations, ("SFAS No. 141(R)") and SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of ARB No. 51, ("SFAS No. 160"). SFAS No. 141(R) will significantly change how business acquisitions are accounted for at the acquisition date and in subsequent periods. The standard changes the accounting at the acquisition date to a fair value based approach rather than the cost allocation approach currently used. Other differences include changes in the accounting for acquisition related costs, contingencies and income taxes and other relevant items. SFAS No. 160 changes the accounting and reporting for minority interests, which will now be classified as a component of equity and will be referred to as noncontrolling interests. SFAS No. 141(R) and SFAS No. 160 will be effective for public and private companies for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008, which is the year beginning January 1, 2009 for AES. SFAS No. 141(R) and SFAS No. 160 will be applied prospectively, except for the presentation and disclosure requirements in SFAS No. 160 for existing minority interests which will require retroactive adoption. Early adoption is prohibited. AES has not begun its analysis of the potential future impact of SFAS No. 141(R) and SFAS No. 160. Capital Resources and Liquidity Overview The AES Corporation is a holding company that conducts all of its operations through subsidiaries. We have, to the extent achievable, utilized non recourse debt to fund a significant portion of the capital expenditures and investments required to construct and acquire our electric power plants, distribution companies and related assets. This type of financing is non recourse to other subsidiaries, affiliates and to us (as the "Parent Company"), and is generally secured by the capital stock, physical 106 assets, contracts and cash flow of the related subsidiary or affiliate. At December 31, 2007, we had $5.6 billion of recourse debt and $12.4 billion of non recourse debt outstanding. For more information on our long term debt see Note 8 Long Term Debt to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K. In addition to non recourse debt, if available, we, as the Parent Company, provide a portion, or in certain instances all, of the remaining long term financing or credit required to fund development, construction or acquisition. These investments have generally taken the form of equity investments or loans, which are subordinated to the projects non recourse loans. The AES Corporation generally obtains the funds for these investments from our cash flows from operations and or the proceeds from our issuances of debt, common stock, and other securities as well as proceeds from the sales of assets. Similarly, in certain of our businesses, the AES Corporation may provide financial guarantees or other credit support for the benefit of lenders or counterparties who have entered into contracts for the purchase or sale of electricity with our subsidiaries. In such circumstances, if a subsidiary defaults on its payment or supply obligation, the AES Corporation is responsible for the subsidiarys obligations up to the amount provided for in the relevant guarantee or other credit support. We expect to continue to seek, where possible, non recourse debt financing in connection with the assets or businesses that our affiliates or we may develop, construct or acquire. However, depending on market conditions and the unique characteristics of individual businesses, non recourse debt may not be available or may not be available on economically attractive terms. If we decide not to provide any additional funding or credit support to the subsidiary that is under construction or has near term debt payment obligations and that subsidiary is unable to obtain additional non recourse debt, our investment may become impaired, or such subsidiary may become insolvent and we may lose our investment in such subsidiary. Additionally, if any of our subsidiaries lose a significant customer, the subsidiary may need to restructure the non recourse debt financing. If such subsidiary is unable to successfully complete a restructuring of the non recourse debt, our investment may become impaired, or we may lose our investment in such subsidiary. At December 31, 2007, we had provided outstanding financial and performance related guarantees or other credit support commitments to or for the benefit of our subsidiaries, which were limited by the terms of the agreements, in an aggregate of approximately $807 million (excluding those collateralized by letters of credit and other obligations discussed below). As a result of the AES Corporations below investment grade rating, counter parties may be unwilling to accept our general unsecured commitments to provide credit support. Accordingly, with respect to both new and existing commitments, we may be required to provide some other form of assurance, such as a letter of credit, to backstop or replace our credit support. We may not be able to provide adequate assurances to such counterparties. In addition, to the extent we are required and able to provide letters of credit or other collateral to such counterparties; this will reduce the amount of credit available to us to meet our other liquidity needs. At December 31, 2007, we had $512 million in letters of credit outstanding, which operate to guarantee performance relating to certain project construction and development activities and subsidiary operations. All of these letters of credit were provided under our revolving credit facility and senior unsecured credit facility. We pay letter of credit fees ranging from 1.63% to 3.94% per annum on the outstanding amounts. In addition, we had less than $1 million in surety bonds outstanding at December 31, 2007. Management believes that cash on hand, along with cash generated through operations, and our financing availability will be sufficient to fund normal operations, capital expenditures, and debt service requirements. Many of our subsidiaries depend on timely and continued access to capital markets to manage their liquidity needs. The inability to raise capital on favorable terms, to refinance existing indebtedness or to fund operations and other commitments during times of political or economic uncertainty may adversely affect those subsidiaries financial condition and results of operations. In addition, changes in 107 the timing of tariff increases or delays in the regulatory determinations under the relevant concessions could affect the cash flows and results of operations in our regulated utility businesses. Capital Expenditures The Company spent $2.5 billion, $1.5 billion and $0.8 billion on capital expenditures in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We anticipate capital expenditures during 2008 to be approximately $3.3 billion. Planned capital expenditures include new project construction costs, environmental pollution control construction and expenditures for existing assets to extend their useful lives. Capital expenditures for 2008 are expected to be financed using internally generated cash provided by operations, project level financing and possibly debt or equity financing at the AES parent company level. The Company continues to assess the possible need for capital expenditures associated with international, federal, regional and state regulation of GHG emissions from electric power generation facilities. Legislation and regulations regarding GHG emissions, if enacted, may place significant costs on GHG emissions from fossil fuel fired electric power generation facilities, particularly coal fired facilities, and in order to comply CO2 emitting facilities may purchase additional GHG emissions allowances or offsets under cap and trade programs or install new pollution control equipment to capture and reduce the amount of GHG emitted from the facilities, in the event that reliable technology to do so is developed. The capital expenditures required to comply with any future GHG legislation and regulations could be significant and unless such costs can be passed on to customers, such regulations could impair the profitability of some of the electric power generation facilities operated by our subsidiaries or render certain of them uneconomical to operate, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. With respect to our operations outside the United States, certain of the businesses operated by the Companys subsidiaries are subject to compliance with EV ETS and the Kyoto Protocol in certain countries and other country specific programs to regulate GHG emissions. To date, compliance with the Kyoto Protocol and EU ETS has not had a material adverse effect on the Companys consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows because of, among other factors, the cost of GHG emission allowances and or the ability of our businesses to pass the cost of purchasing such allowances on to counterparties. As discussed in Item 1 Business Regulatory Matters Environmental and Land Use Regulations, in the United States there presently are no federal laws or regulations regulating GHG emissions, although several legislative proposals are currently under consideration. In 2006, the Companys subsidiaries operated businesses which had total approximate CO2 emissions of 84 million metric tonnes (ownership adjusted and including approximately 6 million metric tonnes from EDC which the Company sold in 2007). Approximately 38 million metric tonnes of the 84 million metric tonnes were emitted in the United States (both figures ownership adjusted). Approximately 12 million metric tonnes were emitted in U.S. states participating in the Regional Green House Gas Initiative (RGGI). At this time, the federal legislative proposals under consideration applicable to electric power generation facilities incorporate market based cap and trade programs which authorize facilities to comply through the acquisition of emissions allowances in lieu of capital expenditures. Certain of the states, either alone or as part of a regional initiative, in which our subsidiaries operate are in the process of developing programs to reduce GHG emissions, primarily CO2, from the electric power generation facilities through cap and trade programs, which would allow CO2 emitting facilities to comply by purchase additional GHG emissions allowances or offsets under cap and trade programs or by installing new pollution control equipment to capture and reduce the amount of GHG emitted from the facilities, in the event that reliable technology to do so is developed. We believe that legislative or regulatory actions, if enacted, may require a material increase in capital expenditures at our subsidiaries. 108 The actual impact on our subsidiaries capital expenditures from any potential federal program to regulate and reduce GHG emissions, if enacted, and the state and regional programs in the process of development, will depend on a number of factors, including among others, the GHG reductions required under any such legislation or regulations, the price and availability of offsets, the extent to which our subsidiaries would be entitled to receive GHG emissions allowances without having to purchase them, the quantity of allowances which our subsidiaries would have to purchase, the price of allowances, our subsidiaries ability to recover or pass through costs incurred to comply with any legislative or regulatory requirements that are ultimately imposed and the use of market based compliance options such as cap and trade programs. Another factor is the success of our climate solutions business, which may generate credits that will help offset our GHG emissions. However, as set forth in the Risk Factor titled "Our Alternative Energy businesses face uncertain operational risks," there is no guarantee that the climate solutions business will be successful. And even if our climate solutions business is successful, the level of benefit is unclear with regard to the impact of legislation or litigation concerning GHG emissions. Cash Flows Favorable/(Unfavorable) Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 07 vs. 06 06 vs. 05 (in millions) (Restated) (Restated) Operating $ 2,357 $ 2,351 $ 2,220 $ 6 $ 131 Investing (1,970 ) (907 ) (653 ) (1,063 ) (254 ) Financing 244 (1,317 ) (1,339 ) 1,561 22 At December 31, 2007, cash and cash equivalents increased by $700 million from December 31, 2006 to a total of $2.1 billion. The change in cash was due to $2.4 billion of cash provided by operating activities, $2.0 billion of cash used for investing activities, $244 million of cash provided by financing activities and the positive effect of exchange rates on cash of $69 million. Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $6 million to $2,357 million during 2007 compared to $2,351 million during 2006. Excluding the decrease in net cash provided by operating activities from EDC, which was sold in May 2007, net cash provided by operating activities would have increased $119 million. This increase of $6 million was primarily due to: $251 million increase in net earnings (adjusted for non cash items); $61 million decrease in payments related to an energy price swap in 2006 at New York in the U.S. and derivatives in 2006 at Eletropaulo in Brazil; $50 million decrease in pension payments; $47 million increase as a result of settlements paid in the prior year; offset by $150 million increase in cash used for working capital; $142 million increase in cash taxes paid; $43 million decrease as a result of settlements received in the prior year; $44 million increase in interest paid; and other changes in accrued liabilities. 109 The $594 million increase in "adjustments to net income" was primarily due to the reversal of non cash adjustments for: $470 million loss in 2006 on the sale by Transg&aacute;s of Eletropaulo shares; $135 million settlement gain in 2007 for a lease buyout at New York; $133 million increase in gain on sale of investments due to the 11.09% sale of ownership in Gener in Chile in 2007; $55 million decrease in loss on extinguishment of debt compared to 2006 at several of our Latin American businesses, offset by an increase in 2007 at the Parent Company. These increases were offset by $493 million of non cash adjustments attributable to EDC, including asset impairment expense of $680 million; $391 million increase in asset impairment expense primarily at Uruguaiana in Brazil; $220 million increase in provision for deferred taxes; and $9 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense. The following table includes details of changes in operating assets and liabilities on the face of the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows: 2007 2006 Change (Restated) (in millions) (Increase) decrease in accounts receivable $ (306 ) $ 94 $ (400 ) Increase in inventory (26 ) (3 ) (23 ) Decrease (increase) in prepaid expenses and other current assets 335 (69 ) 404 (Increase) decrease in other assets (134 ) 149 (283 ) Decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities (398 ) (385 ) (13 ) Increase in other liabilities 121 52 69 Total $ (408 ) $ (162 ) $ (246 ) Accounts receivable increased in the current year primarily due to the increase of receivables from distributors without contracts associated with the governments resolution Resoluci&oacute;n Ministerial No. 88, ("RM 88") at Gener. This resolution requires the generation companies to sell electricity at spot price to small or medium size distribution companies that could not contract its required energy and allows these distributors to pay the regulated price at the following month of delivery and defer the payment of the difference between the spot price and the regulated price. Accounts receivable also increased as a result of increased sales due to higher pricing at Eastern Energy and IPL in the U.S. and increased volume at our Panama subsidiary. Inventory increased in the current year primarily due to a plant outage which resulted in a lack of consumption at Andres in the Dominican Republic. This increase was offset by a decrease in inventory at Eastern Energy due to higher production driven by higher pricing. Prepaid expenses and other current assets decreased in the current year due to a decrease in regulatory assets at Eletropaulo associated with an annual tariff readjustment, offset by an increase in value added taxes at Gener as a result of higher fuel oil consumption and an increase in income tax receivables. Other assets increased in the current year primarily due to the increase in recoverable taxes at Eletropaulo. 110 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities decreased in the current year mainly due to a decrease in regulatory liabilities related to free energy reductions and a decrease in efficiency energy costs at Eletropaulo. Other liabilities increased in the current year mainly due to an increase in regulatory liabilities at Eletropaulo. Investing Activities Net cash used for investing activities in 2007 totaled $1,970 million compared to $907 million during 2006, an increase of $1,063 million. This increase was primarily attributable to the following: Capital expenditures totaled $2,425 million during 2007, a $965 million increase over the $1,460 million balance for 2006. This was mainly due to increased spending of $254 million for the Maritza East 1 lignite fired power plant in Bulgaria, $109 million for the Changuinola project in Panama, $89 million for the Ventanas coal plant and $44 million for the Santa Lidia project, both at Gener in Chile, $72 million for the flue gas desulphurization plant at Kilroot in Ireland, $54 million at Eletropaulo in Brazil primarily for grid expansion and maintenance projects, $48 million related to our facility in Jordan and $39 million at New York in the U.S. related to Somerset and Cayuga facilities. In addition, there was increased spending related to wind development projects of $233 million at our Alternative Energy Group businesses. These increases were offset by a decrease of $53 million due to the sale of EDC in Venezuela. Acquisitions, net of cash acquired totaled $315 million in 2007, a $296 million increase over the $19 million during 2006. This increase was mainly due to the purchase of two 230 MW petroleum coke fired power plants at TEG/TEP in Mexico in the first quarter of 2007 for approximately $195 million, the purchase of a 51% interest in a joint venture with 26 MW existing capacity and a 390 MW development pipeline of hydroelectric projects in Turkey for approximately $76 million and the purchase of Storm Lake and Lake Benton at Mid West Wind in the U.S. for approximately $60 million. Proceeds from the sales of businesses totaled $1,136 million in 2007 and $898 million in 2006. The proceeds in 2007 included $739 million for the sale of EDC, $331 million for the proceeds from the sale of approximately 11.09% of our shares in AES Gener, $51 million for the sale of Central Valley in the U.S. and $17 million for the sale of Eden in Argentina. In 2006 proceeds included $522 million from the sale by Transg&aacute;s of Eletropaulo preferred shares and $80 million in a related sale by Brasiliana of its preferred shares in Eletropaulo, $123 million from the sale of approximately 7.6% of our shares in AES Gener, $110 million from the sale of our Kingston business in Canada, $33 million from the sale of unissued shares at EDC and $28 million from the sale of Indian Queens in England. The purchase of short term investments, net of sales totaled $490 million in 2007, a $142 million increase compared to 2006. These transactions included a $167 million increase in net purchases at Uruguaiana in Brazil due to new investments, $166 million increase in net purchases at Eletropaulo due to the restructuring of Eletropaulo shares held by AES Transg&aacute;s as well as the acquisition of public debt and securities and $96 million increase in net purchases at Ekibastuz in Kazakhstan for loan collateral. This was offset by a $149 million decrease in net purchases at Tiet&ecirc; in Brazil as the result of a change in investment strategy in 2006 from investing in cash equivalents to investing in Brazilian government bonds, $84 million increase in net sales at Brasiliana primarily due to redemptions to provide dividends and the accrued interest on debentures and a $62 million decrease in net purchases at Gener. Restricted cash balances increased $28 million in 2007. Restricted cash balances increased $59 million at New York, $30 million at Maritza, $27 million at Mid West Wind and $21 million at Red Oak in the U.S. These were offset by decreases of $43 million at Kilroot, $33 million at IPL and $16 million at Hawaii. 111 Proceeds from the sale of emission allowances totaled $17 million in 2007, a $65 million decrease from 2006. These sales occurred primarily at our businesses located in the U.S. and in Europe in 2006. Purchases of emission allowances totaled $13 million in 2007, a $64 million decrease from 2006. These purchases were primarily at our businesses located in the U.S. in 2006. Included in the purchases during 2006 is a $45 million commitment to purchase CER credits from AgCert. AgCert is an Ireland based company which uses agricultural sources to produce GHG emission offsets under the Kyoto protocol. Debt service reserves and other assets decreased $122 million in 2007. This was mainly due to decreases of $113 million at Kilroot, $12 million at Pak Gen and $10 million at Lal Pir, both located in Pakistan, and $11 million at Hawaii. These decreases were offset by an increase of $43 million at Eletropaulo. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities totaled $244 million during 2007 compared to net cash used of $1,317 million during 2006. This $1,561 million change was primarily attributable to a decrease in cash used for debt, net of repayments of $1,686 million, an increase in contributions from minority interests of $249 million offset by an increase in payments for deferred financing for $11 million and an increase in distributions to minority interests for $364 million. Issuances of recourse debt and non recourse debt during 2007 were $4,297 million compared to issuances of recourse debt, non recourse debt and revolving credit facilities, net of $3,169 million during 2006. This increase of $1,128 million was primarily due to an increase in recourse debt at the Parent Company of $2 billion; and increases in non recourse debt at TEG/TEP in Mexico of $454 million and at Eletropaulo in Brazil of $301 million. These increases were offset by a decrease in non recourse debt at Brasiliana in Brazil for $744 million; at Sul in Brazil for $494 million; at Panama for $293 million, net; at CAESS in El Salvador for $223 million and at Itabo in Dominican Republic for $153 million, net. Repayments of recourse debt, non recourse debt and revolving credit facilities, net during 2007 were $3,651 million compared to repayments of recourse debt and non recourse debt of $4,209 million during 2006. The decrease of $558 million was primarily due to a decrease in repayments at Brasiliana of $1,032 million; at Sul of $483 million; at Panama of $386 million, net; at Tiet&ecirc; in Brazil of $321 million; and at CAESS of $192 million, net. These decreases were offset by an increase in repayments at the Parent Company for $1,164 million, net and at TEG/TEP for $457 million. Minority distributions were $699 million during 2007 compared to $335 million during 2006. This increase of $364 million includes dividends paid to minority shareholders primarily by Eletropaulo for $212 million and by Brasiliana for $141 million and a $26 million return of capital by Barka in Oman to its minority partner. Minority contributions were $374 million during 2007 compared to $125 million during 2006. This increase of $249 million was primarily due to contributions received from the tax equity partners in 2007 of $313 million at Buffalo Gap II and $31 million at Mid West Wind, both located in the U.S., offset by a decrease of $117 million at Buffalo Gap in the U.S in 2006. 112 Contractual Obligations A summary of our contractual obligations, commitments and other liabilities as of December 31, 2007 is presented in the table below (in millions): Contractual Obligations Total Less than 1 year 1 3 years 4 5 years 5 years and more Other Footnote Reference Debt Obligations(1) $ 17,946 $ 1,359 $ 2,588 $ 2,597 $ 11,402 $ 8 Interest Payments on Long Term Debt(2) 10,904 1,466 2,627 2,058 4,753 n/a Capital Lease Obligations(3) 173 11 18 15 129 10 Operating Lease Obligations(4) 677 66 127 126 358 10 Sale Leaseback Obligations(5) 783 39 80 87 577 10 Electricity Obligations(6) 46,224 2,881 5,586 5,525 32,232 10 Fuel Obligations(7) 10,905 1,325 1,878 1,695 6,007 10 Other Purchase Obligations(8) 26,085 1,459 1,646 1,661 21,319 10 Other Long term Liabilities Reflected on AESs Consolidated Balance Sheet under GAAP(9) 1,373 148 239 122 677 187 n/a Total $ 115,070 $ 8,754 $ 14,789 $ 13,886 $ 77,454 $ 187 (1)Includes recourse and non recourse debt presented on the Consolidated Financial Statements. Non recourse debt borrowings are not a direct obligation of AES, the Parent Company. Recourse debt represents the direct borrowings of AES, the Parent Company. See Note 8 Long Term Debt to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K which provides additional disclosure regarding these obligations. These amounts exclude capital lease obligations which are included in the capital lease category,(3) below. (2)Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2007 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or new debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2007. (3)Several AES subsidiaries have leases for operating and office equipment and vehicles that are classified as capital leases within Property, Plant and Equipment. Minimum contractual obligations include $111 million of imputed interest. (4)The Company was obligated under long term non cancelable operating leases, primarily for office rental and site leases. These amounts exclude amounts related to the sale/leaseback discussed below in item(5). (5)Sale/Leaseback Obligations represent a sales/leaseback with operating lease treatment at one of our New York Subsidiaries. (6)Operating subsidiaries of the Company have entered into contracts for the purchase of electricity from third parties. (7)Operating subsidiaries of the Company have entered into fuel purchase contracts subject to termination only in certain limited circumstances. (8)Amounts relate to other contractual obligations where the Company has an enforceable and legally binding agreement to purchase goods or services that specifies all significant terms, including: quantity, pricing, and approximate timing. These amounts include planned capital expenditures that are contractually obligated. (9)These amounts do not include current liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet except for the current portion of FIN No. 48 obligations. See the indicated notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K for additional information on the items excluded. Derivatives (See Note 9 Derivative Instruments) and incentive compensation are excluded as the Company is not able to reasonably estimate the timing or amount of the future payments. In addition, the amounts do not include: (1) regulatory liabilities (See Note 4 Regulatory Assets and Liabilities), (2) contingencies (See Note 11 Contingencies), (3) pension and other post retirement employee benefit liabilities (see Note 12 Benefit Plans) or (4) any taxes (See Note 18 Income Taxes) except for FIN No. 48 obligations. Noncurrent FIN No. 48 obligations are reflected in the "Other" column of the table above as the Company is not able to reasonably estimate the timing of the future payments. 113  Parent Company Liquidity The following discussion of "parent company liquidity" has been included because we believe it is a useful measure of the liquidity available to the AES Corporation, or the Parent Company, given the non recourse nature of most of our indebtedness. Parent company liquidity as outlined below is a non GAAP measure and should not be construed as an alternative to cash and cash equivalents which are determined in accordance with GAAP, as a measure of liquidity. Cash and cash equivalents are disclosed in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and the parent only unconsolidated statements of cash flows in Schedule I of this Form 10 K. Parent company liquidity may differ from that, of similarly titled measures used by other companies. The principal sources of liquidity at the parent company level are: dividends and other distributions from our subsidiaries, including refinancing proceeds; proceeds from debt and equity financings at the parent company level, including borrowings under our credit facilities; and proceeds from asset sales. Cash requirements at the parent company level are primarily to fund: interest and preferred dividends; principal repayments of debt; acquisitions; construction commitments; other equity commitments; taxes; and parent company overhead and development costs. On October 15, 2007, the Company issued $2.0 billion of Senior Unsecured Notes ("Senior Notes") at par. The private placement of Senior Notes consisted of $500 million principal amount of 7.75% Senior Notes due 2015 and $1.5 billion principal amount of 8.0% senior notes due 2017. On December 7, 2007, the Company exchanged the previously issued private placement $2.0 billion senior unsecured notes for registered securities with the same terms through our Form S 4 declared effective on December 19, 2007 filed with the SEC. The Company used the net proceeds from the sale of the senior notes primarily to refinance a portion of its recourse debt as discussed below and plans to use the remainder to support near term investments and for general corporate purposes. On October 16, 2007, the Company made an offer to repurchase for cash up to $1.24 billion aggregate principal amount of our 8.75% Senior Notes due 2008 (the "2008 Notes"), the 9.00% Second Priority Senior Secured Notes due 2015 (the "2015 Notes") and the 8.75% Second Priority Senior Secured Notes due 2013 (the "2013 Notes" and together with the 2015 Notes, the "Second Priority Notes"). Early settlement for the tender offer was provided on October 30, 2007 with final settlement on November 14, 2007. Pursuant to the terms of the tender offer, the Company repurchased $193 million of the principal amount of the 2008 Notes, the entire $600 million principal amount of the 2015 Notes and $447 million principal amount of the 2013 Notes. The total purchase price for the tender offer was $1.36 billion which included tender premiums and accrued interest of approximately $73 million and $51 million, respectively. The Company recognized a pre tax loss on the retirement of this debt for the year ended December 31, 2007 of $90 million which included $73 million of tender consideration and a $17 million write off of unamortized deferred financing costs relating to the 2008, 114 2013 and 2015 Notes. As a result of the final settlement, none of the 2015 Notes, approximately $9.3 million principal amount of the 2008 Notes and approximately $752.6 million principal amount of the 2013 Notes remained outstanding as of December 31, 2007. In December 2006, the AES Corporation exercised its right to increase the revolving credit facility by $100 million to a total of $750 million. As of December 31, 2007, there were no outstanding borrowings against the revolving credit facility. The Parent Company had $230 million of letters of credit outstanding against the revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2007. The Parent Company entered into a $500 million senior unsecured credit facility agreement effective March 31, 2006. On May 1, 2006, the Parent Company exercised its option to extend the total amount of the senior unsecured credit facility by an additional $100 million to a total of $600 million. At December 31, 2007, the Parent Company had no outstanding borrowings under the senior unsecured credit facility. The Parent Company had $282 million of letters of credit outstanding against the senior unsecured credit facility as of December 31, 2007. The credit facility is being used to support our ongoing share of construction obligation for AES Maritza East 1 and for general corporate purposes. The Company defines Parent Company Liquidity as cash available to the parent company plus available borrowings under existing credit facilities. Parent Company Liquidity is reconciled to its most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, "cash and cash equivalents" at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 as follows: Parent Company Liquidity 2007 2006 2005 (Restated) (Restated) (in millions) Cash and cash equivalents $ 2,058 $ 1,358 $ 1,169 Less: Cash and cash equivalents at subsidiaries 743 1,101 901 Parent and qualified holding companies cash and cash equivalents 1,315 257 268 Borrowing available under revolving credit facility 520 662 356 Borrowing available under senior unsecured credit facility 318 227 Total parent company liquidity $ 2,153 $ 1,146 $ 624 Our recourse debt at year end was approximately $5.6 billion, $4.8 billion, and $4.9 billion in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Our contingent contractual obligations were $1.3 billion, $995 million, and 115 $802 million at the end of 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. The following table sets forth our Parent Company contingent contractual obligations as of December 31, 2007: Contingent Contractual Obligations Amount Number of Agreements Maximum Exposure Range for Each Agreement (in millions) (in millions) Guarantees $ 807 32 &lt;$1$167 Letters of credit under the revolving credit facility 230 16 &lt;$1$178 Letters of credit under the senior unsecured credit facility 282 13 &lt;$1$196 Surety bonds(1) 1 &lt;$1 Total $ 1,319 62 (1)Less than $1 million in surety bonds outstanding We have a varied portfolio of performance related contingent contractual obligations. These obligations are designed to cover potential risks and only require payment if certain targets are not met or certain contingencies occur. The risks associated with these obligations include change of control, construction cost overruns, subsidiary default, political risk, tax indemnities, spot market power prices, supplies support and liquidated damages under power sales agreements for projects in development, in operation and under construction. While we do not expect that we will be required to fund any material amounts under these contingent contractual obligations during 2008 or beyond, many of the events which would give rise to such obligations are beyond our control. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to fund our obligations under these contingent contractual obligations if we are required to make substantial payments there under. While we believe that our sources of liquidity will be adequate to meet our needs through the end of 2008, this belief is based on a number of material assumptions, including, without limitation, assumptions about our ability to access the capital markets, the operating and financial performance of our subsidiaries, exchange rates, power market pool prices, and the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends. In addition, our subsidiaries ability to declare and pay cash dividends to us (at the parent company level) is subject to certain limitations contained in loans, governmental provisions and other agreements. We can provide no assurance that these sources will be available when needed or that the actual cash requirements will not be greater than anticipated. We have met our interim needs for shorter term and working capital financing at the parent company level with our revolving credit facility and senior unsecured credit facility. See Item 1A Risk Factors, the AES Corporation is a holding company and its ability to make payments on its outstanding indebtedness, including its public debt securities, is dependent upon the receipt of funds from its subsidiaries by way of dividends, fees, interest, loans or otherwise. Various debt instruments at the parent company level, including our senior secured credit facilities, contain certain restrictive covenants. The covenants provide for, among other items: limitations on other indebtedness, liens, investments and guarantees; restrictions on dividends, redemptions, and payments of unsecured and subordinated debt and the use of proceeds; restrictions on mergers and acquisitions, sales of assets, leases, transactions with affiliates and off balance sheet and derivative arrangements; maintenance of certain financial ratios; and 116 financial and other reporting requirements. Non Recourse Debt Financing While the lenders under our non recourse debt financings generally do not have direct recourse to the Parent Company, defaults thereunder can still have important consequences for our results of operations and liquidity, including, without limitation: reducing our cash flows as the subsidiary will typically be prohibited from distributing cash to the parent level during the time period of any default; triggering our obligation to make payments under any financial guarantee, letter of credit or other credit support we have provided to or on behalf of such subsidiary; causing us to record a loss in the event the lender forecloses on the assets; and triggering defaults in our outstanding debt at the parent level. For example, our senior secured credit facilities and outstanding debt securities at the parent level include events of default for certain bankruptcy related events involving material subsidiaries. In addition, our revolving credit agreement at the parent level includes events of default related to payment defaults and accelerations of outstanding debt of material subsidiaries. Some of our subsidiaries are currently in default with respect to all or a portion of their outstanding indebtedness. The total debt classified as current in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets related to such defaults was $118 million at December 31, 2007, all of which was non recourse debt. None of the subsidiaries that are currently in default are subsidiaries that currently meet the applicable definition of materiality in AESs corporate debt agreements in order for such defaults to trigger an event of default or permit acceleration under such indebtedness. However, as a result of additional dispositions of assets, other significant reductions in asset carrying values or other matters in the future that may impact our financial position and results of operations, it is possible that one or more of these subsidiaries could fall within the definition of a "material subsidiary" and thereby upon an acceleration trigger an event of default and possible acceleration of the indebtedness under the AES parent companys outstanding debt securities. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In May 1999, one of our subsidiaries acquired six electric generating plants from New York State Electric and Gas. Concurrently, the subsidiary sold two of the plants to an unrelated third party for $666 million and simultaneously entered into a leasing arrangement with the unrelated party. In May 2007, the subsidiary purchased a portion of the lessors interest in a trust estate that holds the leased plants. Future minimum lease commitments under the lease agreement have been reduced by the subsidiarys interest in the plants. We have accounted for this transaction as a sale/leaseback transaction with operating lease treatment. We expense periodic lease payments as incurred, which amounted to $42 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 and $54 million for each of the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. We are not subject to any additional liabilities or contingencies if the arrangement terminates and we believe that the dissolution of the off balance sheet arrangement would have minimal effects on our operating cash flows. The terms of the lease include restrictive covenants such as the maintenance of certain coverage ratios. Historically, the plants have satisfied the restrictive covenants of the lease and there are no known trends or uncertainties that would indicate that the lease will be terminated early. See Note 10 Commitments to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K for a more complete discussion of this transaction. 117 IPL, a consolidated subsidiary of the Company, formed IPL Funding Corporation ("IPL Funding") in 1996 as a special purpose entity to purchase retail receivables originated by IPL pursuant to a receivables sale agreement entered into with IPL. At the same time, IPL Funding entered into a purchase facility (the "Purchase Facility") with unrelated parties (the "Purchasers") pursuant to which the Purchasers agree to purchase from IPL Funding, on a revolving basis, up to $50 million, of interests in the pool of receivables purchased from IPL. As collections reduce accounts receivable included in the pool, IPL Funding sells ownership interests in additional receivables acquired from IPL to return the ownership interests sold up to a maximum of $50 million, as permitted by the Purchase Facility. During 2007, the Purchase Facility was extended through May 27, 2008. IPL Funding is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements of IPL. Accounts receivable on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets are stated net of the $50 million sold. IPL retains servicing responsibilities for its role as a collection agent on the amounts due on the sold receivables. However, the Purchasers assume the risk of collection on the purchased receivables without recourse to IPL in the event of a loss. While no direct recourse to IPL exists, it risks loss in the event collections are not sufficient to allow for full recovery of its retained interests. No servicing asset or liability is recognized since the servicing fee paid to IPL approximates a market rate. The carrying values of the retained interest is determined by allocating the carrying value of the receivables between the assets sold and the interests retained based on relative fair value. The key assumptions in estimating fair value are credit losses, the selection of discount rates, and expected receivables turnover rate. As a result of short accounts receivable turnover periods and historically low credit losses, the impact of these assumptions have not been significant to the fair value. The hypothetical effect on the fair value of the retained interests assuming both a 10% and a 20% unfavorable variation in credit losses or discount rates is not material due to the short turnover of receivables and historically low credit loss history. The losses recognized on the sales of receivables were $3 million, $3 million and $2 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. These losses are included in other operating expense on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The amount of the losses recognized depends on the previous carrying amount of the financial assets involved in the transfer, allocated between the assets sold and the interests that continue to be held by the transferor based on their relative fair value at the date of transfer, and the proceeds received. IPLs retained interest in the receivables sold was $64 million and $63 million as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. There were no proceeds from new securitizations for each of the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. Servicing fees of $0.6 million were paid for each of the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. IPL and IPL Funding provide certain indemnities to the Purchasers, including indemnification in the event that there is a breach of representations and warranties made with respect to the purchased receivables. IPL Funding and IPL each have agreed to indemnify the Purchasers on an after tax basis for any and all damages, losses, claims, liabilities, penalties, taxes, costs and expenses at any time imposed on or incurred by the indemnified parties arising out of or otherwise relating to the purchase facility, subject to certain limitations as defined in the Purchase Facility. Under the Purchase Facility, if IPL fails to maintain certain financial covenants regarding interest coverage and debt to capital ratios, it would constitute a "termination event." As of December 31, 2007, IPL was in compliance with such covenants. As a result of IPLs current credit rating, the facility agent has the ability to (i) replace IPL as the collection agent; and (ii) declare a "lock box" event. Under a lock box event or a termination event, the facility agent has the ability to require all proceeds of purchased receivables of IPL to be directed to lock box accounts within 45 days of notifying IPL. A termination event would also (i) give the facility 118 agent the option to take control of the lock box account, and (ii) give the Purchasers the option to discontinue the purchase of additional interests in receivables and cause all proceeds of the purchased interests to be used to reduce the Purchasers investment and to pay other amounts owed to the Purchasers and the facility agent. This would have the effect of reducing the operating capital available to IPL by the aggregate amount of such purchased interests in receivables (currently $50 million). ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Overview Regarding Market Risks We are exposed to market risks associated with interest rates, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices. We often utilize financial instruments and other contracts to hedge against such fluctuations. We also utilize financial derivatives for the purpose of hedging exposures to market risk. Interest Rate Risks We are exposed to risk resulting from changes in interest rates as a result of our issuance of variable rate debt, fixed rate debt and trust preferred securities, as well as interest rate swap, cap and floor and option agreements. Decisions on the fixed floating debt ratio are made to be consistent with the risk factors faced by individual businesses or plants. Depending on whether a plants capacity payments or revenue stream is fixed or varies with inflation, we partially hedge against interest rate fluctuations by arranging fixed rate or variable rate financing. In certain cases, particularly for non recourse financing, we execute interest rate swap, cap and floor agreements to effectively fix or limit the interest rate exposure on the underlying financing. Foreign Exchange Rate Risk In the normal course of business, we are exposed to foreign currency risk and other foreign operations risk that arise from investments in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. A key component of this risk stems from the fact that some of our foreign subsidiaries and affiliates utilize currencies other than our consolidated reporting currency, the U.S. Dollar. Additionally, certain of our foreign subsidiaries and affiliates have entered into monetary obligations in U.S. Dollars or currencies other than their own functional currencies. Primarily, we are exposed to changes in the exchange rate between the U.S. Dollar and the following currencies: Brazilian Real, Argentine Peso, Kazakhstani Tenge, British Pound, Euro, Colombian Peso, and Chilean Peso. These subsidiaries and affiliates have attempted to limit potential foreign exchange exposure by entering into revenue contracts that adjust to changes in foreign exchange rates. We also use foreign currency forwards, swaps and options, where possible, to manage our risk related to certain foreign currency fluctuations. Commodity Price Risk We are exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the price of electricity, fuels and environmental credits. Although we primarily consist of businesses with long term contracts or retail sales concessions, a portion of our current and expected future revenues are derived from businesses without significant long term revenue or supply contracts. These businesses subject our results of operations to the volatility of prices for electricity, fuels and environmental credits in competitive markets. We have used a hedging strategy, where appropriate, to hedge our financial performance against the effects of fluctuations in energy commodity prices. The implementation of this strategy can involve the use of commodity forward contracts, futures, swaps and options. Some businesses hedge certain aspects of their commodity risks using financial hedge instruments. We also enter into short term contracts for the supply of electricity and fuel in other competitive markets in which we operate. 119 Value at Risk One approach we use to assess our risk and our subsidiaries risk is value at risk ("VaR"). VaR measures the potential loss in a portfolios value due to market volatility, over a specified time horizon, stated with a specific degree of probability. In particular, we measure Analytic VaR, which is calculated based on the volatilities and correlations of the different risk exposures of the portfolio. The quantification of market risk using VaR provides a consistent measure of risk across diverse markets and instruments. We adopted the VaR approach because we feel that statistical models of risk measurement, such as VaR, provide an objective, independent assessment of a component of our risk exposure. Our use of VaR requires a number of key assumptions, including the selection of a confidence level for expected losses, the holding period for liquidation and the treatment of risks outside the VaR methodology, including liquidity risk and event risk. VaR, therefore, is not necessarily indicative of actual results that may occur. Additionally, VaR represents changes in fair value of financial instruments and not the economic exposure to AES and its affiliates. Because of the inherent limitations of VaR, including those specific to Analytic VaR, in particular the assumption that values or returns are normally distributed, we rely on VaR as only one component in our risk assessment process. In addition to using VaR measures, we perform stress and scenario analyses to estimate the economic impact of market changes to our portfolio of businesses. We use these results to complement the VaR methodology. In addition, the relevance of the VaR described herein as a measure of economic risk, is limited and needs to be considered in light of the underlying business structure. The interest rate component of VaR is due to changes in the fair value of our fixed rate debt instruments and interest rate swaps. These instruments themselves would expose a holder to market risk; however, utilizing these fixed rate debt instruments as part of a fixed price contract generation business mitigates the overall exposure to interest rates. Similarly, our foreign exchange rate sensitive instruments are often part of businesses which have revenues denominated in the same currency, thus offsetting the exposure. We have performed a company wide VaR analysis of all of our material financial assets, liabilities and derivative instruments. Embedded derivatives are not appropriately measured here and are excluded since VaR is not representative of the overall contract valuation. The VaR calculation incorporates numerous variables that could impact the fair value of our instruments, including interest rates, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices, as well as correlation within and across these variables. We express Analytic VaR herein as a dollar amount of the potential loss in the fair value of our portfolio based on a 95% confidence level and a one day holding period. Our commodity analysis is an Analytic VaR utilizing a variance covariance analysis within the commodity transaction management system. Average Daily VAR 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) Foreign Exchange $ 45 $ 36 $ 34 Interest Rate $ 98 $ 76 $ 114 Commodity $ 14 $ 24 $ 19 For the year ended December 31, 2007, our average one day VaR at quarter end for foreign exchange rate sensitive instruments was $45 million. The one day VaR for foreign exchange rate sensitive instruments was highest at the end of the third quarter, and equaled $61 million. The one day VaR for foreign exchange rate sensitive instruments was lowest at the end of the second quarter, and equaled $28 million. These amounts include foreign currency denominated debt and hedge instruments. AES has increased the percentage of its portfolio of Brazilian Real and Euro denominated floating rate debt. This increase in notionals, along with higher currency market volatilities, particularly for the Brazilian Real, has led to the increase in the average one day quarter end VaR for foreign exchange rate sensitive instruments from $36 million in 2006 to $45 million in 2007. 120 For the year ended December 31, 2007, our average one day VaR at quarter end for interest rate sensitive instruments was $98 million. The one day VaR for interest rate sensitive instruments was highest at the end of the fourth quarter, and equaled $137 million. The one day VaR for interest rate sensitive instruments was lowest at the end of the second quarter and equaled $67 million. These amounts include the financial instruments that serve as hedges and the underlying hedged items. AES has increased its fixed rate dollar denominated debt in 2007. This, along with higher market volatilities, led to an increase in our average one day quarter end VaR for interest rate sensitive instruments from $76 million in 2006 to $98 million in 2007. For the year ended December 31, 2007, our average one day VaR at quarter end for commodity price sensitive instruments was $14 million. The one day VaR for commodity price sensitive instruments was highest at the end of the first quarter end, and equaled $18 million. The one day VaR for commodity price sensitive instruments was lowest at the end of the second and third quarters, and equaled $12 million. These amounts include the financial instruments that serve as hedges and do not include the underlying physical assets or contracts that are not permitted to be settled in cash. The one day VaR for commodity price sensitive instruments is reported for financially settled derivative products at our Eastern Energy business in the state of New York. From 2006 to 2007 there has been a decrease in term and magnitude of hedging activity which has led to the decrease in the one day quarter end VaR from $24 million in 2006 to $14 million in 2007. 121  
 
