Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. If any of the following events actually occur, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. Risks Associated with our Disclosure Controls and Internal Control over Financial Reporting We recently completed the remediation of our material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting. However, our disclosure controls and procedures may not be effective in future periods if our judgments prove incorrect or new material weaknesses are identified. For each of the fiscal quarters since December 31, 2004 through September 30, 2008, our management reported material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency (within the meaning of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board ("PCAOB") Auditing Standard No. 5), or a combination of deficiencies, that adversely affects a companys ability to initiate, authorize, record, process, or report external financial data reliably in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. As a result of these material weaknesses, our management concluded that for each of the fiscal quarters since December 31, 2004 through September 30, 2008, we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective to provide reasonable assurance that financial information that we are required to disclose in our reports under the Exchange Act was recorded, processed, summarized and reported accurately. To address these material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, each time we prepared our annual and quarterly reports we performed additional analyses and other post closing procedures. These additional procedures were costly, time consuming and required us to dedicate a significant amount of our resources, including the time and attention of our senior management, toward the correction of these problems. Nevertheless, even with these additional procedures, the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting caused us to have errors in our financial statements and since 2003 we had to restate our annual financial statements six times to correct these errors. The material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting also caused us to delay the filing of certain quarterly and annual reports with the SEC to dates that went beyond the deadline prescribed by the SECs rules to file such reports. Under SEC rules, failure to timely file these reports prohibited us for a period of twelve months from offering and selling our securities pursuant to our shelf registration statement on Form S 3, which impaired our ability to access the capital markets through the public sale of registered securities in a timely manner. The failure to file our annual and quarterly reports with the SEC in a timely fashion also resulted in covenant defaults under our senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing certain of our outstanding debt securities. Such defaults required us to obtain a waiver from the lenders under the senior secured credit facility; however the default under the indentures was cured upon the filing of the reports within the permitted grace period. In addition to these problems, the material weaknesses in internal controls, the restatements of our financial statements and the delay in the filing of our annual and quarterly reports exposed us to other risks including, but not limited to: litigation or an expansion of the SECs informal inquiry into our restatements or the commencement of formal proceedings by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which could require us to incur significant legal expenses and other costs or to pay damages, fines or other penalties; 54 Table of Contents negative publicity; ratings downgrades; or the loss or impairment of investor confidence in the Company. As of December 31, 2008, our management has reported in this Annual Report on Form 10 K that for the first time in four years all of our previously identified material weaknesses had been remediated and that our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls were effective. For a discussion of our completed remediation efforts and management assessment of our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls, see Item 9AControls and Procedures in this Form 10 K. In making their assessment about the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures, management had to make certain judgments and it is possible that any number of their judgments were wrong and that our remediation efforts did not fully and completely cure the previously identified material weaknesses. There is also the possibility that there are other material weaknesses in our internal control that are unknown to us or that new material weaknesses may develop in the future. The existence of any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting would subject us to all of the risks described above. Furthermore, any evaluation of the effectiveness of controls is subject to risks that those internal controls may become inadequate in future periods because of changes in business conditions, changes in accounting practice or policy, or that the degree of compliance with the revised policies or procedures deteriorates over time. Management, including our CEO and CFO, does not expect that our internal controls will prevent or detect all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Our identification of material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting caused us to miss deadlines for certain SEC filings and if further filing delays occur, they could result in negative attention and or legal consequences for the Company. Our identification of the material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting caused us to delay the filing of certain quarterly and annual reports with the SEC to dates that went beyond the deadline prescribed by the SECs rules to file such reports. We did not timely file with the SEC our quarterly and annual reports for the year ended December 31, 2005, our quarterly reports for the second and third quarters of 2006, our annual report for the year ended December 31, 2006, and our quarterly report for the quarter ended March 31, 2007. Under SEC rules, failure to timely file these reports prohibited us for a twelve month period from offering and selling our securities pursuant to our shelf registration statement on Form S 3, which impaired our ability to access the capital markets through the public sale of registered securities in a timely manner. The failure to file our annual and quarterly reports with the SEC in a timely fashion also resulted in covenant defaults under our senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing certain of our outstanding debt securities. Such defaults required us to obtain a waiver from the lenders under the senior secured credit facility; however the default under the indentures was cured upon the filing of the reports within the permitted grace period. If we identify new material weaknesses, there will continue to be an increased risk that we will be unable to timely file future periodic reports with the SEC and that a related default under our senior secured credit facility and indentures could occur. In addition, the material weaknesses in internal controls, the restatements of our financial statements, and the delay in the filing of our annual and 55 Table of Contents quarterly reports and any similar problems in the future could have other adverse effects on our business, including, but not limited to: impairing our ability to access the capital markets, including, but not limited to the inability to offer and sell securities pursuant to a shelf registration statement on Form S 3; litigation or an expansion of the SECs informal inquiry into our restatements or the commencement of formal proceedings by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which could require us to incur significant legal expenses and other costs or to pay damages, fines or other penalties; additional covenant defaults, and potential events of default, under our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing our outstanding debt securities, resulting from our failure to timely file our financial statements; negative publicity; ratings downgrades; or the loss or impairment of investor confidence in the Company. Risks Related to our High Level of Indebtedness We have a significant amount of debt, a large percentage of which is secured, which could adversely affect our business and the ability to fulfill our obligations. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $18.1 billion of outstanding indebtedness on a consolidated basis. All outstanding borrowings under The AES Corporations senior secured credit facility, our Second Priority Senior Secured Notes and certain other indebtedness are secured by certain of our assets, including the pledge of capital stock of many of The AES Corporations directly held subsidiaries. Most of the debt of The AES Corporations subsidiaries is secured by substantially all of the assets of those subsidiaries. Since we have such a high level of debt, a substantial portion of cash flow from operations must be used to make payments on this debt. Furthermore, since a significant percentage of our assets are used to secure this debt, this reduces the amount of collateral that is available for future secured debt or credit support and reduces our flexibility in dealing with these secured assets. This high level of indebtedness and related security could have other important consequences to us and our investors, including: making it more difficult to satisfy debt service and other obligations; increasing the likelihood of a downgrade of our debt, which can cause future debt payments to increase and consume an even greater portion of cash flow; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; reducing the availability of cash flow to fund other corporate purposes and grow our business; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; placing us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that are not as highly leveraged; and limiting, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants relating to such indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds as needed or take advantage of business opportunities as they arise, pay cash dividends or repurchase common stock. The agreements governing our indebtedness, including the indebtedness of our subsidiaries, limit, but do not prohibit, the incurrence of additional indebtedness. To the extent we become more leveraged, the risks described above would increase. Further, our actual cash requirements in the future may be greater than expected. Accordingly, our cash flows may not be sufficient to repay at maturity all 56 Table of Contents of the outstanding debt as it becomes due and, in that event, we may not be able to borrow money, sell assets or otherwise raise funds on acceptable terms or at all to refinance our debt as it becomes due. In recent months, these risks have increased as conditions in the global economy, including credit markets worldwide, have deteriorated dramatically. For further discussion of these global economic conditions and their potential impact on the Company, see Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Credit Crisis and the Macroeconomic Environment. The AES Corporation is a holding company and its ability to make payments on its outstanding indebtedness, including its public debt securities, is dependent upon the receipt of funds from its subsidiaries by way of dividends, fees, interest, loans or otherwise. The AES Corporation is a holding company with no material assets, other than the stock of its subsidiaries. All of The AES Corporations revenue is generated through its subsidiaries. Accordingly, almost all of The AES Corporations cash flow is generated by the operating activities of its subsidiaries. Therefore, The AES Corporations ability to make payments on its indebtedness and to fund its other obligations is dependent not only on the ability of its subsidiaries to generate cash, but also on the ability of the subsidiaries to distribute cash to it in the form of dividends, fees, interest, loans or otherwise. However, our subsidiaries face various restrictions in their ability to distribute cash to The AES Corporation. Most of the subsidiaries are obligated, pursuant to loan agreements, indentures or project financing arrangements, to satisfy certain restricted payment covenants or other conditions before they may make distributions to The AES Corporation. In addition, the payment of dividends or the making of loans, advances or other payments to The AES Corporation may be subject to legal or regulatory restrictions. Business performance and local accounting and tax rules may limit the amount of retained earnings that may be distributed to us as a dividend. Subsidiaries in foreign countries may also be prevented from distributing funds to The AES Corporation as a result of foreign governments restricting the repatriation of funds or the conversion of currencies. Any right that The AES Corporation has to receive any assets of any of its subsidiaries upon any liquidation, dissolution, winding up, receivership, reorganization, bankruptcy, insolvency or similar proceedings (and the consequent right of the holders of The AES Corporations indebtedness to participate in the distribution of, or to realize proceeds from, those assets) will be effectively subordinated to the claims of any such subsidiarys creditors (including trade creditors and holders of debt issued by such subsidiary). The AES Corporation could receive less funds than it expects as a result of the current challenges facing the global economy, which could impact the performance of our businesses and their ability to distribute cash to The AES Corporation. For further discussion of the macroeconomic environment and its impact on our business, see Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Credit Crisis and the Macroeconomic Environment. The AES Corporations subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and, unless they have expressly guaranteed any of The AES Corporations indebtedness, have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay any amounts due pursuant to such debt or to make any funds available whether by dividends, fees, loans or other payments. While some of The AES Corporations subsidiaries guarantee its indebtedness under its Senior Secured Credit Facility and certain other indebtedness, none of its subsidiaries guarantee, or are otherwise obligated with respect to, its outstanding public debt securities. Even though The AES Corporation is a holding company, existing and potential future defaults by subsidiaries or affiliates could adversely affect The AES Corporation. We attempt to finance our domestic and foreign projects primarily under loan agreements and related documents which, except as noted below, require the loans to be repaid solely from the projects revenues and provide that the repayment of the loans (and interest thereon) is secured solely 57 Table of Contents by the capital stock, physical assets, contracts and cash flow of that project subsidiary or affiliate. This type of financing is usually referred to as non recourse debt or "project financing." In some project financings, The AES Corporation has explicitly agreed to undertake certain limited obligations and contingent liabilities, most of which by their terms will only be effective or will be terminated upon the occurrence of future events. These obligations and liabilities take the form of guarantees, indemnities, letter of credit reimbursement agreements and agreements to pay, in certain circumstances, the project lenders or other parties. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $18.1 billion of outstanding indebtedness on a consolidated basis, of which approximately $5.2 billion was recourse debt of The AES Corporation and approximately $12.9 billion was non recourse debt. In addition, we have outstanding guarantees, letters of credit, and other credit support commitments which are further described in this Form 10 K in Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Capital Resources and Liquidity Parent Company Liquidity. Some of our subsidiaries are currently in default with respect to all or a portion of their outstanding indebtedness. The total debt classified as current in our consolidated balance sheets related to such defaults was $129 million at December 31, 2008. While the lenders under our non recourse project financings generally do not have direct recourse to The AES Corporation (other than to the extent of any credit support given by The AES Corporation), defaults there under can still have important consequences for The AES Corporation, including, without limitation: reducing The AES Corporations receipt of subsidiary dividends, fees, interest payments, loans and other sources of cash since the project subsidiary will typically be prohibited from distributing cash to The AES Corporation during the pendency of any default; triggering The AES Corporations obligation to make payments under any financial guarantee, letter of credit or other credit support which The AES Corporation has provided to or on behalf of such subsidiary; causing The AES Corporation to record a loss in the event the lender forecloses on the assets; triggering defaults in The AES Corporations outstanding debt and trust preferred securities. For example, The AES Corporations senior secured credit facility and outstanding senior notes include events of default for certain bankruptcy related events involving material subsidiaries. In addition, The AES Corporations senior secured credit facility includes certain events of default relating to accelerations of outstanding debt of material subsidiaries; or the loss or impairment of investor confidence in the Company. None of the projects that are currently in default are owned by subsidiaries that meet the applicable definition of materiality in The AES Corporations senior secured credit facility in order for such defaults to trigger an event of default or permit acceleration under such indebtedness. However, as a result of future write down of assets, dispositions and other matters that affect our financial position and results of operations, it is possible that one or more of these subsidiaries could fall within the definition of a "material subsidiary" and thereby upon an acceleration of such subsidiarys debt, trigger an event of default and possible acceleration of the indebtedness under The AES Corporations senior secured credit facility. The risk of such defaults may have increased as a result of the deteriorating global economy. For further discussion of these conditions, see Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Credit Crisis and the Macroeconomic Environment. 58  Table of Contents Risks Associated with our Ability to Raise Needed Capital The AES Corporation has significant cash requirements and limited sources of liquidity. The AES Corporation requires cash primarily to fund: principal repayments of debt; interest and preferred dividends; acquisitions; construction and other project commitments; other equity commitments, including business development investments; taxes; and Parent Company overhead costs. The AES Corporations principal sources of liquidity are: dividends and other distributions from its subsidiaries; proceeds from debt and equity financings at the Parent Company level; and proceeds from asset sales. For a more detailed discussion of The AES Corporations cash requirements and sources of liquidity, please see Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Capital Resources and Liquidity in this 2008 Form 10 K. While we believe that these sources will be adequate to meet our obligations at the Parent Company level for the foreseeable future, this belief is based on a number of material assumptions, including, without limitation, assumptions about our ability to access the capital or commercial lending markets, the operating and financial performance of our subsidiaries, exchange rates, our ability to sell assets, and the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends. Any number of assumptions could prove to be incorrect and therefore there can be no assurance that these sources will be available when needed or that our actual cash requirements will not be greater than expected. For example, in the current credit crisis, certain financial institutions have gone bankrupt. In the event that a bank who is party to our credit agreement or other facilities goes bankrupt or is otherwise unable to fund its commitments, we would need to replace that bank in our syndicate or risk a reduction in the size of the facility, which would reduce our liquidity. In addition, our cash flow may not be sufficient to repay at maturity the entire principal outstanding under our credit facilities and our debt securities and we may have to refinance such obligations. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining such refinancing and any of these events could have a material effect on us. For further discussion of these global economic conditions and their potential impact on the Company, see Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Credit Crisis and the Macroeconomic Environment. Our ability to grow our business could be materially adversely affected if we were unable to raise capital on favorable terms. From time to time, we rely on access to capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by operating cash flows. Our ability to arrange for financing on either a recourse or non recourse basis and the costs of such capital are dependent on numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: general economic and capital market conditions; 59 Table of Contents the availability of bank credit; investor confidence; the financial condition, performance and prospects of The AES Corporation in general and or that of any subsidiary requiring the financing; and changes in tax and securities laws which are conducive to raising capital. Since 2007, credit conditions and credit markets have weakened considerably and deteriorated dramatically in 2008, which has made it difficult for many companies to arrange for financing on a recourse or non recourse basis. For further discussion of these global economic conditions and their potential impact on the Company, see Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Credit Crisis and the Macroeconomic Environment. Should future access to capital not be available to us, we may have to sell assets or decide not to build new plants or expand or improve existing facilities, either of which would affect our future growth. A downgrade in the credit ratings of The AES Corporation or its subsidiaries could adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets which could increase our interest costs or adversely affect our liquidity and cash flow. If any of the credit ratings of The AES Corporation or its subsidiaries were to be downgraded, our ability to raise capital on favorable terms could be impaired and our borrowing costs would increase. Furthermore, depending on The AES Corporations credit ratings and the trading prices of its equity and debt securities, counterparties may no longer be as willing to accept general unsecured commitments by The AES Corporation to provide credit support. Accordingly, with respect to both new and existing commitments, The AES Corporation may be required to provide some other form of assurance, such as a letter of credit, to backstop or replace any credit support by The AES Corporation. There can be no assurance that such counterparties will accept such guarantees in the future. In addition, to the extent The AES Corporation is required and able to provide letters of credit or other collateral to such counterparties, it will limit the amount of credit available to The AES Corporation to meet its other liquidity needs. We may not be able to raise sufficient capital to fund "greenfield" projects in certain less developed economies which could change or in some cases adversely affect our growth strategy. Part of our strategy is to grow our business by developing Generation and Utility businesses in less developed economies where the return on our investment may be greater than projects in more developed economies. Commercial lending institutions sometimes refuse to provide non recourse project financing in certain less developed economies, and in these situations we have sought and will continue to seek direct or indirect (through credit support or guarantees) project financing from a limited number of multilateral or bilateral international financial institutions or agencies. As a precondition to making such project financing available, the lending institutions may also require governmental guarantees of certain project and sovereign related risks. There can be no assurance, however, that project financing from the international financial agencies or that governmental guarantees will be available when needed, and if they are not, we may have to abandon the project or invest more of our own funds which may not be in line with our investment objectives and would leave less funds for other projects. These risks have increased as a result of the recent credit crisis and the deteriorating global economy. For further discussion of these global economic conditions and their potential impact on the Company, see Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Credit Crisis and the Macroeconomic Environment. 60 Table of Contents External Risks Associated with Revenue and Earnings Volatility Our financial position and results of operations may fluctuate significantly due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates experienced at our foreign operations. Our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations results primarily from the translation exposure associated with the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as from transaction exposure associated with transactions in currencies other than an entitys functional currency. While the Consolidated Financial Statements are reported in U.S. Dollars, the financial statements of many of our subsidiaries outside the United States are prepared using the local currency as the functional currency and translated into U.S. Dollars by applying appropriate exchange rates. As a result, fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. Dollar relative to the local currencies where our subsidiaries outside the United States report could cause significant fluctuations in our results. In addition, while our expenses with respect to foreign operations are generally denominated in the same currency as corresponding sales, we have transaction exposure to the extent receipts and expenditures are not denominated in the subsidiarys functional currency. We also experience foreign transaction exposure to the extent monetary assets and liabilities, including debt, are in a different currency than the subsidiarys functional currency. Moreover, the costs of doing business abroad may increase as a result of adverse exchange rate fluctuations. Our financial position and results of operations have been significantly affected by fluctuations in the value of a number of currencies, primarily the Brazilian real, Argentine peso, Chilean peso, Colombian peso and Philippine peso. As our Brazilian and Argentine businesses primarily identify their local currency as their functional currency, recent depreciation of these currencies has resulted in the increase of deferred translation losses (foreign currency translation adjustments recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss) based on positive net asset positions. Devaluation has also resulted in foreign currency transaction losses primarily associated with U.S. Dollar debt at these businesses. Our businesses may incur substantial costs and liabilities and be exposed to price volatility as a result of risks associated with the wholesale electricity markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. Some of our Generation businesses sell electricity in the wholesale spot markets in cases where they operate wholly or partially without long term power sales agreements. Our Utility businesses and, to the extent they require additional capacity, our Generation businesses, also buy electricity in the wholesale spot markets. As a result, we are exposed to the risks of rising and falling prices in those markets. The open market wholesale prices for electricity are very volatile and often reflect the fluctuating cost of coal, natural gas, or oil. Consequently, any changes in the supply and cost of coal, natural gas, and oil may impact the open market wholesale price of electricity. Volatility in market prices for fuel and electricity may result from among other things: plant availability; competition; demand for energy commodities; electricity usage; seasonality; interest rate and foreign exchange rate fluctuation; availability and price of emission credits; input prices; 61 Table of Contents hydrology and other weather conditions; illiquid markets; transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies; availability of competitively priced renewables sources; available supplies of natural gas, crude oil and refined products, and coal; generating unit performance; natural disasters, terrorism, wars, embargoes and other catastrophic events; energy, market and environmental regulation, legislation and policies; geopolitical concerns affecting global supply of oil and natural gas; and general economic conditions in areas where we operate which impact energy consumption. The Company has faced gas curtailments in the past. For example, gas supply in the Argentine market is increasingly scarce and exports have been both taxed and curtailed. Gas supply curtailments can be exacerbated during the Argentine winter (May through September) when domestic demand for electricity experiences a seasonal increase. Since substantially all of the gas used in the Chilean power sector is currently imported from Argentina, gas curtailments can impact our Chilean operations through higher fuel costs and higher costs of purchased energy from the spot market. Our natural gas fired plant in Southern Brazil, Uruguaiana, has also been impacted by limited fuel supply. Since 2004, Uruguaiana has had its gas supply interrupted from May to September. During this period, Uruguaiana purchases energy from the spot market and through bilateral contracts to fulfill its sales contracts and has paid higher fuel prices as a result. During the fourth quarter of 2007, the combination of gas curtailments and increases in the spot market price of energy triggered an impairment analysis of Uruguaianas long lived assets for recoverability. As a result of this impairment analysis, aggregate pre tax impairment charges of $388 million were recognized in 2008 and 2007 which represents a full impairment of the fixed assets. In addition, our business depends upon transmission facilities owned and operated by others. If transmission is disrupted or capacity is inadequate or unavailable, our ability to sell and deliver power may be limited, which may have a material adverse impact on our business. We may not be adequately hedged against our exposure to changes in commodity prices or interest rates. We routinely enter into contracts to hedge a portion of our purchase and sale commitments for electricity, fuel requirements and other commodities to lower our financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations. As part of this strategy, we routinely utilize fixed price forward physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps, and option contracts traded in the over the counter markets or on exchanges. We also enter into contracts which help us to hedge our interest rate exposure on variable debt. However, we may not cover the entire exposure of our assets or positions to market price (or interest rate) volatility, and the coverage will vary over time. Furthermore, the risk management procedures we have in place may not always be followed or may not work as planned. In particular, if prices of commodities (or interest rates) significantly deviate from historical prices or if the price volatility (or interest rates) or distribution of these changes deviates from historical norms, our risk management system may not protect us from significant losses. As a result, fluctuating commodity prices may negatively impact our financial results to the extent we have unhedged or inadequately hedged positions. In addition, certain types of economic hedging activities may not qualify for hedge accounting under GAAP, resulting in increased volatility in our net income. In addition, there is a risk that the current parties to these arrangements may fail or are unable to perform their obligations under these arrangements. 62 Table of Contents Supplier and or customer concentration may expose the Company to significant financial credit or performance risks. We often rely on a single contracted supplier or a small number of suppliers for the provision of fuel, transportation of fuel and other services required for the operation of certain of our facilities. If these suppliers cannot perform, we would seek to meet our fuel requirements by purchasing fuel at market prices, exposing us to market price volatility and the risk that fuel and transportation may not be available during certain periods at any price. At times, we rely on a single customer or a few customers to purchase all or a significant portion of a facilitys output, in some cases under long term agreements that account for a substantial percentage of the anticipated revenue from a given facility. We have also hedged a portion of our exposure to power price fluctuations through forward fixed price power sales. Counterparties to these agreements may breach or may be unable to perform their obligations. We may not be able to enter into replacement agreements on terms as favorable as our existing agreements, or at all. If we were unable to enter into replacement PPAs, we would sell our plants power at market prices. The failure of any supplier or customer to fulfill its contractual obligations to The AES Corporation or our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Consequently, the financial performance of our facilities is dependent on the credit quality of, and continued performance by, suppliers and customers. Certain of our businesses are sensitive to variations in weather. Our businesses are affected by variations in general weather conditions and unusually severe weather. Our businesses forecast electric sales on the basis of normal weather, which represents a long term historical average. While we also consider possible variations in normal weather patterns and potential impacts on our facilities and our businesses, there can be no assurance that such planning can prevent these impacts, which can adversely affect our business. Generally, demand for electricity peaks in winter and summer. Typically, when winters are warmer than expected and summers are cooler than expected, demand for energy is lower, resulting in less demand for electricity than forecasted. Significant variations from normal weather where our businesses are located could have a material impact on our results of operations. In addition, we are dependent upon hydrological conditions prevailing from time to time in the broad geographic regions in which our hydroelectric generation facilities are located. If hydrological conditions result in droughts or other conditions that negatively affect our hydroelectric generation business, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In the past, our businesses in Latin America have been negatively impacted by lower than normal rainfall. Risks Associated with our Operations We do a significant amount of business outside the United States, including in developing countries, which presents significant risks. A significant amount of our revenue is generated outside the United States and a significant portion of our international operations is conducted in developing countries. Part of our growth strategy is to expand our business in developing countries because the growth rates and the opportunity to implement operating improvements and achieve higher operating margins may be greater than those typically achievable in more developed countries. International operations, particularly the operation, financing and development of projects in developing countries, entail significant risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation: economic, social and political instability in any particular country or region; adverse changes in currency exchange rates; 63 Table of Contents government restrictions on converting currencies or repatriating funds; unexpected changes in foreign laws and regulations or in trade, monetary or fiscal policies; high inflation and monetary fluctuations; restrictions on imports of coal, oil, gas or other raw materials required by our generation businesses to operate; threatened or consummated expropriation or nationalization of our assets by foreign governments; difficulties in hiring, training and retaining qualified personnel, particularly finance and accounting personnel with U.S. GAAP expertise; unwillingness of governments, government agencies, similar organizations or other counterparties to honor their contracts; unwillingness of governments, government agencies, courts or similar bodies to enforce contracts that are economically advantageous to subsidiaries of the Company and economically unfavorable to counterparties, against such counterparties, whether such counterparties are governments or private parties; inability to obtain access to fair and equitable political, regulatory, administrative and legal systems; adverse changes in government tax policy; difficulties in enforcing our contractual rights or enforcing judgments or obtaining a just result in local jurisdictions; and potentially adverse tax consequences of operating in multiple jurisdictions. Any of these factors, by itself or in combination with others, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, in the second quarter of 2007, we sold our stake in EDC to Petr&oacute;leos de Venezuela, S.A. ("PDVSA"), the state owned energy company in Venezuela after Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez threatened to expropriate the electricity business in Venezuela. In connection with the sale, we recognized an impairment charge of approximately $680 million. In addition, our Latin American operations experience volatility in revenues and gross margin which have caused and are expected to cause significant volatility in our results of operations and cash flows. The volatility is caused by regulatory and economic difficulties, political instability and currency devaluations being experienced in many of these countries. This volatility reduces the predictability and enhances the uncertainty associated with cash flows from these businesses. The operation of power generation and distribution facilities involves significant risks that could adversely affect our financial results. The operation of power generation and distribution facilities involves many risks, including: equipment failure causing unplanned outages; failure of transmission systems; the dependence on a specified fuel source, including the transportation of fuel; catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes and similar occurrences; and environmental compliance. 64 Table of Contents Any of these risks could have an adverse effect on our generation and distribution facilities. In addition, a portion of our generation facilities were constructed many years ago. Older generating equipment may require significant capital expenditures for maintenance. This equipment is also likely to require periodic upgrading and improvement. Breakdown or failure of one of our operating facilities may prevent the facility from performing under applicable power sales agreements which, in certain situations, could result in termination of a power purchase or other agreement or incurring a liability for liquidated damages. As a result of the above risks and other potential hazards associated with the power generation and distribution industries, we may from time to time become exposed to significant liabilities for which we may not have adequate insurance coverage. Power generation involves hazardous activities, including acquiring, transporting and unloading fuel, operating large pieces of rotating equipment and delivering electricity to transmission and distribution systems. In addition to natural risks, such as earthquakes, floods, lightning, hurricanes and wind, hazards, such as fire, explosion, collapse and machinery failure, are inherent risks in our operations which may occur as a result of inadequate internal processes, technological flaws, human error or certain external events. The control and management of these risks depend upon adequate development and training of personnel and on the existence of operational procedures, preventative maintenance plans and specific programs supported by quality control systems which reduce, but do not eliminate the possibility of the occurrence and impact of these risks. The hazards described above can cause significant personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property, plant and equipment, contamination of, or damage to, the environment and suspension of operations. The occurrence of any one of these events may result in us being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting claims for substantial damages, environmental cleanup costs, personal injury and fines and or penalties. We maintain an amount of insurance protection that we believe is adequate, but there can be no assurance that our insurance will be sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which we may be subject. A successful claim for which we are not fully insured could hurt our financial results and materially harm our financial condition. Further, due to rising insurance costs and changes in the insurance markets, we cannot provide assurance that insurance coverage will continue to be available on terms similar to those presently available to us or at all. Any losses not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our ability to attract and retain skilled people could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our operating success and ability to carry out growth initiatives depends in part on our ability to retain executives and to attract and retain additional qualified personnel who have experience in our industry and in operating a company of our size and complexity, including people in our foreign businesses. The inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, because of the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacements. In particular, we routinely are required to assess the financial and tax impacts of complicated business transactions which occur on a worldwide basis. These assessments are dependent on hiring personnel on a worldwide basis with sufficient expertise in U.S. GAAP to timely and accurately comply with U.S. reporting obligations. An inability to maintain adequate internal accounting and managerial controls and hire and retain qualified personnel could have an adverse affect on our ability to report our financial condition and results of operations. 65  Table of Contents We have contractual obligations to certain customers to provide full requirements service, which makes it difficult to predict and plan for load requirements and may result in increased operating costs to certain of our businesses. We have contractual obligations to certain customers to supply power to satisfy all or a portion of their energy requirements. The uncertainty regarding the amount of power that our power generation and distribution facilities must be prepared to supply to customers may increase our operating costs. A significant under or over estimation of load requirements could result in our facilities not having enough or having too much power to cover their obligations, in which case we would be required to buy or sell power from or to third parties at prevailing market prices. Those prices may not be favorable and thus could increase our operating costs. We may not be able to enter into long term contracts, which reduce volatility in our results of operations. Even when we successfully enter into long term contracts, our generation businesses are dependent on one or a limited number of customers and a limited number of fuel suppliers. Many of our generation plants conduct business under long term contracts. In these instances, we rely on power sales contracts with one or a limited number of customers for the majority of, and in some case all of, the relevant plants output and revenues over the term of the power sales contract. The remaining terms of the power sales contracts range from 1 to 25 years. In many cases, we also limit our exposure to fluctuations in fuel prices by entering into long term contracts for fuel with a limited number of suppliers. In these instances, the cash flows and results of operations are dependent on the continued ability of customers and suppliers to meet their obligations under the relevant power sales contract or fuel supply contract, respectively. Some of our long term power sales agreements are at prices above current spot market prices and some of our long term fuel supply contracts are at prices below current market prices. The loss of significant power sales contracts or fuel supply contracts, or the failure by any of the parties to such contracts that prevents us from fulfilling our obligations thereunder, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, depending on market conditions and regulatory regimes, it may be difficult for us to secure long term contracts, either where our current contracts are expiring or for new development projects. The inability to enter into long term contracts could require many of our businesses to purchase inputs at market prices and sell electricity into spot markets. Because of the volatile nature of inputs and power prices, the inability to secure long term contracts could generate increased volatility in our earnings and cash flows and could generate substantial losses during certain periods which could have a material impact on our business and results of operations. We have sought to reduce counter party credit risk under our long term contracts in part by entering into power sales contracts with utilities or other customers of strong credit quality and by obtaining guarantees from the sovereign government of the customers obligations. However, many of our customers do not have, or have failed to maintain, an investment grade credit rating, and our Generation business can not always obtain government guarantees and if they do, the government does not always have an investment grade credit rating. We have also sought to reduce our credit risk by locating our plants in different geographic areas in order to mitigate the effects of regional economic downturns. However, there can be no assurance that our efforts to mitigate this risk will be successful. These risks have increased as a result of the deteriorating global economy. For further discussion of these global economic conditions and their potential impact on the Company, see Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Credit Crisis and the Macroeconomic Environment. Competition is increasing and could adversely affect us. The power production markets in which we operate are characterized by numerous strong and capable competitors, many of whom may have extensive and diversified developmental or operating 66 Table of Contents experience (including both domestic and international) and financial resources similar to or greater than ours. Further, in recent years, the power production industry has been characterized by strong and increasing competition with respect to both obtaining power sales agreements and acquiring existing power generation assets. In certain markets, these factors have caused reductions in prices contained in new power sales agreements and, in many cases, have caused higher acquisition prices for existing assets through competitive bidding practices. The evolution of competitive electricity markets and the development of highly efficient gas fired power plants have also caused, or are anticipated to cause, price pressure in certain power markets where we sell or intend to sell power. These competitive factors could have a material adverse effect on us. Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in our operating performance or cost structure. We are in the business of generating and distributing electricity, which involves certain risks that can adversely affect financial and operating performance, including: changes in the availability of our generation facilities or distribution systems due to increases in scheduled and unscheduled plant outages, equipment failure, labor disputes, disruptions in fuel supply, inability to comply with regulatory or permit requirements or catastrophic events such as fires, floods, storms, hurricanes, earthquakes, explosions, terrorist acts or other similar occurrences; and changes in our operating cost structure including, but not limited to, increases in costs relating to: gas, coal, oil and other fuel; fuel transportation; purchased electricity; operations, maintenance and repair; environmental compliance, including the cost of purchasing emissions offsets and capital expenditures to install environmental emission equipment; transmission access; and insurance. Any of the above risks could adversely affect our business and results of operations, and our ability to meet publicly announced projections or analysts expectations. Some of our subsidiaries participate in defined benefit pension plans and their net pension plan obligations may require additional significant contributions. Certain of our subsidiaries have defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all of their respective employees. Of the twenty four defined benefit plans, three are at U.S. subsidiaries and the remaining plans are at foreign subsidiaries. Pension costs are based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, including an expected long term rate of return on pension plan assets, the expected life span of pension plan beneficiaries and the discount rate used to determine the present value of future pension obligations. Any of these assumptions could prove to be wrong, resulting in a shortfall of pension plan assets compared to pension obligations under the pension plan. The Company periodically evaluates the value of the pension plan assets to ensure that they will be sufficient to fund the respective pension obligations. The Companys exposure is mitigated due to the fact that the asset allocations in our largest plans are more heavily weighted to investments in fixed income securities that have not been as severely impacted by the recent equity market declines. Nevertheless, given the recent significant declines in financial markets, the value of these pension plan assets has declined and our future pension expense and funding obligations have increased. In addition, future downturns in the equity markets, or the failure of any of our assumptions underlying the estimates of our subsidiaries pension plan obligations, could result in an increase in pension expense and funding requirements in future periods, which may be material. Our subsidiaries who participate in these plans are responsible for funding any shortfall of pension plan assets compared to pension obligations under the pension plan. This may necessitate additional cash contributions to the pension plans that could adversely affect our and our subsidiaries liquidity. 67 Table of Contents For additional information regarding the funding position of the Companys pension plans, see "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates Pension and Postretirement Obligations" and Note 13 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10 K. Our business is subject to substantial development uncertainties. Certain of our subsidiaries and affiliates are in various stages of developing and constructing "greenfield" power plants, some but not all of which have signed long term contracts or made similar arrangements for the sale of electricity. Successful completion depends upon overcoming substantial risks, including, but not limited to, risks relating to failures of siting, financing, construction, permitting, governmental approvals or the potential for termination of the power sales contract as a result of a failure to meet certain milestones. Financing risk has also increased as a result of the deterioration of the global economy and the crisis in the financial markets, and as a result, we may forgo certain development opportunities. We believe that capitalized costs for projects under development are recoverable; however, there can be no assurance that any individual project will be completed and reach commercial operation. If these development efforts are not successful, we may abandon a project under development and write off the costs incurred in connection with such project. At the time of abandonment, we would expense all capitalized development costs incurred in connection therewith and could incur additional losses associated with any related contingent liabilities. Our acquisitions may not perform as expected. Historically, acquisitions have been a significant part of our growth strategy. We may continue to grow our business through acquisitions. Although acquired businesses may have significant operating histories, we will have a limited or no history of owning and operating many of these businesses and possibly limited or no experience operating in the country or region where these businesses are located. Some of these businesses may be government owned and some may be operated as part of a larger integrated utility prior to their acquisition. If we were to acquire any of these types of businesses, there can be no assurance that: we will be successful in transitioning them to private ownership; such businesses will perform as expected; we will not incur unforeseen obligations or liabilities; such business will generate sufficient cash flow to support the indebtedness incurred to acquire them or the capital expenditures needed to develop them; or the rate of return from such businesses will justify our decision to invest our capital to acquire them. In April 2008, the Company completed the purchase of a 92% interest in a 660 gross MW coal fired thermal power generation facility in Masinloc, Philippines ("Masinloc") from the Power Sector Assets & Liabilities Management Corporation, a state enterprise, for $930 million in cash. Immediately after the acquisition, the Company embarked upon a comprehensive rehabilitation program to improve the output, reliability and general condition of the plant. As a result, operating losses have been reduced and the business is expected to generate a profit in 2009. However, in the event that the progress made does not continue, or Masinloc performs worse than expected, the Company could incur further operating losses which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Further losses could also trigger an impairment of the assets held by Masinloc. 68 Table of Contents In some of our joint venture projects, we have granted protective rights to minority holders or we own less than a majority of the equity in the project and do not manage or otherwise control the project, which entails certain risks. We have invested in some joint ventures where we own less than a majority of the voting equity in the venture. Very often, we seek to exert a degree of influence with respect to the management and operation of projects in which we have less than a majority of the ownership interests by operating the project pursuant to a management contract, negotiating to obtain positions on management committees or to receive certain limited governance rights, such as rights to veto significant actions. However, we do not always have this type of control over the project in every instance; and we may be dependent on our co venturers to operate such projects. Our co venturers may not have the level of experience, technical expertise, human resources, management and other attributes necessary to operate these projects optimally. The approval of co venturers also may be required for us to receive distributions of funds from projects or to transfer our interest in projects. In some joint venture agreements where we do have majority control of the voting securities, we have entered into shareholder agreements granting protective minority rights to the other shareholders. For example, Brasiliana Energia ("Brasiliana") is a holding company in which we have a controlling equity interest and through which we own three of our four Brazilian businesses: Eletropaulo, Tiet&ecirc; and Uruguaiana. We entered into a shareholders agreement with an affiliate of the Brazilian National Development Bank ("BNDES") which owns more than 49 percent of the voting equity of Brasiliana. Among other things, the shareholders agreement requires the consent of both parties before taking certain corporate actions, grants both parties rights of first refusal in connection with the sale of interests in Brasiliana and grants drag along rights to BNDES. In May, 2007, BNDES notified us that it intends to sell all of its interest in Brasiliana pursuant to public auction (the "Brasiliana Sale"). BNDES also informed us that if we fail to exercise our right of first refusal to purchase all of its interest in Brasiliana, then BNDES intends to exercise its drag along rights under the shareholders agreement and cause us to sell all of our interests in Brasiliana in the Brasiliana Sale as well. After the auction, if a third party offer has been received in the Brasiliana Sale, we will have 30 days to exercise our right of first refusal to purchase all of BNDESs interest in Brasiliana on the same terms as the third party offer. If we do not exercise this right and BNDES proceeds to exercise its drag along rights, then we may be forced to sell all of our interest in Brasiliana. Due to the uncertainty in the sale price at this point in time, we are uncertain whether we will exercise our right of first refusal should BNDES receive a valid third party offer in the Brasiliana Sale and, if we do, whether we would do it alone or with joint venture partners. Even if we desire to exercise our right of first refusal, we cannot assure that we will have the cash on hand or that debt or equity financing will be available at acceptable terms in order to purchase BNDESs interest in Brasiliana. If we do not exercise our right of first refusal, we cannot be assured that we will not have to record a loss if the sale price is below the book value of our investment in Brasiliana. Our renewable energy projects and other initiatives face considerable uncertainties including, development, operational and regulatory challenges. AES Wind Generation, AES Solar, our projects in climate solutions and our investments in projects such as energy storage are subject to substantial risks. Projects of this nature are relatively new, are supported financially by favorable regulatory incentives and have been developed through advancement in technologies which may not be proven, or which are unrelated to our core business. As a result, these projects face considerable risk, including the risk that favorable regulatory regimes expire or are adversely modified. In addition, because these projects depend on technology outside of our expertise in Generation and Utilities, there are risks associated with our ability to develop and manage such projects profitably. Furthermore, at the development or acquisition stage, because of the nascent nature of these industries, our ability to predict actual performance results may be hindered and the projects may not perform as predicted. There are also risks associated with the 69 Table of Contents fact that many of these projects exist in new or emerging markets, where long term fixed price contracts for the major cost and revenue components may be unavailable, which in turn may result in these projects having relatively high levels of volatility. These projects can be capital intensive and generally require that we obtain third party financing, which may be difficult to obtain. As a result, these capital constraints may reduce our ability to develop these projects. These risks may be exacerbated by the current global economic crisis, including our managements increased focus on liquidity, which may also result in slower growth in the number of projects we can pursue. The economic downturn could also impact the value of our assets in these countries and our ability to develop these projects. If the value of these assets decline, this could result in a material impairment or a series of impairments which are material in the aggregate, which would adversely affect our financial statements. The global credit crisis could impact our growth plans and the values of our assets. In the second half of 2007, conditions in the credit markets began to deteriorate in the United States and abroad. In the third and fourth quarter of 2008, this crisis and associated market conditions worsened dramatically, with unprecedented market volatility, widening credit spreads, volatile currencies, illiquidity, and increased counterparty credit risk. As a result of the deterioration in the global economy, the Company has placed a greater emphasis on preservation of liquidity. The Company currently intends to complete the projects it has under construction, those that have obtained financing and a select group of projects which may be able to obtain financing in these challenging financial markets. In the event that management determines that, because of macroeconomic challenges or other factors, certain of these or other projects in the pipeline cannot be financed, will not provide the returns originally anticipated, or are otherwise unfeasible, or that other uses of capital such as debt repayment or stock repurchases offer a better return on the Companys capital, or that the funds should be used for working capital, the Company may determine that it will not pursue certain projects in its pipeline, which will affect our growth. In addition, the global recession could impact the value of our assets around the world. For example, in 2008, we impaired certain projects in our pipeline, resulting in a charge to 2008 earnings. Further declines in asset values could result in additional write downs, which could be material to our financial statements. An impairment in the carrying value of goodwill would negatively impact our consolidated results of operations and net worth. Goodwill is initially recorded at fair value and is not amortized, but is evaluated for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if impairment indicators are present. In assessing the recoverability of goodwill, we make estimates and assumptions about sales, operating margin growth rates and discount rates based on our budgets, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and marketplace data. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and managements judgment in applying these factors. The fair value of a reporting unit has been determined using an income approach based on the present value of future cash flows of each reporting unit. We could be required to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill prior to the annual assessment if we experience situations, including but not limited to, disruptions to the business, unexpected significant declines in operating results, divestiture of a significant component of our business or sustained market capitalization declines. There could also be impairments if our acquisitions do not perform as expected. See further discussion in Risk Factor, "Our Acquisitions May Not Perform as Expected." These types of events and the resulting analyses could result in goodwill impairment charges in the future. Impairment charges could substantially affect our financial results in the periods of such charges. As of December 31, 2008, we had $1.4 billion of goodwill, which represented approximately 4.1% of total assets. If current conditions in the global economy continue or worsen, this could increase the risk that we will have to impair goodwill. 70 Table of Contents Risks associated with Governmental Regulation and Laws Our operations are subject to significant government regulation and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in the law or regulatory schemes. Our inability to predict, influence or respond appropriately to changes in law or regulatory schemes, including any inability to obtain expected or contracted increases in electricity tariff rates or tariff adjustments for increased expenses, could adversely impact our results of operations or our ability to meet publicly announced projections or analysts expectations. Furthermore, changes in laws or regulations or changes in the application or interpretation of regulatory provisions in jurisdictions where we operate, particularly our Utilities where electricity tariffs are subject to regulatory review or approval, could adversely affect our business, including, but not limited to: changes in the determination, definition or classification of costs to be included as reimbursable or pass through costs, including but not limited to costs incurred to upgrade our power plants to comply with more stringent environmental regulations; changes in the determination of what is an appropriate rate of return on invested capital or a determination that a utilitys operating income or the rates it charges customers is too high, resulting in a reduction of rates or consumer rebates; changes in the definition or determination of controllable or non controllable costs; changes in the definition of events which may or may not qualify as changes in economic equilibrium; changes in the timing of tariff increases; or other changes in the regulatory determinations under the relevant concessions. Any of the above events may result in lower margins for the affected businesses, which can adversely affect our business. For example, as noted in Item 1 Business Regulatory Matters Hungary of this Form 10 K, in June 2008 the European Commission ("the Commission") reached its decision that the PPAs, including AES Tiszas PPA, contain elements of illegal state aid. The decision requires Hungary to terminate the PPAs within six months of the June 2008 publication of the decision, and to recover the alleged illegal state aid from the generators within ten months of publication. Hungary and the Commission are in the process of resolving confidentiality matters relating to the wording of the decision, which has not yet been notified by the Commission to the generators. AES Tisza is challenging the Commissions decision in the Court of First Instance of the European Communities. Referring to the Commissions decision, Hungary adopted act number LXX of 2008 which terminates all long term PPAs in Hungary, including AES Tiszas PPA, as of December 31, 2008, and requires generators to repay the alleged illegal state aid that was allegedly received by the generators through the PPAs, and provides for the possibility to offset stranded costs of the generators from the repayable state aid. It is possible that the Company may face additional regulatory actions of this type and, depending on the outcome, such actions could have a material adverse impact on the Company. In addition, in many countries where we conduct business, the regulatory environment is constantly changing or the regulations can be difficult to interpret. As a result, there is risk that we may not properly interpret certain regulations and may not understand the impact of certain regulations on our business. For example, in October 2006, ANEEL, which regulates our utility operations at Sul and Eletropaulo in Brazil, issued Normative Resolution 234 requiring that utilities begin amortizing a liability called "Special Obligations" beginning with their second tariff reset cycle in 2007 or a later year as an offset to depreciation expense. As of May 23, 2007, the date of the filing of our 2006 Form 10 K, no industry positions or any other consensus had been reached regarding how ANEEL guidance should be applied at that date and accordingly, no adjustments to the financial statements were made relating to Special Obligations in Brazil. Subsequent to May 23, 2007, industry discussions 71 Table of Contents occurred and other Brazilian companies filed Forms 20 F with the SEC reflecting the impact of Resolution 234 in their December 31, 2006 financial statements differently from how the Company accounted for Resolution 234. In the absence of any significant regulatory developments between May 23, 2007 and the date of these other filings, the Company determined that Resolution 234 required us to record an adjustment to our Special Obligations liability as of December 31, 2006. In part, the decision to record the adjustment led to the restatement of our financial statements in the third quarter of 2007. If we face additional challenges interpreting regulations or changes in regulations, it could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our Generation business in the United States is subject to the provisions of various laws and regulations administered in whole or in part by the FERC, including the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 ("PURPA") and the Federal Power Act. The recently enacted EPAct 2005 made a number of changes to these and other laws that may affect our business. Actions by the FERC and by state utility commissions can have a material effect on our operations. EPAct 2005 authorizes the FERC to remove the obligation of electric utilities under Section 210 of PURPA to enter into new contracts for the purchase or sale of electricity from or to QFs if certain market conditions are met. Pursuant to this authority, the FERC has instituted a rebuttable presumption that utilities located within the control areas of the Midwest Transmission System Operator, Inc., PJM ("Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Maryland") Interconnection, L.L.C., ISO New England, Inc., the New York Independent System Operator and the Electric Reliability Council of Texas, Inc. are not required to purchase or sell power from or to QFs above a certain size. In addition, the FERC is authorized under the new law to remove the purchase/sale obligations of individual utilities on a case by case basis. While the new law does not affect existing contracts, as a result of the changes to PURPA, our QFs may face a more difficult market environment when their current long term contracts expire. EPAct 2005 repealed PUHCA 1935 and enacted PUHCA 2005 in its place. PUHCA 1935 had the effect of requiring utility holding companies to operate in geographically proximate regions and therefore limited the range of potential combinations and mergers among utilities. By comparison, PUHCA 2005 has no such restrictions and simply provides the FERC and state utility commissions with enhanced access to the books and records of certain utility holding companies. The repeal of PUHCA 1935 removed barriers to mergers and other potential combinations which could result in the creation of large, geographically dispersed utility holding companies. These entities may have enhanced financial strength and therefore an increased ability to compete with us in the U.S. generation market. In accordance with Congressional mandates in the EPAct 1992 and now in EPAct 2005, the FERC has strongly encouraged competition in wholesale electric markets. Increased competition may have the effect of lowering our operating margins. Among other steps, the FERC has encouraged RTOs and ISOs to develop demand response bidding programs as a mechanism for responding to peak electric demand. These programs may reduce the value of our peaking assets which rely on very high prices during a relatively small number of hours to recover their costs. Similarly, the FERC is encouraging the construction of new transmission infrastructure in accordance with provisions of EPAct 2005. Although new transmission lines may increase market opportunities, they may also increase the competition in our existing markets. While the FERC continues to promote competition, some state utility commissions have reversed course and begun to encourage the construction of generation facilities by traditional utilities to be paid for on a cost of service basis by retail ratepayers. Such actions have the effect of reducing sale opportunities in the competitive wholesale generating markets in which we operate. Our businesses are subject to stringent environmental laws and regulations. Our activities are subject to stringent environmental laws and regulations by many federal, state and local authorities, international treaties and foreign governmental authorities. These laws and 72 Table of Contents regulations generally concern emissions into the air, effluents into the water, use of water, wetlands preservation, remediation of contamination, waste disposal, endangered species and noise regulation, among others. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations or to obtain any necessary environmental permits pursuant to such laws and regulations could result in fines or other sanctions. Environmental laws and regulations affecting power generation and distribution are complex and have tended to become more stringent over time. Congress and other domestic and foreign governmental authorities have either considered or implemented various laws and regulations to restrict or tax certain emissions, particularly those involving air and water emissions. See the various descriptions of these laws and regulations contained in Item 1 Business Regulatory Matters Environmental and Land Use Regulations of this Form 10 K. These laws and regulations have imposed, and proposed laws and regulations could impose in the future, additional costs on the operation of our power plants. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant capital and other expenditures to comply with these and other environmental laws and regulations. Changes in, or new, environmental restrictions may force us to incur significant expenses or expenses that may exceed our estimates. There can be no assurance that we would be able to recover all or any increased environmental costs from our customers or that our business, financial condition or results of operations would not be materially and adversely affected by such expenditures or any changes in domestic or foreign environmental laws and regulations. Regulators, politicians, non governmental organizations and other private parties have expressed concern about greenhouse gas, or GHG, emissions and are taking actions which, in addition to the potential physical risks associated with climate change, could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. As discussed in Item 1 Business Regulatory Matters Environmental and Land Use Regulations, at the international, federal and various regional and state levels, policies are under development to regulate GHG emissions, thereby effectively putting a cost on such emissions in order to create financial incentives to reduce them. In 2008, the Companys subsidiaries operated businesses which had total approximate CO2 emissions of 83.8 million metric tonnes (ownership adjusted). Approximately 41.5 million metric tonnes of the 83.8 million metric tonnes were emitted by businesses located in the United States (both figures ownership adjusted). Federal, state or regional regulation of GHG emissions could have a material adverse impact on the Companys financial performance. The actual impact on the Companys financial performance and the financial performance of the Companys subsidiaries will depend on a number of factors, including among others, the GHG reductions required under any such legislation or regulations, the price and availability of offsets, the extent to which market based compliance options are available, the extent to which our subsidiaries would be entitled to receive GHG emissions allowances without having to purchase them in an auction or on the open market and the impact of such legislation or regulation on the ability of our subsidiaries to recover costs incurred. As a result of these factors, our cost of compliance could be substantial and could have a material impact on our results of operations. Another factor is the success of our climate solutions projects, which may generate credits that will help offset our GHG emissions. However, as set forth in the Risk Factor titled "Our renewable energy projects and other initiatives face considerable uncertainties including development, operational and regulatory challenges," there is no guarantee that the climate solutions projects will be successful. Also, the level of potential benefit is unclear given current uncertainties regarding legislation and or litigation concerning GHG emissions. 73  Table of Contents In January 2005, based on European Community "Directive 2003/87/EC on Greenhouse Gas Emission Allowance Trading," the European Union Greenhouse Gas Emission Trading Scheme ("EU ETS") commenced operation as the largest multi country GHG emission trading scheme in the world. On February 16, 2005, the Kyoto Protocol became effective. The Kyoto Protocol requires the 40 developed countries that have ratified it to substantially reduce their GHG emissions, including CO2. To date, compliance with the Kyoto Protocol and the EU ETS has not had a material adverse effect on the Companys consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The United States has not ratified the Kyoto Protocol. In the United States, there currently are no federal mandatory GHG emission reduction programs (including CO2) affecting the electric power generation facilities of the Companys subsidiaries. However, there are several proposed GHG legislative initiatives in the United States Congress that would, if enacted, constrain GHG emissions, including CO2, and or impose costs on us that could be material to our business or results of operations. On April 2, 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court issued its decision in a case involving the regulation under the CAA of CO2 emissions from motor vehicles. The Court ruled that CO2 is a pollutant which potentially could be subject to regulation under the CAA and that the U.S. EPA has a duty to determine whether CO2 emissions contribute to climate change or to provide some reasonable explanation why it will not exercise its authority. In response to the Courts decision, on July 11, 2008, the U.S. EPA issued an ANPR to solicit public input on whether CO2 emissions should be regulated from both mobile and stationary sources under the CAA. The U.S. EPA has not yet made any such determination. Since electric power generation facilities, particularly coal fired facilities, are a significant source of CO2 emissions both in the United States and globally, the Courts decision, coupled with stimulus from the new administration, regulators, members of Congress, states, non governmental organizations, private parties, the courts and other factors could result in a determination by the U.S. EPA to regulate CO2 emissions from electric power generation facilities. While the majority of current state, regional and federal initiatives regarding CO2 emissions contemplate market based compliance mechanisms (e.g., cap and trade), such a determination by the U.S. EPA could result in CO2 emission limits on stationary sources that do not include market based compliance mechanisms (e.g., carbon tax, CO2 emission limits, etc.). Any such regulations could increase our costs directly and indirectly and have a material adverse affect on our business and or results of operations. At the state level, RGGI, a cap and trade program covering CO2 emissions from electric power generation facilities in the Northeast, became effective in January 2009, and the WCI, is also developing market based programs to address GHG emissions in seven western states. In addition, several states, including California, have adopted comprehensive legislation that, when implemented, will require mandatory GHG reductions from several industrial sectors, including the electric power generation industry. See "Business Regulatory Matters Environmental and Land Use Regulations" of this Form 10 K for further discussion about the environmental regulations we face. At this time, other than with regard to RGGI (further described below), the Company cannot estimate the costs of compliance with U.S. federal, regional or state CO2 emissions reductions legislation or initiatives, due to the fact that these proposals are in earlier stages of development and any final regulations, if adopted, could vary drastically from current proposals. The RGGI program became effective in January 2009. The first regional auction of RGGI allowances needed to be acquired by power generators to comply with state programs implementing RGGI was held in September 2008 and the second was held in December 2008. The third auction is scheduled for March 2009. Our subsidiaries in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and Maryland are subject to RGGI. Of the approximately 41.5 million metric tonnes of CO2 emitted in the United States by our subsidiaries in 2008 (ownership adjusted), approximately 11.8 million metric tonnes were emitted in U.S. states participating in RGGI. We believe that due to the absence of allowance allocations, 74 Table of Contents RGGI as currently contemplated could have an adverse impact on the Companys consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. While Co2 emissions from businesses operated by subsidiaries of the Company are calculated globally in metric tonnes, RGGI allowances are denominated in short tons. (1 metric tonne equals 2,200 pounds and 1 short ton equals 2,000 pounds.) For forecasting purposes, the Company has modeled the impact of CO2 compliance for 2009 2011 for its businesses that are subject to RGGI and that may not be able to pass through compliance costs. The model includes a conversion from metric tonnes to short tons as well as the impact of some market recovery by merchant plants and contractual and regulatory provisions. The model also utilizes an allowance price of $3.38 per metric tonne under RGGI. The source of this per allowance price estimate was the clearing price at the December 2008 RGGI allowance auction. The model also assumes, among other things, that RGGI will be structured solely on the public auction of allowances and that certain costs will be recovered by our subsidiaries. Based on these assumptions, the Company estimates that the RGGI compliance costs could be approximately $29.1 million per year from 2009 through 2011, which is the last year of the first RGGI compliance period. Given all of the uncertainties surrounding RGGI, including those discussed in Item 1 Business Regulatory Matters Environmental and Land Use Regulations of this Form 10 K and the fact that the assumptions utilized in the model may prove to be incorrect, there is a significant risk that our actual compliance costs under RGGI will differ from estimates by a material amount. If the actual costs are higher, this could have a material impact on our business and financial results. In addition to government regulators, other groups such as politicians, environmentalists and other private parties have expressed increasing concern about GHG emissions. For example, certain financial institutions have expressed concern about providing financing for facilities which would emit GHGs, which can affect our ability to obtain capital, or if we can obtain capital, to receive it on commercially viable terms. In addition, rating agencies may decide to downgrade our credit ratings based on the emissions of the businesses operated by our subsidiaries or increased compliance costs which could make financing unattractive. In addition, as disclosed in Item 3 Legal Proceedings of this Form 10 K, the New York Attorney General has issued a subpoena to the Company seeking documents and information concerning the Companys analysis and public disclosure of the potential impacts that GHG legislation and climate change from GHG emissions might have on the Companys operations and financial results. Environmental groups and other private plaintiffs have brought and may decide to bring additional private lawsuits against the Company because of its subsidiaries GHG emissions. Furthermore, according to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, physical risks from climate change could include, but are not limited to, increased runoff and earlier spring peak discharge in many glacier and snow fed rivers, warming of lakes and rivers, an increase in sea level, changes and variability in precipitation and in the intensity and frequency of extreme weather events. Physical impacts may have the potential to significantly affect the Companys business and operations. For example, extreme weather events could result in increased downtime and operation and maintenance costs at the electric power generation facilities and support facilities of the Companys subsidiaries. Variations in weather conditions, primarily temperature and humidity, attributable to climate change, also would be expected to affect the energy needs of customers. A decrease in energy consumption could decrease the revenues of the Companys subsidiaries. In addition, while revenues would be expected to increase if the energy consumption of customers increased, such increase could prompt the need for additional investment in generation capacity. Changes in the temperature of lakes and rivers and changes in precipitation that result in drought could adversely affect the operations of the fossil fuel fired electric power generation facilities of the Companys subsidiaries. Changes in temperature, precipitation and snow pack conditions also could affect the amount and timing of hydroelectric generation. If any of the foregoing risks materialize, costs may increase or revenues may decrease and there could be a material adverse effect on the electric power generation businesses of the Companys 75 Table of Contents subsidiaries and on the Companys consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We and our affiliates are subject to material litigation and regulatory proceedings. We and our affiliates are parties to material litigation and regulatory proceedings. See Business Legal Proceedings below. There can be no assurances that the outcome of such matters will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position. The SEC is conducting an informal inquiry relating to our restatements. We have been cooperating with an informal inquiry by the SEC Staff concerning our past restatements and related matters, and have been providing information and documents to the SEC Staff on a voluntary basis. Because we are unable to predict the outcome of this inquiry, the SEC Staff may disagree with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported the financial impact of the adjustments to previously filed financial statements and there may be a risk that the inquiry by the SEC could lead to circumstances in which we may have to further restate previously filed financial statements, amend prior filings or take other actions not currently contemplated.  ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None.  ITEM 2. PROPERTIES We maintain offices in many places around the world, generally pursuant to the provisions of long and short term leases, none of which are material. With a few exceptions, our facilities, which are described in Item 1 of this Form 10 K, are subject to mortgages or other liens or encumbrances as part of the projects related finance facility. In addition, the majority of our facilities are located on land that is leased. However, in a few instances, no accompanying project financing exists for the facility, and in a few of these cases, the land interest may not be subject to any encumbrance and is owned outright by the subsidiary or affiliate.  ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS The Company is involved in certain claims, suits and legal proceedings in the normal course of business, some of which are described below. The Company has accrued for litigation and claims where it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. The Company believes, based upon information it currently possesses and taking into account established reserves for estimated liabilities and its insurance coverage, that the ultimate outcome of these proceedings and actions is unlikely to have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial statements. However, it is reasonably possible that some matters could be decided unfavorably to the Company, and could require the Company to pay damages or make expenditures in amounts that could be material but cannot be estimated as of December 31, 2008. The Company has evaluated claims, in accordance with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies, ("SFAS No. 5") that it deems both probable and reasonably estimable and accordingly, has recorded aggregate reserves for all claims for approximately $389 million and $486 million as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. In 1989, Centrais El&eacute;tricas Brasileiras S.A. ("Eletrobr&aacute;s") filed suit in the Fifth District Court in the State of Rio de Janeiro against Eletropaulo Eletricidade de S&atilde;o Paulo S.A. ("EEDSP") relating to the methodology for calculating monetary adjustments under the parties financing agreement. In April 1999, the Fifth District Court found for Eletrobr&aacute;s and in September 2001, Eletrobr&aacute;s initiated an execution suit in the Fifth District Court to collect approximately R$937 million ($400 million) from Eletropaulo (as estimated by Eletropaulo) and a lesser amount from an unrelated company, 76 Table of Contents Companhia de Transmiss&atilde;o de Energia El&eacute;trica Paulista ("CTEEP") (Eletropaulo and CTEEP were spun off from EEDSP pursuant to its privatization in 1998). In November 2002, the Fifth District Court rejected Eletropaulos defenses in the execution suit. Eletropaulo appealed and in September 2003, the Appellate Court of the State of Rio de Janeiro ruled that Eletropaulo was not a proper party to the litigation because any alleged liability had been transferred to CTEEP pursuant to the privatization. In June 2006, the Superior Court of Justice ("SCJ") reversed the Appellate Courts decision and remanded the case to the Fifth District Court for further proceedings, holding that Eletropaulos liability, if any, should be determined by the Fifth District Court. Eletropaulos subsequent appeals to the Special Court (the highest court within the SCJ) and the Supreme Court of Brazil have been dismissed. Eletrobr&aacute;s may resume the execution suit in the Fifth District Court at any time. If Eletrobr&aacute;s does so, Eletropaulo will be required to provide security in the amount of its alleged liability. In that case, if Eletrobr&aacute;s requests the seizure of such security and the Fifth District Court grants such request, Eletropaulos results of operation may be materially adversely affected. In addition, in February 2008, CTEEP filed a lawsuit in the Fifth District Court against Eletrobr&aacute;s and Eletropaulo seeking a declaration that CTEEP is not liable for any debt under the financing agreement. Eletropaulo believes it has meritorious defenses to the claims asserted against it and will defend itself vigorously in these proceedings; however, there can be no assurances that it will be successful in its efforts. In September 1999, a state appellate court in Minas Gerais, Brazil, granted a temporary injunction suspending the effectiveness of a shareholders agreement between Southern Electric Brasil Participacoes, Ltda. ("SEB") and the state of Minas Gerais concerning Companhia Energetica de Minas Gerais ("CEMIG"), an integrated utility in Minas Gerais. The Companys investment in CEMIG is through SEB. This shareholders agreement granted SEB certain rights and powers in respect of CEMIG ("Special Rights"). In March 2000, a lower state court in Minas Gerais held the shareholders agreement invalid where it purported to grant SEB the Special Rights and enjoined the exercise of the Special Rights. In August 2001, the state appellate court denied an appeal of the decision and extended the injunction. In October 2001, SEB filed appeals against the state appellate courts decision with the Federal Superior Court and the Supreme Court of Justice. The state appellate court denied access of these appeals to the higher courts, and in August 2002 SEB filed interlocutory appeals against such denial with the Federal Superior Court and the Supreme Court of Justice. In December 2004, the Federal Superior Court declined to hear SEBs appeal. However, the Supreme Court of Justice is considering whether to hear SEBs appeal. SEB intends to vigorously pursue a restoration of the value of its investment in CEMIG by all legal means; however, there can be no assurances that it will be successful in its efforts. Failure to prevail in this matter may limit SEBs influence on the daily operation of CEMIG. In August 2000, the FERC announced an investigation into the organized California wholesale power markets in order to determine whether rates were just and reasonable. Further investigations involved alleged market manipulation. FERC requested documents from each of the AES Southland, LLC plants and AES Placerita, Inc. AES Southland and AES Placerita have cooperated fully with the FERC investigations. AES Southland was not subject to refund liability because it did not sell into the organized spot markets due to the nature of its tolling agreement. AES Placerita is currently subject to refund liability of $588,000 plus interest for spot sales to the California Power Exchange from October 2, 2000 to June 20, 2001 ("Refund Period"). In September 2004, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit issued an order addressing FERCs decision not to impose refunds for the alleged failure to file rates, including transaction specific data, for sales during 2000 and 2001 ("September 2004 Decision"). Although it did not order refunds, the Ninth Circuit remanded the case to FERC for a refund proceeding to consider remedial options. In March 2008, FERC issued its order on remand, requiring the parties to engage in settlement discussions before a settlement judge and establishing procedures for an evidentiary hearing if the settlement process failed. In addition, in August 2006 in a separate case, the Ninth Circuit confirmed the Refund Period, expanded the 77 Table of Contents transactions subject to refunds to include multi day transactions, expanded the potential liability of sellers to include any pre Refund Period tariff violations, and remanded the matter to FERC ("August 2006 Decision"). Various parties filed petitions for rehearing in November 2007. The August 2006 Decision may allow FERC to reopen closed investigations and order relief. AES Placerita made sales during the periods at issue in the September 2004 and August 2006 Decisions. Both appeals may be subject to further court review, and further FERC proceedings on remand would be required to determine potential liability, if any. Prior to the August 2006 Decision, AES Placeritas potential liability for the Refund and pre Refund Periods could have approximated $23 million plus interest. However, given the September 2004 and August 2006 Decisions, it is unclear whether AES Placeritas potential liability is less than or exceeds that amount. AES Placerita believes it has meritorious defenses to the claims asserted against it and will defend itself vigorously in these proceedings; however, there can be no assurances that it will be successful in its efforts. In August 2001, the Grid Corporation of Orissa, India ("Gridco"), filed a petition against the Central Electricity Supply Company of Orissa Ltd. ("CESCO"), an affiliate of the Company, with the Orissa Electricity Regulatory Commission ("OERC"), alleging that CESCO had defaulted on its obligations as an OERC licensed distribution company, that CESCO management abandoned the management of CESCO, and asking for interim measures of protection, including the appointment of an administrator to manage CESCO. Gridco, a state owned entity, is the sole wholesale energy provider to CESCO. Pursuant to the OERCs August 2001 order, the management of CESCO was replaced with a government administrator who was appointed by the OERC. The OERC later held that the Company and other CESCO shareholders were not necessary or proper parties to the OERC proceeding. In August 2004, the OERC issued a notice to CESCO, the Company and others giving the recipients of the notice until November 2004 to show cause why CESCOs distribution license should not be revoked. In response, CESCO submitted a business plan to the OERC. In February 2005, the OERC issued an order rejecting the proposed business plan. The order also stated that the CESCO distribution license would be revoked if an acceptable business plan for CESCO was not submitted to and approved by the OERC prior to March 31, 2005. In its April 2, 2005 order, the OERC revoked the CESCO distribution license. CESCO has filed an appeal against the April 2, 2005 OERC order and that appeal remains pending in the Indian courts. In addition, Gridco asserted that a comfort letter issued by the Company in connection with the Companys indirect investment in CESCO obligates the Company to provide additional financial support to cover all of CESCOs financial obligations to Gridco. In December 2001, Gridco served a notice to arbitrate, pursuant to the Indian Arbitration and Conciliation Act of 1996, on the Company, AES Orissa Distribution Private Limited ("AES ODPL"), and Jyoti Structures ("Jyoti") pursuant to the terms of the CESCO Shareholders Agreement between Gridco, the Company, AES ODPL, Jyoti and CESCO (the "CESCO arbitration"). In the arbitration, Gridco appeared to be seeking approximately $189 million in damages, plus undisclosed penalties and interest, but a detailed alleged damage analysis was not filed by Gridco. The Company counterclaimed against Gridco for damages. In June 2007, a 2 to 1 majority of the arbitral tribunal rendered its award rejecting Gridcos claims and holding that none of the respondents, the Company, AES ODPL, or Jyoti, had any liability to Gridco. The respondents counterclaims were also rejected. The Company subsequently filed an application to recover its costs of the arbitration, which is under consideration by the tribunal. In addition, in September 2007, Gridco filed a challenge of the arbitration award with the local Indian court. In June 2008, Gridco filed a separate application with the local Indian court for an order enjoining the Company from selling or otherwise transferring its shares in Orissa Power Generation Corporation Ltd ("OPGC"), and requiring the Company to provide security in the amount of the contested damages in the CESCO arbitration until Gridcos challenge to the arbitration award is resolved. The Company believes that it has meritorious defenses to the claims asserted against it and will defend itself vigorously in these proceedings; however, there can be no assurances that it will be successful in its efforts. 78 Table of Contents In early 2002, Gridco made an application to the OERC requesting that the OERC initiate proceedings regarding the terms of OPGCs existing PPA with Gridco. In response, OPGC filed a petition in the Indian courts to block any such OERC proceedings. In early 2005, the Orissa High Court upheld the OERCs jurisdiction to initiate such proceedings as requested by Gridco. OPGC appealed that High Courts decision to the Supreme Court and sought stays of both the High Courts decision and the underlying OERC proceedings regarding the PPAs terms. In April 2005, the Supreme Court granted OPGCs requests and ordered stays of the High Courts decision and the OERC proceedings with respect to the PPAs terms. The matter is awaiting further hearing. Unless the Supreme Court finds in favor of OPGCs appeal or otherwise prevents the OERCs proceedings regarding the PPAs terms, the OERC will likely lower the tariff payable to OPGC under the PPA, which would have an adverse impact on OPGCs financials. OPGC believes that it has meritorious claims and defenses and will assert them vigorously in these proceedings; however, there can be no assurances that it will be successful in its efforts. In March 2003, the office of the Federal Public Prosecutor for the State of S&atilde;o Paulo, Brazil ("MPF") notified AES Eletropaulo that it had commenced an inquiry related to the Brazilian National Development Bank ("BNDES") financings provided to AES Elpa and AES Transg&aacute;s and the rationing loan provided to Eletropaulo, changes in the control of Eletropaulo, sales of assets by Eletropaulo and the quality of service provided by Eletropaulo to its customers, and requested various documents from Eletropaulo relating to these matters. In July 2004, the MPF filed a public civil lawsuit in federal court alleging that BNDES violated Law 8429/92 (the Administrative Misconduct Act) and BNDESs internal rules by: (1) approving the AES Elpa and AES Transg&aacute;s loans; (2) extending the payment terms on the AES Elpa and AES Transg&aacute;s loans; (3) authorizing the sale of Eletropaulos preferred shares at a stock market auction; (4) accepting Eletropaulos preferred shares to secure the loan provided to Eletropaulo; and (5) allowing the restructurings of Light Servi&ccedil;os de Eletricidade S.A. ("Light") and Eletropaulo. The MPF also named AES Elpa and AES Transg&aacute;s as defendants in the lawsuit because they allegedly benefited from BNDESs alleged violations. In June 2005, AES Elpa and AES Transg&aacute;s presented their preliminary answers to the charges. In May 2006, the federal court ruled that the MPF could pursue its claims based on the first, second, and fourth alleged violations noted above. The MPF subsequently filed an interlocutory appeal seeking to require the federal court to consider all five alleged violations. Also, in July 2006, AES Elpa and AES Transg&aacute;s filed an interlocutory appeal seeking to enjoin the federal court from considering any of the alleged violations. The MPFs lawsuit before the federal court has been stayed pending those interlocutory appeals. AES Elpa and AES Transg&aacute;s believe they have meritorious defenses to the allegations asserted against them and will defend themselves vigorously in these proceedings; however, there can be no assurances that they will be successful in their efforts. AES Florestal, Ltd. ("Florestal"), had been operating a pole factory and had other assets, including a wooded area known as "Horto Renner," in the State of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil (collectively, "Property"). Florestal had been under the control of AES Sul ("Sul") since October 1997, when Sul was created pursuant to a privatization by the Government of the State of Rio Grande do Sul. After it came under the control of Sul, Florestal performed an environmental audit of the entire operational cycle at the pole factory. The audit discovered 200 barrels of solid creosote waste and other contaminants at the pole factory. The audit concluded that the prior operator of the pole factory, Companhia Estadual de Energia El&eacute;trica ("CEEE"), had been using those contaminants to treat the poles that were manufactured at the factory. Sul and Florestal subsequently took the initiative of communicating with Brazilian authorities, as well as CEEE, about the adoption of containment and remediation measures. The Public Attorneys Office has initiated a civil inquiry (Civil Inquiry n. 24/05) to investigate potential civil liability and has requested that the police station of Triunfo institute a police investigation (IP number 1041/05) to investigate potential criminal liability regarding the contamination at the pole factory. The parties filed defenses in response to the civil inquiry. The Public Attorneys Office then requested an injunction which the judge rejected on September 26, 2008. The 79 Table of Contents Public Attorneys office has a right to appeal the decision. The environmental agency ("FEPAM") has also started a procedure (Procedure n. 088200567/059) to analyze the measures that shall be taken to contain and remediate the contamination. Also, in March 2000, Sul filed suit against CEEE in the 2nd Court of Public Treasure of Porto Alegre seeking to register in Suls name the Property that it acquired through the privatization but that remained registered in CEEEs name. During those proceedings, AES subsequently waived its claim to re register the Property and asserted a claim to recover the amounts paid for the Property. That claim is pending. In November 2005, the 7th Court of Public Treasure of Porto Alegre ruled that the Property must be returned to CEEE. CEEE has had sole possession of Horto Renner since September 2006 and of the rest of the Property since April 2006. In February 2008, Sul and CEEE signed a "Technical Cooperation Protocol" pursuant to which they requested a new deadline from FEPAM in order to present a proposal. The proposal was delivered on April 8, 2008. FEPAM responded by indicating that the parties should undertake the first step of the proposal which would be to retain a contractor. In its response Sul indicated that such step should be undertaken by CEEE as the relevant environmental events resulted from CEEEs operations. It is estimated that remediation could cost approximately R$14.7 million ($6.3 million). Discussions between Sul and CEEE are ongoing. In January 2004, the Company received notice of a "Formulation of Charges" filed against the Company by the Superintendence of Electricity of the Dominican Republic. In the "Formulation of Charges," the Superintendence asserts that the existence of three generation companies (Empresa Generadora de Electricidad Itabo, S.A., ("Itabo") Dominican Power Partners, and AES Andres BV) and one distribution company (Empresa Distribuidora de Electricidad del Este, S.A.) in the Dominican Republic, violates certain cross ownership restrictions contained in the General Electricity Law of the Dominican Republic. In February 2004, the Company filed in the First Instance Court of the National District of the Dominican Republic an action seeking injunctive relief based on several constitutional due process violations contained in the "Formulation of Charges" ("Constitutional Injunction"). In February 2004, the Court granted the Constitutional Injunction and ordered the immediate cessation of any effects of the "Formulation of Charges," and the enactment by the Superintendence of Electricity of a special procedure to prosecute alleged antitrust complaints under the General Electricity Law. In March 2004, the Superintendence of Electricity appealed the Courts decision. In July 2004, the Company divested any interest in Empresa Distribuidora de Electricidad del Este, S.A. The Superintendence of Electricitys appeal is pending. The Company believes it has meritorious defenses to the claims asserted against it and will defend itself vigorously in these proceedings; however, there can be no assurances that it will be successful in its efforts. In April 2004, BNDES filed a collection suit against SEB, a subsidiary of the Company, to obtain the payment of R$3.5 billion ($1.5 billion), which includes principal, interest and penalties under the loan agreement between BNDES and SEB, the proceeds of which were used by SEB to acquire shares of CEMIG. In May 2004, the 15th Federal Circuit Court ("Circuit Court") ordered the attachment of SEBs CEMIG shares, which were given as collateral for the loan, as well as dividends paid by CEMIG to SEB. At the time of the attachment, the shares were worth approximately R$762 million ($325 million). In December 2006, SEBs defense was ruled groundless by the Circuit Court, and in January 2007, SEB filed an appeal to the relevant Federal Court of Appeals. Subsequently, BNDES has seized a total of approximately R$630 million ($269 million) in attached dividends, with the approval of the Circuit Court. Also, in April 2008, BNDES filed a plea to seize the attached CEMIG shares. The Circuit Court will consider BNDESs request to seize the attached CEMIG shares after the net value of the alleged debt is recalculated in light of BNDESs seizure of dividends. SEB believes it has meritorious defenses to the claims asserted against it and will defend itself vigorously in these proceedings; however, there can be no assurances that it will be successful in its efforts. In July 2004, the Corporaci&oacute;n Dominicana de Empresas El&eacute;ctricas Estatales ("CDEEE") filed lawsuits against Itabo, an affiliate of the Company, located in the Dominican Republic, in the First and 80 Table of Contents Fifth Chambers of the Civil and Commercial Court of First Instance for the National District. CDEEE alleges in both lawsuits that Itabo spent more than was necessary to rehabilitate two generation units of an Itabo power plant and, in the Fifth Chamber lawsuit, that those funds were paid to affiliates and subsidiaries of AES Gener and Coastal Itabo, Ltd. ("Coastal"), a former shareholder of Itabo, without the required approval of Itabos board of administration. In the First Chamber lawsuit, CDEEE seeks an accounting of Itabos transactions relating to the rehabilitation. In November 2004, the First Chamber dismissed the case for lack of legal basis. On appeal, in October 2005 the Court of Appeals of Santo Domingo ruled in Itabos favor, reasoning that it lacked jurisdiction over the dispute because the parties contracts mandated arbitration. The Supreme Court of Justice is considering CDEEEs appeal of the Court of Appeals decision. In the Fifth Chamber lawsuit, which also names Itabos former president as a defendant, CDEEE seeks $15 million in damages and the seizure of Itabos assets. In October 2005, the Fifth Chamber held that it lacked jurisdiction to adjudicate the dispute given the arbitration provisions in the parties contracts. The First Chamber of the Court of Appeal ratified that decision in September 2006. In a related proceeding, in May 2005, Itabo filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York seeking to compel CDEEE to arbitrate its claims. The petition was denied in July 2005. Itabos appeal of that decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit has been stayed since September 2006. Further, in September 2006, in an International Chamber of Commerce arbitration, an arbitral tribunal determined that they lacked jurisdiction to decide arbitration claims concerning these disputes. Itabo believes it has meritorious claims and defenses and will assert them vigorously in these proceedings; however, there can be no assurances that it will be successful in its efforts. In April 2006, a putative class action complaint was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Mississippi ("District Court") on behalf of certain individual plaintiffs and all residents and or property owners in the State of Mississippi who allegedly suffered harm as a result of Hurricane Katrina, and against the Company and numerous unrelated companies, whose alleged greenhouse gas emissions allegedly increased the destructive capacity of Hurricane Katrina. The plaintiffs assert unjust enrichment, civil conspiracy/aiding and abetting, public and private nuisance, trespass, negligence, and fraudulent misrepresentation and concealment claims against the defendants. The plaintiffs seek damages relating to loss of property, loss of business, clean up costs, personal injuries and death, but do not quantify their alleged damages. In August 2007, the District Court dismissed the case. The plaintiffs have appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, which heard oral arguments in November 2008 and is considering the appeal. The Company believes it has meritorious defenses to the claims asserted against it and will defend itself vigorously in these proceedings; however, there can be no assurances that it will be successful in its efforts. In June 2006, AES Ekibastuz was found to have breached a local tax law by failing to obtain a license for use of local water for the period of January 1, 2005 through October 3, 2005, in a timely manner. As a result, an additional permit fee was imposed, bringing the total permit fee to approximately $135,000. The Company has appealed this decision to the Supreme Court. In June 2007, the Competition Committee of the Ministry of Industry and Trade of the Republic of Kazakhstan ordered AES Ust Kamenogorsk TETS LLP ("UKT") to pay approximately 835 million KZT ($7 million) to the state for alleged antimonopoly violations in 2005 through January 2007. The Competition Committee also ordered UKT to pay approximately 235 million KZT ($2 million), as estimated by the Company, to certain customers that allegedly have paid unreasonably high power prices since January 2007. In November 2007, the economic court of first instance upheld the Competition Committees order in part, finding that UKT had violated Kazakhstans antimonopoly laws, but reduced the damages to be paid to the state to 833 million KZT ($7 million) and rejected the damages to be paid to customers. The court of appeals (first panel) later affirmed the economic courts decision and, therefore, in June 2008, UKT paid the damages. The court of appeals (second panel) rejected UKTs appeal in June 2008. UKT has appealed to the Supreme Court of Kazakhstan. The 81 Table of Contents Competition Committees successor (the Antimonopoly Agency) has not indicated whether it intends to assert claims against UKT for alleged antimonopoly violations post January 2007. UKT believes it has meritorious claims and defenses; however, there can be no assurances that it will prevail in these proceedings. In July 2007, the Competition Committee ordered Nurenergoservice, an AES subsidiary, to pay approximately 18 billion KZT ($150 million) for alleged antimonopoly violations in 2005 through the first quarter of 2007. The Competition Committees order was affirmed by the economic court in April 2008. Nurenergoservices subsequent appeals have been unsuccessful to date, including at the court of appeals (first panel), which rejected Nurenergoservices appeal in July 2008. Also, the economic court has issued an injunction to secure Nurenergoservices alleged liability, freezing Nurenergoservices bank accounts and prohibiting Nurenergoservice from transferring or disposing of its property. In separate but related proceedings, in August 2007, the Competition Committee ordered Nurenergoservice to pay approximately 2 billion KZT (approximately $17 million) in administrative fines for its alleged antimonopoly violations. Nurenergoservice subsequently appealed to the administrative court of first instance. That appeal has been stayed since October 2007 but could resume at any time. The Antimonopoly Agency has not indicated whether it intends to assert claims against Nurenergoservice for alleged antimonopoly violations post first quarter 2007. Nurenergoservice believes it has meritorious claims and defenses; however, there can be no assurances that it will prevail in these proceedings. As Nurenergoservice did not prevail in the economic court or the court of appeals (first panel) with respect to the alleged damages, it will have to pay the alleged damages or risk seizure of its assets. In February 2009, the Antimonopoly Agency seized approximately 783 million KZT ($5 million) from a frozen Nurenergoservice bank account in partial satisfaction of Nurenergoservices alleged damages liability. Furthermore, if Nurenergoservice does not prevail in the administrative court with respect to the fines, it will have to pay the fines or risk seizure of its assets. In August 2007, the Competition Committee ordered Sogrinsk TETS, a thermal cogeneration plant under AES concession, to terminate its contracts with Nurenergoservice and Ust Kamenogorsk HPP because of Sogrinsks alleged antimonopoly violations in 2005 through January 2007. The Competition Committee did not order Sogrinsk to pay any damages or fines. The Kazakhstan courts have affirmed the order, including the Supreme Court of Kazakhstan in October 2008. The Antimonopoly Agency has not indicated whether it intends to assert claims against Sogrinsk for alleged antimonopoly violations post January 2007. In November 2007, the Competition Committee initiated an investigation of allegations that Irtysh Power and Light, LLP ("Irtysh"), an AES company which manages the state owned Ust Kamenogorsk Heat Nets system, had violated Kazakhstans antimonopoly laws in January through November 2007 by selling power at below market prices. In February 2008, the Competition Committee determined that the allegations were baseless. The Competition Committee subsequently appeared to initiate an investigation to determine whether Irtysh had illegally coordinated with other AES companies concerning the sale of power, but its successor (the Antimonopoly Agency) has not issued an order or otherwise taken any action on any such investigation to date. Irtysh believes it has meritorious claims and defenses and will assert them vigorously in any formal proceeding; however, there can be no assurances that it will be successful in its efforts. In December 2008, the Antimonopoly Agency ordered Ust Kamenogorsk HPP ("UK HPP"), a hydroelectric plant under AES concession, to pay approximately 1.1 billion KZT ($9 million) for alleged antimonopoly violations in February through November 2007. The economic court has issued an injunction to secure UK HPPs alleged liability, among other things freezing UK HPPs bank accounts. Furthermore, the Antimonopoly Agency has initiated administrative proceedings against UK HPP seeking an unspecified amount of administrative fines for the alleged antimonopoly violations. UK HPP believes it has meritorious defenses and will assert them vigorously; however, there can be no assurances that it will be successful in its efforts. 82 Table of Contents In June 2007, the Company received a letter from an outside law firm purportedly representing a shareholder demanding that the Companys Board conduct a review of certain stock option plans, procedures and historical granting and exercise practices, and other matters, and that the Company commence legal proceedings against any officer and or director who may be liable for damages to the Company. The Board has established a Special Committee, which has retained independent counsel, to consider the demands presented in the letter in light of the work undertaken by the Company in its review of share based compensation. The Company has not received any communication from the purported shareholder who made the demand since the second half of 2007. In July 2007, AES Energia Cartagena SRL, ("AESEC") initiated arbitration against Initec Energia SA, Mitsubishi Corporation, and MC Power Project Management, SL ("Contractor") to recover damages from the Contractor for its delay in completing the construction of AESECs majority owned power facility in Murcia, Spain. In October 2007, the Contractor denied AESECs claims and asserted counterclaims to recover approximately &euro;12 million ($17 million) for alleged unpaid milestone and scope change order payments, among other things, and an unspecified amount for an alleged early completion bonus. The final hearing is scheduled to begin in June 2009. AESEC believes that it has meritorious claims and defenses and will assert them vigorously in these proceedings; however, there can be no assurances that it will be successful in its efforts. In November 2007, the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local Union No. 1395, and sixteen individual retirees, (the "Complainants"), filed a complaint at the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission ("IURC") seeking enforcement of their interpretation of the 1995 final order and associated settlement agreement resolving IPLs basic rate case. The Complainants are requesting that the IURC conduct an investigation of IPLs failure to fund the Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association Trust ("VEBA Trust"), at a level of approximately $19 million per year. The VEBA Trust was spun off to an independent trustee in 2001. The complaint seeks an IURC order requiring IPL to make contributions to place the VEBA Trust in the financial position in which it allegedly would have been had IPL not ceased making annual contributions to the VEBA Trust after its spin off. The complaint also seeks an IURC order requiring IPL to resume making annual contributions to the VEBA Trust. IPL filed a motion to dismiss and both parties are seeking summary judgment in the IURC proceeding. To date, no procedural schedule for this proceeding has been established. IPL believes it has meritorious defenses to the Complainants claims and it will assert them vigorously in response to the complaint; however, there can be no assurances that it will be successful in its efforts. In September 2007, the New York Attorney General issued a subpoena to the Company seeking documents and information concerning the Companys analysis and public disclosure of the potential impacts that greenhouse gas ("GHG") legislation and climate change from GHG emissions might have on the Companys operations and results. The Company has produced documents and information in response to the subpoena. In October 2007, the Ekibastuz Tax Committee issued a notice for the assessment of certain taxes against AES Ekibastuz LLP. A portion of the assessment, approximately $1.7 million, relates to alleged environmental pollution. The review by the Ekibastuz Tax Committee is ongoing and their decision on any assessment, including the portion related to alleged environmental pollution, is not yet final. In addition, as the result of a subsequent tax audit which was completed on January 24, 2008, an additional amount of approximately 36 million KZT in principal, 20 million KZT in interest and 13 million KZT in penalty (collectively, approximately $600,000), was assessed as underpayment of taxes for the 2004 calendar year and VAT for January 2004. AES Ekibastuz appealed these assessments. However, this position was rejected by the Regional Tax Committee in a decision dated January 30, 2008. On February 29, 2008, AES Ekibastuz appealed to the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan and is currently awaiting a decision. 83 Table of Contents In February 2008, the Native Village of Kivalina, Alaska, and the City of Kivalina filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California against the Company and numerous unrelated companies, claiming that the defendants alleged greenhouse gas emissions are destroying the plaintiffs alleged land. The plaintiffs assert nuisance and concert of action claims against the Company and the other defendants, and a conspiracy claim against a subset of the other defendants. The plaintiffs seek to recover relocation costs, indicated in the complaint to be from $95 million to $400 million, and other alleged damages from the defendants, which are not quantified. The Company has filed a motion to dismiss the case, which the plaintiffs have opposed. The Company believes it has meritorious defenses to the claims asserted against it and will defend itself vigorously in these proceedings; however, there can be no assurances that it will be successful in its efforts. A public civil action has been asserted against Eletropaulo and Associa&ccedil;&atilde;o Desportiva Cultural Eletropaulo (the "Associa&ccedil;&atilde;o") relating to alleged environmental damage caused by construction of the Associa&ccedil;&atilde;o near Guarapiranga Reservoir. The initial decision that was upheld on the first appeal found that Eletropaulo should either repair the alleged environmental damage by demolishing certain construction and reforesting the area, pursuant to a project which would cost approximately $628,000, or pay an indemnification amount of approximately $5 million. Eletropaulo has appealed this decision to the Supreme Court and is awaiting a decision. In 2007, a lower court issued a decision related to a 1993 claim that was filed by the Public Attorneys office against Eletropaulo, the S&atilde;o Paulo State Government, SABESP (a state owned company), CETESB (a state owned company) and DAEE (the municipal Water and Electric Energy Department), alleging that they were liable for pollution of the Billings Reservoir as a result of pumping water from Pinheiros River into Billings Reservoir. The events in question occurred while Eletropaulo was a state owned company. The initial lower court decision in 2007 found the parties liable for the payment of R$517.46 million ($221 million) for remediation. Eletropaulo subsequently appealed the decision and Eletropaulo is still awaiting a decision on the appeal. The filing of the appeal suspended the lower courts decision. Eletropaulo believes it has meritorious defenses to the claims asserted against it and will defend itself vigorously in these proceedings; however, there can be no assurances that it will be successful in its efforts. In September 2008, IPL received a CAA Section 114 information request. The request seeks various information regarding production levels and projects implemented at IPLs generating stations, generally for the time period from January 1, 2001 to the date of the information request. This type of information request has been used in the past to assist the EPA in determining whether a plant is in compliance with applicable standards under the CAA. At this time it is not possible to predict what impact, if any, this request may have on IPL, its results of operation or its financial position. In November 2007, the U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ") indicated to AES Thames, LLC ("AES Thames") that the U.S. EPA had requested that the DOJ file a federal court action against AES Thames for alleged violations of the CAA, the Clean Water Act ("CWA"), the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act ("CERCLA") and the Emergency Planning and Community Right to Know Act ("EPCRA"), in particular alleging that AES Thames had violated (i) the terms of its Prevention of Significant Deterioration ("PSD") air permits in the calculation of its steam load permit limit; and (ii) the CWA, CERCLA and EPCRA in connection with two spills of chlorinating agents. The DOJ subsequently indicated that it would like to settle this matter prior to filing a suit and negotiations are ongoing. During such discussions, the DOJ and EPA have accepted AES Thames method of operation and have asked AES Thames to seek a minor permit modification to clarify the air permit condition. On October 21, 2008, the DOJ proposed a civil penalty of $245,000 for the alleged violations. The Company believes that it has meritorious defenses to the claims asserted against it and if a settlement cannot be achieved, the Company will defend itself vigorously in any lawsuit. 84 Table of Contents In December 2008 there were press reports that the National Electricity Regulatory Entity of Argentina ("ENRE") had filed a criminal action in the National Criminal and Correctional Court of Argentina against the board of directors and administrators of EDELAP, an AES subsidiary. Although EDELAP has not been officially served with notice of the action, press reports have stated that ENREs action concerns certain bank cancellations of EDELAP debt in 2006 and 2007, which were accomplished through transactions between the banks and related AES companies. According to press reports, ENRE claims that EDELAP should have reflected in its accounts the alleged benefits of the transactions that were allegedly obtained by the related companies. EDELAP believes that the allegations lack merit; however, there can be no assurances that its board and administrators will be successful in any formal proceedings concerning the allegations. In January 2009 an alleged shareholder of the Company filed a shareholder derivative and putative class action in Delaware state court against the Company and certain members of its board of directors. The plaintiff claims that Section 2.17(B) of the Companys bylaws, concerning shareholder action by written consent, is illegal under Delaware law. The plaintiff does not seek damages but declarations that Section 2.17(B) is unlawful and void and that the board member defendants breached their respective fiduciary duties of loyalty by adopting that bylaw in October 2008. The plaintiff further seeks to recover his litigation costs. The Company defendants believe they have meritorious defenses and will assert them vigorously in these proceedings; however, there can be no assurances that they will be successful in their efforts. A CAA Section 114 information request regarding Cayuga and Somerset was received in February 2009. The request seeks various operating and testing data and other information regarding certain types of projects at the Cayuga and Somerset facilities, generally for the time period from January 1, 2000 through the date of the information request. This type of information request has been used in the past to assist the EPA in determining whether a plant is in compliance with applicable standards under the CAA. At this time it is not possible to predict what impact, if any, this request may have on Cayuga and or Somerset, their results of operation or their financial position.  ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth quarter of 2008. 85  Table of Contents  PART II  ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES  Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers On August 7, 2008, the Companys Board of Directors approved a share repurchase plan for up to $400 million of its outstanding common stock. The Board authorization permits the Company to effect the repurchase of shares for a six month period. The stock repurchase program may be modified, extended or terminated by the Board of Directors at any time. The Company repurchased 10,691,267 shares of its common stock during the third quarter of 2008 and did not repurchase any shares of its common stock during the fourth quarter of 2008. The remaining amount authorized to be purchased under the share repurchase plan as of December 31, 2008 was $257 million. No shares were repurchased subsequent to December 31, 2008 and the board authorization of the plan expired on February 7, 2009.  Market Information Our common stock is currently traded on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") under the symbol "AES." The closing price of our common stock as reported by the NYSE on February 24, 2009, was $6.82, per share. The Company repurchased 10,691,267 shares of its common stock in 2008 and did not repurchase any of its common stock in 2007 or 2006. The following tables set forth the high and low sale prices, and performance trends for our common stock as reported by the NYSE for the periods indicated: 2008 2007 Price Range of Common Stock High Low High Low First Quarter $ 21.99 $ 15.98 $ 22.61 $ 19.78 Second Quarter 20.34 16.85 23.90 20.87 Third Quarter 19.27 11.23 23.25 17.76 Fourth Quarter 11.28 6.40 22.53 20.21 86 Table of Contents  Performance Graph THE AES CORPORATION PEER GROUP INDEX/STOCK PRICE PERFORMANCE COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURNS ASSUMES INITIAL INVESTMENT OF $100 Source: Bloomberg We have selected the Standard and Poors ("S&P") 500 Utilities Index as our peer group index. The S&P 500 Utilities Index is a published sector index comprising the 32 electric and gas utilities included in the S&P 500. The five year total return chart assumes $100 invested on December 31, 2003 in AES Common Stock, the S&P 500 Index and the S&P 500 Utilities Index. The information included under the heading "Performance Graph" shall not be considered "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  Holders As of February 24, 2009, there were approximately 7,722 record holders of our common stock, par value $0.01 per share.  Dividends We do not currently pay dividends on our common stock. We intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to finance the future development and operation of our business. Accordingly, we do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Under the terms of our Senior Secured Credit Facilities, which we entered into with a commercial bank syndicate, we have limitations on our ability to pay cash dividends and or repurchase stock. In addition, under the terms of a guaranty we provided to the utility customer in connection with the AES Thames project, we are precluded from paying cash dividends on our common stock if we do not meet certain net worth and liquidity tests. 87  Table of Contents Our project subsidiaries ability to declare and pay cash dividends to us is subject to certain limitations contained in the project loans, governmental provisions and other agreements to which our project subsidiaries are subject. See Item 12 (d) of this Form 10 K for information regarding Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans.  ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following table sets forth our selected financial data as of the dates and for the periods indicated. You should read this data together with Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in Item 8 in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The selected financial data for each of the years in the five year period ended December 31, 2008 have been derived from our audited Consolidated Financial Statements. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of our future results. Acquisitions, disposals, reclassifications and changes in accounting principles affect the comparability of information included in the tables below. Please refer to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10 K for further explanation of the effect of such activities. Please also refer to Item 1A Risk Factors and Note 24 Risks and Uncertainties to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K for certain risks and uncertainties that may cause the data reflected herein not to be indicative of our future financial condition or results of operations. 88 Table of Contents SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Year Ended December 31, Statement of Operations Data 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 (in millions, except per share amounts) Revenues $ 16,070 $ 13,516 $ 11,509 $ 10,183 $ 8,667 Income from continuing operations 1,216 487 168 355 172 Discontinued operations, net of tax 18 (582 ) 58 198 143 Extraordinary items, net of tax 21 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, net of tax (4 ) Net income (loss) available to common stockholders $ 1,234 $ (95 ) $ 247 $ 549 $ 315 Basic (loss) earnings per share: Income from continuing operations, net of tax $ 1.82 $ 0.73 $ 0.25 $ 0.54 $ 0.27 Discontinued operations, net of tax 0.02 (0.87 ) 0.09 0.31 0.22 Extraordinary items, net of tax 0.03 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, net of tax (0.01 ) Basic earnings (loss) per share $ 1.84 $ (0.14 ) $ 0.37 $ 0.84 $ 0.49 Diluted (loss) earnings per share: Income from continuing operations, net of tax $ 1.80 $ 0.72 $ 0.25 $ 0.53 $ 0.27 Discontinued operations, net of tax 0.02 (0.86 ) 0.09 0.31 0.22 Extraordinary items, net of tax 0.03 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, net of tax (0.01 ) Diluted earnings (loss) per share $ 1.82 $ (0.14 ) $ 0.37 $ 0.83 $ 0.49 December 31, Balance Sheet Data: 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 (in millions) Total assets $ 34,806 $ 34,453 $ 31,274 $ 29,025 $ 28,449 Non recourse debt (long term) $ 11,869 $ 11,293 $ 9,840 $ 10,308 $ 10,563 Non recourse debt (long term) Discontinued operations $ $ 37 $ 342 $ 467 $ 750 Recourse debt (long term) $ 4,994 $ 5,332 $ 4,790 $ 4,682 $ 5,010 Accumulated deficit $ (8 ) $ (1,241 ) $ (1,093 ) $ (1,340 ) $ (1,889 ) Stockholders equity $ 3,669 $ 3,164 $ 2,979 $ 1,583 $ 997 89  Table of Contents  ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  Overview of Our Business AES is a global power company. We own or operate a portfolio of electricity generation and distribution businesses with generation capacity totaling approximately 43,000 MW and distribution networks serving over 11 million people. In addition, we have more than 3,000 MW under construction in ten countries. Our global footprint includes operations in 29 countries on five continents with 83% of our revenue in 2008 generated outside the United States. We operate two primary lines of business. The first is our Generation business, where we own and or operate power plants to generate and sell power to wholesale customers such as utilities and other intermediaries. The second is our Utilities business, where we own and or operate utilities to distribute, transmit and sell electricity to end user customers in the residential, commercial, industrial and governmental sectors within a defined service area. Each of our primary lines of business generates approximately half of our revenues. We are also continuing to expand our wind generation business and are pursuing additional renewables projects in solar, climate solutions, biomass and energy storage. These initiatives are not material contributors to our revenue, gross margin or income, but we believe that they may become material in the future. Generation. We currently own or operate a portfolio of approximately 38,000 MW, consisting of 93 facilities in 26 countries on five continents at our generation businesses. We also have approximately 2,900 MW of capacity currently under construction in six countries. Our core Generation businesses use a wide range of technologies and fuel types including coal, combined cycle gas turbines, hydroelectric power and biomass. The majority of the electricity produced by our Generation businesses is sold under long term contracts, or PPAs, to wholesale customers. Approximately 61% of the revenues from our Generation businesses during 2008 was derived from plants that operate under PPAs of five years or longer for 75% or more of their output capacity. These businesses often reduce their exposure to fuel supply risks by entering into long term fuel supply contracts or fuel tolling contracts where the customer assumes full responsibility for purchasing and supplying the fuel to the power plant. These long term contractual agreements result in relatively predictable cash flow and earnings and reduce exposure to volatility in the market price for electricity and fuel; however, the amount of earnings and cash flow predictability varies from business to business based on the degree to which its exposure is limited by the contracts that it has negotiated. The balance of our Generation businesses sell power through competitive markets under short term contracts or directly in the spot market. As a result, the cash flows and earnings associated with these businesses are more sensitive to fluctuations in the market price for electricity, natural gas, coal and other fuels. However, for a number of these facilities, including our plants in New York, which include a fleet of coal fired plants, we have hedged the majority of our exposure to fuel, energy and emissions pricing for 2009. Utilities. Our Utilities businesses distribute power to more than 11 million people in seven countries on five continents. Our Utilities business consists primarily of 14 companies owned and or operated under management agreements, all of which operate in a defined service area. These businesses also include 15 generation plants in two countries totaling approximately 4,400 MW. In addition, we have one generation plant under construction totaling 86 MW. These businesses have a variety of structures ranging from pure distribution businesses to fully integrated utilities, which generate, transmit and distribute power. 90 Table of Contents Renewables and Other Initiatives. In recent years, as demand for renewable sources of energy has grown, we have placed increasing emphasis on developing projects in wind, solar, energy storage and the creation of carbon offsets. We have also developed projects and investments in climate solutions and energy storage. AES Wind Generation, which is one of the largest producers of wind power in the U.S., has 16 wind generation facilities in three countries with over 1,200 MW in operation and 11 wind generation facilities under construction in four countries. AES Solar, our joint venture with Riverstone Holdings, was formed to develop, own and operate utility scale photo voltaic (PV) solar installations. Since its launch, AES Solar has developed eight plants totaling 24 MW of solar projects in Spain. In climate solutions, we have developed and are implementing projects to produce GHG Credits. In the U.S., we formed Greenhouse Gas Services, LLC as a joint venture with GE Energy Financial Services to create high quality verifiable offsets for the voluntary U.S. market. We also have formed an initiative to develop and implement utility scale energy systems (such as batteries), which store and release power when needed. While these renewables and other initiatives are not currently material to our operations, we believe that in the future, they may become a material contributor to our revenue and gross margin. However, there are risks associated with these initiatives, which are further disclosed in Item 1A Risk Factors of this Form 10 K. Our Organization and Segments. As of the end of 2008, our Generation and Utilities businesses were organized within four defined geographic regions: (1) Latin America, (2) North America, (3) Europe & Africa, and (4) Asia and the Middle East, ("Asia"). Three regions, North America, Latin America and Europe & Africa, are engaged in both Generation and Utility businesses while the Asia region operates only Generation businesses. Accordingly, these businesses and regions account for seven reportable segments. "Corporate and Other" includes corporate overhead costs which are not directly associated with the operations of our seven primary reportable segments; interest income and expense; other inter company charges such as management fees and self insurance premiums which are fully eliminated in consolidation; and revenue, development costs and the operational results related to AES Wind Generation and our other renewables projects, which are currently not material to our operations. Beginning in 2009, the Company began to implement certain organizational changes in an effort to streamline the organization. The new structure will continue to be organized along our two lines of business, but within three regions instead of four: (1) North America, (2) Latin America & Africa and (3) Europe, Middle East & Asia ("EMEA"). In addition, we will no longer have an alternative energy group, the operation of which was previously reported under "Corporate and other." Instead, AES Wind Generation, will be managed as part of our North America region (even though some projects are not in North America) while climate solutions projects will be managed in the region in which they are located. Management is currently evaluating the impact of the reorganization on the Companys externally reported segments in accordance with SFAS No. 131. AES Solar is accounted for using the equity method and will continue to be reflected in Corporate and Other in 2009. Key Drivers of Our Results of Operations. Our Utilities and Generation businesses are distinguished by the nature of their customers, operational differences, cost structure, regulatory environment and risk exposure. As a result, each line of business has slightly different drivers which affect operating results. Performance drivers for our Generation businesses include, among other things, plant availability and reliability, management of fixed and operational costs and the extent to which our plants have hedged their exposure to fuel cost volatility. For our Generation businesses which sell power under short term contract or in the spot market one of the most crucial factors is the market price of electricity and the plants ability to generate electricity at a cost below that price. Growth in our Generation business is largely tied to securing new PPAs, expanding capacity in our existing facilities and building new power plants. Performance drivers for our Utilities businesses include, but are not limited to, reliability of service; negotiation of tariff adjustments; compliance with extensive regulatory requirements; management of working capital; and in developing countries, reduction of 91 Table of Contents commercial and technical losses. The results of operations of our Utilities businesses are sensitive to changes in economic growth and weather conditions in the area in which they operate. One of the key factors which affect both our revenue and costs of sales is changes in the cost of fuel. When fuel costs increase, many of our Generation businesses with long term contracts and our Utilities are able to pass these costs on to the customer through fuel pass through or fuel indexing arrangements in their contracts or through increases in tariff rates. Therefore, in a rising fuel cost environment as was the case in 2007 and much of 2008, increases in fuel costs for these businesses often resulted in increases in revenue (though not necessarily on a one for one basis). While these circumstances may not have a large impact on gross margin, they can significantly affect gross margin as a percentage of revenue. Other factors that can affect gross margin include our ability to expand the number of facilities we own; and in our existing plants, to sign up new customers and or purchasing parties, collect receivables from existing customers and operate our plants more efficiently. Another key driver of our results is the management of risk. Our assets are diverse with respect to fuel source and type of market, which helps reduce certain types of operating risk. Our portfolio employs a broad range of fuels, including coal, gas, fuel oil and renewable sources such as hydroelectric power, wind and solar, which reduces the risks associated with dependence on any one fuel source. For additional information regarding our facilities see Item 1 Our Organization and Segments. Our presence in mature markets helps reduce the volatility associated with our businesses in faster growing emerging markets. In addition, as noted above, our Generation portfolio is largely contracted, which reduces the risk related to the market prices of electricity and fuel. We also attempt to limit risk by hedging much of our currency and commodity risk, and by matching the currency of most of our subsidiary debt to the revenue of the business that issued that debt. However, our businesses are still subject to these risks, as further described in Item 1A Risk Factors, "We may not be adequately hedged against our exposure to changes in commodity prices or interest rates." Highlights of 2008 Results of Operations. In 2008, management continued to focus its efforts on increasing shareholder value by improving operations, executing our growth strategy and strategically managing our portfolio of businesses. Our 2008 results of operations were positively impacted by a number of factors including the gain on the sale of Ekibastuz and Maikuben in Kazakhstan, higher generation rates, utilities tariffs and favorable foreign currency translation. revenues of $16.1 billion and gross margin of $3.7 billion, or 23% of revenue; income from continuing operations of $1.2 billion, or $1.80 per diluted share; and cash flow from operating activities of $2.2 billion. Our results were negatively impacted by higher fuel costs in Asia and the unfavorable impact of mark to market adjustments on derivative instruments. We also saw an increase in fixed costs, primarily in Brazil and Cameroon, related to maintenance, higher provisions for bad debt, contractor services and higher purchased energy costs. In the fourth quarter of 2008, and in response to the financial market crisis, we reviewed and prioritized projects in our development pipeline. As a result, we recognized an impairment charge of approximately $75 million ($34 million, net of minority interest and income taxes). The projects determined to be impaired primarily included two liquefied natural gas projects in North America and a non power development project at one of our facilities in North America. As the Company continues to review and streamline its project pipeline, it is possible that further impairments could be identified in the future, some of which could be material. During 2008, we also recognized additional impairment charges of $36 million related to long lived assets at Uruguaiana, our gas powered generation plant in Brazil. The impairment was triggered by the combination of gas curtailments and increases in the spot 92 Table of Contents market price of energy in 2007 that continued in 2008. Following an initial impairment charge in the fourth quarter of 2007, further charges were incurred in 2008 due to fixed asset purchase agreements in place. During the first half of 2008, we withdrew from projects in South Africa and Israel which resulted in impairment charges of $36 million. We also recognized an impairment of $18 million related to the shutdown of the Hefei plant in China. Investment and Financing Activities. In addition to the financial results presented above, the additional highlights for the year ended December 31, 2008 include the following: Financing activities We were able to refinance recourse debt at lower interest rates and with extended maturities, reducing our 2009 recourse debt maturities from $467 million at December 31, 2007 to $154 million at December 31, 2008. Our consolidated subsidiaries raised approximately $2.7 billion in 2008 for the purposes of refinancing existing debt and to fund acquisitions and construction. For example, in October, the Company obtained approximately $1 billion in non recourse financing to support the development of Angamos, a 518 MW coal fired generation facility in Chile. Angamos is expected to begin commercial operations in 2011. We reduced outstanding recourse debt by $360 million and repurchased 10.7 million shares of our common stock at a total cost of $143 million. Acquisitions In April, the Company completed the purchase of a 92% interest in Masinloc, a 660 gross MW coal fired thermal power generation facility in Masinloc, Philippines. The purchase price was $930 million in cash (excluding anticipated improvements). Non recourse financing of $665 million was obtained to fund the acquisition and improve the facilities. Investments in Renewable Energy and Related Projects Wind Generation Highlights from AES Wind Generation include the following: The Company expanded its portfolio of wind generation businesses with the acquisition of Mountain View Power Partners ("Mountain View"), which consists of 111 wind turbines with a capacity of 67 MW in Palm Springs, California. In July, we acquired a 49% interest in Guohua Hulunbeier Wind Farm, a 49.5 MW wind farm development in China. The Company also reached a separate agreement with Guohua to move to phase II of our jointly owned Huanghua wind project to expand the facility, doubling the capacity to 99 MW. AES has a 49% interest in the Huanghua Project. In December, the Company obtained financing to build a 156 MW wind farm in Kavarna, the largest in Bulgaria, and a 22 MW wind farm in Scotland. Additionally we acquired a 34 MW wind farm from our affiliate, InnoVent. All three are expected to commence commercial operations in 2009. Solar Energy In March, the Company formed AES Solar, a joint venture with Riverstone. AES Solar will develop land based solar photovoltaic panels that capture sunlight to convert into electricity that feed directly into power grids. AES Solar has commenced commercial operations of 24 MW solar projects in Spain. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company and Riverstone will each provide up to $500 million of capital over the next five years. Through December 31, 2008, the Company has contributed total capital of $135 million. 93 Table of Contents Climate Solutions Highlights from our climate solutions activities include: In April, the Company acquired the rights to the gas from a landfill project in El Salvador ("Nejapa"). Nejapa produces emission reduction credits and plans to build a 6 MW generation facility that could potentially increase to 25 MW in the future. In June, as a result of a financial restructuring, the Company assumed 100% ownership of AgCert International Plc, an Irish company investing in GHG projects primarily in Brazil and Mexico. AgCert currently produces approximately 1.4 million tonnes per year of CERs. In September, Greenhouse Gas Services LLC, the Companys joint venture with General Electric, announced an agreement with Google to co develop projects to reduce GHG emissions and produce GHG credits. The first project will capture methane gas in North Carolina. Construction As of December 31, 2008, the Company has more than 3,000 Gross MW of new generation capacity. The projects under construction include 14 core power projects totaling 2,993 MW and 11 wind power projects totaling 410 MW. We began construction of Angamos, a 518 MW coal fired generation facility in Chile expected to begin commercial operations in 2011. We also further advanced our recent projects with the start of construction of three hydro projects in Turkey that are being developed through our investment made in May 2007 in the IC Ictas Energy Group. In July, the Company achieved early successful testing of simple cycle operation for the Amman East facility in Jordan, a 380 MW natural gas fired project expected to achieve full combined cycle operation in the first half of 2009. In August, the Company started commercial operations of the 170 MW Buffalo Gap III wind farm in Abilene, Texas, bringing the total wind generation capacity of the Buffalo Gap wind farm to 524 MW. For a complete listing of the Companys projects under construction or in development please see Item 1 Our Organizations and Segments. Portfolio Management In the first quarter of 2008, the Company finalized our termination agreement with the Chinese government and shut down Hefei, a 115 MW oil fueled generation facility. The plant became the property of the Anhui Province and we received termination compensation of approximately $39 million in March 2008. In May 2008, the Company completed the sale of Ekibastuz and Maikuben West, a coal fired power plant and a coal mine with operations in Kazakhstan. Proceeds from the sale of these businesses totaled approximately $1.1 billion, a portion of which was used to pay down debt in June 2008. We have the opportunity to receive additional consideration of up to approximately $380 million under performance incentives and a management agreement to continue operation and management of the plants for the next three years. In November 2008, the Company sold a 9.6% ownership in AES Gener for $175 million which reduced the Companys ownership percentage from 80.2% to 70.6%. As a result, the Company recognized a pre tax loss of $31 million in the fourth quarter of 2008. The net proceeds from 94 Table of Contents this transaction were used to participate in Geners capital increase in February 2009 as discussed under Outlook for the Future. In December 2008, the Company sold its 70% interest in Jiaozuo, a 250 MW coal fired generation plant in China for net proceeds of $73 million. Prior periods have been restated to reflect this business within Discontinued Operations for all periods presented. Credit Crisis and the Macroeconomic Environment In the second half of 2007, conditions in the credit markets began to deteriorate in the United States and abroad. In the third and fourth quarter of 2008, this crisis and associated market conditions worsened dramatically, with unprecedented market volatility, widening credit spreads, volatile currencies, illiquidity, and increased counterparty credit risk. Beginning in the second half of 2007, the Company began a series of debt related initiatives, including the refinancing of approximately $2.0 billion of recourse debt in transactions executed in the fourth quarter of 2007 and the second quarter of 2008. As a result of these transactions, The AES Corporation reduced the 2009 maturities on its recourse debt from $467 million as of June 30, 2007 to $154 million as of December 31, 2008. The AES Corporation also eliminated many of the restrictive covenants in its 8.75% Second Priority Senior Secured Notes due 2013 and modified certain covenants contained in its senior secured credit facility. The amendments made the financial covenants less restrictive and made certain other changes, such as expanding the Companys ability to repurchase its own common stock. For further information regarding these covenant changes, see the Capital Resources and Liquidity Parent Company Liquidity section of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. In addition, The AES Corporation successfully replaced Lehman Commercial Paper with another bank as a lender under its senior secured credit facility. Because of the factors described above, management currently believes that it can meet its near term liquidity requirements through a combination of existing cash and cash equivalent balances, cash provided by operating activities, financings, and, if needed, borrowings under its secured and unsecured credit facilities. Although there can be no assurance due to the challenging times currently faced by financial institutions, management believes that the participating banks under its facilities will be able to meet their funding commitments. The Company is also subject to credit risk, which includes risk related to the ability of counterparties (such as parties to our PPAs, fuel supply agreements, hedging agreements, and other contractual arrangements) to meet their contractual payment obligations or the potential nonperformance of counterparties to deliver contracted commodities or services at the contracted price. While counterparty credit risk has increased in the current crisis and there can be no assurances regarding the future, to date the Company has not suffered any material effects related to its counterparties. The global economic slowdown could also result in a decline in the value of our assets, which could result in material impairments of certain assets or result in an increase in our obligations which could be material to our operations. For example, as discussed above, during the fourth quarter of 2008, and in response to the financial market crisis, the Company reviewed and prioritized the projects in our development pipeline. As a result we recognized an impairment charge of approximately $75 million ($34 million, net of minority interest and income taxes). The projects that were impaired included two liquefied natural gas projects in North America and a non power development project at one of our facilities in North America. In addition to the decline in development assets noted above, there is a risk that the fair value of other assets could also decline, resulting in additional impairment charges and or a material increase in 95 Table of Contents our obligations. Certain subsidiaries of the Company have defined benefit pension plans. The Company periodically evaluates the value of the pension plan assets to ensure that they will be sufficient to fund their respective pension obligations. Given the declines in worldwide asset values, we are expecting an increase in pension expense and funding requirements in future periods, which may be material. As of December 31, 2008 we expect the Company to make future employer contributions to its defined benefit pension plans in 2009 of approximately $154 million, of which $21 million will be made to its U.S. plans and $133 million to foreign plans primarily in Brazil (subject to changes in foreign currency exchange rates), compared to employer contributions made in 2008 of $197 million, of which $59 million was made to U.S. plans and $138 million to foreign plans. In Brazilian real ("R$") contributions for our subsidiaries in Brazil are expected to increase from R$236 million in 2008 to R$294 million in 2009. The decline in the fair value of pension plan assets will also result in increased pension expense in 2009, currently estimated at $124 million in 2009 (subject to changes in foreign currency exchange rates) compared to $60 million in 2008. Expense at our subsidiaries in Brazil, in local currency, is expected to be R$176 million in 2009 compared to R$77 million in 2008. See Item 1A Risk Factors, "Some of our subsidiaries participate in defined benefit pension plans and their net pension plan obligations may require additional significant contributions." To date, other than the impacts described above, the global economic slowdown has not significantly impacted the Company. However, in the event that the credit crisis and global recession deteriorate further, or are protracted, there could be a material adverse impact on the Company. The Company could be materially impacted if such events or other events occur such that participating lenders under its secured and unsecured facilities fail to meet their commitments, or the Company is unable to access the capital markets on favorable terms or at all, is unable to raise funds through the sale of assets, or is otherwise unable to finance its activities or refinance its debt, or if capital market disruptions result in increased borrowing costs (including with respect to interest payments on the Companys variable rate debt). The Company could also be adversely affected if general economic or political conditions in the markets where the Company operates deteriorate, resulting in a reduction in cash flow from operations, a reduction in the value of currencies in these markets relative to the dollar (which could cause currency losses), an increase in the price of commodities used in our operations and construction, or if the value of its assets remain depressed or decline further. If any of the foregoing events occur, such events (or a combination thereof) could have a material impact on the Company, its results of operations, liquidity, financial covenants, and or its credit rating. The Company could also be adversely affected if the foregoing effects are exacerbated or general economic or political conditions in the markets where the Company operates deteriorate, resulting in a reduction in cash flow from operations, a reduction in the value of currencies in these markets relative to the dollar (which could cause currency losses), an increase in the price of commodities used in our operations and construction or a decline in asset values. Outlook for the Future In 2008, management continued to focus its efforts on improving operations, executing our growth strategy, managing our risk and strategically managing our portfolio of businesses. As market conditions deteriorated in the second half of 2008, our strategy evolved, with an increased emphasis on preserving liquidity. We also recognized that uncertain economic conditions could potentially slow global demand for power for some period of time. Accordingly, we scaled back our development plans mid year to focus on projects that we believe will still have attractive returns and can still attract capital in difficult financial markets and on completing our projects that are currently under construction. If the Company has capital available for investment beyond these priorities (whether for further development, reductions in debt, or repurchases of stock), it will be allocated based on managements assessment of its most effective use. 96 Table of Contents Consistent with this strategy, in the fourth quarter of 2008, management conducted a review of its development pipeline, and determined that certain projects in the pipeline may not achieve financial close, will not provide the returns originally anticipated, or are otherwise unfeasible, or that other uses of capital such as debt repayment or stock repurchases offer a better return on the Companys capital. Accordingly, management has determined it will not pursue certain projects and will delay others until the credit markets recover. Furthermore, management will continue to review its pipeline and may further reduce the number of projects it pursues. The Company is also evaluating other options with respect to its pipeline, such as the addition of partners who can contribute capital, share project risk and or provide strategic expertise. There can be no assurance regarding the outcome of any such decisions on the Company, its results of operations or its financial condition. The AES Corporation has $154 million in recourse debt maturing in 2009 compared with Parent Company liquidity of approximately $1.4 billion. With regard to its projects currently under construction, the Company believes that it can complete these projects through a combination of existing cash and cash equivalent balances, cash provided by operating activities, financings, and, if needed, borrowings under its secured and unsecured credit facilities. The Company has secured the financing for the vast majority of projects under construction. The Company is also focused on operational improvements and cost reductions to help further improve its cash flow from operations and enhance its financial flexibility. The Company has already commenced efforts to reduce costs and streamline our organization. These efforts include the reorganization of the Company from four regions to three regions, which is expected to eliminate redundancies and improve our cost structure. Recent Events On December 23, 2008, the local Chilean SEC approved Geners issuance of approximately 945 million new shares at a price of $162.50 Chilean Pesos. The proceeds of the share issuance were $246 million and Gener anticipates using these proceeds for future expansion plans, working capital and other operating needs. The preemptive rights period began on January 7, 2009 remained open for 30 days and closed on February 5, 2009. During the preemptive rights period AES, through its wholly owned subsidiary, Cachagua, paid $175 million from the proceeds of the November 2008 share sale to maintain its current ownership percentage of approximately 70.6%.  2008 Performance Highlights Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 ($s in millions, except per share amounts) Revenue $ 16,070 $ 13,516 $ 11,509 Gross Margin $ 3,707 $ 3,392 $ 3,419 Gross Margin as a % of Revenue 23.1 % 25.1 % 29.7 % Diluted Earnings Per Share from Continuing Operations $ 1.80 $ 0.72 $ 0.25 Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities $ 2,165 $ 2,353 $ 2,348 Revenue Revenue increased 19% to $16.1 billion in 2008 compared with $13.5 billion in 2007 primarily due to higher generation rates in Latin America, the impact of favorable foreign currency translation of approximately $350 million and utility tariffs and volume. 97 Table of Contents Gross margin Gross margin increased 9% to $3.7 billion in 2008 compared with $3.4 billion in 2007 primarily due to higher generation rates in Latin America, favorable foreign currency impact, utility volume and tariff, partially offset by an increase in fixed costs associated with allowances for bad debts and higher purchased energy costs, primarily in Brazil and Cameroon. Gross margin as a percentage of revenue decreased to 23.1% in 2008 compared with 25.1% in 2007 driven by the increase in fixed costs. Our gross margin remained at approximately $3.4 billion in 2006 and 2007 and increased to $3.7 billion in 2008. Gross margin however declined in the fourth quarter of 2008 due to several factors including the mix of earnings within our portfolio, foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and recent acquisitions, such as Masinloc in the Philippines. We believe that it is reasonably possible that the recent trend in gross margin reported in the fourth quarter will continue. The Companys future gross margin trends may be significantly impacted by currency exchange rates, commodity prices and the impact of any significant regulatory developments in each country where the Company conducts its business. The Company is subject to extensive and complex governmental regulations which affect most aspects of our business, such as regulations governing the generation and distribution of electricity and environmental regulations, as described more fully in the Business section of the Form 10 K. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations increased $1.08 per share to $1.80 per share in 2008 compared to $0.72 per share in 2007. The 2008 results included a net positive impact of $0.74 per share relating to : (i) a gain from the sale of the Companys northern Kazakhstan businesses in the second quarter of 2008 of $905 million (pre tax) or $1.31; (ii) additional tax expense of $144 million or $0.21 related to the repatriation of a portion of the Kazakhstan sale proceeds (iii) loss related to corporate debt restructuring charges of $55 million (pre tax) or $0.05 (iv) impairment charges taken in the fourth quarter on certain LNG and other development efforts of $34 million (net of tax and minority interest) or $0.05, (v) other impairment charges in Brazil and South Africa of $45 million (net of tax and minority interest) or $0.06 and (vi) net currency translation and transaction losses of $0.20 per share. These were compared to 2007 results which included (i) a gain of approximately $0.15 per diluted share related to the acquisition of a leasehold interest at Eastern Energy in New York and the recovery of certain tax assets in Latin America; (ii) impairment charges related to Uruguaiana and AgCert of $0.33 per share and (iii) corporate debt retirement costs in 2007 of $0.08 per share. The remaining increase in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations from 2007 to 2008 of $0.08 per share is mainly the result of improved performance in 2008. Net cash from operating activities Net cash from operating activities decreased 8% to $2.2 billion in 2008 compared with $2.4 billion in 2007. Excluding the decrease in net cash provided by operating activities from EDC in Venezuela, which was sold in May 2007, net cash provided by operating activities would have decreased $37 million. This decrease was primarily due to increased employer pension contributions at our U.S. and foreign subsidiaries and an increase in regulatory assets related to future recoverable purchased energy costs in Brazil. These decreases were partially offset by a decrease in cash used by a Brazilian subsidiary to pay income taxes in 2008 as a result of tax credits used as the primary payment method in 2008 and improved operations in Latin America and Europe & Africa. Please refer to Consolidated Cash Flows Operating Activities for further discussion. 98  Table of Contents  Consolidated Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, Results of operations 2008 2007 2006 $ change 2008 vs. 2007 $ change 2007 vs. 2006 (in millions, except per share amounts) Revenue: Latin America Generation $ 4,465 $ 3,510 $ 2,615 $ 955 $ 895 Latin America Utilities 5,911 5,172 4,552 739 620 North America Generation 2,234 2,168 1,928 66 240 North America Utilities 1,079 1,052 1,032 27 20 Europe & Africa Generation 1,160 975 852 185 123 Europe & Africa Utilities 782 660 570 122 90 Asia Generation 1,264 817 718 447 99 Corporate and Other(1) (825 ) (838 ) (758 ) 13 (80 ) Total Revenue $ 16,070 $ 13,516 $ 11,509 $ 2,554 $ 2,007 Gross Margin: Latin America Generation $ 1,394 $ 955 $ 1,052 $ 439 $ (97 ) Latin America Utilities 885 865 888 20 (23 ) North America Generation 657 702 610 (45 ) 92 North America Utilities 261 313 277 (52 ) 36 Europe & Africa Generation 294 275 247 19 28 Europe & Africa Utilities 57 63 103 (6 ) (40 ) Asia Generation 143 176 186 (33 ) (10 ) Total Corporate and Other Expense(2) (355 ) (336 ) (245 ) (19 ) (91 ) Interest expense (1,844 ) (1,788 ) (1,769 ) (56 ) (19 ) Interest income 540 500 434 40 66 Other expense (163 ) (255 ) (451 ) 92 196 Other income 379 358 116 21 242 Gain on sale of investments 909 98 909 (98 ) (Loss) gain on sale of subsidiary stock (31 ) 134 (535 ) (165 ) 669 Impairment expense (175 ) (408 ) (17 ) 233 (391 ) Foreign currency transaction (losses) gains on net monetary position (185 ) 24 (80 ) (209 ) 104 Other non operating expense (15 ) (57 ) 42 (57 ) Income tax expense (774 ) (679 ) (359 ) (95 ) (320 ) Net equity in earnings of affiliates 33 76 73 (43 ) 3 Minority interest expense (794 ) (431 ) (460 ) (363 ) 29 Income from continuing operations 1,216 487 168 729 319 Income from operations of discontinued businesses 12 79 115 (67 ) (36 ) Gain (loss) from disposal of discontinued businesses 6 (661 ) (57 ) 667 (604 ) Extraordinary items 21 (21 ) Net income (loss) $ 1,234 $ (95 ) $ 247 $ 1,329 $ (342 ) Per share data: Basic income per share from continuing operations $ 1.82 $ 0.73 $ 0.25 $ 1.09 $ 0.48 Diluted income per share from continuing operations $ 1.80 $ 0.72 $ 0.25 $ 1.08 $ 0.47 (1)Corporate and Other includes revenues from renewables and inter segment eliminations of revenues related to transfers of electricity from Tiet&ecirc; (generation) to Eletropaulo (utility) in Latin America. (2)Total Corporate and Other expenses include corporate general and administrative expenses, expenses related to our renewables initiatives as well as certain inter segment eliminations, primarily corporate charges for management fees and self insurance premiums. 99 Table of Contents Segment Analysis Latin America The following table summarizes revenue and gross margin for our Generation segment in Latin America for the periods indicated: For the Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 % Change 2008 vs. 2007 % Change 2007 vs. 2006 (Dollars in millions) Latin America Generation Revenue $ 4,465 $ 3,510 $ 2,615 27 % 34 % Gross Margin $ 1,394 $ 955 $ 1,052 46 % (9 )% Gross Margin as a % of Segment Revenue 31 % 27 % 40 % Fiscal Year 2008 versus 2007 Generation revenue increased $955 million, or 27%, from the previous year primarily due to higher contract and spot prices and higher volume at Gener in Chile and our businesses in Argentina of approximately $508 million and $188 million, respectively, higher contract and spot prices at our businesses in the Dominican Republic of approximately $132 million, favorable foreign currency translation of approximately $77 million and higher spot prices at our businesses in Panama of approximately $45 million. Generation gross margin increased $439 million, or 46%, from the previous year primarily due to higher contract and spot prices and higher volume at Gener and our businesses in Argentina of approximately $318 million, higher contract and spot prices at our businesses in the Dominican Republic of approximately $86 million, favorable foreign currency translation of approximately $44 million, and higher spot prices at our businesses in Panama of approximately $30 million. These increases were partially offset by higher purchased energy prices of approximately $57 million at Uruguaiana in Brazil. Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Generation revenue increased $895 million, or 34%, from the previous year primarily due to higher rates and volume at Gener and our businesses in Argentina of approximately $443 million and $95 million, respectively; and increased volume and intercompany sales from Tiet&ecirc;, in Brazil, to Eletropaulo, our Brazilian utility, of approximately $130 million. Our increase in ownership of the controlling shares of Itabo, in the Dominican Republic, which resulted in a change from the equity method of accounting consolidation, contributed approximately $87 million in revenue. The increase from foreign currency translation was approximately $38 million. Generation gross margin decreased $97 million, or 9%, from the previous year primarily due to increased cost from gas supply curtailments, drier than normal hydrology and higher spot prices for electricity in the Companys businesses in Argentina, Chile and Southern Brazil of approximately $173 million and one time transmission charges at Tiet&ecirc; of $39 million, offset in part, by higher sales at Itabo of $23 million and intercompany sales in Tiet&ecirc; of $103 million. 100 Table of Contents The following table summarizes revenue and gross margin for our Utilities segment in Latin America for the periods indicated: For the Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 % Change 2008 vs. 2007 % Change 2007 vs. 2006 (Dollars in millions) Latin America Utilities Revenue $ 5,911 $ 5,172 $ 4,552 14 % 14 % Gross Margin $ 885 $ 865 $ 888 2 % (3 )% Gross Margin as a % of Segment Revenue 15 % 17 % 20 % Fiscal Year 2008 versus 2007 Utilities revenue increased $739 million, or 14%, from the previous year primarily due to favorable foreign currency translation of approximately $357 million at our businesses in Brazil, increased rates primarily associated with higher pass through purchased energy and transmission costs at Eletropaulo of approximately $148 million, and higher volume at Eletropaulo and Sul in Brazil of approximately $162 million and $30 million, respectively. Utilities gross margin increased $20 million, or 2%, from the previous year primarily due to higher volume at Eletropaulo of approximately $162 million and favorable foreign currency translation of approximately $67 million at our businesses in Brazil. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in the non pass through rates at Eletropaulo as a result of the July 2007 tariff reset of approximately $74 million, increased fixed costs of approximately $71 million at Eletropaulo primarily due to higher provisions for bad debts and higher purchased energy costs at Eletropaulo of approximately $68 million. Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Utilities revenue increased $620 million, or 14%, from the previous year primarily due to favorable foreign currency translation of $493 million, and increased rates and volume at Sul and at our plants in El Salvador of $58 million and $41 million, respectively, offset by a net decrease in tariffs of $24 million at Eletropaulo. Utilities gross margin decreased $23 million, or 3%, from the previous year primarily due to reduced tariff rates at Eletropaulo of $355 million offset by lower costs, favorable foreign currency translation of $148 million and higher volume of $74 million. Additionally, Sul had increased rates and volume of $27 million and favorable foreign currency translation of $19 million. North America The following table summarizes revenue and gross margin for our Generation segment in North America for the periods indicated: For the Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 % Change 2008 vs. 2007 % Change 2007 vs. 2006 (Dollars in millions) North America Generation Revenue $ 2,234 $ 2,168 $ 1,928 3 % 12 % Gross Margin $ 657 $ 702 $ 610 (6 )% 15 % Gross Margin as a % of Segment Revenue 29 % 32 % 32 % 101 Table of Contents Fiscal Year 2008 versus 2007 Generation revenue increased $66 million, or 3%, from the previous year primarily due to higher volume of $38 million at TEG/TEP in Mexico, and net higher revenue at Merida in Mexico of $29 million primarily due to the pass through of higher fuel costs offset by a revenue adjustment. In addition, revenue increased $8 million at Red Oak in New Jersey, due to higher pricing and availability bonuses. At Warrior Run in Maryland, revenue increased $12 million due to the pass through of higher fuel costs and higher volume due to no significant outages in 2008. These effects were partially offset by lower volume in New York of $23 million primarily due to planned outages and lower capacity factors. Generation gross margin decreased $45 million, or 6%, and decreased as a percentage of revenue from the previous year due to lower gross margin in New York of $46 million mainly due to a planned outage and lower volume, and higher fuel prices and outages of $16 million at Deepwater in Texas. Gross margin decreased $13 million at TEG/TEP due primarily to outages and lower rates due to changes in the sales contract rates associated with the refinancing in 2007. These decreases were partially offset by a net increase in gross margin in Hawaii of $29 million primarily due to a $22 million net mark to market derivative gain on a coal supply contract and a one time use tax refund of $6 million. Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Generation revenue increased $240 million, or 12%, from the previous year primarily due to approximately $200 million in new business as a result of our acquisition of TEG/TEP and approximately $96 million in higher rate and volume sales at the Companys New York facilities; offset by mark to market adjustments for embedded derivatives of $51 million at Deepwater and lower emission sales of $39 million. Generation gross margin increased $92 million, or 15%, from the previous year primarily due to approximately $62 million related to our acquisition of TEG/TEP and $90 million related to higher rates and volumes and lower cost at the Companys New York facilities offset by lower sales of excess emissions allowances of approximately $39 million. The following table summarizes revenue and gross margin for our Utilities segment in North America for the periods indicated: For the Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 % Change 2008 vs. 2007 % Change 2007 vs. 2006 (Dollars in millions) North America Utilities Revenue $ 1,079 $ 1,052 $ 1,032 3 % 2 % Gross Margin $ 261 $ 313 $ 277 (17 )% 13 % Gross Margin as a % of Segment Revenue 24 % 30 % 27 % Fiscal Year 2008 versus 2007 Utilities revenue increased $27 million, or 3%, from the previous year primarily due to a $42 million increase in rate adjustments at IPL in Indiana, related to environmental investments, $42 million of higher fuel and purchased power costs and an $8 million increase in wholesale prices. These increases were offset by $32 million of credits to customers established during the first six months of 2008, $16 million of lower retail volume primarily due to unfavorable weather compared to 2007 and an $18 million decrease in wholesale volume. 102 Table of Contents Utilities gross margin decreased $52 million, or 17%, from the previous year primarily due to lower variable retail margin of $42 million driven by the credits to customers established during the first six months of 2008 and lower retail volume. In addition, IPL had higher maintenance expenses of $9 million primarily due to storm restoration costs and the timing and duration of major generating unit overhauls, an increase of $6 million in labor and benefits costs and an increase of $3 million in contractor and consulting costs. These decreases to gross margin were offset by a return recovered through rates on approved environmental investments of $14 million. Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Utilities revenue increased $20 million, or 2%, from the previous year primarily due to increased volume due to weather, offset by a decrease in fuel charges passed through to customer at IPL. Utilities gross margin increased $36 million, or 13%, from the previous year primarily due to increased volume sales and a return recovered through rates on approved environmental investments at IPL. Europe & Africa The following table summarizes revenue for our Generation segment in Europe & Africa for the periods indicated: For the Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 % Change 2008 vs. 2007 % Change 2007 vs. 2006 (Dollars in millions) Europe & Africa Generation Revenue $ 1,160 $ 975 $ 852 19 % 14 % Gross Margin $ 294 $ 275 $ 247 7 % 11 % Gross Margin as a % of Segment Revenue 25 % 28 % 29 % Fiscal Year 2008 versus 2007 Generation revenue increased $185 million, or 19%, from the previous year primarily due to an increase in capacity income and energy payments at Kilroot in Northern Ireland of approximately $105 million, rate recovery and higher volume of approximately $93 million at our businesses in Hungary and favorable foreign currency translation in Hungary of $32 million. In addition, revenue at Kilroot increased approximately $21 million compared to the previous year primarily due to the unfavorable impact of two major overhauls in 2007. These increases were partially offset by a reduction in revenue of approximately $49 million in Kazakhstan following the sale of Ekibastuz and Maikuben in the second quarter of 2008 that was partially offset by approximately $12 million in management fees earned from continuing management agreements for those businesses. In addition, revenue at Kilroot was approximately $37 million lower due to the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation. Generation gross margin increased $19 million, or 7%, from the previous year primarily due to higher rates and volume of $43 million at Tisza II in Hungary, and an increase in capacity income and fewer forced outages at Kilroot of approximately $32 million. These were offset by an increase in fixed costs of $24 million at Kilroot and Tisza II, unfavorable foreign currency translation of $12 million at Kilroot and a reduction in gross margin of $29 million in Kazakhstan following the sale of Ekibastuz and Maikuben in the second quarter of 2008 that was partially offset by $9 million in net gross margin from continuing management agreements for those businesses. 103 Table of Contents Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Generation revenue increased $123 million, or 14%, from the previous year primarily due to favorable foreign currency translation of $77 million and increased rate and volume sales of approximately $60 million at our businesses in Kazakhstan. Generation gross margin increased $28 million, or 11%, from the previous year primarily due to rate and volume increases at our businesses in Kazakhstan and Kilroot of $44 million and $13 million, respectively. These increases were offset by lower emission sales in Hungary and Bohemia in the Czech Republic of approximately $28 million. The following table summarizes gross margin for our Utilities segments in Europe & Africa for the periods indicated: For the Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 % Change 2008 vs. 2007 % Change 2007 vs. 2006 (Dollars in millions) Europe & Africa Utilities Revenue $ 782 $ 660 $ 570 18 % 16 % Gross Margin $ 57 $ 63 $ 103 (10 )% (39 )% Gross Margin as a % of Segment Revenue 7 % 10 % 18 % Fiscal Year 2008 versus 2007 Utilities revenue increased $122 million, or 18%, from the previous year primarily due to increased tariff rates of approximately $86 million at our businesses in Ukraine, approximately $30 million due to increased rates and volume and $26 million due to favorable foreign currency translation at Sonel in Cameroon. These increases were partially offset by an unfavorable foreign currency translation impact at our businesses in Ukraine of approximately $17 million. Utilities gross margin decreased $6 million, or 10%, from the previous year primarily due to higher fixed costs of approximately $55 million across the region, a mark to market derivative adjustment at Sonel of $9 million and the favorable impact in 2007 of fuel pass through costs under a concession agreement of $6 million, partially offset by increased rates and volume at Sonel of approximately $36 million and increased tariff rates of approximately $23 million at our businesses in Ukraine. Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Utilities revenue increased $90 million, or 16%, from the previous year primarily due to increased tariff rates and volume of approximately $57 million in the Ukraine and approximately $28 million in favorable foreign currency translation. Utilities gross margin decreased $40 million, or 39%, from the previous year primarily due to higher non fuel operating and maintenance costs as well as higher fuel usage at Sonel. 104 Table of Contents Asia The following table summarizes revenue and gross margin for our Generation segment in Asia for the periods indicated: For the Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 % Change 2008 vs. 2007 % Change 2007 vs. 2006 (Dollars in millions) Asia Generation Revenue $ 1,264 $ 817 $ 718 55 % 14 % Gross Margin $ 143 $ 176 $ 186 (19 )% (5 )% Gross Margin as a % of Segment Revenue 11 % 22 % 26 % Fiscal Year 2008 versus 2007 Generation revenue increased $447 million, or 55%, from the previous year primarily due to higher rates driven by increased pass through fuel prices of $259 million and volume of $41 million at our Lal Pir and Pak Gen businesses in Pakistan, an increase in rates due to pass through fuel prices at Kelanitissa in Sri Lanka, of approximately $55 million, and revenue generated from our new businesses, Masinloc in the Philippines, and Amman East in Jordan, of $148 million and $46 million, respectively. These increases were partially offset by unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation of $95 million in Pakistan. Generation gross margin decreased $33 million, or 19%, from the previous year primarily due to the impact of increased fuel prices on heat rate losses of approximately $14 million at Lal Pir and Pak Gen and a $15 million unfavorable impact on revenue from an amended PPA accounted for as a lease, and therefore revenue was recognized on a straight line basis in accordance with EITF No. 01 8, Determining Whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease at Ras Laffan in Qatar. In addition, Masinloc generated a net gross margin loss of $18 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. These unfavorable effects were partially offset by the favorable impact of $14 million from the start of commercial operations in July 2008 at Amman East. Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Generation revenue increased $99 million, or 14%, from the previous year primarily due to higher dispatch in Pakistan of $83 million and higher volume and rates at Kelanitissa of approximately $30 million offset by volume decreases of approximately $8 million at Chigen in China. Generation gross margin decreased $10 million, or 5%, from the previous year primarily due to decreased volume at Chigen. Corporate and Other Expense Corporate and other expenses include general and administrative expenses, executive management, finance, legal, human resources, information systems and certain development costs which are not allocable to our business segments. In addition, this includes net operating results from AES Wind Generation and other renewables initiatives which are immaterial for the purposes of separate segment disclosure and, the effects of eliminating transactions, such as management fee arrangements and self insurance charges, between the operating segments and corporate. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, Corporate and other expense was approximately 2 3% of total revenues. Corporate and other expense increased $19 million, or 6%, to $355 million in 2008 from $336 million in 2007. The increase was primarily due to higher spending of $16 million on 105 Table of Contents SAP implementation projects and $27 million on the expansion of AES Wind Generation, climate solutions projects and our renewables initiatives, offset partially by a reduction in professional fees related to material weakness remediation efforts. Corporate and other expense increased $91 million, or 37%, to $336 million in 2007 from $245 million in 2006. The increase was primarily due to higher spending in professional fees of approximately $24 million primarily to complete the restatement of our financial statements and for continued material weakness remediation efforts, higher spending due to headcount increases primarily related to the strengthening of our finance organization of approximately $15 million and increased spending of $18 million for our SAP implementation projects. Interest expense Interest expense increased $56 million, or 3%, to $1,844 million in 2008 primarily due to additional interest expense at our recently acquired subsidiary, Masinloc, interest expense associated with derivatives at Eletropaulo, Panama and Puerto Rico, as well as unfavorable foreign currency translation in Brazil. These increases were offset by decreases from the elimination of a financial transaction tax in Brazil, a decrease in regulatory liabilities at Eletropaulo, and a decrease in capitalized interest on development projects at Kilroot. Interest expense increased $19 million, or 1%, to $1,788 million in 2007 primarily due to unfavorable impacts from foreign currency translation in Brazil and interest expense associated with derivatives. These increases were offset by the benefits of debt retirement activity at several of our subsidiaries in Latin America and lower interest rates at one of our subsidiaries in Brazil. Interest income Interest income increased $40 million, or 8%, to $540 million in 2008 primarily due to interest income on short term investments and cash equivalents at two of our subsidiaries in Brazil, inflationary adjustments on accounts receivable at Gener, and interest earned on a convertible loan acquired in March 2008. These increases were offset by decreases due to lower interest income related to a gross receipts tax recovery at Tiet&ecirc; recorded during the second quarter of 2007 and decreased interest income related to derivatives at TEG/TEP. Interest income increased $66 million, or 15%, to $500 million in 2007 primarily due to favorable foreign currency translation on the Brazilian Real and higher cash and short term investment balances at certain of our subsidiaries, offset by decreases at two of our Brazilian subsidiaries due to lower interest rates. Other income Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Gain on extinguishment of liabilities $ 199 $ 22 $ 45 Insurance proceeds 40 18 30 Legal/dispute settlement 39 26 1 Gain on sale of assets 34 24 18 Contract settlement gain 135 Gross receipts tax recovery 93 Other 67 40 22 Total other income $ 379 $ 358 $ 116 106 Table of Contents Other income increased $21 million to $379 million in 2008 primarily due to gains on the extinguishment of a gross receipts tax liability and legal contingency of $117 million and $75 million, respectively, at Eletropaulo, $29 million of insurance recoveries for damaged turbines at Uruguaiana, $32 million of cash proceeds related to a favorable legal settlement at Southland in California, and compensation of $18 million for the impairment associated with the settlement agreement to shut down Hefei. These increases were offset by a $135 million contract settlement gain in 2007 at Eastern Energy and a $93 million gross receipts tax recovery in 2007 at Eletropaulo and Tiet&ecirc; in 2007. Other income increased $242 million to $358 million in 2007 primarily due to the Eastern Energy contract settlement gain and tax recoveries in Brazil noted above in addition to favorable legal settlements at Eletropaulo and Red Oak. These increases were offset by a decrease in gains on the extinguishment of debt, which were driven by debt retirement activities at several of our businesses in Latin America in 2006. Other expense Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Loss on extinguishment of liabilities $ 70 $ 106 $ 181 Loss on sale and disposal of assets 34 79 23 Legal/dispute settlement 19 36 31 Regulatory special obligations 139 Write down of disallowed regulatory assets 16 36 Other 40 18 41 Total other expense $ 163 $ 255 $ 451 Other expense decreased $92 million to $163 million in 2008, from $255 million in 2007, primarily due to a decrease in losses on sales and disposals of assets at Sul as well as an extinguishment of debt at the Parent Company. In 2008, there was a loss of $55 million on the retirement of Senior Notes at the Parent Company, compared to a loss of $90 million on a smaller debt retirement in 2007. Other expense decreased $196 million to $255 million in 2007 primarily due to higher losses in 2006 associated with debt retirement activities at several of our Latin American businesses, special obligation charges and the write down of disallowed regulatory assets at Eletropaulo in 2006. In 2007, there was a loss of $90 million on the retirement of Senior Notes at the Parent Company, as well as higher losses on sales and disposals of assets at Eletropaulo and Sul. Impairment Expense As discussed in Note 19 Impairment Expense to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K, impairment expense for the year 2008 was $175 million and consisted primarily of the following: In the fourth quarter of 2008, and in response to the financial market crisis, the Company reviewed and prioritized projects in the development pipeline. From this review, the Company determined that the carrying value exceeded the future discounted cash flows for certain projects. As a result, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $75 million ($34 million, net of minority interest and income taxes) related to two liquefied natural gas projects in North America and a non power development project at one of our facilities in North America. During 2008, the Company recognized additional impairment charges of $36 million related to long lived assets at Uruguaiana. The impairment was triggered by a combination of gas curtailments and increases in the spot market price of energy in 2007 that continued in 2008. Following an initial impairment charge in the fourth quarter 107 Table of Contents of 2007, further charges were incurred in 2008 due to fixed asset purchase agreements in place. During the first half of 2008, the Company withdrew from projects in South Africa and Israel which resulted in impairment charges of $36 million. The Company also recognized an impairment of $18 million related to the shut down of the Hefei plant in China. Impairment expense for the year 2007 was $408 million and consisted primarily of the following: In the fourth quarter of 2007, the Company recognized a pre tax impairment charge of approximately $14 million related to a $52 million prepayment advanced to AgCert for a specified amount of future CER credits. AgCert, a United Kingdom based corporation that produces emission reduction credits, notified AES that it was not able to meet its contractual obligations to deliver CERs, which triggered an analysis of the assets recoverability and resulted in the asset impairment charge. Also during the fourth quarter of 2007, there was a pre tax impairment charge of approximately $352 million at Uruguaiana, a gas fired thermoelectric plant located in Brazil. The impairment was the result of an analysis of Uruguaianas long lived assets, which was triggered by the combination of gas curtailments and increases in the spot market price of energy. In August 2007, there was a pre tax impairment charge of $25 million triggered by the failure of a compressor at our Placerita subsidiary in California. The fixed asset impairment was caused by damage sustained to one of the plants gas turbines. Also during the third quarter of 2007, a pre tax fixed asset impairment charge of approximately $10 million was recognized related to the curtailment of operations at Coal Creek Minerals, LLC, a coal mining company owned by our subsidiary Cavanal Minerals located in the United States. Impairment expense for the year 2006 was $17 million and consisted primarily of the following: During the fourth quarter of 2006, there was a pre tax impairment charge of $6 million related to AES China Generating Co. Ltd. ("Chigen") equity investment in Wuhu, a coal fired plant located in China. The equity impairment in Wuhu was required as a result of a goodwill impairment analysis at Chigen. During the third quarter of 2006, there was an impairment charge of $5 million related to a decrease in the market value of five held for sale gas turbines at our subsidiary Itabo located in the Dominican Republic. Gain on sale of investments Gain on sale of investments of $909 million in 2008 consisted primarily of the sale in May 2008 of our two wholly owned subsidiaries in Kazakhstan, AES Ekibastuz LLP and Maikuben West LLP for a net gain of $905 million. There was no gain on sale of investments for the year ended December 31, 2007. Gain on sale of investments in 2006 of $98 million was the result of a net gain of $87 million from our sale of an equity investment in a power project in Canada (Kingston) in March 2006 and a net gain of $10 million related to our transfer of Infoenergy, a wholly owned AES subsidiary, to Brasiliana in September 2006. Brasiliana is 53.85% owned by BNDES, but controlled by AES. This transaction was part of the Companys agreement with BNDES to terminate the Sul Option. (Loss) gain on sale of subsidiary stock In November 2008, Cachagua, our wholly owned subsidiary, which owned 80.2% of AES Gener S.A. ("Gener") shares prior to the transaction, sold 9.6% of its ownership in Gener to a third party. After this transaction, Cachaguas new ownership in Gener was 70.6%. As a result of this transaction, the Company recorded a net loss on the sale of shares of $31 million. Gain on sale of subsidiary stock in 2007 of $134 million was a result of net gains recognized on the sale of a 0.91% and 10.18% ownership interest in Gener in May and October of 2007, respectively. 108  Table of Contents As discussed in Note 17 Subsidiary Stock to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10 K, in September 2006, Brasilianas wholly owned subsidiary, Transg&aacute;s sold a 33% economic ownership in Eletropaulo, a regulated electric utility in Brazil. Despite the reduction in economic ownership, there was no change in Brasilianas voting interest in Eletropaulo, and Brasiliana continues to control Eletropaulo. Brasiliana received $522 million in net proceeds on the sale. On October 5, 2006 Transg&aacute;s, sold an additional 5% economic ownership in Eletropaulo for net proceeds of $78 million. In 2006, AES recognized a pre tax loss of $535 million primarily as a result of the recognition of previously deferred currency translation losses. Foreign currency transaction gains (losses) on net monetary position The following table summarizes the gains (losses) on the Companys net monetary position from foreign currency transaction activities: Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) AES Corporation $ 38 $ 31 $ (17 ) Chile (102 ) (4 ) Philippines (57 ) Brazil (44 ) 5 (49 ) Argentina (22 ) (8 ) (3 ) Kazakhstan 11 10 1 Mexico (9 ) (2 ) Colombia 5 (7 ) (1 ) Pakistan (1 ) (4 ) (18 ) Other (4 ) 3 7 Total(1) $ (185 ) $ 24 $ (80 ) (1)Includes $10 million, ($22) million and ($51) million of gains (losses) on foreign currency derivative contracts for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The Company recognized foreign currency transaction losses of $185 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. These consisted primarily of losses in Chile, the Philippines, Brazil, Argentina and Mexico partially offset by gains at The AES Corporation and in Kazakhstan. Losses of $102 million in Chile were primarily due to the devaluation of the Chilean Peso by 28% in 2008, resulting in losses at Gener, a U.S. Dollar functional currency subsidiary, associated with its net working capital denominated in Chilean Pesos, mainly cash, accounts receivable and VAT receivables. Losses of $57 million in the Philippines were primarily due to remeasurement losses at Masinloc, a Philippine Peso functional currency subsidiary, on U.S. Dollar denominated debt resulting from depreciation of the Philippine Peso of 16% in 2008. Losses of $44 million in Brazil were primarily due to the realization of deferred exchange variance on past energy purchases made by Eletropaulo denominated in U.S. Dollar, resulting in foreign currency transaction losses of $41 million. Losses of $22 million in Argentina were primarily due to the devaluation of the Argentinean Peso by 10% in 2008, resulting in losses at Alicura, an Argentine Peso functional currency subsidiary, associated with its U.S. Dollar denominated debt. 109 Table of Contents Losses of $9 million in Mexico were primarily due to the devaluation of the Mexican Peso by 26% in 2008, resulting in losses of approximately $9 million at TEG/TEP. Gains of $38 million at The AES Corporation were primarily due to debt denominated in British Pounds and gains on foreign exchange derivatives, partially offset by losses on notes receivable denominated in Euro. Gains of $11 million in Kazakhstan were primarily due to net foreign currency transaction gains of $16 million related to energy sales denominated and fixed in the U.S. Dollar, offset by $5 million of foreign currency transaction losses on external and intercompany debt denominated in other than functional currencies. Foreign currency transaction gains of $24 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 primarily consisted of gains at The AES Corporation and in Kazakhstan partially offset by losses in Argentina and Colombia. Gains of $31 million at The AES Corporation were primarily the result of favorable exchange rates for debt denominated in British Pounds and the Euro. Gains of $10 million in Kazakhstan were primarily due to $12 million of gains related to debt denominated in currencies other than the Kazakh Tenge functional currency, partially offset by $3 million of losses related to energy sales denominated and fixed in the U.S. Dollar. Losses of $8 million in Argentina were primarily due to the devaluation of the Argentine Peso by 3% in 2007, resulting in losses of $11 million at Alicura associated with its U.S. Dollar denominated debt. Losses of $7 million in Colombia were primarily due to the appreciation of the Colombian Peso by 11% in 2007 at Chivor, a U.S. Dollar function currency subsidiary. Foreign currency transaction losses of $80 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 primarily consisted of losses in Brazil, Pakistan and at The AES Corporation. Losses of $49 million in Brazil were primarily the result of losses of $45 million at Eletropaulo from swap contracts that were paid and executed in 2006 as Eletropaulo converted U.S. Dollar debt to Brazilian Real debt. Losses of $18 million in Pakistan were primarily the result of the depreciation of the Pakistani Rupee. Losses of $17 million at AES Corporation were primarily the result of unfavorable exchange rates for debt denominated in British Pounds and the Euro. Other non operating expense Other non operating expense was $15 million in 2008 compared to $57 million in 2007. The 2008 expense related primarily to an impairment of the Companys investment in a company developing a "blue gas" (coal to gas) technology project. The Company made this investment in September 2007 and accounted for the investment in convertible preferred shares under the cost method of accounting. During the fourth quarter of 2008, the market value of the shares materially declined due to downward trends in the capital markets and management concluded that the decline was other than temporary and recorded an impairment charge of $10 million. Additionally, the Company recorded an other than temporary impairment charge of approximately $5 million related to its investments in other entities developing new energy technology and products. Other non operating expense in 2007 reflected the impairment in the Companys investment in AgCert, a U.K. based corporation, publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange, that produces CER credits. The Company acquired its investment in AgCert in May 2006 and, similar to the circumstances stated above, the market value of the Companys investment materially declined during 110 Table of Contents the first half of 2007 and the Company recorded an other than temporary impairment charge of $52 million in 2007. An additional charge of $5 million was recognized for the decrease in value of the AgCert warrants also held by the Company. The Company began consolidating AgCert in January 2008 when it became the primary beneficiary. Income taxes Income tax expense on continuing operations increased $95 million, or 14%, to $774 million in 2008. The Companys effective tax rates were 28% for 2008 and 45% for 2007. The decrease in the 2008 effective tax rate was primarily due to the non taxable gain of $905 million on the sale of the Kazakhstan businesses in the second quarter of 2008, offset by U.S. taxes on distributions from the Companys primary holding company to facilitate early retirement of parent debt in 2008. The decrease was also attributable to the implementation of a tax planning strategy that mitigated the impact of the Mexico Flat Rate Business Tax ("IETU") enacted in the fourth quarter of 2007. The strategy resulted in a reduction to deferred tax expense in 2008 of $24 million and $23 million at TEG and TEP, respectively. Income tax expense related to continuing operations increased $320 million, or 89%, to $679 million in 2007. The Companys effective tax rates were 45% for 2007 and 39% for 2006. The increase in the 2007 effective tax rate was due, in part, to an impairment at Uruguaiana for which no tax benefit was recorded, the impact of an appreciating Real in certain of our Brazilian subsidiaries, and the impact of income tax law changes in Mexico, partially offset by the nontaxable gain on the sales of shares of one of the Companys Chilean subsidiaries and a release of valuation allowance at one of our subsidiaries in Argentina. Net equity in earnings of affiliates Net equity in earnings of affiliates decreased $43 million, or 57%, to $33 million in 2008 primarily due to the impact of increased coal prices at Yangcheng, a coal fired plant in China, a decrease as a result of development costs related to AES Solar, formed in March 2008, and an additional write off of three projects in Turkey that were abandoned in December 2007. Additionally, earnings decreased due to the sale of a wind project in the fourth quarter of 2007, a decrease in earnings at OPGC, in India, and decreased earnings due to a discontinuance of hedge accounting for a number of interest rate swaps at Guacolda in Chile. These losses were partially offset by a decrease in net losses at Cartagena in Spain primarily from a write off of deferred financing costs in 2007 that did not recur in 2008. Net equity in earnings of affiliates increased $3 million, or 4%, to $76 million in 2007 primarily due to a full year of operations at Cartagena in 2007 and the absence of liquidated damages incurred in 2006 for construction delays. The increase was partially offset by a decrease in earnings in 2007 at AES Barry compared to 2006, due to proceeds received in 2006 from the settlement of a legal claim that did not recur in 2007. Minority interest Minority interest expense, net of tax, increased $363 million, or 84%, to $794 million in 2008 primarily due to the decreased losses as a result of the impairment recognized at Uruguaiana during 2007, increased earnings at Eletropaulo, Gener, Itabo, Panama and Tiet&ecirc;, as well as an increase in minority shareholders from approximately 20% to approximately 29% as a result of the sale of shares in Gener in November 2008. These increases were partially offset by an impairment recognized in the Bahamas, a net loss at Masinloc, and decreased earnings at Ras Laffan, Sonel, and Caess EEO & Clesa in El Salvador. Minority interest expense, net of tax, decreased $29 million, or 6%, to $431 million in 2007 primarily due to the recognition of previously deferred currency translation losses associated with the sale of Eletropaulo shares during the third quarter 2006, resulting in a decrease of our economic ownership in 111 Table of Contents Eletropaulo from 34% to 16%. See Note 17 Subsidiary Stock to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K for a further discussion of the sale of Eletropaulo shares and the Brasiliana restructuring. The decrease was also attributable to the minority interest impact of the impairment recognized at Uruguaiana in 2007, offset by increased earnings at Tiet&ecirc;. Discontinued operations As further discussed in Note 21 Discontinued Operations and Held for Sale Businesses to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K, Discontinued Operations includes the results of five businesses: Jiaozuo, a generation business in China, (sold in December 2008); La Electricidad de Caracas ("EDC"), a utility business in Venezuela, (sold in May 2007); Central Valley, a generation business in California (sold in July 2007); Eden, a utility business in Argentina (sold in June 2007), and Indian Queens, a generation business in the U.K. (sold in May 2006). Prior periods have been restated to reflect these businesses within Discontinued Operations for all periods presented. In 2008, income from operations of discontinued businesses, net of tax, was $12 million and reflected the operations of Jiaozuo, a coal fired generation facility in China sold in December 2008. The Company received $73 million for its 70% interest in the business. The net gain on the disposition was $7 million. In 2007, income from operations of discontinued businesses, net of tax, was $79 million and reflected the operations of Jiaozuo, EDC, Central Valley and Eden. EDC and Central Valley were sold in May 2007 and July 2007 for $739 million and $51 million, respectively, and the Eden sale was finalized in June 2007, therefore their results are reflected in the Companys results of operations through their respective sales dates. The loss on the disposal of discontinued businesses was $661 million and primarily related to the $680 million loss on the sale of EDC. In 2006, income from operations of discontinued businesses, net of tax, was $115 million and reflected the operations of Jiaozuo, EDC, Central Valley, Eden and Indian Queens. Indian Queens was sold in May 2006 therefore its results are reflected in the Companys results of operations through the sale date. The loss on the disposal of discontinued businesses was $57 million and primarily related to the $62 million impairment charge recognized at Eden to adjust the carrying value of its assets to their estimated net realizable value when the Company reached an agreement to sell Eden in May 2006. The Eden sale was finalized in June 2007. Extraordinary item In May 2006, AES purchased an additional 25% interest in Itabo, a power generation business located in the Dominican Republic for approximately $23 million. Prior to May, the Company held a 25% interest in Itabo, through its Gener subsidiary, and had accounted for the investment using the equity method of accounting with a corresponding investment balance reflected in the "Investments in and advances to affiliates" line item on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. As a result of the transaction, the Company consolidates Itabo and, therefore, the investment balance has been reclassified to the appropriate line items on the Consolidated Balance Sheets with a corresponding minority interest liability for the remaining 50% interest not owned by AES. The Company realized an after tax extraordinary gain of $21 million as a result of the transaction due to an excess of the fair value of the noncurrent assets over the purchase price.  Critical Accounting Estimates The Consolidated Financial Statements of AES are prepared in conformity with GAAP, which requires the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. AESs significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 General and 112 Table of Contents Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K. An accounting estimate is considered critical if: the estimate requires management to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the estimate was made; different estimates reasonably could have been used; or the impact of the estimates and assumptions on financial condition or operating performance is material. Management believes that the accounting estimates employed are appropriate and the resulting balances are reasonable; however, actual results could differ from the original estimates, requiring adjustments to these balances in future periods. Management has discussed these critical accounting policies with the audit committee, as appropriate. Listed below are certain significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Income Tax Reserves We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our worldwide income tax provision requires significant judgment and is based on calculations and assumptions that are subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service and other taxing authorities. The Company and certain of its subsidiaries are under examination by relevant taxing authorities for various tax years. The Company regularly assesses the potential outcome of these examinations in each of the taxing jurisdictions when determining the adequacy of the provision for income taxes. The Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Interpretation ("FIN") No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, ("FIN No. 48") effective January 1, 2007. The Interpretation prescribes a more likely than not recognition threshold and establishes new measurement requirements for financial statement reporting of an entitys income tax positions. Tax reserves have been established, which the Company believes to be adequate in relation to the potential for additional assessments. Once established, reserves are adjusted only when there is more information available or when an event occurs necessitating a change to the reserves. While the Company believes that the amount of the tax estimates are reasonable, it is possible that the ultimate outcome of current or future examinations may exceed current reserves in amounts that could be material. Goodwill We test goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or circumstances make it more likely than not that impairment may have occurred. Such indicators could include a significant adverse change in the business climate or a decision to sell or dispose all or a portion of a reporting unit. Goodwill impairment is evaluated using a two step process. The first step is to identify if a potential impairment exists by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying value. Determining whether an impairment has occurred requires the valuation of the respective reporting unit. The Company uses a discounted cash flow method to estimate the fair value. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, goodwill of the reporting unit is not considered to be impaired and no further analysis is required. In applying this methodology, we rely on a number of factors, including actual operating results, future business plans, economic projections and market data. Assumptions about operating results and growth rates are based on forecasts, future business plans, economic projections and anticipated future cash flows, among other things. Changes in any of these assumptions could result in management reaching a different conclusion regarding the potential impairment of a reporting unit. Our impairment analysis contains uncertainties from uncontrollable events that could positively or negatively impact the anticipated future economic and operating conditions. 113 Table of Contents If the carrying value exceeds the reporting units fair value, this could indicate potential impairment and step two of the goodwill evaluation process is required to determine if goodwill is impaired and to measure the amount of impairment loss to recognize, if any. The measurement of impairment requires a fair value estimate of each identified tangible and intangible asset in the same manner the fair value would be determined in a business combination. In this case, we supplement the cash flow approach discussed above with appraisals, or other observable sources of fair value, as appropriate. Regulatory Assets and Liabilities The Company accounts for certain of its regulated operations under the provisions of SFAS No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation, ("SFAS No. 71"). As a result, AES recognizes assets and liabilities that result from the regulated ratemaking process that would not be recognized under GAAP for non regulated entities. Regulatory assets generally represent incurred costs that have been deferred because such costs are probable of future recovery in customer rates. Regulatory liabilities generally represent obligations to make refunds to customers for previous collections for costs that are not likely to be incurred or included in future rate initiatives. Management continually assesses whether the regulatory assets are probable of future recovery by considering factors such as applicable regulatory changes, recent rate orders applicable to other regulated entities and the status of any pending or potential deregulation legislation. If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, any asset write offs would be required to be recognized in operating income. Fair Value Fair Value of Financial Instruments A significant number of the Companys financial instruments are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in earnings or other comprehensive income each period. The Company makes estimates regarding valuation of assets and liabilities measured at fair value in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements. These assets and liabilities include short and long term investments in debt and equity securities, included in the balance sheet line items "Short term investments" and "Other assets (Noncurrent)", derivative assets, included in "Other current assets" and "Other assets (Noncurrent)" and derivative liabilities, included in "Accrued and other liabilities (current)" and "Other long term liabilities". The Company uses valuation techniques and methodologies that maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. Where available, fair value is based on observable market prices or parameters or derived from such prices or parameters. Where observable prices or inputs are not available, valuation models are applied. The valuation techniques involve some level of management estimation and judgment, the degree of which is dependent on the price transparency for the instruments or market and the instruments complexity. Investments are generally fair valued based on quoted market prices or other observable market data such as interest rate indices. The Companys investments are primarily certificates of deposit, government debt securities and money market funds. Derivatives are valued using observable data as inputs into internal valuation models. The Companys derivatives primarily consist of interest rate swaps, foreign currency instruments, and commodity and embedded derivatives. Additional discussion regarding the nature of these financial instruments and valuation techniques can be found in Note 6 Fair Value of Financial Instruments. Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities We enter into various derivative transactions in order to hedge our exposure to certain market risks. We primarily use derivative instruments to manage our interest rate, commodity, and foreign currency exposures. We do not enter into derivative transactions for trading purposes. 114 Table of Contents Under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities as amended, ("SFAS No. 133"), we recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the balance sheet and measure those instruments at fair value except where derivatives qualify and are designated as "normal purchase/normal sale" transactions. Changes in fair value of derivatives are recognized in earnings unless specific hedge criteria are met. Income and expense related to derivative instruments are recognized in the same category as generated by the underlying asset or liability. SFAS No. 133 enables companies to designate qualifying derivatives as hedging instruments based on the exposure being hedged. These hedge designations include fair value hedges and cash flow hedges. Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is highly effective and is designated and qualifies as a fair value hedge, are recognized in earnings as offsets to the changes in fair value of the exposure being hedged. The Company has no fair value hedges at this time. Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is highly effective and is designated as and qualifies as a cash flow hedge, are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income and are recognized into earnings as the hedged transactions occur. Any ineffectiveness is recognized in earnings immediately. For all hedge contracts, the Company provides formal documentation of the hedge and effectiveness testing in accordance with SFAS No. 133. The Company adopted SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurement, ("SFAS No. 157") on January 1, 2008. SFAS No. 157 provides additional guidance on the definition of fair value and defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date, or exit price. SFAS No. 157 requires the Company to consider and reflect the assumptions of market participants in the fair value calculation. These factors include nonperformance risk (the risk that the obligation will not be fulfilled) and credit risk, both of the reporting entity (for liabilities) and of the counterparty (for assets). These factors were not previously considered in the fair value calculation. Due to the nature of the Companys interest rate swaps, which are typically associated with non recourse debt, credit risk for AES is evaluated at the subsidiary level rather than at the Parent Company level. Nonperformance risk on the Companys derivative instruments is an adjustment to the initial asset/liability fair value position that is derived from internally developed valuation models that utilize observable market inputs. As a result of uncertainty, complexity and judgment, accounting estimates related to derivative accounting could result in material changes to our financial statements under different conditions or utilizing different assumptions. As a part of accounting for these derivatives, we make estimates concerning nonperformance, volatilities, market liquidity, future commodity prices, interest rates, credit ratings (both ours and our counterpartys), and exchange rates. The fair value of our derivative portfolio is generally determined using internal valuation models, most of which are based on observable market inputs including interest rate curves and forward and spot prices for currencies and commodities. The Company derives most of its financial instrument market assumptions from market efficient data sources (e.g. Bloomberg and Platts). In some cases, where market data is not readily available, management uses comparable market sources and empirical evidence to derive market assumptions to determine a financial instruments fair value. In certain instances, the published curve may not extend through the remaining term of the contract and management must make assumptions to extrapolate the curve. Additionally, in the absence of quoted prices, we may rely on "indicative pricing" quotes from financial institutions to input into our valuation model for certain of our foreign currency swaps. These indicative pricing quotes do not constitute either a bid or ask price and therefore are not considered observable market data. For individual contracts, the use of different valuation models or assumptions could have a material effect on the calculated fair value. 115  Table of Contents Fair Value Hierarchy The Company uses valuation techniques and methodologies that maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. Where available, fair value is based on observable market prices or parameters or derived from such prices or parameters. Where observable prices or inputs are not available, valuation models are applied. The valuation techniques involve some level of management estimation and judgment, the degree of which is dependent on the price transparency for the instruments or market and the instruments complexity. To increase consistency and enhance disclosure of the fair value of financial instruments, SFAS No. 157 creates a fair value hierarchy to prioritize the inputs used to measure fair value into three categories. A financial instruments level within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of input significant to the fair value measurement, where Level 1 is the highest and Level 3 is the lowest. For more information regarding the fair value hierarchy, see Note 1 General and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Capital Resources and Liquidity Parent Company Liquidity. Some of our subsidiaries are currently in default with respect to all or a portion of their outstanding indebtedness. The total debt classified as current in our consolidated balance sheets related to such defaults was $129 million at December 31, 2008. While the lenders under our non recourse project financings generally do not have direct recourse to The AES Corporation (other than to the extent of any credit support given by The AES Corporation), defaults there under can still have important consequences for The AES Corporation, including, without limitation: reducing The AES Corporations receipt of subsidiary dividends, fees, interest payments, loans and other sources of cash since the project subsidiary will typically be prohibited from distributing cash to The AES Corporation during the pendency of any default; triggering The AES Corporations obligation to make payments under any financial guarantee, letter of credit or other credit support which The AES Corporation has provided to or on behalf of such subsidiary; causing The AES Corporation to record a loss in the event the lender forecloses on the assets; triggering defaults in The AES Corporations outstanding debt and trust preferred securities. For example, The AES Corporations senior secured credit facility and outstanding senior notes include events of default for certain bankruptcy related events involving material subsidiaries. In addition, The AES Corporations senior secured credit facility includes certain events of default relating to accelerations of outstanding debt of material subsidiaries; or the loss or impairment of investor confidence in the Company. None of the projects that are currently in default are owned by subsidiaries that meet the applicable definition of materiality in The AES Corporations senior secured credit facility in order for such defaults to trigger an event of default or permit acceleration under such indebtedness. However, as a result of future write down of assets, dispositions and other matters that affect our financial position and results of operations, it is possible that one or more of these subsidiaries could fall within the definition of a "material subsidiary" and thereby upon an acceleration of such subsidiarys debt, trigger an event of default and possible acceleration of the indebtedness under The AES Corporations senior secured credit facility. The risk of such defaults may have increased as a result of the deteriorating global economy. For further discussion of these conditions, see Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Credit Crisis and the Macroeconomic Environment. 58  Table of Contents Risks Associated with our Ability to Raise Needed Capital The AES Corporation has significant cash requirements and limited sources of liquidity. The AES Corporation requires cash primarily to fund: principal repayments of debt; interest and preferred dividends; acquisitions; construction and other project commitments; other equity commitments, including business development investments; taxes; and Parent Company overhead costs. The AES Corporations principal sources of liquidity are: dividends and other distributions from its subsidiaries; proceeds from debt and equity financings at the Parent Company level; and proceeds from asset sales. For a more detailed discussion of The AES Corporations cash requirements and sources of liquidity, please see Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Capital Resources and Liquidity in this 2008 Form 10 K. While we believe that these sources will be adequate to meet our obligations at the Parent Company level for the foreseeable future, this belief is based on a number of material assumptions, including, without limitation, assumptions about our ability to access the capital or commercial lending markets, the operating and financial performance of our subsidiaries, exchange rates, our ability to sell assets, and the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends. Any number of assumptions could prove to be incorrect and therefore there can be no assurance that these sources will be available when needed or that our actual cash requirements will not be greater than expected. For example, in the current credit crisis, certain financial institutions have gone bankrupt. In the event that a bank who is party to our credit agreement or other facilities goes bankrupt or is otherwise unable to fund its commitments, we would need to replace that bank in our syndicate or risk a reduction in the size of the facility, which would reduce our liquidity. In addition, our cash flow may not be sufficient to repay at maturity the entire principal outstanding under our credit facilities and our debt securities and we may have to refinance such obligations. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining such refinancing and any of these events could have a material effect on us. For further discussion of these global economic conditions and their potential impact on the Company, see Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Credit Crisis and the Macroeconomic Environment. Our ability to grow our business could be materially adversely affected if we were unable to raise capital on favorable terms. From time to time, we rely on access to capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by operating cash flows. Our ability to arrange for financing on either a recourse or non recourse basis and the costs of such capital are dependent on numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: general economic and capital market conditions; 59 Table of Contents the availability of bank credit; investor confidence; the financial condition, performance and prospects of The AES Corporation in general and or that of any subsidiary requiring the financing; and changes in tax and securities laws which are conducive to raising capital. Since 2007, credit conditions and credit markets have weakened considerably and deteriorated dramatically in 2008, which has made it difficult for many companies to arrange for financing on a recourse or non recourse basis. For further discussion of these global economic conditions and their potential impact on the Company, see Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Credit Crisis and the Macroeconomic Environment. Should future access to capital not be available to us, we may have to sell assets or decide not to build new plants or expand or improve existing facilities, either of which would affect our future growth. A downgrade in the credit ratings of The AES Corporation or its subsidiaries could adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets which could increase our interest costs or adversely affect our liquidity and cash flow. If any of the credit ratings of The AES Corporation or its subsidiaries were to be downgraded, our ability to raise capital on favorable terms could be impaired and our borrowing costs would increase. Furthermore, depending on The AES Corporations credit ratings and the trading prices of its equity and debt securities, counterparties may no longer be as willing to accept general unsecured commitments by The AES Corporation to provide credit support. Accordingly, with respect to both new and existing commitments, The AES Corporation may be required to provide some other form of assurance, such as a letter of credit, to backstop or replace any credit support by The AES Corporation. There can be no assurance that such counterparties will accept such guarantees in the future. In addition, to the extent The AES Corporation is required and able to provide letters of credit or other collateral to such counterparties, it will limit the amount of credit available to The AES Corporation to meet its other liquidity needs. We may not be able to raise sufficient capital to fund "greenfield" projects in certain less developed economies which could change or in some cases adversely affect our growth strategy. Part of our strategy is to grow our business by developing Generation and Utility businesses in less developed economies where the return on our investment may be greater than projects in more developed economies. Commercial lending institutions sometimes refuse to provide non recourse project financing in certain less developed economies, and in these situations we have sought and will continue to seek direct or indirect (through credit support or guarantees) project financing from a limited number of multilateral or bilateral international financial institutions or agencies. As a precondition to making such project financing available, the lending institutions may also require governmental guarantees of certain project and sovereign related risks. There can be no assurance, however, that project financing from the international financial agencies or that governmental guarantees will be available when needed, and if they are not, we may have to abandon the project or invest more of our own funds which may not be in line with our investment objectives and would leave less funds for other projects. These risks have increased as a result of the recent credit crisis and the deteriorating global economy. For further discussion of these global economic conditions and their potential impact on the Company, see Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Credit Crisis and the Macroeconomic Environment. 60 Table of Contents External Risks Associated with Revenue and Earnings Volatility Our financial position and results of operations may fluctuate significantly due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates experienced at our foreign operations. Our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations results primarily from the translation exposure associated with the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as from transaction exposure associated with transactions in currencies other than an entitys functional currency. While the Consolidated Financial Statements are reported in U.S. Dollars, the financial statements of many of our subsidiaries outside the United States are prepared using the local currency as the functional currency and translated into U.S. Dollars by applying appropriate exchange rates. As a result, fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. Dollar relative to the local currencies where our subsidiaries outside the United States report could cause significant fluctuations in our results. In addition, while our expenses with respect to foreign operations are generally denominated in the same currency as corresponding sales, we have transaction exposure to the extent receipts and expenditures are not denominated in the subsidiarys functional currency. We also experience foreign transaction exposure to the extent monetary assets and liabilities, including debt, are in a different currency than the subsidiarys functional currency. Moreover, the costs of doing business abroad may increase as a result of adverse exchange rate fluctuations. Our financial position and results of operations have been significantly affected by fluctuations in the value of a number of currencies, primarily the Brazilian real, Argentine peso, Chilean peso, Colombian peso and Philippine peso. As our Brazilian and Argentine businesses primarily identify their local currency as their functional currency, recent depreciation of these currencies has resulted in the increase of deferred translation losses (foreign currency translation adjustments recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss) based on positive net asset positions. Devaluation has also resulted in foreign currency transaction losses primarily associated with U.S. Dollar debt at these businesses. Our businesses may incur substantial costs and liabilities and be exposed to price volatility as a result of risks associated with the wholesale electricity markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. Some of our Generation businesses sell electricity in the wholesale spot markets in cases where they operate wholly or partially without long term power sales agreements. Our Utility businesses and, to the extent they require additional capacity, our Generation businesses, also buy electricity in the wholesale spot markets. As a result, we are exposed to the risks of rising and falling prices in those markets. The open market wholesale prices for electricity are very volatile and often reflect the fluctuating cost of coal, natural gas, or oil. Consequently, any changes in the supply and cost of coal, natural gas, and oil may impact the open market wholesale price of electricity. Volatility in market prices for fuel and electricity may result from among other things: plant availability; competition; demand for energy commodities; electricity usage; seasonality; interest rate and foreign exchange rate fluctuation; availability and price of emission credits; input prices; 61 Table of Contents hydrology and other weather conditions; illiquid markets; transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies; availability of competitively priced renewables sources; available supplies of natural gas, crude oil and refined products, and coal; generating unit performance; natural disasters, terrorism, wars, embargoes and other catastrophic events; energy, market and environmental regulation, legislation and policies; geopolitical concerns affecting global supply of oil and natural gas; and general economic conditions in areas where we operate which impact energy consumption. The Company has faced gas curtailments in the past. For example, gas supply in the Argentine market is increasingly scarce and exports have been both taxed and curtailed. Gas supply curtailments can be exacerbated during the Argentine winter (May through September) when domestic demand for electricity experiences a seasonal increase. Since substantially all of the gas used in the Chilean power sector is currently imported from Argentina, gas curtailments can impact our Chilean operations through higher fuel costs and higher costs of purchased energy from the spot market. Our natural gas fired plant in Southern Brazil, Uruguaiana, has also been impacted by limited fuel supply. Since 2004, Uruguaiana has had its gas supply interrupted from May to September. During this period, Uruguaiana purchases energy from the spot market and through bilateral contracts to fulfill its sales contracts and has paid higher fuel prices as a result. During the fourth quarter of 2007, the combination of gas curtailments and increases in the spot market price of energy triggered an impairment analysis of Uruguaianas long lived assets for recoverability. As a result of this impairment analysis, aggregate pre tax impairment charges of $388 million were recognized in 2008 and 2007 which represents a full impairment of the fixed assets. In addition, our business depends upon transmission facilities owned and operated by others. If transmission is disrupted or capacity is inadequate or unavailable, our ability to sell and deliver power may be limited, which may have a material adverse impact on our business. We may not be adequately hedged against our exposure to changes in commodity prices or interest rates. We routinely enter into contracts to hedge a portion of our purchase and sale commitments for electricity, fuel requirements and other commodities to lower our financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations. As part of this strategy, we routinely utilize fixed price forward physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps, and option contracts traded in the over the counter markets or on exchanges. We also enter into contracts which help us to hedge our interest rate exposure on variable debt. However, we may not cover the entire exposure of our assets or positions to market price (or interest rate) volatility, and the coverage will vary over time. Furthermore, the risk management procedures we have in place may not always be followed or may not work as planned. In particular, if prices of commodities (or interest rates) significantly deviate from historical prices or if the price volatility (or interest rates) or distribution of these changes deviates from historical norms, our risk management system may not protect us from significant losses. As a result, fluctuating commodity prices may negatively impact our financial results to the extent we have unhedged or inadequately hedged positions. In addition, certain types of economic hedging activities may not qualify for hedge accounting under GAAP, resulting in increased volatility in our net income. In addition, there is a risk that the current parties to these arrangements may fail or are unable to perform their obligations under these arrangements. 62 Table of Contents Supplier and or customer concentration may expose the Company to significant financial credit or performance risks. We often rely on a single contracted supplier or a small number of suppliers for the provision of fuel, transportation of fuel and other services required for the operation of certain of our facilities. If these suppliers cannot perform, we would seek to meet our fuel requirements by purchasing fuel at market prices, exposing us to market price volatility and the risk that fuel and transportation may not be available during certain periods at any price. At times, we rely on a single customer or a few customers to purchase all or a significant portion of a facilitys output, in some cases under long term agreements that account for a substantial percentage of the anticipated revenue from a given facility. We have also hedged a portion of our exposure to power price fluctuations through forward fixed price power sales. Counterparties to these agreements may breach or may be unable to perform their obligations. We may not be able to enter into replacement agreements on terms as favorable as our existing agreements, or at all. If we were unable to enter into replacement PPAs, we would sell our plants power at market prices. The failure of any supplier or customer to fulfill its contractual obligations to The AES Corporation or our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Consequently, the financial performance of our facilities is dependent on the credit quality of, and continued performance by, suppliers and customers. Certain of our businesses are sensitive to variations in weather. Our businesses are affected by variations in general weather conditions and unusually severe weather. Our businesses forecast electric sales on the basis of normal weather, which represents a long term historical average. While we also consider possible variations in normal weather patterns and potential impacts on our facilities and our businesses, there can be no assurance that such planning can prevent these impacts, which can adversely affect our business. Generally, demand for electricity peaks in winter and summer. Typically, when winters are warmer than expected and summers are cooler than expected, demand for energy is lower, resulting in less demand for electricity than forecasted. Significant variations from normal weather where our businesses are located could have a material impact on our results of operations. In addition, we are dependent upon hydrological conditions prevailing from time to time in the broad geographic regions in which our hydroelectric generation facilities are located. If hydrological conditions result in droughts or other conditions that negatively affect our hydroelectric generation business, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In the past, our businesses in Latin America have been negatively impacted by lower than normal rainfall. Risks Associated with our Operations We do a significant amount of business outside the United States, including in developing countries, which presents significant risks. A significant amount of our revenue is generated outside the United States and a significant portion of our international operations is conducted in developing countries. Part of our growth strategy is to expand our business in developing countries because the growth rates and the opportunity to implement operating improvements and achieve higher operating margins may be greater than those typically achievable in more developed countries. International operations, particularly the operation, financing and development of projects in developing countries, entail significant risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation: economic, social and political instability in any particular country or region; adverse changes in currency exchange rates; 63 Table of Contents government restrictions on converting currencies or repatriating funds; unexpected changes in foreign laws and regulations or in trade, monetary or fiscal policies; high inflation and monetary fluctuations; restrictions on imports of coal, oil, gas or other raw materials required by our generation businesses to operate; threatened or consummated expropriation or nationalization of our assets by foreign governments; difficulties in hiring, training and retaining qualified personnel, particularly finance and accounting personnel with U.S. GAAP expertise; unwillingness of governments, government agencies, similar organizations or other counterparties to honor their contracts; unwillingness of governments, government agencies, courts or similar bodies to enforce contracts that are economically advantageous to subsidiaries of the Company and economically unfavorable to counterparties, against such counterparties, whether such counterparties are governments or private parties; inability to obtain access to fair and equitable political, regulatory, administrative and legal systems; adverse changes in government tax policy; difficulties in enforcing our contractual rights or enforcing judgments or obtaining a just result in local jurisdictions; and potentially adverse tax consequences of operating in multiple jurisdictions. Any of these factors, by itself or in combination with others, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, in the second quarter of 2007, we sold our stake in EDC to Petr&oacute;leos de Venezuela, S.A. ("PDVSA"), the state owned energy company in Venezuela after Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez threatened to expropriate the electricity business in Venezuela. In connection with the sale, we recognized an impairment charge of approximately $680 million. In addition, our Latin American operations experience volatility in revenues and gross margin which have caused and are expected to cause significant volatility in our results of operations and cash flows. The volatility is caused by regulatory and economic difficulties, political instability and currency devaluations being experienced in many of these countries. This volatility reduces the predictability and enhances the uncertainty associated with cash flows from these businesses. The operation of power generation and distribution facilities involves significant risks that could adversely affect our financial results. The operation of power generation and distribution facilities involves many risks, including: equipment failure causing unplanned outages; failure of transmission systems; the dependence on a specified fuel source, including the transportation of fuel; catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes and similar occurrences; and environmental compliance. 64 Table of Contents Any of these risks could have an adverse effect on our generation and distribution facilities. In addition, a portion of our generation facilities were constructed many years ago. Older generating equipment may require significant capital expenditures for maintenance. This equipment is also likely to require periodic upgrading and improvement. Breakdown or failure of one of our operating facilities may prevent the facility from performing under applicable power sales agreements which, in certain situations, could result in termination of a power purchase or other agreement or incurring a liability for liquidated damages. As a result of the above risks and other potential hazards associated with the power generation and distribution industries, we may from time to time become exposed to significant liabilities for which we may not have adequate insurance coverage. Power generation involves hazardous activities, including acquiring, transporting and unloading fuel, operating large pieces of rotating equipment and delivering electricity to transmission and distribution systems. In addition to natural risks, such as earthquakes, floods, lightning, hurricanes and wind, hazards, such as fire, explosion, collapse and machinery failure, are inherent risks in our operations which may occur as a result of inadequate internal processes, technological flaws, human error or certain external events. The control and management of these risks depend upon adequate development and training of personnel and on the existence of operational procedures, preventative maintenance plans and specific programs supported by quality control systems which reduce, but do not eliminate the possibility of the occurrence and impact of these risks. The hazards described above can cause significant personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property, plant and equipment, contamination of, or damage to, the environment and suspension of operations. The occurrence of any one of these events may result in us being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting claims for substantial damages, environmental cleanup costs, personal injury and fines and or penalties. We maintain an amount of insurance protection that we believe is adequate, but there can be no assurance that our insurance will be sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which we may be subject. A successful claim for which we are not fully insured could hurt our financial results and materially harm our financial condition. Further, due to rising insurance costs and changes in the insurance markets, we cannot provide assurance that insurance coverage will continue to be available on terms similar to those presently available to us or at all. Any losses not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our ability to attract and retain skilled people could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our operating success and ability to carry out growth initiatives depends in part on our ability to retain executives and to attract and retain additional qualified personnel who have experience in our industry and in operating a company of our size and complexity, including people in our foreign businesses. The inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, because of the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacements. In particular, we routinely are required to assess the financial and tax impacts of complicated business transactions which occur on a worldwide basis. These assessments are dependent on hiring personnel on a worldwide basis with sufficient expertise in U.S. GAAP to timely and accurately comply with U.S. reporting obligations. An inability to maintain adequate internal accounting and managerial controls and hire and retain qualified personnel could have an adverse affect on our ability to report our financial condition and results of operations. 65  Table of Contents We have contractual obligations to certain customers to provide full requirements service, which makes it difficult to predict and plan for load requirements and may result in increased operating costs to certain of our businesses. We have contractual obligations to certain customers to supply power to satisfy all or a portion of their energy requirements. The uncertainty regarding the amount of power that our power generation and distribution facilities must be prepared to supply to customers may increase our operating costs. A significant under or over estimation of load requirements could result in our facilities not having enough or having too much power to cover their obligations, in which case we would be required to buy or sell power from or to third parties at prevailing market prices. Those prices may not be favorable and thus could increase our operating costs. We may not be able to enter into long term contracts, which reduce volatility in our results of operations. Even when we successfully enter into long term contracts, our generation businesses are dependent on one or a limited number of customers and a limited number of fuel suppliers. Many of our generation plants conduct business under long term contracts. In these instances, we rely on power sales contracts with one or a limited number of customers for the majority of, and in some case all of, the relevant plants output and revenues over the term of the power sales contract. The remaining terms of the power sales contracts range from 1 to 25 years. In many cases, we also limit our exposure to fluctuations in fuel prices by entering into long term contracts for fuel with a limited number of suppliers. In these instances, the cash flows and results of operations are dependent on the continued ability of customers and suppliers to meet their obligations under the relevant power sales contract or fuel supply contract, respectively. Some of our long term power sales agreements are at prices above current spot market prices and some of our long term fuel supply contracts are at prices below current market prices. The loss of significant power sales contracts or fuel supply contracts, or the failure by any of the parties to such contracts that prevents us from fulfilling our obligations thereunder, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, depending on market conditions and regulatory regimes, it may be difficult for us to secure long term contracts, either where our current contracts are expiring or for new development projects. The inability to enter into long term contracts could require many of our businesses to purchase inputs at market prices and sell electricity into spot markets. Because of the volatile nature of inputs and power prices, the inability to secure long term contracts could generate increased volatility in our earnings and cash flows and could generate substantial losses during certain periods which could have a material impact on our business and results of operations. We have sought to reduce counter party credit risk under our long term contracts in part by entering into power sales contracts with utilities or other customers of strong credit quality and by obtaining guarantees from the sovereign government of the customers obligations. However, many of our customers do not have, or have failed to maintain, an investment grade credit rating, and our Generation business can not always obtain government guarantees and if they do, the government does not always have an investment grade credit rating. We have also sought to reduce our credit risk by locating our plants in different geographic areas in order to mitigate the effects of regional economic downturns. However, there can be no assurance that our efforts to mitigate this risk will be successful. These risks have increased as a result of the deteriorating global economy. For further discussion of these global economic conditions and their potential impact on the Company, see Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Credit Crisis and the Macroeconomic Environment. Competition is increasing and could adversely affect us. The power production markets in which we operate are characterized by numerous strong and capable competitors, many of whom may have extensive and diversified developmental or operating 66 Table of Contents experience (including both domestic and international) and financial resources similar to or greater than ours. Further, in recent years, the power production industry has been characterized by strong and increasing competition with respect to both obtaining power sales agreements and acquiring existing power generation assets. In certain markets, these factors have caused reductions in prices contained in new power sales agreements and, in many cases, have caused higher acquisition prices for existing assets through competitive bidding practices. The evolution of competitive electricity markets and the development of highly efficient gas fired power plants have also caused, or are anticipated to cause, price pressure in certain power markets where we sell or intend to sell power. These competitive factors could have a material adverse effect on us. Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in our operating performance or cost structure. We are in the business of generating and distributing electricity, which involves certain risks that can adversely affect financial and operating performance, including: changes in the availability of our generation facilities or distribution systems due to increases in scheduled and unscheduled plant outages, equipment failure, labor disputes, disruptions in fuel supply, inability to comply with regulatory or permit requirements or catastrophic events such as fires, floods, storms, hurricanes, earthquakes, explosions, terrorist acts or other similar occurrences; and changes in our operating cost structure including, but not limited to, increases in costs relating to: gas, coal, oil and other fuel; fuel transportation; purchased electricity; operations, maintenance and repair; environmental compliance, including the cost of purchasing emissions offsets and capital expenditures to install environmental emission equipment; transmission access; and insurance. Any of the above risks could adversely affect our business and results of operations, and our ability to meet publicly announced projections or analysts expectations. Some of our subsidiaries participate in defined benefit pension plans and their net pension plan obligations may require additional significant contributions. Certain of our subsidiaries have defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all of their respective employees. Of the twenty four defined benefit plans, three are at U.S. subsidiaries and the remaining plans are at foreign subsidiaries. Pension costs are based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, including an expected long term rate of return on pension plan assets, the expected life span of pension plan beneficiaries and the discount rate used to determine the present value of future pension obligations. Any of these assumptions could prove to be wrong, resulting in a shortfall of pension plan assets compared to pension obligations under the pension plan. The Company periodically evaluates the value of the pension plan assets to ensure that they will be sufficient to fund the respective pension obligations. The Companys exposure is mitigated due to the fact that the asset allocations in our largest plans are more heavily weighted to investments in fixed income securities that have not been as severely impacted by the recent equity market declines. Nevertheless, given the recent significant declines in financial markets, the value of these pension plan assets has declined and our future pension expense and funding obligations have increased. In addition, future downturns in the equity markets, or the failure of any of our assumptions underlying the estimates of our subsidiaries pension plan obligations, could result in an increase in pension expense and funding requirements in future periods, which may be material. Our subsidiaries who participate in these plans are responsible for funding any shortfall of pension plan assets compared to pension obligations under the pension plan. This may necessitate additional cash contributions to the pension plans that could adversely affect our and our subsidiaries liquidity. 67 Table of Contents For additional information regarding the funding position of the Companys pension plans, see "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Estimates Pension and Postretirement Obligations" and Note 13 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10 K. Our business is subject to substantial development uncertainties. Certain of our subsidiaries and affiliates are in various stages of developing and constructing "greenfield" power plants, some but not all of which have signed long term contracts or made similar arrangements for the sale of electricity. Successful completion depends upon overcoming substantial risks, including, but not limited to, risks relating to failures of siting, financing, construction, permitting, governmental approvals or the potential for termination of the power sales contract as a result of a failure to meet certain milestones. Financing risk has also increased as a result of the deterioration of the global economy and the crisis in the financial markets, and as a result, we may forgo certain development opportunities. We believe that capitalized costs for projects under development are recoverable; however, there can be no assurance that any individual project will be completed and reach commercial operation. If these development efforts are not successful, we may abandon a project under development and write off the costs incurred in connection with such project. At the time of abandonment, we would expense all capitalized development costs incurred in connection therewith and could incur additional losses associated with any related contingent liabilities. Our acquisitions may not perform as expected. Historically, acquisitions have been a significant part of our growth strategy. We may continue to grow our business through acquisitions. Although acquired businesses may have significant operating histories, we will have a limited or no history of owning and operating many of these businesses and possibly limited or no experience operating in the country or region where these businesses are located. Some of these businesses may be government owned and some may be operated as part of a larger integrated utility prior to their acquisition. If we were to acquire any of these types of businesses, there can be no assurance that: we will be successful in transitioning them to private ownership; such businesses will perform as expected; we will not incur unforeseen obligations or liabilities; such business will generate sufficient cash flow to support the indebtedness incurred to acquire them or the capital expenditures needed to develop them; or the rate of return from such businesses will justify our decision to invest our capital to acquire them. In April 2008, the Company completed the purchase of a 92% interest in a 660 gross MW coal fired thermal power generation facility in Masinloc, Philippines ("Masinloc") from the Power Sector Assets & Liabilities Management Corporation, a state enterprise, for $930 million in cash. Immediately after the acquisition, the Company embarked upon a comprehensive rehabilitation program to improve the output, reliability and general condition of the plant. As a result, operating losses have been reduced and the business is expected to generate a profit in 2009. However, in the event that the progress made does not continue, or Masinloc performs worse than expected, the Company could incur further operating losses which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Further losses could also trigger an impairment of the assets held by Masinloc. 68 Table of Contents In some of our joint venture projects, we have granted protective rights to minority holders or we own less than a majority of the equity in the project and do not manage or otherwise control the project, which entails certain risks. We have invested in some joint ventures where we own less than a majority of the voting equity in the venture. Very often, we seek to exert a degree of influence with respect to the management and operation of projects in which we have less than a majority of the ownership interests by operating the project pursuant to a management contract, negotiating to obtain positions on management committees or to receive certain limited governance rights, such as rights to veto significant actions. However, we do not always have this type of control over the project in every instance; and we may be dependent on our co venturers to operate such projects. Our co venturers may not have the level of experience, technical expertise, human resources, management and other attributes necessary to operate these projects optimally. The approval of co venturers also may be required for us to receive distributions of funds from projects or to transfer our interest in projects. In some joint venture agreements where we do have majority control of the voting securities, we have entered into shareholder agreements granting protective minority rights to the other shareholders. For example, Brasiliana Energia ("Brasiliana") is a holding company in which we have a controlling equity interest and through which we own three of our four Brazilian businesses: Eletropaulo, Tiet&ecirc; and Uruguaiana. We entered into a shareholders agreement with an affiliate of the Brazilian National Development Bank ("BNDES") which owns more than 49 percent of the voting equity of Brasiliana. Among other things, the shareholders agreement requires the consent of both parties before taking certain corporate actions, grants both parties rights of first refusal in connection with the sale of interests in Brasiliana and grants drag along rights to BNDES. In May, 2007, BNDES notified us that it intends to sell all of its interest in Brasiliana pursuant to public auction (the "Brasiliana Sale"). BNDES also informed us that if we fail to exercise our right of first refusal to purchase all of its interest in Brasiliana, then BNDES intends to exercise its drag along rights under the shareholders agreement and cause us to sell all of our interests in Brasiliana in the Brasiliana Sale as well. After the auction, if a third party offer has been received in the Brasiliana Sale, we will have 30 days to exercise our right of first refusal to purchase all of BNDESs interest in Brasiliana on the same terms as the third party offer. If we do not exercise this right and BNDES proceeds to exercise its drag along rights, then we may be forced to sell all of our interest in Brasiliana. Due to the uncertainty in the sale price at this point in time, we are uncertain whether we will exercise our right of first refusal should BNDES receive a valid third party offer in the Brasiliana Sale and, if we do, whether we would do it alone or with joint venture partners. Even if we desire to exercise our right of first refusal, we cannot assure that we will have the cash on hand or that debt or equity financing will be available at acceptable terms in order to purchase BNDESs interest in Brasiliana. If we do not exercise our right of first refusal, we cannot be assured that we will not have to record a loss if the sale price is below the book value of our investment in Brasiliana. Our renewable energy projects and other initiatives face considerable uncertainties including, development, operational and regulatory challenges. AES Wind Generation, AES Solar, our projects in climate solutions and our investments in projects such as energy storage are subject to substantial risks. Projects of this nature are relatively new, are supported financially by favorable regulatory incentives and have been developed through advancement in technologies which may not be proven, or which are unrelated to our core business. As a result, these projects face considerable risk, including the risk that favorable regulatory regimes expire or are adversely modified. In addition, because these projects depend on technology outside of our expertise in Generation and Utilities, there are risks associated with our ability to develop and manage such projects profitably. Furthermore, at the development or acquisition stage, because of the nascent nature of these industries, our ability to predict actual performance results may be hindered and the projects may not perform as predicted. There are also risks associated with the 69 Table of Contents fact that many of these projects exist in new or emerging markets, where long term fixed price contracts for the major cost and revenue components may be unavailable, which in turn may result in these projects having relatively high levels of volatility. These projects can be capital intensive and generally require that we obtain third party financing, which may be difficult to obtain. As a result, these capital constraints may reduce our ability to develop these projects. These risks may be exacerbated by the current global economic crisis, including our managements increased focus on liquidity, which may also result in slower growth in the number of projects we can pursue. The economic downturn could also impact the value of our assets in these countries and our ability to develop these projects. If the value of these assets decline, this could result in a material impairment or a series of impairments which are material in the aggregate, which would adversely affect our financial statements. The global credit crisis could impact our growth plans and the values of our assets. In the second half of 2007, conditions in the credit markets began to deteriorate in the United States and abroad. In the third and fourth quarter of 2008, this crisis and associated market conditions worsened dramatically, with unprecedented market volatility, widening credit spreads, volatile currencies, illiquidity, and increased counterparty credit risk. As a result of the deterioration in the global economy, the Company has placed a greater emphasis on preservation of liquidity. The Company currently intends to complete the projects it has under construction, those that have obtained financing and a select group of projects which may be able to obtain financing in these challenging financial markets. In the event that management determines that, because of macroeconomic challenges or other factors, certain of these or other projects in the pipeline cannot be financed, will not provide the returns originally anticipated, or are otherwise unfeasible, or that other uses of capital such as debt repayment or stock repurchases offer a better return on the Companys capital, or that the funds should be used for working capital, the Company may determine that it will not pursue certain projects in its pipeline, which will affect our growth. In addition, the global recession could impact the value of our assets around the world. For example, in 2008, we impaired certain projects in our pipeline, resulting in a charge to 2008 earnings. Further declines in asset values could result in additional write downs, which could be material to our financial statements. An impairment in the carrying value of goodwill would negatively impact our consolidated results of operations and net worth. Goodwill is initially recorded at fair value and is not amortized, but is evaluated for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if impairment indicators are present. In assessing the recoverability of goodwill, we make estimates and assumptions about sales, operating margin growth rates and discount rates based on our budgets, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and marketplace data. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and managements judgment in applying these factors. The fair value of a reporting unit has been determined using an income approach based on the present value of future cash flows of each reporting unit. We could be required to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill prior to the annual assessment if we experience situations, including but not limited to, disruptions to the business, unexpected significant declines in operating results, divestiture of a significant component of our business or sustained market capitalization declines. There could also be impairments if our acquisitions do not perform as expected. See further discussion in Risk Factor, "Our Acquisitions May Not Perform as Expected." These types of events and the resulting analyses could result in goodwill impairment charges in the future. Impairment charges could substantially affect our financial results in the periods of such charges. As of December 31, 2008, we had $1.4 billion of goodwill, which represented approximately 4.1% of total assets. If current conditions in the global economy continue or worsen, this could increase the risk that we will have to impair goodwill. 70 Table of Contents Risks associated with Governmental Regulation and Laws Our operations are subject to significant government regulation and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in the law or regulatory schemes. Our inability to predict, influence or respond appropriately to changes in law or regulatory schemes, including any inability to obtain expected or contracted increases in electricity tariff rates or tariff adjustments for increased expenses, could adversely impact our results of operations or our ability to meet publicly announced projections or analysts expectations. Furthermore, changes in laws or regulations or changes in the application or interpretation of regulatory provisions in jurisdictions where we operate, particularly our Utilities where electricity tariffs are subject to regulatory review or approval, could adversely affect our business, including, but not limited to: changes in the determination, definition or classification of costs to be included as reimbursable or pass through costs, including but not limited to costs incurred to upgrade our power plants to comply with more stringent environmental regulations; changes in the determination of what is an appropriate rate of return on invested capital or a determination that a utilitys operating income or the rates it charges customers is too high, resulting in a reduction of rates or consumer rebates; changes in the definition or determination of controllable or non controllable costs; changes in the definition of events which may or may not qualify as changes in economic equilibrium; changes in the timing of tariff increases; or other changes in the regulatory determinations under the relevant concessions. Any of the above events may result in lower margins for the affected businesses, which can adversely affect our business. For example, as noted in Item 1 Business Regulatory Matters Hungary of this Form 10 K, in June 2008 the European Commission ("the Commission") reached its decision that the PPAs, including AES Tiszas PPA, contain elements of illegal state aid. The decision requires Hungary to terminate the PPAs within six months of the June 2008 publication of the decision, and to recover the alleged illegal state aid from the generators within ten months of publication. Hungary and the Commission are in the process of resolving confidentiality matters relating to the wording of the decision, which has not yet been notified by the Commission to the generators. AES Tisza is challenging the Commissions decision in the Court of First Instance of the European Communities. Referring to the Commissions decision, Hungary adopted act number LXX of 2008 which terminates all long term PPAs in Hungary, including AES Tiszas PPA, as of December 31, 2008, and requires generators to repay the alleged illegal state aid that was allegedly received by the generators through the PPAs, and provides for the possibility to offset stranded costs of the generators from the repayable state aid. It is possible that the Company may face additional regulatory actions of this type and, depending on the outcome, such actions could have a material adverse impact on the Company. In addition, in many countries where we conduct business, the regulatory environment is constantly changing or the regulations can be difficult to interpret. As a result, there is risk that we may not properly interpret certain regulations and may not understand the impact of certain regulations on our business. For example, in October 2006, ANEEL, which regulates our utility operations at Sul and Eletropaulo in Brazil, issued Normative Resolution 234 requiring that utilities begin amortizing a liability called "Special Obligations" beginning with their second tariff reset cycle in 2007 or a later year as an offset to depreciation expense. As of May 23, 2007, the date of the filing of our 2006 Form 10 K, no industry positions or any other consensus had been reached regarding how ANEEL guidance should be applied at that date and accordingly, no adjustments to the financial statements were made relating to Special Obligations in Brazil. Subsequent to May 23, 2007, industry discussions 71 Table of Contents occurred and other Brazilian companies filed Forms 20 F with the SEC reflecting the impact of Resolution 234 in their December 31, 2006 financial statements differently from how the Company accounted for Resolution 234. In the absence of any significant regulatory developments between May 23, 2007 and the date of these other filings, the Company determined that Resolution 234 required us to record an adjustment to our Special Obligations liability as of December 31, 2006. In part, the decision to record the adjustment led to the restatement of our financial statements in the third quarter of 2007. If we face additional challenges interpreting regulations or changes in regulations, it could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our Generation business in the United States is subject to the provisions of various laws and regulations administered in whole or in part by the FERC, including the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 ("PURPA") and the Federal Power Act. The recently enacted EPAct 2005 made a number of changes to these and other laws that may affect our business. Actions by the FERC and by state utility commissions can have a material effect on our operations. EPAct 2005 authorizes the FERC to remove the obligation of electric utilities under Section 210 of PURPA to enter into new contracts for the purchase or sale of electricity from or to QFs if certain market conditions are met. Pursuant to this authority, the FERC has instituted a rebuttable presumption that utilities located within the control areas of the Midwest Transmission System Operator, Inc., PJM ("Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Maryland") Interconnection, L.L.C., ISO New England, Inc., the New York Independent System Operator and the Electric Reliability Council of Texas, Inc. are not required to purchase or sell power from or to QFs above a certain size. In addition, the FERC is authorized under the new law to remove the purchase/sale obligations of individual utilities on a case by case basis. While the new law does not affect existing contracts, as a result of the changes to PURPA, our QFs may face a more difficult market environment when their current long term contracts expire. EPAct 2005 repealed PUHCA 1935 and enacted PUHCA 2005 in its place. PUHCA 1935 had the effect of requiring utility holding companies to operate in geographically proximate regions and therefore limited the range of potential combinations and mergers among utilities. By comparison, PUHCA 2005 has no such restrictions and simply provides the FERC and state utility commissions with enhanced access to the books and records of certain utility holding companies. The repeal of PUHCA 1935 removed barriers to mergers and other potential combinations which could result in the creation of large, geographically dispersed utility holding companies. These entities may have enhanced financial strength and therefore an increased ability to compete with us in the U.S. generation market. In accordance with Congressional mandates in the EPAct 1992 and now in EPAct 2005, the FERC has strongly encouraged competition in wholesale electric markets. Increased competition may have the effect of lowering our operating margins. Among other steps, the FERC has encouraged RTOs and ISOs to develop demand response bidding programs as a mechanism for responding to peak electric demand. These programs may reduce the value of our peaking assets which rely on very high prices during a relatively small number of hours to recover their costs. Similarly, the FERC is encouraging the construction of new transmission infrastructure in accordance with provisions of EPAct 2005. Although new transmission lines may increase market opportunities, they may also increase the competition in our existing markets. While the FERC continues to promote competition, some state utility commissions have reversed course and begun to encourage the construction of generation facilities by traditional utilities to be paid for on a cost of service basis by retail ratepayers. Such actions have the effect of reducing sale opportunities in the competitive wholesale generating markets in which we operate. Our businesses are subject to stringent environmental laws and regulations. Our activities are subject to stringent environmental laws and regulations by many federal, state and local authorities, international treaties and foreign governmental authorities. These laws and 72 Table of Contents regulations generally concern emissions into the air, effluents into the water, use of water, wetlands preservation, remediation of contamination, waste disposal, endangered species and noise regulation, among others. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations or to obtain any necessary environmental permits pursuant to such laws and regulations could result in fines or other sanctions. Environmental laws and regulations affecting power generation and distribution are complex and have tended to become more stringent over time. Congress and other domestic and foreign governmental authorities have either considered or implemented various laws and regulations to restrict or tax certain emissions, particularly those involving air and water emissions. See the various descriptions of these laws and regulations contained in Item 1 Business Regulatory Matters Environmental and Land Use Regulations of this Form 10 K. These laws and regulations have imposed, and proposed laws and regulations could impose in the future, additional costs on the operation of our power plants. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant capital and other expenditures to comply with these and other environmental laws and regulations. Changes in, or new, environmental restrictions may force us to incur significant expenses or expenses that may exceed our estimates. There can be no assurance that we would be able to recover all or any increased environmental costs from our customers or that our business, financial condition or results of operations would not be materially and adversely affected by such expenditures or any changes in domestic or foreign environmental laws and regulations. Regulators, politicians, non governmental organizations and other private parties have expressed concern about greenhouse gas, or GHG, emissions and are taking actions which, in addition to the potential physical risks associated with climate change, could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. As discussed in Item 1 Business Regulatory Matters Environmental and Land Use Regulations, at the international, federal and various regional and state levels, policies are under development to regulate GHG emissions, thereby effectively putting a cost on such emissions in order to create financial incentives to reduce them. In 2008, the Companys subsidiaries operated businesses which had total approximate CO2 emissions of 83.8 million metric tonnes (ownership adjusted). Approximately 41.5 million metric tonnes of the 83.8 million metric tonnes were emitted by businesses located in the United States (both figures ownership adjusted). Federal, state or regional regulation of GHG emissions could have a material adverse impact on the Companys financial performance. The actual impact on the Companys financial performance and the financial performance of the Companys subsidiaries will depend on a number of factors, including among others, the GHG reductions required under any such legislation or regulations, the price and availability of offsets, the extent to which market based compliance options are available, the extent to which our subsidiaries would be entitled to receive GHG emissions allowances without having to purchase them in an auction or on the open market and the impact of such legislation or regulation on the ability of our subsidiaries to recover costs incurred. As a result of these factors, our cost of compliance could be substantial and could have a material impact on our results of operations. Another factor is the success of our climate solutions projects, which may generate credits that will help offset our GHG emissions. However, as set forth in the Risk Factor titled "Our renewable energy projects and other initiatives face considerable uncertainties including development, operational and regulatory challenges," there is no guarantee that the climate solutions projects will be successful. Also, the level of potential benefit is unclear given current uncertainties regarding legislation and or litigation concerning GHG emissions. 73  Table of Contents In January 2005, based on European Community "Directive 2003/87/EC on Greenhouse Gas Emission Allowance Trading," the European Union Greenhouse Gas Emission Trading Scheme ("EU ETS") commenced operation as the largest multi country GHG emission trading scheme in the world. On February 16, 2005, the Kyoto Protocol became effective. The Kyoto Protocol requires the 40 developed countries that have ratified it to substantially reduce their GHG emissions, including CO2. To date, compliance with the Kyoto Protocol and the EU ETS has not had a material adverse effect on the Companys consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The United States has not ratified the Kyoto Protocol. In the United States, there currently are no federal mandatory GHG emission reduction programs (including CO2) affecting the electric power generation facilities of the Companys subsidiaries. However, there are several proposed GHG legislative initiatives in the United States Congress that would, if enacted, constrain GHG emissions, including CO2, and or impose costs on us that could be material to our business or results of operations. On April 2, 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court issued its decision in a case involving the regulation under the CAA of CO2 emissions from motor vehicles. The Court ruled that CO2 is a pollutant which potentially could be subject to regulation under the CAA and that the U.S. EPA has a duty to determine whether CO2 emissions contribute to climate change or to provide some reasonable explanation why it will not exercise its authority. In response to the Courts decision, on July 11, 2008, the U.S. EPA issued an ANPR to solicit public input on whether CO2 emissions should be regulated from both mobile and stationary sources under the CAA. The U.S. EPA has not yet made any such determination. Since electric power generation facilities, particularly coal fired facilities, are a significant source of CO2 emissions both in the United States and globally, the Courts decision, coupled with stimulus from the new administration, regulators, members of Congress, states, non governmental organizations, private parties, the courts and other factors could result in a determination by the U.S. EPA to regulate CO2 emissions from electric power generation facilities. While the majority of current state, regional and federal initiatives regarding CO2 emissions contemplate market based compliance mechanisms (e.g., cap and trade), such a determination by the U.S. EPA could result in CO2 emission limits on stationary sources that do not include market based compliance mechanisms (e.g., carbon tax, CO2 emission limits, etc.). Any such regulations could increase our costs directly and indirectly and have a material adverse affect on our business and or results of operations. At the state level, RGGI, a cap and trade program covering CO2 emissions from electric power generation facilities in the Northeast, became effective in January 2009, and the WCI, is also developing market based programs to address GHG emissions in seven western states. In addition, several states, including California, have adopted comprehensive legislation that, when implemented, will require mandatory GHG reductions from several industrial sectors, including the electric power generation industry. See "Business Regulatory Matters Environmental and Land Use Regulations" of this Form 10 K for further discussion about the environmental regulations we face. At this time, other than with regard to RGGI (further described below), the Company cannot estimate the costs of compliance with U.S. federal, regional or state CO2 emissions reductions legislation or initiatives, due to the fact that these proposals are in earlier stages of development and any final regulations, if adopted, could vary drastically from current proposals. The RGGI program became effective in January 2009. The first regional auction of RGGI allowances needed to be acquired by power generators to comply with state programs implementing RGGI was held in September 2008 and the second was held in December 2008. The third auction is scheduled for March 2009. Our subsidiaries in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and Maryland are subject to RGGI. Of the approximately 41.5 million metric tonnes of CO2 emitted in the United States by our subsidiaries in 2008 (ownership adjusted), approximately 11.8 million metric tonnes were emitted in U.S. states participating in RGGI. We believe that due to the absence of allowance allocations, 74 Table of Contents RGGI as currently contemplated could have an adverse impact on the Companys consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. While Co2 emissions from businesses operated by subsidiaries of the Company are calculated globally in metric tonnes, RGGI allowances are denominated in short tons. (1 metric tonne equals 2,200 pounds and 1 short ton equals 2,000 pounds.) For forecasting purposes, the Company has modeled the impact of CO2 compliance for 2009 2011 for its businesses that are subject to RGGI and that may not be able to pass through compliance costs. The model includes a conversion from metric tonnes to short tons as well as the impact of some market recovery by merchant plants and contractual and regulatory provisions. The model also utilizes an allowance price of $3.38 per metric tonne under RGGI. The source of this per allowance price estimate was the clearing price at the December 2008 RGGI allowance auction. The model also assumes, among other things, that RGGI will be structured solely on the public auction of allowances and that certain costs will be recovered by our subsidiaries. Based on these assumptions, the Company estimates that the RGGI compliance costs could be approximately $29.1 million per year from 2009 through 2011, which is the last year of the first RGGI compliance period. Given all of the uncertainties surrounding RGGI, including those discussed in Item 1 Business Regulatory Matters Environmental and Land Use Regulations of this Form 10 K and the fact that the assumptions utilized in the model may prove to be incorrect, there is a significant risk that our actual compliance costs under RGGI will differ from estimates by a material amount. If the actual costs are higher, this could have a material impact on our business and financial results. In addition to government regulators, other groups such as politicians, environmentalists and other private parties have expressed increasing concern about GHG emissions. For example, certain financial institutions have expressed concern about providing financing for facilities which would emit GHGs, which can affect our ability to obtain capital, or if we can obtain capital, to receive it on commercially viable terms. In addition, rating agencies may decide to downgrade our credit ratings based on the emissions of the businesses operated by our subsidiaries or increased compliance costs which could make financing unattractive. In addition, as disclosed in Item 3 Legal Proceedings of this Form 10 K, the New York Attorney General has issued a subpoena to the Company seeking documents and information concerning the Companys analysis and public disclosure of the potential impacts that GHG legislation and climate change from GHG emissions might have on the Companys operations and financial results. Environmental groups and other private plaintiffs have brought and may decide to bring additional private lawsuits against the Company because of its subsidiaries GHG emissions. Furthermore, according to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, physical risks from climate change could include, but are not limited to, increased runoff and earlier spring peak discharge in many glacier and snow fed rivers, warming of lakes and rivers, an increase in sea level, changes and variability in precipitation and in the intensity and frequency of extreme weather events. Physical impacts may have the potential to significantly affect the Companys business and operations. For example, extreme weather events could result in increased downtime and operation and maintenance costs at the electric power generation facilities and support facilities of the Companys subsidiaries. Variations in weather conditions, primarily temperature and humidity, attributable to climate change, also would be expected to affect the energy needs of customers. A decrease in energy consumption could decrease the revenues of the Companys subsidiaries. In addition, while revenues would be expected to increase if the energy consumption of customers increased, such increase could prompt the need for additional investment in generation capacity. Changes in the temperature of lakes and rivers and changes in precipitation that result in drought could adversely affect the operations of the fossil fuel fired electric power generation facilities of the Companys subsidiaries. Changes in temperature, precipitation and snow pack conditions also could affect the amount and timing of hydroelectric generation. If any of the foregoing risks materialize, costs may increase or revenues may decrease and there could be a material adverse effect on the electric power generation businesses of the Companys 75 Table of Contents subsidiaries and on the Companys consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We and our affiliates are subject to material litigation and regulatory proceedings. We and our affiliates are parties to material litigation and regulatory proceedings. See Business Legal Proceedings below. There can be no assurances that the outcome of such matters will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position. The SEC is conducting an informal inquiry relating to our restatements. We have been cooperating with an informal inquiry by the SEC Staff concerning our past restatements and related matters, and have been providing information and documents to the SEC Staff on a voluntary basis. Because we are unable to predict the outcome of this inquiry, the SEC Staff may disagree with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported the financial impact of the adjustments to previously filed financial statements and there may be a risk that the inquiry by the SEC could lead to circumstances in which we may have to further restate previously filed financial statements, amend prior filings or take other actions not currently contemplated.  ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None.  ITEM 2. PROPERTIES We maintain offices in many places around the world, generally pursuant to the provisions of long and short term leases, none of which are material. With a few exceptions, our facilities, which are described in Item 1 of this Form 10 K, are subject to mortgages or other liens or encumbrances as part of the projects related finance facility. In addition, the majority of our facilities are located on land that is leased. However, in a few instances, no accompanying project financing exists for the facility, and in a few of these cases, the land interest may not be subject to any encumbrance and is owned outright by the subsidiary or affiliate.  ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS The Company is involved in certain claims, suits and legal proceedings in the normal course of business, some of which are described below. The Company has accrued for litigation and claims where it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. The Company believes, based upon information it currently possesses and taking into account established reserves for estimated liabilities and its insurance coverage, that the ultimate outcome of these proceedings and actions is unlikely to have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial statements. However, it is reasonably possible that some matters could be decided unfavorably to the Company, and could require the Company to pay damages or make expenditures in amounts that could be material but cannot be estimated as of December 31, 2008. The Company has evaluated claims, in accordance with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies, ("SFAS No. 5") that it deems both probable and reasonably estimable and accordingly, has recorded aggregate reserves for all claims for approximately $389 million and $486 million as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. In 1989, Centrais El&eacute;tricas Brasileiras S.A. ("Eletrobr&aacute;s") filed suit in the Fifth District Court in the State of Rio de Janeiro against Eletropaulo Eletricidade de S&atilde;o Paulo S.A. ("EEDSP") relating to the methodology for calculating monetary adjustments under the parties financing agreement. In April 1999, the Fifth District Court found for Eletrobr&aacute;s and in September 2001, Eletrobr&aacute;s initiated an execution suit in the Fifth District Court to collect approximately R$937 million ($400 million) from Eletropaulo (as estimated by Eletropaulo) and a lesser amount from an unrelated company, 76 Table of Contents Companhia de Transmiss&atilde;o de Energia El&eacute;trica Paulista ("CTEEP") (Eletropaulo and CTEEP were spun off from EEDSP pursuant to its privatization in 1998). In November 2002, the Fifth District Court rejected Eletropaulos defenses in the execution suit. Eletropaulo appealed and in September 2003, the Appellate Court of the State of Rio de Janeiro ruled that Eletropaulo was not a proper party to the litigation because any alleged liability had been transferred to CTEEP pursuant to the privatization. In June 2006, the Superior Court of Justice ("SCJ") reversed the Appellate Courts decision and remanded the case to the Fifth District Court for further proceedings, holding that Eletropaulos liability, if any, should be determined by the Fifth District Court. Eletropaulos subsequent appeals to the Special Court (the highest court within the SCJ) and the Supreme Court of Brazil have been dismissed. Eletrobr&aacute;s may resume the execution suit in the Fifth District Court at any time. If Eletrobr&aacute;s does so, Eletropaulo will be required to provide security in the amount of its alleged liability. In that case, if Eletrobr&aacute;s requests the seizure of such security and the Fifth District Court grants such request, Eletropaulos results of operation may be materially adversely affected. In addition, in February 2008, CTEEP filed a lawsuit in the Fifth District Court against Eletrobr&aacute;s and Eletropaulo seeking a declaration that CTEEP is not liable for any debt under the financing agreement. Eletropaulo believes it has meritorious defenses to the claims asserted against it and will defend itself vigorously in these proceedings; however, there can be no assurances that it will be successful in its efforts. In September 1999, a state appellate court in Minas Gerais, Brazil, granted a temporary injunction suspending the effectiveness of a shareholders agreement between Southern Electric Brasil Participacoes, Ltda. ("SEB") and the state of Minas Gerais concerning Companhia Energetica de Minas Gerais ("CEMIG"), an integrated utility in Minas Gerais. The Companys investment in CEMIG is through SEB. This shareholders agreement granted SEB certain rights and powers in respect of CEMIG ("Special Rights"). In March 2000, a lower state court in Minas Gerais held the shareholders agreement invalid where it purported to grant SEB the Special Rights and enjoined the exercise of the Special Rights. In August 2001, the state appellate court denied an appeal of the decision and extended the injunction. In October 2001, SEB filed appeals against the state appellate courts decision with the Federal Superior Court and the Supreme Court of Justice. The state appellate court denied access of these appeals to the higher courts, and in August 2002 SEB filed interlocutory appeals against such denial with the Federal Superior Court and the Supreme Court of Justice. In December 2004, the Federal Superior Court declined to hear SEBs appeal. However, the Supreme Court of Justice is considering whether to hear SEBs appeal. SEB intends to vigorously pursue a restoration of the value of its investment in CEMIG by all legal means; however, there can be no assurances that it will be successful in its efforts. Failure to prevail in this matter may limit SEBs influence on the daily operation of CEMIG. In August 2000, the FERC announced an investigation into the organized California wholesale power markets in order to determine whether rates were just and reasonable. Further investigations involved alleged market manipulation. FERC requested documents from each of the AES Southland, LLC plants and AES Placerita, Inc. AES Southland and AES Placerita have cooperated fully with the FERC investigations. AES Southland was not subject to refund liability because it did not sell into the organized spot markets due to the nature of its tolling agreement. AES Placerita is currently subject to refund liability of $588,000 plus interest for spot sales to the California Power Exchange from October 2, 2000 to June 20, 2001 ("Refund Period"). In September 2004, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit issued an order addressing FERCs decision not to impose refunds for the alleged failure to file rates, including transaction specific data, for sales during 2000 and 2001 ("September 2004 Decision"). Although it did not order refunds, the Ninth Circuit remanded the case to FERC for a refund proceeding to consider remedial options. In March 2008, FERC issued its order on remand, requiring the parties to engage in settlement discussions before a settlement judge and establishing procedures for an evidentiary hearing if the settlement process failed. In addition, in August 2006 in a separate case, the Ninth Circuit confirmed the Refund Period, expanded the 77 Table of Contents transactions subject to refunds to include multi day transactions, expanded the potential liability of sellers to include any pre Refund Period tariff violations, and remanded the matter to FERC ("August 2006 Decision"). Various parties filed petitions for rehearing in November 2007. The August 2006 Decision may allow FERC to reopen closed investigations and order relief. AES Placerita made sales during the periods at issue in the September 2004 and August 2006 Decisions. Both appeals may be subject to further court review, and further FERC proceedings on remand would be required to determine potential liability, if any. Prior to the August 2006 Decision, AES Placeritas potential liability for the Refund and pre Refund Periods could have approximated $23 million plus interest. However, given the September 2004 and August 2006 Decisions, it is unclear whether AES Placeritas potential liability is less than or exceeds that amount. AES Placerita believes it has meritorious defenses to the claims asserted against it and will defend itself vigorously in these proceedings; however, there can be no assurances that it will be successful in its efforts. In August 2001, the Grid Corporation of Orissa, India ("Gridco"), filed a petition against the Central Electricity Supply Company of Orissa Ltd. ("CESCO"), an affiliate of the Company, with the Orissa Electricity Regulatory Commission ("OERC"), alleging that CESCO had defaulted on its obligations as an OERC licensed distribution company, that CESCO management abandoned the management of CESCO, and asking for interim measures of protection, including the appointment of an administrator to manage CESCO. Gridco, a state owned entity, is the sole wholesale energy provider to CESCO. Pursuant to the OERCs August 2001 order, the management of CESCO was replaced with a government administrator who was appointed by the OERC. The OERC later held that the Company and other CESCO shareholders were not necessary or proper parties to the OERC proceeding. In August 2004, the OERC issued a notice to CESCO, the Company and others giving the recipients of the notice until November 2004 to show cause why CESCOs distribution license should not be revoked. In response, CESCO submitted a business plan to the OERC. In February 2005, the OERC issued an order rejecting the proposed business plan. The order also stated that the CESCO distribution license would be revoked if an acceptable business plan for CESCO was not submitted to and approved by the OERC prior to March 31, 2005. In its April 2, 2005 order, the OERC revoked the CESCO distribution license. CESCO has filed an appeal against the April 2, 2005 OERC order and that appeal remains pending in the Indian courts. In addition, Gridco asserted that a comfort letter issued by the Company in connection with the Companys indirect investment in CESCO obligates the Company to provide additional financial support to cover all of CESCOs financial obligations to Gridco. In December 2001, Gridco served a notice to arbitrate, pursuant to the Indian Arbitration and Conciliation Act of 1996, on the Company, AES Orissa Distribution Private Limited ("AES ODPL"), and Jyoti Structures ("Jyoti") pursuant to the terms of the CESCO Shareholders Agreement between Gridco, the Company, AES ODPL, Jyoti and CESCO (the "CESCO arbitration"). In the arbitration, Gridco appeared to be seeking approximately $189 million in damages, plus undisclosed penalties and interest, but a detailed alleged damage analysis was not filed by Gridco. The Company counterclaimed against Gridco for damages. In June 2007, a 2 to 1 majority of the arbitral tribunal rendered its award rejecting Gridcos claims and holding that none of the respondents, the Company, AES ODPL, or Jyoti, had any liability to Gridco. The respondents counterclaims were also rejected. The Company subsequently filed an application to recover its costs of the arbitration, which is under consideration by the tribunal. In addition, in September 2007, Gridco filed a challenge of the arbitration award with the local Indian court. In June 2008, Gridco filed a separate application with the local Indian court for an order enjoining the Company from selling or otherwise transferring its shares in Orissa Power Generation Corporation Ltd ("OPGC"), and requiring the Company to provide security in the amount of the contested damages in the CESCO arbitration until Gridcos challenge to the arbitration award is resolved. The Company believes that it has meritorious defenses to the claims asserted against it and will defend itself vigorously in these proceedings; however, there can be no assurances that it will be successful in its efforts. 78 Table of Contents In early 2002, Gridco made an application to the OERC requesting that the OERC initiate proceedings regarding the terms of OPGCs existing PPA with Gridco. In response, OPGC filed a petition in the Indian courts to block any such OERC proceedings. In early 2005, the Orissa High Court upheld the OERCs jurisdiction to initiate such proceedings as requested by Gridco. OPGC appealed that High Courts decision to the Supreme Court and sought stays of both the High Courts decision and the underlying OERC proceedings regarding the PPAs terms. In April 2005, the Supreme Court granted OPGCs requests and ordered stays of the High Courts decision and the OERC proceedings with respect to the PPAs terms. The matter is awaiting further hearing. Unless the Supreme Court finds in favor of OPGCs appeal or otherwise prevents the OERCs proceedings regarding the PPAs terms, the OERC will likely lower the tariff payable to OPGC under the PPA, which would have an adverse impact on OPGCs financials. OPGC believes that it has meritorious claims and defenses and will assert them vigorously in these proceedings; however, there can be no assurances that it will be successful in its efforts. In March 2003, the office of the Federal Public Prosecutor for the State of S&atilde;o Paulo, Brazil ("MPF") notified AES Eletropaulo that it had commenced an inquiry related to the Brazilian National Development Bank ("BNDES") financings provided to AES Elpa and AES Transg&aacute;s and the rationing loan provided to Eletropaulo, changes in the control of Eletropaulo, sales of assets by Eletropaulo and the quality of service provided by Eletropaulo to its customers, and requested various documents from Eletropaulo relating to these matters. In July 2004, the MPF filed a public civil lawsuit in federal court alleging that BNDES violated Law 8429/92 (the Administrative Misconduct Act) and BNDESs internal rules by: (1) approving the AES Elpa and AES Transg&aacute;s loans; (2) extending the payment terms on the AES Elpa and AES Transg&aacute;s loans; (3) authorizing the sale of Eletropaulos preferred shares at a stock market auction; (4) accepting Eletropaulos preferred shares to secure the loan provided to Eletropaulo; and (5) allowing the restructurings of Light Servi&ccedil;os de Eletricidade S.A. ("Light") and Eletropaulo. The MPF also named AES Elpa and AES Transg&aacute;s as defendants in the lawsuit because they allegedly benefited from BNDESs alleged violations. In June 2005, AES Elpa and AES Transg&aacute;s presented their preliminary answers to the charges. In May 2006, the federal court ruled that the MPF could pursue its claims based on the first, second, and fourth alleged violations noted above. The MPF subsequently filed an interlocutory appeal seeking to require the federal court to consider all five alleged violations. Also, in July 2006, AES Elpa and AES Transg&aacute;s filed an interlocutory appeal seeking to enjoin the federal court from considering any of the alleged violations. The MPFs lawsuit before the federal court has been stayed pending those interlocutory appeals. AES Elpa and AES Transg&aacute;s believe they have meritorious defenses to the allegations asserted against them and will defend themselves vigorously in these proceedings; however, there can be no assurances that they will be successful in their efforts. AES Florestal, Ltd. ("Florestal"), had been operating a pole factory and had other assets, including a wooded area known as "Horto Renner," in the State of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil (collectively, "Property"). Florestal had been under the control of AES Sul ("Sul") since October 1997, when Sul was created pursuant to a privatization by the Government of the State of Rio Grande do Sul. After it came under the control of Sul, Florestal performed an environmental audit of the entire operational cycle at the pole factory. The audit discovered 200 barrels of solid creosote waste and other contaminants at the pole factory. The audit concluded that the prior operator of the pole factory, Companhia Estadual de Energia El&eacute;trica ("CEEE"), had been using those contaminants to treat the poles that were manufactured at the factory. Sul and Florestal subsequently took the initiative of communicating with Brazilian authorities, as well as CEEE, about the adoption of containment and remediation measures. The Public Attorneys Office has initiated a civil inquiry (Civil Inquiry n. 24/05) to investigate potential civil liability and has requested that the police station of Triunfo institute a police investigation (IP number 1041/05) to investigate potential criminal liability regarding the contamination at the pole factory. The parties filed defenses in response to the civil inquiry. The Public Attorneys Office then requested an injunction which the judge rejected on September 26, 2008. The 79 Table of Contents Public Attorneys office has a right to appeal the decision. The environmental agency ("FEPAM") has also started a procedure (Procedure n. 088200567/059) to analyze the measures that shall be taken to contain and remediate the contamination. Also, in March 2000, Sul filed suit against CEEE in the 2nd Court of Public Treasure of Porto Alegre seeking to register in Suls name the Property that it acquired through the privatization but that remained registered in CEEEs name. During those proceedings, AES subsequently waived its claim to re register the Property and asserted a claim to recover the amounts paid for the Property. That claim is pending. In November 2005, the 7th Court of Public Treasure of Porto Alegre ruled that the Property must be returned to CEEE. CEEE has had sole possession of Horto Renner since September 2006 and of the rest of the Property since April 2006. In February 2008, Sul and CEEE signed a "Technical Cooperation Protocol" pursuant to which they requested a new deadline from FEPAM in order to present a proposal. The proposal was delivered on April 8, 2008. FEPAM responded by indicating that the parties should undertake the first step of the proposal which would be to retain a contractor. In its response Sul indicated that such step should be undertaken by CEEE as the relevant environmental events resulted from CEEEs operations. It is estimated that remediation could cost approximately R$14.7 million ($6.3 million). Discussions between Sul and CEEE are ongoing. In January 2004, the Company received notice of a "Formulation of Charges" filed against the Company by the Superintendence of Electricity of the Dominican Republic. In the "Formulation of Charges," the Superintendence asserts that the existence of three generation companies (Empresa Generadora de Electricidad Itabo, S.A., ("Itabo") Dominican Power Partners, and AES Andres BV) and one distribution company (Empresa Distribuidora de Electricidad del Este, S.A.) in the Dominican Republic, violates certain cross ownership restrictions contained in the General Electricity Law of the Dominican Republic. In February 2004, the Company filed in the First Instance Court of the National District of the Dominican Republic an action seeking injunctive relief based on several constitutional due process violations contained in the "Formulation of Charges" ("Constitutional Injunction"). In February 2004, the Court granted the Constitutional Injunction and ordered the immediate cessation of any effects of the "Formulation of Charges," and the enactment by the Superintendence of Electricity of a special procedure to prosecute alleged antitrust complaints under the General Electricity Law. In March 2004, the Superintendence of Electricity appealed the Courts decision. In July 2004, the Company divested any interest in Empresa Distribuidora de Electricidad del Este, S.A. The Superintendence of Electricitys appeal is pending. The Company believes it has meritorious defenses to the claims asserted against it and will defend itself vigorously in these proceedings; however, there can be no assurances that it will be successful in its efforts. In April 2004, BNDES filed a collection suit against SEB, a subsidiary of the Company, to obtain the payment of R$3.5 billion ($1.5 billion), which includes principal, interest and penalties under the loan agreement between BNDES and SEB, the proceeds of which were used by SEB to acquire shares of CEMIG. In May 2004, the 15th Federal Circuit Court ("Circuit Court") ordered the attachment of SEBs CEMIG shares, which were given as collateral for the loan, as well as dividends paid by CEMIG to SEB. At the time of the attachment, the shares were worth approximately R$762 million ($325 million). In December 2006, SEBs defense was ruled groundless by the Circuit Court, and in January 2007, SEB filed an appeal to the relevant Federal Court of Appeals. Subsequently, BNDES has seized a total of approximately R$630 million ($269 million) in attached dividends, with the approval of the Circuit Court. Also, in April 2008, BNDES filed a plea to seize the attached CEMIG shares. The Circuit Court will consider BNDESs request to seize the attached CEMIG shares after the net value of the alleged debt is recalculated in light of BNDESs seizure of dividends. SEB believes it has meritorious defenses to the claims asserted against it and will defend itself vigorously in these proceedings; however, there can be no assurances that it will be successful in its efforts. In July 2004, the Corporaci&oacute;n Dominicana de Empresas El&eacute;ctricas Estatales ("CDEEE") filed lawsuits against Itabo, an affiliate of the Company, located in the Dominican Republic, in the First and 80 Table of Contents Fifth Chambers of the Civil and Commercial Court of First Instance for the National District. CDEEE alleges in both lawsuits that Itabo spent more than was necessary to rehabilitate two generation units of an Itabo power plant and, in the Fifth Chamber lawsuit, that those funds were paid to affiliates and subsidiaries of AES Gener and Coastal Itabo, Ltd. ("Coastal"), a former shareholder of Itabo, without the required approval of Itabos board of administration. In the First Chamber lawsuit, CDEEE seeks an accounting of Itabos transactions relating to the rehabilitation. In November 2004, the First Chamber dismissed the case for lack of legal basis. On appeal, in October 2005 the Court of Appeals of Santo Domingo ruled in Itabos favor, reasoning that it lacked jurisdiction over the dispute because the parties contracts mandated arbitration. The Supreme Court of Justice is considering CDEEEs appeal of the Court of Appeals decision. In the Fifth Chamber lawsuit, which also names Itabos former president as a defendant, CDEEE seeks $15 million in damages and the seizure of Itabos assets. In October 2005, the Fifth Chamber held that it lacked jurisdiction to adjudicate the dispute given the arbitration provisions in the parties contracts. The First Chamber of the Court of Appeal ratified that decision in September 2006. In a related proceeding, in May 2005, Itabo filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York seeking to compel CDEEE to arbitrate its claims. The petition was denied in July 2005. Itabos appeal of that decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit has been stayed since September 2006. Further, in September 2006, in an International Chamber of Commerce arbitration, an arbitral tribunal determined that they lacked jurisdiction to decide arbitration claims concerning these disputes. Itabo believes it has meritorious claims and defenses and will assert them vigorously in these proceedings; however, there can be no assurances that it will be successful in its efforts. In April 2006, a putative class action complaint was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Mississippi ("District Court") on behalf of certain individual plaintiffs and all residents and or property owners in the State of Mississippi who allegedly suffered harm as a result of Hurricane Katrina, and against the Company and numerous unrelated companies, whose alleged greenhouse gas emissions allegedly increased the destructive capacity of Hurricane Katrina. The plaintiffs assert unjust enrichment, civil conspiracy/aiding and abetting, public and private nuisance, trespass, negligence, and fraudulent misrepresentation and concealment claims against the defendants. The plaintiffs seek damages relating to loss of property, loss of business, clean up costs, personal injuries and death, but do not quantify their alleged damages. In August 2007, the District Court dismissed the case. The plaintiffs have appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, which heard oral arguments in November 2008 and is considering the appeal. The Company believes it has meritorious defenses to the claims asserted against it and will defend itself vigorously in these proceedings; however, there can be no assurances that it will be successful in its efforts. In June 2006, AES Ekibastuz was found to have breached a local tax law by failing to obtain a license for use of local water for the period of January 1, 2005 through October 3, 2005, in a timely manner. As a result, an additional permit fee was imposed, bringing the total permit fee to approximately $135,000. The Company has appealed this decision to the Supreme Court. In June 2007, the Competition Committee of the Ministry of Industry and Trade of the Republic of Kazakhstan ordered AES Ust Kamenogorsk TETS LLP ("UKT") to pay approximately 835 million KZT ($7 million) to the state for alleged antimonopoly violations in 2005 through January 2007. The Competition Committee also ordered UKT to pay approximately 235 million KZT ($2 million), as estimated by the Company, to certain customers that allegedly have paid unreasonably high power prices since January 2007. In November 2007, the economic court of first instance upheld the Competition Committees order in part, finding that UKT had violated Kazakhstans antimonopoly laws, but reduced the damages to be paid to the state to 833 million KZT ($7 million) and rejected the damages to be paid to customers. The court of appeals (first panel) later affirmed the economic courts decision and, therefore, in June 2008, UKT paid the damages. The court of appeals (second panel) rejected UKTs appeal in June 2008. UKT has appealed to the Supreme Court of Kazakhstan. The 81 Table of Contents Competition Committees successor (the Antimonopoly Agency) has not indicated whether it intends to assert claims against UKT for alleged antimonopoly violations post January 2007. UKT believes it has meritorious claims and defenses; however, there can be no assurances that it will prevail in these proceedings. In July 2007, the Competition Committee ordered Nurenergoservice, an AES subsidiary, to pay approximately 18 billion KZT ($150 million) for alleged antimonopoly violations in 2005 through the first quarter of 2007. The Competition Committees order was affirmed by the economic court in April 2008. Nurenergoservices subsequent appeals have been unsuccessful to date, including at the court of appeals (first panel), which rejected Nurenergoservices appeal in July 2008. Also, the economic court has issued an injunction to secure Nurenergoservices alleged liability, freezing Nurenergoservices bank accounts and prohibiting Nurenergoservice from transferring or disposing of its property. In separate but related proceedings, in August 2007, the Competition Committee ordered Nurenergoservice to pay approximately 2 billion KZT (approximately $17 million) in administrative fines for its alleged antimonopoly violations. Nurenergoservice subsequently appealed to the administrative court of first instance. That appeal has been stayed since October 2007 but could resume at any time. The Antimonopoly Agency has not indicated whether it intends to assert claims against Nurenergoservice for alleged antimonopoly violations post first quarter 2007. Nurenergoservice believes it has meritorious claims and defenses; however, there can be no assurances that it will prevail in these proceedings. As Nurenergoservice did not prevail in the economic court or the court of appeals (first panel) with respect to the alleged damages, it will have to pay the alleged damages or risk seizure of its assets. In February 2009, the Antimonopoly Agency seized approximately 783 million KZT ($5 million) from a frozen Nurenergoservice bank account in partial satisfaction of Nurenergoservices alleged damages liability. Furthermore, if Nurenergoservice does not prevail in the administrative court with respect to the fines, it will have to pay the fines or risk seizure of its assets. In August 2007, the Competition Committee ordered Sogrinsk TETS, a thermal cogeneration plant under AES concession, to terminate its contracts with Nurenergoservice and Ust Kamenogorsk HPP because of Sogrinsks alleged antimonopoly violations in 2005 through January 2007. The Competition Committee did not order Sogrinsk to pay any damages or fines. The Kazakhstan courts have affirmed the order, including the Supreme Court of Kazakhstan in October 2008. The Antimonopoly Agency has not indicated whether it intends to assert claims against Sogrinsk for alleged antimonopoly violations post January 2007. In November 2007, the Competition Committee initiated an investigation of allegations that Irtysh Power and Light, LLP ("Irtysh"), an AES company which manages the state owned Ust Kamenogorsk Heat Nets system, had violated Kazakhstans antimonopoly laws in January through November 2007 by selling power at below market prices. In February 2008, the Competition Committee determined that the allegations were baseless. The Competition Committee subsequently appeared to initiate an investigation to determine whether Irtysh had illegally coordinated with other AES companies concerning the sale of power, but its successor (the Antimonopoly Agency) has not issued an order or otherwise taken any action on any such investigation to date. Irtysh believes it has meritorious claims and defenses and will assert them vigorously in any formal proceeding; however, there can be no assurances that it will be successful in its efforts. In December 2008, the Antimonopoly Agency ordered Ust Kamenogorsk HPP ("UK HPP"), a hydroelectric plant under AES concession, to pay approximately 1.1 billion KZT ($9 million) for alleged antimonopoly violations in February through November 2007. The economic court has issued an injunction to secure UK HPPs alleged liability, among other things freezing UK HPPs bank accounts. Furthermore, the Antimonopoly Agency has initiated administrative proceedings against UK HPP seeking an unspecified amount of administrative fines for the alleged antimonopoly violations. UK HPP believes it has meritorious defenses and will assert them vigorously; however, there can be no assurances that it will be successful in its efforts. 82 Table of Contents In June 2007, the Company received a letter from an outside law firm purportedly representing a shareholder demanding that the Companys Board conduct a review of certain stock option plans, procedures and historical granting and exercise practices, and other matters, and that the Company commence legal proceedings against any officer and or director who may be liable for damages to the Company. The Board has established a Special Committee, which has retained independent counsel, to consider the demands presented in the letter in light of the work undertaken by the Company in its review of share based compensation. The Company has not received any communication from the purported shareholder who made the demand since the second half of 2007. In July 2007, AES Energia Cartagena SRL, ("AESEC") initiated arbitration against Initec Energia SA, Mitsubishi Corporation, and MC Power Project Management, SL ("Contractor") to recover damages from the Contractor for its delay in completing the construction of AESECs majority owned power facility in Murcia, Spain. In October 2007, the Contractor denied AESECs claims and asserted counterclaims to recover approximately &euro;12 million ($17 million) for alleged unpaid milestone and scope change order payments, among other things, and an unspecified amount for an alleged early completion bonus. The final hearing is scheduled to begin in June 2009. AESEC believes that it has meritorious claims and defenses and will assert them vigorously in these proceedings; however, there can be no assurances that it will be successful in its efforts. In November 2007, the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local Union No. 1395, and sixteen individual retirees, (the "Complainants"), filed a complaint at the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission ("IURC") seeking enforcement of their interpretation of the 1995 final order and associated settlement agreement resolving IPLs basic rate case. The Complainants are requesting that the IURC conduct an investigation of IPLs failure to fund the Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association Trust ("VEBA Trust"), at a level of approximately $19 million per year. The VEBA Trust was spun off to an independent trustee in 2001. The complaint seeks an IURC order requiring IPL to make contributions to place the VEBA Trust in the financial position in which it allegedly would have been had IPL not ceased making annual contributions to the VEBA Trust after its spin off. The complaint also seeks an IURC order requiring IPL to resume making annual contributions to the VEBA Trust. IPL filed a motion to dismiss and both parties are seeking summary judgment in the IURC proceeding. To date, no procedural schedule for this proceeding has been established. IPL believes it has meritorious defenses to the Complainants claims and it will assert them vigorously in response to the complaint; however, there can be no assurances that it will be successful in its efforts. In September 2007, the New York Attorney General issued a subpoena to the Company seeking documents and information concerning the Companys analysis and public disclosure of the potential impacts that greenhouse gas ("GHG") legislation and climate change from GHG emissions might have on the Companys operations and results. The Company has produced documents and information in response to the subpoena. In October 2007, the Ekibastuz Tax Committee issued a notice for the assessment of certain taxes against AES Ekibastuz LLP. A portion of the assessment, approximately $1.7 million, relates to alleged environmental pollution. The review by the Ekibastuz Tax Committee is ongoing and their decision on any assessment, including the portion related to alleged environmental pollution, is not yet final. In addition, as the result of a subsequent tax audit which was completed on January 24, 2008, an additional amount of approximately 36 million KZT in principal, 20 million KZT in interest and 13 million KZT in penalty (collectively, approximately $600,000), was assessed as underpayment of taxes for the 2004 calendar year and VAT for January 2004. AES Ekibastuz appealed these assessments. However, this position was rejected by the Regional Tax Committee in a decision dated January 30, 2008. On February 29, 2008, AES Ekibastuz appealed to the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan and is currently awaiting a decision. 83 Table of Contents In February 2008, the Native Village of Kivalina, Alaska, and the City of Kivalina filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California against the Company and numerous unrelated companies, claiming that the defendants alleged greenhouse gas emissions are destroying the plaintiffs alleged land. The plaintiffs assert nuisance and concert of action claims against the Company and the other defendants, and a conspiracy claim against a subset of the other defendants. The plaintiffs seek to recover relocation costs, indicated in the complaint to be from $95 million to $400 million, and other alleged damages from the defendants, which are not quantified. The Company has filed a motion to dismiss the case, which the plaintiffs have opposed. The Company believes it has meritorious defenses to the claims asserted against it and will defend itself vigorously in these proceedings; however, there can be no assurances that it will be successful in its efforts. A public civil action has been asserted against Eletropaulo and Associa&ccedil;&atilde;o Desportiva Cultural Eletropaulo (the "Associa&ccedil;&atilde;o") relating to alleged environmental damage caused by construction of the Associa&ccedil;&atilde;o near Guarapiranga Reservoir. The initial decision that was upheld on the first appeal found that Eletropaulo should either repair the alleged environmental damage by demolishing certain construction and reforesting the area, pursuant to a project which would cost approximately $628,000, or pay an indemnification amount of approximately $5 million. Eletropaulo has appealed this decision to the Supreme Court and is awaiting a decision. In 2007, a lower court issued a decision related to a 1993 claim that was filed by the Public Attorneys office against Eletropaulo, the S&atilde;o Paulo State Government, SABESP (a state owned company), CETESB (a state owned company) and DAEE (the municipal Water and Electric Energy Department), alleging that they were liable for pollution of the Billings Reservoir as a result of pumping water from Pinheiros River into Billings Reservoir. The events in question occurred while Eletropaulo was a state owned company. The initial lower court decision in 2007 found the parties liable for the payment of R$517.46 million ($221 million) for remediation. Eletropaulo subsequently appealed the decision and Eletropaulo is still awaiting a decision on the appeal. The filing of the appeal suspended the lower courts decision. Eletropaulo believes it has meritorious defenses to the claims asserted against it and will defend itself vigorously in these proceedings; however, there can be no assurances that it will be successful in its efforts. In September 2008, IPL received a CAA Section 114 information request. The request seeks various information regarding production levels and projects implemented at IPLs generating stations, generally for the time period from January 1, 2001 to the date of the information request. This type of information request has been used in the past to assist the EPA in determining whether a plant is in compliance with applicable standards under the CAA. At this time it is not possible to predict what impact, if any, this request may have on IPL, its results of operation or its financial position. In November 2007, the U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ") indicated to AES Thames, LLC ("AES Thames") that the U.S. EPA had requested that the DOJ file a federal court action against AES Thames for alleged violations of the CAA, the Clean Water Act ("CWA"), the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act ("CERCLA") and the Emergency Planning and Community Right to Know Act ("EPCRA"), in particular alleging that AES Thames had violated (i) the terms of its Prevention of Significant Deterioration ("PSD") air permits in the calculation of its steam load permit limit; and (ii) the CWA, CERCLA and EPCRA in connection with two spills of chlorinating agents. The DOJ subsequently indicated that it would like to settle this matter prior to filing a suit and negotiations are ongoing. During such discussions, the DOJ and EPA have accepted AES Thames method of operation and have asked AES Thames to seek a minor permit modification to clarify the air permit condition. On October 21, 2008, the DOJ proposed a civil penalty of $245,000 for the alleged violations. The Company believes that it has meritorious defenses to the claims asserted against it and if a settlement cannot be achieved, the Company will defend itself vigorously in any lawsuit. 84 Table of Contents In December 2008 there were press reports that the National Electricity Regulatory Entity of Argentina ("ENRE") had filed a criminal action in the National Criminal and Correctional Court of Argentina against the board of directors and administrators of EDELAP, an AES subsidiary. Although EDELAP has not been officially served with notice of the action, press reports have stated that ENREs action concerns certain bank cancellations of EDELAP debt in 2006 and 2007, which were accomplished through transactions between the banks and related AES companies. According to press reports, ENRE claims that EDELAP should have reflected in its accounts the alleged benefits of the transactions that were allegedly obtained by the related companies. EDELAP believes that the allegations lack merit; however, there can be no assurances that its board and administrators will be successful in any formal proceedings concerning the allegations. In January 2009 an alleged shareholder of the Company filed a shareholder derivative and putative class action in Delaware state court against the Company and certain members of its board of directors. The plaintiff claims that Section 2.17(B) of the Companys bylaws, concerning shareholder action by written consent, is illegal under Delaware law. The plaintiff does not seek damages but declarations that Section 2.17(B) is unlawful and void and that the board member defendants breached their respective fiduciary duties of loyalty by adopting that bylaw in October 2008. The plaintiff further seeks to recover his litigation costs. The Company defendants believe they have meritorious defenses and will assert them vigorously in these proceedings; however, there can be no assurances that they will be successful in their efforts. A CAA Section 114 information request regarding Cayuga and Somerset was received in February 2009. The request seeks various operating and testing data and other information regarding certain types of projects at the Cayuga and Somerset facilities, generally for the time period from January 1, 2000 through the date of the information request. This type of information request has been used in the past to assist the EPA in determining whether a plant is in compliance with applicable standards under the CAA. At this time it is not possible to predict what impact, if any, this request may have on Cayuga and or Somerset, their results of operation or their financial position.  ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth quarter of 2008. 85  Table of Contents  PART II  ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES  Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers On August 7, 2008, the Companys Board of Directors approved a share repurchase plan for up to $400 million of its outstanding common stock. The Board authorization permits the Company to effect the repurchase of shares for a six month period. The stock repurchase program may be modified, extended or terminated by the Board of Directors at any time. The Company repurchased 10,691,267 shares of its common stock during the third quarter of 2008 and did not repurchase any shares of its common stock during the fourth quarter of 2008. The remaining amount authorized to be purchased under the share repurchase plan as of December 31, 2008 was $257 million. No shares were repurchased subsequent to December 31, 2008 and the board authorization of the plan expired on February 7, 2009.  Market Information Our common stock is currently traded on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") under the symbol "AES." The closing price of our common stock as reported by the NYSE on February 24, 2009, was $6.82, per share. The Company repurchased 10,691,267 shares of its common stock in 2008 and did not repurchase any of its common stock in 2007 or 2006. The following tables set forth the high and low sale prices, and performance trends for our common stock as reported by the NYSE for the periods indicated: 2008 2007 Price Range of Common Stock High Low High Low First Quarter $ 21.99 $ 15.98 $ 22.61 $ 19.78 Second Quarter 20.34 16.85 23.90 20.87 Third Quarter 19.27 11.23 23.25 17.76 Fourth Quarter 11.28 6.40 22.53 20.21 86 Table of Contents  Performance Graph THE AES CORPORATION PEER GROUP INDEX/STOCK PRICE PERFORMANCE COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURNS ASSUMES INITIAL INVESTMENT OF $100 Source: Bloomberg We have selected the Standard and Poors ("S&P") 500 Utilities Index as our peer group index. The S&P 500 Utilities Index is a published sector index comprising the 32 electric and gas utilities included in the S&P 500. The five year total return chart assumes $100 invested on December 31, 2003 in AES Common Stock, the S&P 500 Index and the S&P 500 Utilities Index. The information included under the heading "Performance Graph" shall not be considered "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  Holders As of February 24, 2009, there were approximately 7,722 record holders of our common stock, par value $0.01 per share.  Dividends We do not currently pay dividends on our common stock. We intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to finance the future development and operation of our business. Accordingly, we do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Under the terms of our Senior Secured Credit Facilities, which we entered into with a commercial bank syndicate, we have limitations on our ability to pay cash dividends and or repurchase stock. In addition, under the terms of a guaranty we provided to the utility customer in connection with the AES Thames project, we are precluded from paying cash dividends on our common stock if we do not meet certain net worth and liquidity tests. 87  Table of Contents Our project subsidiaries ability to declare and pay cash dividends to us is subject to certain limitations contained in the project loans, governmental provisions and other agreements to which our project subsidiaries are subject. See Item 12 (d) of this Form 10 K for information regarding Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans.  ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following table sets forth our selected financial data as of the dates and for the periods indicated. You should read this data together with Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in Item 8 in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The selected financial data for each of the years in the five year period ended December 31, 2008 have been derived from our audited Consolidated Financial Statements. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of our future results. Acquisitions, disposals, reclassifications and changes in accounting principles affect the comparability of information included in the tables below. Please refer to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10 K for further explanation of the effect of such activities. Please also refer to Item 1A Risk Factors and Note 24 Risks and Uncertainties to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K for certain risks and uncertainties that may cause the data reflected herein not to be indicative of our future financial condition or results of operations. 88 Table of Contents SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Year Ended December 31, Statement of Operations Data 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 (in millions, except per share amounts) Revenues $ 16,070 $ 13,516 $ 11,509 $ 10,183 $ 8,667 Income from continuing operations 1,216 487 168 355 172 Discontinued operations, net of tax 18 (582 ) 58 198 143 Extraordinary items, net of tax 21 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, net of tax (4 ) Net income (loss) available to common stockholders $ 1,234 $ (95 ) $ 247 $ 549 $ 315 Basic (loss) earnings per share: Income from continuing operations, net of tax $ 1.82 $ 0.73 $ 0.25 $ 0.54 $ 0.27 Discontinued operations, net of tax 0.02 (0.87 ) 0.09 0.31 0.22 Extraordinary items, net of tax 0.03 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, net of tax (0.01 ) Basic earnings (loss) per share $ 1.84 $ (0.14 ) $ 0.37 $ 0.84 $ 0.49 Diluted (loss) earnings per share: Income from continuing operations, net of tax $ 1.80 $ 0.72 $ 0.25 $ 0.53 $ 0.27 Discontinued operations, net of tax 0.02 (0.86 ) 0.09 0.31 0.22 Extraordinary items, net of tax 0.03 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, net of tax (0.01 ) Diluted earnings (loss) per share $ 1.82 $ (0.14 ) $ 0.37 $ 0.83 $ 0.49 December 31, Balance Sheet Data: 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 (in millions) Total assets $ 34,806 $ 34,453 $ 31,274 $ 29,025 $ 28,449 Non recourse debt (long term) $ 11,869 $ 11,293 $ 9,840 $ 10,308 $ 10,563 Non recourse debt (long term) Discontinued operations $ $ 37 $ 342 $ 467 $ 750 Recourse debt (long term) $ 4,994 $ 5,332 $ 4,790 $ 4,682 $ 5,010 Accumulated deficit $ (8 ) $ (1,241 ) $ (1,093 ) $ (1,340 ) $ (1,889 ) Stockholders equity $ 3,669 $ 3,164 $ 2,979 $ 1,583 $ 997 89  Table of Contents  ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  Overview of Our Business AES is a global power company. We own or operate a portfolio of electricity generation and distribution businesses with generation capacity totaling approximately 43,000 MW and distribution networks serving over 11 million people. In addition, we have more than 3,000 MW under construction in ten countries. Our global footprint includes operations in 29 countries on five continents with 83% of our revenue in 2008 generated outside the United States. We operate two primary lines of business. The first is our Generation business, where we own and or operate power plants to generate and sell power to wholesale customers such as utilities and other intermediaries. The second is our Utilities business, where we own and or operate utilities to distribute, transmit and sell electricity to end user customers in the residential, commercial, industrial and governmental sectors within a defined service area. Each of our primary lines of business generates approximately half of our revenues. We are also continuing to expand our wind generation business and are pursuing additional renewables projects in solar, climate solutions, biomass and energy storage. These initiatives are not material contributors to our revenue, gross margin or income, but we believe that they may become material in the future. Generation. We currently own or operate a portfolio of approximately 38,000 MW, consisting of 93 facilities in 26 countries on five continents at our generation businesses. We also have approximately 2,900 MW of capacity currently under construction in six countries. Our core Generation businesses use a wide range of technologies and fuel types including coal, combined cycle gas turbines, hydroelectric power and biomass. The majority of the electricity produced by our Generation businesses is sold under long term contracts, or PPAs, to wholesale customers. Approximately 61% of the revenues from our Generation businesses during 2008 was derived from plants that operate under PPAs of five years or longer for 75% or more of their output capacity. These businesses often reduce their exposure to fuel supply risks by entering into long term fuel supply contracts or fuel tolling contracts where the customer assumes full responsibility for purchasing and supplying the fuel to the power plant. These long term contractual agreements result in relatively predictable cash flow and earnings and reduce exposure to volatility in the market price for electricity and fuel; however, the amount of earnings and cash flow predictability varies from business to business based on the degree to which its exposure is limited by the contracts that it has negotiated. The balance of our Generation businesses sell power through competitive markets under short term contracts or directly in the spot market. As a result, the cash flows and earnings associated with these businesses are more sensitive to fluctuations in the market price for electricity, natural gas, coal and other fuels. However, for a number of these facilities, including our plants in New York, which include a fleet of coal fired plants, we have hedged the majority of our exposure to fuel, energy and emissions pricing for 2009. Utilities. Our Utilities businesses distribute power to more than 11 million people in seven countries on five continents. Our Utilities business consists primarily of 14 companies owned and or operated under management agreements, all of which operate in a defined service area. These businesses also include 15 generation plants in two countries totaling approximately 4,400 MW. In addition, we have one generation plant under construction totaling 86 MW. These businesses have a variety of structures ranging from pure distribution businesses to fully integrated utilities, which generate, transmit and distribute power. 90 Table of Contents Renewables and Other Initiatives. In recent years, as demand for renewable sources of energy has grown, we have placed increasing emphasis on developing projects in wind, solar, energy storage and the creation of carbon offsets. We have also developed projects and investments in climate solutions and energy storage. AES Wind Generation, which is one of the largest producers of wind power in the U.S., has 16 wind generation facilities in three countries with over 1,200 MW in operation and 11 wind generation facilities under construction in four countries. AES Solar, our joint venture with Riverstone Holdings, was formed to develop, own and operate utility scale photo voltaic (PV) solar installations. Since its launch, AES Solar has developed eight plants totaling 24 MW of solar projects in Spain. In climate solutions, we have developed and are implementing projects to produce GHG Credits. In the U.S., we formed Greenhouse Gas Services, LLC as a joint venture with GE Energy Financial Services to create high quality verifiable offsets for the voluntary U.S. market. We also have formed an initiative to develop and implement utility scale energy systems (such as batteries), which store and release power when needed. While these renewables and other initiatives are not currently material to our operations, we believe that in the future, they may become a material contributor to our revenue and gross margin. However, there are risks associated with these initiatives, which are further disclosed in Item 1A Risk Factors of this Form 10 K. Our Organization and Segments. As of the end of 2008, our Generation and Utilities businesses were organized within four defined geographic regions: (1) Latin America, (2) North America, (3) Europe & Africa, and (4) Asia and the Middle East, ("Asia"). Three regions, North America, Latin America and Europe & Africa, are engaged in both Generation and Utility businesses while the Asia region operates only Generation businesses. Accordingly, these businesses and regions account for seven reportable segments. "Corporate and Other" includes corporate overhead costs which are not directly associated with the operations of our seven primary reportable segments; interest income and expense; other inter company charges such as management fees and self insurance premiums which are fully eliminated in consolidation; and revenue, development costs and the operational results related to AES Wind Generation and our other renewables projects, which are currently not material to our operations. Beginning in 2009, the Company began to implement certain organizational changes in an effort to streamline the organization. The new structure will continue to be organized along our two lines of business, but within three regions instead of four: (1) North America, (2) Latin America & Africa and (3) Europe, Middle East & Asia ("EMEA"). In addition, we will no longer have an alternative energy group, the operation of which was previously reported under "Corporate and other." Instead, AES Wind Generation, will be managed as part of our North America region (even though some projects are not in North America) while climate solutions projects will be managed in the region in which they are located. Management is currently evaluating the impact of the reorganization on the Companys externally reported segments in accordance with SFAS No. 131. AES Solar is accounted for using the equity method and will continue to be reflected in Corporate and Other in 2009. Key Drivers of Our Results of Operations. Our Utilities and Generation businesses are distinguished by the nature of their customers, operational differences, cost structure, regulatory environment and risk exposure. As a result, each line of business has slightly different drivers which affect operating results. Performance drivers for our Generation businesses include, among other things, plant availability and reliability, management of fixed and operational costs and the extent to which our plants have hedged their exposure to fuel cost volatility. For our Generation businesses which sell power under short term contract or in the spot market one of the most crucial factors is the market price of electricity and the plants ability to generate electricity at a cost below that price. Growth in our Generation business is largely tied to securing new PPAs, expanding capacity in our existing facilities and building new power plants. Performance drivers for our Utilities businesses include, but are not limited to, reliability of service; negotiation of tariff adjustments; compliance with extensive regulatory requirements; management of working capital; and in developing countries, reduction of 91 Table of Contents commercial and technical losses. The results of operations of our Utilities businesses are sensitive to changes in economic growth and weather conditions in the area in which they operate. One of the key factors which affect both our revenue and costs of sales is changes in the cost of fuel. When fuel costs increase, many of our Generation businesses with long term contracts and our Utilities are able to pass these costs on to the customer through fuel pass through or fuel indexing arrangements in their contracts or through increases in tariff rates. Therefore, in a rising fuel cost environment as was the case in 2007 and much of 2008, increases in fuel costs for these businesses often resulted in increases in revenue (though not necessarily on a one for one basis). While these circumstances may not have a large impact on gross margin, they can significantly affect gross margin as a percentage of revenue. Other factors that can affect gross margin include our ability to expand the number of facilities we own; and in our existing plants, to sign up new customers and or purchasing parties, collect receivables from existing customers and operate our plants more efficiently. Another key driver of our results is the management of risk. Our assets are diverse with respect to fuel source and type of market, which helps reduce certain types of operating risk. Our portfolio employs a broad range of fuels, including coal, gas, fuel oil and renewable sources such as hydroelectric power, wind and solar, which reduces the risks associated with dependence on any one fuel source. For additional information regarding our facilities see Item 1 Our Organization and Segments. Our presence in mature markets helps reduce the volatility associated with our businesses in faster growing emerging markets. In addition, as noted above, our Generation portfolio is largely contracted, which reduces the risk related to the market prices of electricity and fuel. We also attempt to limit risk by hedging much of our currency and commodity risk, and by matching the currency of most of our subsidiary debt to the revenue of the business that issued that debt. However, our businesses are still subject to these risks, as further described in Item 1A Risk Factors, "We may not be adequately hedged against our exposure to changes in commodity prices or interest rates." Highlights of 2008 Results of Operations. In 2008, management continued to focus its efforts on increasing shareholder value by improving operations, executing our growth strategy and strategically managing our portfolio of businesses. Our 2008 results of operations were positively impacted by a number of factors including the gain on the sale of Ekibastuz and Maikuben in Kazakhstan, higher generation rates, utilities tariffs and favorable foreign currency translation. revenues of $16.1 billion and gross margin of $3.7 billion, or 23% of revenue; income from continuing operations of $1.2 billion, or $1.80 per diluted share; and cash flow from operating activities of $2.2 billion. Our results were negatively impacted by higher fuel costs in Asia and the unfavorable impact of mark to market adjustments on derivative instruments. We also saw an increase in fixed costs, primarily in Brazil and Cameroon, related to maintenance, higher provisions for bad debt, contractor services and higher purchased energy costs. In the fourth quarter of 2008, and in response to the financial market crisis, we reviewed and prioritized projects in our development pipeline. As a result, we recognized an impairment charge of approximately $75 million ($34 million, net of minority interest and income taxes). The projects determined to be impaired primarily included two liquefied natural gas projects in North America and a non power development project at one of our facilities in North America. As the Company continues to review and streamline its project pipeline, it is possible that further impairments could be identified in the future, some of which could be material. During 2008, we also recognized additional impairment charges of $36 million related to long lived assets at Uruguaiana, our gas powered generation plant in Brazil. The impairment was triggered by the combination of gas curtailments and increases in the spot 92 Table of Contents market price of energy in 2007 that continued in 2008. Following an initial impairment charge in the fourth quarter of 2007, further charges were incurred in 2008 due to fixed asset purchase agreements in place. During the first half of 2008, we withdrew from projects in South Africa and Israel which resulted in impairment charges of $36 million. We also recognized an impairment of $18 million related to the shutdown of the Hefei plant in China. Investment and Financing Activities. In addition to the financial results presented above, the additional highlights for the year ended December 31, 2008 include the following: Financing activities We were able to refinance recourse debt at lower interest rates and with extended maturities, reducing our 2009 recourse debt maturities from $467 million at December 31, 2007 to $154 million at December 31, 2008. Our consolidated subsidiaries raised approximately $2.7 billion in 2008 for the purposes of refinancing existing debt and to fund acquisitions and construction. For example, in October, the Company obtained approximately $1 billion in non recourse financing to support the development of Angamos, a 518 MW coal fired generation facility in Chile. Angamos is expected to begin commercial operations in 2011. We reduced outstanding recourse debt by $360 million and repurchased 10.7 million shares of our common stock at a total cost of $143 million. Acquisitions In April, the Company completed the purchase of a 92% interest in Masinloc, a 660 gross MW coal fired thermal power generation facility in Masinloc, Philippines. The purchase price was $930 million in cash (excluding anticipated improvements). Non recourse financing of $665 million was obtained to fund the acquisition and improve the facilities. Investments in Renewable Energy and Related Projects Wind Generation Highlights from AES Wind Generation include the following: The Company expanded its portfolio of wind generation businesses with the acquisition of Mountain View Power Partners ("Mountain View"), which consists of 111 wind turbines with a capacity of 67 MW in Palm Springs, California. In July, we acquired a 49% interest in Guohua Hulunbeier Wind Farm, a 49.5 MW wind farm development in China. The Company also reached a separate agreement with Guohua to move to phase II of our jointly owned Huanghua wind project to expand the facility, doubling the capacity to 99 MW. AES has a 49% interest in the Huanghua Project. In December, the Company obtained financing to build a 156 MW wind farm in Kavarna, the largest in Bulgaria, and a 22 MW wind farm in Scotland. Additionally we acquired a 34 MW wind farm from our affiliate, InnoVent. All three are expected to commence commercial operations in 2009. Solar Energy In March, the Company formed AES Solar, a joint venture with Riverstone. AES Solar will develop land based solar photovoltaic panels that capture sunlight to convert into electricity that feed directly into power grids. AES Solar has commenced commercial operations of 24 MW solar projects in Spain. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company and Riverstone will each provide up to $500 million of capital over the next five years. Through December 31, 2008, the Company has contributed total capital of $135 million. 93 Table of Contents Climate Solutions Highlights from our climate solutions activities include: In April, the Company acquired the rights to the gas from a landfill project in El Salvador ("Nejapa"). Nejapa produces emission reduction credits and plans to build a 6 MW generation facility that could potentially increase to 25 MW in the future. In June, as a result of a financial restructuring, the Company assumed 100% ownership of AgCert International Plc, an Irish company investing in GHG projects primarily in Brazil and Mexico. AgCert currently produces approximately 1.4 million tonnes per year of CERs. In September, Greenhouse Gas Services LLC, the Companys joint venture with General Electric, announced an agreement with Google to co develop projects to reduce GHG emissions and produce GHG credits. The first project will capture methane gas in North Carolina. Construction As of December 31, 2008, the Company has more than 3,000 Gross MW of new generation capacity. The projects under construction include 14 core power projects totaling 2,993 MW and 11 wind power projects totaling 410 MW. We began construction of Angamos, a 518 MW coal fired generation facility in Chile expected to begin commercial operations in 2011. We also further advanced our recent projects with the start of construction of three hydro projects in Turkey that are being developed through our investment made in May 2007 in the IC Ictas Energy Group. In July, the Company achieved early successful testing of simple cycle operation for the Amman East facility in Jordan, a 380 MW natural gas fired project expected to achieve full combined cycle operation in the first half of 2009. In August, the Company started commercial operations of the 170 MW Buffalo Gap III wind farm in Abilene, Texas, bringing the total wind generation capacity of the Buffalo Gap wind farm to 524 MW. For a complete listing of the Companys projects under construction or in development please see Item 1 Our Organizations and Segments. Portfolio Management In the first quarter of 2008, the Company finalized our termination agreement with the Chinese government and shut down Hefei, a 115 MW oil fueled generation facility. The plant became the property of the Anhui Province and we received termination compensation of approximately $39 million in March 2008. In May 2008, the Company completed the sale of Ekibastuz and Maikuben West, a coal fired power plant and a coal mine with operations in Kazakhstan. Proceeds from the sale of these businesses totaled approximately $1.1 billion, a portion of which was used to pay down debt in June 2008. We have the opportunity to receive additional consideration of up to approximately $380 million under performance incentives and a management agreement to continue operation and management of the plants for the next three years. In November 2008, the Company sold a 9.6% ownership in AES Gener for $175 million which reduced the Companys ownership percentage from 80.2% to 70.6%. As a result, the Company recognized a pre tax loss of $31 million in the fourth quarter of 2008. The net proceeds from 94 Table of Contents this transaction were used to participate in Geners capital increase in February 2009 as discussed under Outlook for the Future. In December 2008, the Company sold its 70% interest in Jiaozuo, a 250 MW coal fired generation plant in China for net proceeds of $73 million. Prior periods have been restated to reflect this business within Discontinued Operations for all periods presented. Credit Crisis and the Macroeconomic Environment In the second half of 2007, conditions in the credit markets began to deteriorate in the United States and abroad. In the third and fourth quarter of 2008, this crisis and associated market conditions worsened dramatically, with unprecedented market volatility, widening credit spreads, volatile currencies, illiquidity, and increased counterparty credit risk. Beginning in the second half of 2007, the Company began a series of debt related initiatives, including the refinancing of approximately $2.0 billion of recourse debt in transactions executed in the fourth quarter of 2007 and the second quarter of 2008. As a result of these transactions, The AES Corporation reduced the 2009 maturities on its recourse debt from $467 million as of June 30, 2007 to $154 million as of December 31, 2008. The AES Corporation also eliminated many of the restrictive covenants in its 8.75% Second Priority Senior Secured Notes due 2013 and modified certain covenants contained in its senior secured credit facility. The amendments made the financial covenants less restrictive and made certain other changes, such as expanding the Companys ability to repurchase its own common stock. For further information regarding these covenant changes, see the Capital Resources and Liquidity Parent Company Liquidity section of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. In addition, The AES Corporation successfully replaced Lehman Commercial Paper with another bank as a lender under its senior secured credit facility. Because of the factors described above, management currently believes that it can meet its near term liquidity requirements through a combination of existing cash and cash equivalent balances, cash provided by operating activities, financings, and, if needed, borrowings under its secured and unsecured credit facilities. Although there can be no assurance due to the challenging times currently faced by financial institutions, management believes that the participating banks under its facilities will be able to meet their funding commitments. The Company is also subject to credit risk, which includes risk related to the ability of counterparties (such as parties to our PPAs, fuel supply agreements, hedging agreements, and other contractual arrangements) to meet their contractual payment obligations or the potential nonperformance of counterparties to deliver contracted commodities or services at the contracted price. While counterparty credit risk has increased in the current crisis and there can be no assurances regarding the future, to date the Company has not suffered any material effects related to its counterparties. The global economic slowdown could also result in a decline in the value of our assets, which could result in material impairments of certain assets or result in an increase in our obligations which could be material to our operations. For example, as discussed above, during the fourth quarter of 2008, and in response to the financial market crisis, the Company reviewed and prioritized the projects in our development pipeline. As a result we recognized an impairment charge of approximately $75 million ($34 million, net of minority interest and income taxes). The projects that were impaired included two liquefied natural gas projects in North America and a non power development project at one of our facilities in North America. In addition to the decline in development assets noted above, there is a risk that the fair value of other assets could also decline, resulting in additional impairment charges and or a material increase in 95 Table of Contents our obligations. Certain subsidiaries of the Company have defined benefit pension plans. The Company periodically evaluates the value of the pension plan assets to ensure that they will be sufficient to fund their respective pension obligations. Given the declines in worldwide asset values, we are expecting an increase in pension expense and funding requirements in future periods, which may be material. As of December 31, 2008 we expect the Company to make future employer contributions to its defined benefit pension plans in 2009 of approximately $154 million, of which $21 million will be made to its U.S. plans and $133 million to foreign plans primarily in Brazil (subject to changes in foreign currency exchange rates), compared to employer contributions made in 2008 of $197 million, of which $59 million was made to U.S. plans and $138 million to foreign plans. In Brazilian real ("R$") contributions for our subsidiaries in Brazil are expected to increase from R$236 million in 2008 to R$294 million in 2009. The decline in the fair value of pension plan assets will also result in increased pension expense in 2009, currently estimated at $124 million in 2009 (subject to changes in foreign currency exchange rates) compared to $60 million in 2008. Expense at our subsidiaries in Brazil, in local currency, is expected to be R$176 million in 2009 compared to R$77 million in 2008. See Item 1A Risk Factors, "Some of our subsidiaries participate in defined benefit pension plans and their net pension plan obligations may require additional significant contributions." To date, other than the impacts described above, the global economic slowdown has not significantly impacted the Company. However, in the event that the credit crisis and global recession deteriorate further, or are protracted, there could be a material adverse impact on the Company. The Company could be materially impacted if such events or other events occur such that participating lenders under its secured and unsecured facilities fail to meet their commitments, or the Company is unable to access the capital markets on favorable terms or at all, is unable to raise funds through the sale of assets, or is otherwise unable to finance its activities or refinance its debt, or if capital market disruptions result in increased borrowing costs (including with respect to interest payments on the Companys variable rate debt). The Company could also be adversely affected if general economic or political conditions in the markets where the Company operates deteriorate, resulting in a reduction in cash flow from operations, a reduction in the value of currencies in these markets relative to the dollar (which could cause currency losses), an increase in the price of commodities used in our operations and construction, or if the value of its assets remain depressed or decline further. If any of the foregoing events occur, such events (or a combination thereof) could have a material impact on the Company, its results of operations, liquidity, financial covenants, and or its credit rating. The Company could also be adversely affected if the foregoing effects are exacerbated or general economic or political conditions in the markets where the Company operates deteriorate, resulting in a reduction in cash flow from operations, a reduction in the value of currencies in these markets relative to the dollar (which could cause currency losses), an increase in the price of commodities used in our operations and construction or a decline in asset values. Outlook for the Future In 2008, management continued to focus its efforts on improving operations, executing our growth strategy, managing our risk and strategically managing our portfolio of businesses. As market conditions deteriorated in the second half of 2008, our strategy evolved, with an increased emphasis on preserving liquidity. We also recognized that uncertain economic conditions could potentially slow global demand for power for some period of time. Accordingly, we scaled back our development plans mid year to focus on projects that we believe will still have attractive returns and can still attract capital in difficult financial markets and on completing our projects that are currently under construction. If the Company has capital available for investment beyond these priorities (whether for further development, reductions in debt, or repurchases of stock), it will be allocated based on managements assessment of its most effective use. 96 Table of Contents Consistent with this strategy, in the fourth quarter of 2008, management conducted a review of its development pipeline, and determined that certain projects in the pipeline may not achieve financial close, will not provide the returns originally anticipated, or are otherwise unfeasible, or that other uses of capital such as debt repayment or stock repurchases offer a better return on the Companys capital. Accordingly, management has determined it will not pursue certain projects and will delay others until the credit markets recover. Furthermore, management will continue to review its pipeline and may further reduce the number of projects it pursues. The Company is also evaluating other options with respect to its pipeline, such as the addition of partners who can contribute capital, share project risk and or provide strategic expertise. There can be no assurance regarding the outcome of any such decisions on the Company, its results of operations or its financial condition. The AES Corporation has $154 million in recourse debt maturing in 2009 compared with Parent Company liquidity of approximately $1.4 billion. With regard to its projects currently under construction, the Company believes that it can complete these projects through a combination of existing cash and cash equivalent balances, cash provided by operating activities, financings, and, if needed, borrowings under its secured and unsecured credit facilities. The Company has secured the financing for the vast majority of projects under construction. The Company is also focused on operational improvements and cost reductions to help further improve its cash flow from operations and enhance its financial flexibility. The Company has already commenced efforts to reduce costs and streamline our organization. These efforts include the reorganization of the Company from four regions to three regions, which is expected to eliminate redundancies and improve our cost structure. Recent Events On December 23, 2008, the local Chilean SEC approved Geners issuance of approximately 945 million new shares at a price of $162.50 Chilean Pesos. The proceeds of the share issuance were $246 million and Gener anticipates using these proceeds for future expansion plans, working capital and other operating needs. The preemptive rights period began on January 7, 2009 remained open for 30 days and closed on February 5, 2009. During the preemptive rights period AES, through its wholly owned subsidiary, Cachagua, paid $175 million from the proceeds of the November 2008 share sale to maintain its current ownership percentage of approximately 70.6%.  2008 Performance Highlights Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 ($s in millions, except per share amounts) Revenue $ 16,070 $ 13,516 $ 11,509 Gross Margin $ 3,707 $ 3,392 $ 3,419 Gross Margin as a % of Revenue 23.1 % 25.1 % 29.7 % Diluted Earnings Per Share from Continuing Operations $ 1.80 $ 0.72 $ 0.25 Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities $ 2,165 $ 2,353 $ 2,348 Revenue Revenue increased 19% to $16.1 billion in 2008 compared with $13.5 billion in 2007 primarily due to higher generation rates in Latin America, the impact of favorable foreign currency translation of approximately $350 million and utility tariffs and volume. 97 Table of Contents Gross margin Gross margin increased 9% to $3.7 billion in 2008 compared with $3.4 billion in 2007 primarily due to higher generation rates in Latin America, favorable foreign currency impact, utility volume and tariff, partially offset by an increase in fixed costs associated with allowances for bad debts and higher purchased energy costs, primarily in Brazil and Cameroon. Gross margin as a percentage of revenue decreased to 23.1% in 2008 compared with 25.1% in 2007 driven by the increase in fixed costs. Our gross margin remained at approximately $3.4 billion in 2006 and 2007 and increased to $3.7 billion in 2008. Gross margin however declined in the fourth quarter of 2008 due to several factors including the mix of earnings within our portfolio, foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and recent acquisitions, such as Masinloc in the Philippines. We believe that it is reasonably possible that the recent trend in gross margin reported in the fourth quarter will continue. The Companys future gross margin trends may be significantly impacted by currency exchange rates, commodity prices and the impact of any significant regulatory developments in each country where the Company conducts its business. The Company is subject to extensive and complex governmental regulations which affect most aspects of our business, such as regulations governing the generation and distribution of electricity and environmental regulations, as described more fully in the Business section of the Form 10 K. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations increased $1.08 per share to $1.80 per share in 2008 compared to $0.72 per share in 2007. The 2008 results included a net positive impact of $0.74 per share relating to : (i) a gain from the sale of the Companys northern Kazakhstan businesses in the second quarter of 2008 of $905 million (pre tax) or $1.31; (ii) additional tax expense of $144 million or $0.21 related to the repatriation of a portion of the Kazakhstan sale proceeds (iii) loss related to corporate debt restructuring charges of $55 million (pre tax) or $0.05 (iv) impairment charges taken in the fourth quarter on certain LNG and other development efforts of $34 million (net of tax and minority interest) or $0.05, (v) other impairment charges in Brazil and South Africa of $45 million (net of tax and minority interest) or $0.06 and (vi) net currency translation and transaction losses of $0.20 per share. These were compared to 2007 results which included (i) a gain of approximately $0.15 per diluted share related to the acquisition of a leasehold interest at Eastern Energy in New York and the recovery of certain tax assets in Latin America; (ii) impairment charges related to Uruguaiana and AgCert of $0.33 per share and (iii) corporate debt retirement costs in 2007 of $0.08 per share. The remaining increase in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations from 2007 to 2008 of $0.08 per share is mainly the result of improved performance in 2008. Net cash from operating activities Net cash from operating activities decreased 8% to $2.2 billion in 2008 compared with $2.4 billion in 2007. Excluding the decrease in net cash provided by operating activities from EDC in Venezuela, which was sold in May 2007, net cash provided by operating activities would have decreased $37 million. This decrease was primarily due to increased employer pension contributions at our U.S. and foreign subsidiaries and an increase in regulatory assets related to future recoverable purchased energy costs in Brazil. These decreases were partially offset by a decrease in cash used by a Brazilian subsidiary to pay income taxes in 2008 as a result of tax credits used as the primary payment method in 2008 and improved operations in Latin America and Europe & Africa. Please refer to Consolidated Cash Flows Operating Activities for further discussion. 98  Table of Contents  Consolidated Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, Results of operations 2008 2007 2006 $ change 2008 vs. 2007 $ change 2007 vs. 2006 (in millions, except per share amounts) Revenue: Latin America Generation $ 4,465 $ 3,510 $ 2,615 $ 955 $ 895 Latin America Utilities 5,911 5,172 4,552 739 620 North America Generation 2,234 2,168 1,928 66 240 North America Utilities 1,079 1,052 1,032 27 20 Europe & Africa Generation 1,160 975 852 185 123 Europe & Africa Utilities 782 660 570 122 90 Asia Generation 1,264 817 718 447 99 Corporate and Other(1) (825 ) (838 ) (758 ) 13 (80 ) Total Revenue $ 16,070 $ 13,516 $ 11,509 $ 2,554 $ 2,007 Gross Margin: Latin America Generation $ 1,394 $ 955 $ 1,052 $ 439 $ (97 ) Latin America Utilities 885 865 888 20 (23 ) North America Generation 657 702 610 (45 ) 92 North America Utilities 261 313 277 (52 ) 36 Europe & Africa Generation 294 275 247 19 28 Europe & Africa Utilities 57 63 103 (6 ) (40 ) Asia Generation 143 176 186 (33 ) (10 ) Total Corporate and Other Expense(2) (355 ) (336 ) (245 ) (19 ) (91 ) Interest expense (1,844 ) (1,788 ) (1,769 ) (56 ) (19 ) Interest income 540 500 434 40 66 Other expense (163 ) (255 ) (451 ) 92 196 Other income 379 358 116 21 242 Gain on sale of investments 909 98 909 (98 ) (Loss) gain on sale of subsidiary stock (31 ) 134 (535 ) (165 ) 669 Impairment expense (175 ) (408 ) (17 ) 233 (391 ) Foreign currency transaction (losses) gains on net monetary position (185 ) 24 (80 ) (209 ) 104 Other non operating expense (15 ) (57 ) 42 (57 ) Income tax expense (774 ) (679 ) (359 ) (95 ) (320 ) Net equity in earnings of affiliates 33 76 73 (43 ) 3 Minority interest expense (794 ) (431 ) (460 ) (363 ) 29 Income from continuing operations 1,216 487 168 729 319 Income from operations of discontinued businesses 12 79 115 (67 ) (36 ) Gain (loss) from disposal of discontinued businesses 6 (661 ) (57 ) 667 (604 ) Extraordinary items 21 (21 ) Net income (loss) $ 1,234 $ (95 ) $ 247 $ 1,329 $ (342 ) Per share data: Basic income per share from continuing operations $ 1.82 $ 0.73 $ 0.25 $ 1.09 $ 0.48 Diluted income per share from continuing operations $ 1.80 $ 0.72 $ 0.25 $ 1.08 $ 0.47 (1)Corporate and Other includes revenues from renewables and inter segment eliminations of revenues related to transfers of electricity from Tiet&ecirc; (generation) to Eletropaulo (utility) in Latin America. (2)Total Corporate and Other expenses include corporate general and administrative expenses, expenses related to our renewables initiatives as well as certain inter segment eliminations, primarily corporate charges for management fees and self insurance premiums. 99 Table of Contents Segment Analysis Latin America The following table summarizes revenue and gross margin for our Generation segment in Latin America for the periods indicated: For the Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 % Change 2008 vs. 2007 % Change 2007 vs. 2006 (Dollars in millions) Latin America Generation Revenue $ 4,465 $ 3,510 $ 2,615 27 % 34 % Gross Margin $ 1,394 $ 955 $ 1,052 46 % (9 )% Gross Margin as a % of Segment Revenue 31 % 27 % 40 % Fiscal Year 2008 versus 2007 Generation revenue increased $955 million, or 27%, from the previous year primarily due to higher contract and spot prices and higher volume at Gener in Chile and our businesses in Argentina of approximately $508 million and $188 million, respectively, higher contract and spot prices at our businesses in the Dominican Republic of approximately $132 million, favorable foreign currency translation of approximately $77 million and higher spot prices at our businesses in Panama of approximately $45 million. Generation gross margin increased $439 million, or 46%, from the previous year primarily due to higher contract and spot prices and higher volume at Gener and our businesses in Argentina of approximately $318 million, higher contract and spot prices at our businesses in the Dominican Republic of approximately $86 million, favorable foreign currency translation of approximately $44 million, and higher spot prices at our businesses in Panama of approximately $30 million. These increases were partially offset by higher purchased energy prices of approximately $57 million at Uruguaiana in Brazil. Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Generation revenue increased $895 million, or 34%, from the previous year primarily due to higher rates and volume at Gener and our businesses in Argentina of approximately $443 million and $95 million, respectively; and increased volume and intercompany sales from Tiet&ecirc;, in Brazil, to Eletropaulo, our Brazilian utility, of approximately $130 million. Our increase in ownership of the controlling shares of Itabo, in the Dominican Republic, which resulted in a change from the equity method of accounting consolidation, contributed approximately $87 million in revenue. The increase from foreign currency translation was approximately $38 million. Generation gross margin decreased $97 million, or 9%, from the previous year primarily due to increased cost from gas supply curtailments, drier than normal hydrology and higher spot prices for electricity in the Companys businesses in Argentina, Chile and Southern Brazil of approximately $173 million and one time transmission charges at Tiet&ecirc; of $39 million, offset in part, by higher sales at Itabo of $23 million and intercompany sales in Tiet&ecirc; of $103 million. 100 Table of Contents The following table summarizes revenue and gross margin for our Utilities segment in Latin America for the periods indicated: For the Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 % Change 2008 vs. 2007 % Change 2007 vs. 2006 (Dollars in millions) Latin America Utilities Revenue $ 5,911 $ 5,172 $ 4,552 14 % 14 % Gross Margin $ 885 $ 865 $ 888 2 % (3 )% Gross Margin as a % of Segment Revenue 15 % 17 % 20 % Fiscal Year 2008 versus 2007 Utilities revenue increased $739 million, or 14%, from the previous year primarily due to favorable foreign currency translation of approximately $357 million at our businesses in Brazil, increased rates primarily associated with higher pass through purchased energy and transmission costs at Eletropaulo of approximately $148 million, and higher volume at Eletropaulo and Sul in Brazil of approximately $162 million and $30 million, respectively. Utilities gross margin increased $20 million, or 2%, from the previous year primarily due to higher volume at Eletropaulo of approximately $162 million and favorable foreign currency translation of approximately $67 million at our businesses in Brazil. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in the non pass through rates at Eletropaulo as a result of the July 2007 tariff reset of approximately $74 million, increased fixed costs of approximately $71 million at Eletropaulo primarily due to higher provisions for bad debts and higher purchased energy costs at Eletropaulo of approximately $68 million. Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Utilities revenue increased $620 million, or 14%, from the previous year primarily due to favorable foreign currency translation of $493 million, and increased rates and volume at Sul and at our plants in El Salvador of $58 million and $41 million, respectively, offset by a net decrease in tariffs of $24 million at Eletropaulo. Utilities gross margin decreased $23 million, or 3%, from the previous year primarily due to reduced tariff rates at Eletropaulo of $355 million offset by lower costs, favorable foreign currency translation of $148 million and higher volume of $74 million. Additionally, Sul had increased rates and volume of $27 million and favorable foreign currency translation of $19 million. North America The following table summarizes revenue and gross margin for our Generation segment in North America for the periods indicated: For the Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 % Change 2008 vs. 2007 % Change 2007 vs. 2006 (Dollars in millions) North America Generation Revenue $ 2,234 $ 2,168 $ 1,928 3 % 12 % Gross Margin $ 657 $ 702 $ 610 (6 )% 15 % Gross Margin as a % of Segment Revenue 29 % 32 % 32 % 101 Table of Contents Fiscal Year 2008 versus 2007 Generation revenue increased $66 million, or 3%, from the previous year primarily due to higher volume of $38 million at TEG/TEP in Mexico, and net higher revenue at Merida in Mexico of $29 million primarily due to the pass through of higher fuel costs offset by a revenue adjustment. In addition, revenue increased $8 million at Red Oak in New Jersey, due to higher pricing and availability bonuses. At Warrior Run in Maryland, revenue increased $12 million due to the pass through of higher fuel costs and higher volume due to no significant outages in 2008. These effects were partially offset by lower volume in New York of $23 million primarily due to planned outages and lower capacity factors. Generation gross margin decreased $45 million, or 6%, and decreased as a percentage of revenue from the previous year due to lower gross margin in New York of $46 million mainly due to a planned outage and lower volume, and higher fuel prices and outages of $16 million at Deepwater in Texas. Gross margin decreased $13 million at TEG/TEP due primarily to outages and lower rates due to changes in the sales contract rates associated with the refinancing in 2007. These decreases were partially offset by a net increase in gross margin in Hawaii of $29 million primarily due to a $22 million net mark to market derivative gain on a coal supply contract and a one time use tax refund of $6 million. Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Generation revenue increased $240 million, or 12%, from the previous year primarily due to approximately $200 million in new business as a result of our acquisition of TEG/TEP and approximately $96 million in higher rate and volume sales at the Companys New York facilities; offset by mark to market adjustments for embedded derivatives of $51 million at Deepwater and lower emission sales of $39 million. Generation gross margin increased $92 million, or 15%, from the previous year primarily due to approximately $62 million related to our acquisition of TEG/TEP and $90 million related to higher rates and volumes and lower cost at the Companys New York facilities offset by lower sales of excess emissions allowances of approximately $39 million. The following table summarizes revenue and gross margin for our Utilities segment in North America for the periods indicated: For the Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 % Change 2008 vs. 2007 % Change 2007 vs. 2006 (Dollars in millions) North America Utilities Revenue $ 1,079 $ 1,052 $ 1,032 3 % 2 % Gross Margin $ 261 $ 313 $ 277 (17 )% 13 % Gross Margin as a % of Segment Revenue 24 % 30 % 27 % Fiscal Year 2008 versus 2007 Utilities revenue increased $27 million, or 3%, from the previous year primarily due to a $42 million increase in rate adjustments at IPL in Indiana, related to environmental investments, $42 million of higher fuel and purchased power costs and an $8 million increase in wholesale prices. These increases were offset by $32 million of credits to customers established during the first six months of 2008, $16 million of lower retail volume primarily due to unfavorable weather compared to 2007 and an $18 million decrease in wholesale volume. 102 Table of Contents Utilities gross margin decreased $52 million, or 17%, from the previous year primarily due to lower variable retail margin of $42 million driven by the credits to customers established during the first six months of 2008 and lower retail volume. In addition, IPL had higher maintenance expenses of $9 million primarily due to storm restoration costs and the timing and duration of major generating unit overhauls, an increase of $6 million in labor and benefits costs and an increase of $3 million in contractor and consulting costs. These decreases to gross margin were offset by a return recovered through rates on approved environmental investments of $14 million. Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Utilities revenue increased $20 million, or 2%, from the previous year primarily due to increased volume due to weather, offset by a decrease in fuel charges passed through to customer at IPL. Utilities gross margin increased $36 million, or 13%, from the previous year primarily due to increased volume sales and a return recovered through rates on approved environmental investments at IPL. Europe & Africa The following table summarizes revenue for our Generation segment in Europe & Africa for the periods indicated: For the Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 % Change 2008 vs. 2007 % Change 2007 vs. 2006 (Dollars in millions) Europe & Africa Generation Revenue $ 1,160 $ 975 $ 852 19 % 14 % Gross Margin $ 294 $ 275 $ 247 7 % 11 % Gross Margin as a % of Segment Revenue 25 % 28 % 29 % Fiscal Year 2008 versus 2007 Generation revenue increased $185 million, or 19%, from the previous year primarily due to an increase in capacity income and energy payments at Kilroot in Northern Ireland of approximately $105 million, rate recovery and higher volume of approximately $93 million at our businesses in Hungary and favorable foreign currency translation in Hungary of $32 million. In addition, revenue at Kilroot increased approximately $21 million compared to the previous year primarily due to the unfavorable impact of two major overhauls in 2007. These increases were partially offset by a reduction in revenue of approximately $49 million in Kazakhstan following the sale of Ekibastuz and Maikuben in the second quarter of 2008 that was partially offset by approximately $12 million in management fees earned from continuing management agreements for those businesses. In addition, revenue at Kilroot was approximately $37 million lower due to the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation. Generation gross margin increased $19 million, or 7%, from the previous year primarily due to higher rates and volume of $43 million at Tisza II in Hungary, and an increase in capacity income and fewer forced outages at Kilroot of approximately $32 million. These were offset by an increase in fixed costs of $24 million at Kilroot and Tisza II, unfavorable foreign currency translation of $12 million at Kilroot and a reduction in gross margin of $29 million in Kazakhstan following the sale of Ekibastuz and Maikuben in the second quarter of 2008 that was partially offset by $9 million in net gross margin from continuing management agreements for those businesses. 103 Table of Contents Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Generation revenue increased $123 million, or 14%, from the previous year primarily due to favorable foreign currency translation of $77 million and increased rate and volume sales of approximately $60 million at our businesses in Kazakhstan. Generation gross margin increased $28 million, or 11%, from the previous year primarily due to rate and volume increases at our businesses in Kazakhstan and Kilroot of $44 million and $13 million, respectively. These increases were offset by lower emission sales in Hungary and Bohemia in the Czech Republic of approximately $28 million. The following table summarizes gross margin for our Utilities segments in Europe & Africa for the periods indicated: For the Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 % Change 2008 vs. 2007 % Change 2007 vs. 2006 (Dollars in millions) Europe & Africa Utilities Revenue $ 782 $ 660 $ 570 18 % 16 % Gross Margin $ 57 $ 63 $ 103 (10 )% (39 )% Gross Margin as a % of Segment Revenue 7 % 10 % 18 % Fiscal Year 2008 versus 2007 Utilities revenue increased $122 million, or 18%, from the previous year primarily due to increased tariff rates of approximately $86 million at our businesses in Ukraine, approximately $30 million due to increased rates and volume and $26 million due to favorable foreign currency translation at Sonel in Cameroon. These increases were partially offset by an unfavorable foreign currency translation impact at our businesses in Ukraine of approximately $17 million. Utilities gross margin decreased $6 million, or 10%, from the previous year primarily due to higher fixed costs of approximately $55 million across the region, a mark to market derivative adjustment at Sonel of $9 million and the favorable impact in 2007 of fuel pass through costs under a concession agreement of $6 million, partially offset by increased rates and volume at Sonel of approximately $36 million and increased tariff rates of approximately $23 million at our businesses in Ukraine. Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Utilities revenue increased $90 million, or 16%, from the previous year primarily due to increased tariff rates and volume of approximately $57 million in the Ukraine and approximately $28 million in favorable foreign currency translation. Utilities gross margin decreased $40 million, or 39%, from the previous year primarily due to higher non fuel operating and maintenance costs as well as higher fuel usage at Sonel. 104 Table of Contents Asia The following table summarizes revenue and gross margin for our Generation segment in Asia for the periods indicated: For the Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 % Change 2008 vs. 2007 % Change 2007 vs. 2006 (Dollars in millions) Asia Generation Revenue $ 1,264 $ 817 $ 718 55 % 14 % Gross Margin $ 143 $ 176 $ 186 (19 )% (5 )% Gross Margin as a % of Segment Revenue 11 % 22 % 26 % Fiscal Year 2008 versus 2007 Generation revenue increased $447 million, or 55%, from the previous year primarily due to higher rates driven by increased pass through fuel prices of $259 million and volume of $41 million at our Lal Pir and Pak Gen businesses in Pakistan, an increase in rates due to pass through fuel prices at Kelanitissa in Sri Lanka, of approximately $55 million, and revenue generated from our new businesses, Masinloc in the Philippines, and Amman East in Jordan, of $148 million and $46 million, respectively. These increases were partially offset by unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation of $95 million in Pakistan. Generation gross margin decreased $33 million, or 19%, from the previous year primarily due to the impact of increased fuel prices on heat rate losses of approximately $14 million at Lal Pir and Pak Gen and a $15 million unfavorable impact on revenue from an amended PPA accounted for as a lease, and therefore revenue was recognized on a straight line basis in accordance with EITF No. 01 8, Determining Whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease at Ras Laffan in Qatar. In addition, Masinloc generated a net gross margin loss of $18 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. These unfavorable effects were partially offset by the favorable impact of $14 million from the start of commercial operations in July 2008 at Amman East. Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Generation revenue increased $99 million, or 14%, from the previous year primarily due to higher dispatch in Pakistan of $83 million and higher volume and rates at Kelanitissa of approximately $30 million offset by volume decreases of approximately $8 million at Chigen in China. Generation gross margin decreased $10 million, or 5%, from the previous year primarily due to decreased volume at Chigen. Corporate and Other Expense Corporate and other expenses include general and administrative expenses, executive management, finance, legal, human resources, information systems and certain development costs which are not allocable to our business segments. In addition, this includes net operating results from AES Wind Generation and other renewables initiatives which are immaterial for the purposes of separate segment disclosure and, the effects of eliminating transactions, such as management fee arrangements and self insurance charges, between the operating segments and corporate. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, Corporate and other expense was approximately 2 3% of total revenues. Corporate and other expense increased $19 million, or 6%, to $355 million in 2008 from $336 million in 2007. The increase was primarily due to higher spending of $16 million on 105 Table of Contents SAP implementation projects and $27 million on the expansion of AES Wind Generation, climate solutions projects and our renewables initiatives, offset partially by a reduction in professional fees related to material weakness remediation efforts. Corporate and other expense increased $91 million, or 37%, to $336 million in 2007 from $245 million in 2006. The increase was primarily due to higher spending in professional fees of approximately $24 million primarily to complete the restatement of our financial statements and for continued material weakness remediation efforts, higher spending due to headcount increases primarily related to the strengthening of our finance organization of approximately $15 million and increased spending of $18 million for our SAP implementation projects. Interest expense Interest expense increased $56 million, or 3%, to $1,844 million in 2008 primarily due to additional interest expense at our recently acquired subsidiary, Masinloc, interest expense associated with derivatives at Eletropaulo, Panama and Puerto Rico, as well as unfavorable foreign currency translation in Brazil. These increases were offset by decreases from the elimination of a financial transaction tax in Brazil, a decrease in regulatory liabilities at Eletropaulo, and a decrease in capitalized interest on development projects at Kilroot. Interest expense increased $19 million, or 1%, to $1,788 million in 2007 primarily due to unfavorable impacts from foreign currency translation in Brazil and interest expense associated with derivatives. These increases were offset by the benefits of debt retirement activity at several of our subsidiaries in Latin America and lower interest rates at one of our subsidiaries in Brazil. Interest income Interest income increased $40 million, or 8%, to $540 million in 2008 primarily due to interest income on short term investments and cash equivalents at two of our subsidiaries in Brazil, inflationary adjustments on accounts receivable at Gener, and interest earned on a convertible loan acquired in March 2008. These increases were offset by decreases due to lower interest income related to a gross receipts tax recovery at Tiet&ecirc; recorded during the second quarter of 2007 and decreased interest income related to derivatives at TEG/TEP. Interest income increased $66 million, or 15%, to $500 million in 2007 primarily due to favorable foreign currency translation on the Brazilian Real and higher cash and short term investment balances at certain of our subsidiaries, offset by decreases at two of our Brazilian subsidiaries due to lower interest rates. Other income Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Gain on extinguishment of liabilities $ 199 $ 22 $ 45 Insurance proceeds 40 18 30 Legal/dispute settlement 39 26 1 Gain on sale of assets 34 24 18 Contract settlement gain 135 Gross receipts tax recovery 93 Other 67 40 22 Total other income $ 379 $ 358 $ 116 106 Table of Contents Other income increased $21 million to $379 million in 2008 primarily due to gains on the extinguishment of a gross receipts tax liability and legal contingency of $117 million and $75 million, respectively, at Eletropaulo, $29 million of insurance recoveries for damaged turbines at Uruguaiana, $32 million of cash proceeds related to a favorable legal settlement at Southland in California, and compensation of $18 million for the impairment associated with the settlement agreement to shut down Hefei. These increases were offset by a $135 million contract settlement gain in 2007 at Eastern Energy and a $93 million gross receipts tax recovery in 2007 at Eletropaulo and Tiet&ecirc; in 2007. Other income increased $242 million to $358 million in 2007 primarily due to the Eastern Energy contract settlement gain and tax recoveries in Brazil noted above in addition to favorable legal settlements at Eletropaulo and Red Oak. These increases were offset by a decrease in gains on the extinguishment of debt, which were driven by debt retirement activities at several of our businesses in Latin America in 2006. Other expense Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Loss on extinguishment of liabilities $ 70 $ 106 $ 181 Loss on sale and disposal of assets 34 79 23 Legal/dispute settlement 19 36 31 Regulatory special obligations 139 Write down of disallowed regulatory assets 16 36 Other 40 18 41 Total other expense $ 163 $ 255 $ 451 Other expense decreased $92 million to $163 million in 2008, from $255 million in 2007, primarily due to a decrease in losses on sales and disposals of assets at Sul as well as an extinguishment of debt at the Parent Company. In 2008, there was a loss of $55 million on the retirement of Senior Notes at the Parent Company, compared to a loss of $90 million on a smaller debt retirement in 2007. Other expense decreased $196 million to $255 million in 2007 primarily due to higher losses in 2006 associated with debt retirement activities at several of our Latin American businesses, special obligation charges and the write down of disallowed regulatory assets at Eletropaulo in 2006. In 2007, there was a loss of $90 million on the retirement of Senior Notes at the Parent Company, as well as higher losses on sales and disposals of assets at Eletropaulo and Sul. Impairment Expense As discussed in Note 19 Impairment Expense to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K, impairment expense for the year 2008 was $175 million and consisted primarily of the following: In the fourth quarter of 2008, and in response to the financial market crisis, the Company reviewed and prioritized projects in the development pipeline. From this review, the Company determined that the carrying value exceeded the future discounted cash flows for certain projects. As a result, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $75 million ($34 million, net of minority interest and income taxes) related to two liquefied natural gas projects in North America and a non power development project at one of our facilities in North America. During 2008, the Company recognized additional impairment charges of $36 million related to long lived assets at Uruguaiana. The impairment was triggered by a combination of gas curtailments and increases in the spot market price of energy in 2007 that continued in 2008. Following an initial impairment charge in the fourth quarter 107 Table of Contents of 2007, further charges were incurred in 2008 due to fixed asset purchase agreements in place. During the first half of 2008, the Company withdrew from projects in South Africa and Israel which resulted in impairment charges of $36 million. The Company also recognized an impairment of $18 million related to the shut down of the Hefei plant in China. Impairment expense for the year 2007 was $408 million and consisted primarily of the following: In the fourth quarter of 2007, the Company recognized a pre tax impairment charge of approximately $14 million related to a $52 million prepayment advanced to AgCert for a specified amount of future CER credits. AgCert, a United Kingdom based corporation that produces emission reduction credits, notified AES that it was not able to meet its contractual obligations to deliver CERs, which triggered an analysis of the assets recoverability and resulted in the asset impairment charge. Also during the fourth quarter of 2007, there was a pre tax impairment charge of approximately $352 million at Uruguaiana, a gas fired thermoelectric plant located in Brazil. The impairment was the result of an analysis of Uruguaianas long lived assets, which was triggered by the combination of gas curtailments and increases in the spot market price of energy. In August 2007, there was a pre tax impairment charge of $25 million triggered by the failure of a compressor at our Placerita subsidiary in California. The fixed asset impairment was caused by damage sustained to one of the plants gas turbines. Also during the third quarter of 2007, a pre tax fixed asset impairment charge of approximately $10 million was recognized related to the curtailment of operations at Coal Creek Minerals, LLC, a coal mining company owned by our subsidiary Cavanal Minerals located in the United States. Impairment expense for the year 2006 was $17 million and consisted primarily of the following: During the fourth quarter of 2006, there was a pre tax impairment charge of $6 million related to AES China Generating Co. Ltd. ("Chigen") equity investment in Wuhu, a coal fired plant located in China. The equity impairment in Wuhu was required as a result of a goodwill impairment analysis at Chigen. During the third quarter of 2006, there was an impairment charge of $5 million related to a decrease in the market value of five held for sale gas turbines at our subsidiary Itabo located in the Dominican Republic. Gain on sale of investments Gain on sale of investments of $909 million in 2008 consisted primarily of the sale in May 2008 of our two wholly owned subsidiaries in Kazakhstan, AES Ekibastuz LLP and Maikuben West LLP for a net gain of $905 million. There was no gain on sale of investments for the year ended December 31, 2007. Gain on sale of investments in 2006 of $98 million was the result of a net gain of $87 million from our sale of an equity investment in a power project in Canada (Kingston) in March 2006 and a net gain of $10 million related to our transfer of Infoenergy, a wholly owned AES subsidiary, to Brasiliana in September 2006. Brasiliana is 53.85% owned by BNDES, but controlled by AES. This transaction was part of the Companys agreement with BNDES to terminate the Sul Option. (Loss) gain on sale of subsidiary stock In November 2008, Cachagua, our wholly owned subsidiary, which owned 80.2% of AES Gener S.A. ("Gener") shares prior to the transaction, sold 9.6% of its ownership in Gener to a third party. After this transaction, Cachaguas new ownership in Gener was 70.6%. As a result of this transaction, the Company recorded a net loss on the sale of shares of $31 million. Gain on sale of subsidiary stock in 2007 of $134 million was a result of net gains recognized on the sale of a 0.91% and 10.18% ownership interest in Gener in May and October of 2007, respectively. 108  Table of Contents As discussed in Note 17 Subsidiary Stock to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10 K, in September 2006, Brasilianas wholly owned subsidiary, Transg&aacute;s sold a 33% economic ownership in Eletropaulo, a regulated electric utility in Brazil. Despite the reduction in economic ownership, there was no change in Brasilianas voting interest in Eletropaulo, and Brasiliana continues to control Eletropaulo. Brasiliana received $522 million in net proceeds on the sale. On October 5, 2006 Transg&aacute;s, sold an additional 5% economic ownership in Eletropaulo for net proceeds of $78 million. In 2006, AES recognized a pre tax loss of $535 million primarily as a result of the recognition of previously deferred currency translation losses. Foreign currency transaction gains (losses) on net monetary position The following table summarizes the gains (losses) on the Companys net monetary position from foreign currency transaction activities: Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) AES Corporation $ 38 $ 31 $ (17 ) Chile (102 ) (4 ) Philippines (57 ) Brazil (44 ) 5 (49 ) Argentina (22 ) (8 ) (3 ) Kazakhstan 11 10 1 Mexico (9 ) (2 ) Colombia 5 (7 ) (1 ) Pakistan (1 ) (4 ) (18 ) Other (4 ) 3 7 Total(1) $ (185 ) $ 24 $ (80 ) (1)Includes $10 million, ($22) million and ($51) million of gains (losses) on foreign currency derivative contracts for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The Company recognized foreign currency transaction losses of $185 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. These consisted primarily of losses in Chile, the Philippines, Brazil, Argentina and Mexico partially offset by gains at The AES Corporation and in Kazakhstan. Losses of $102 million in Chile were primarily due to the devaluation of the Chilean Peso by 28% in 2008, resulting in losses at Gener, a U.S. Dollar functional currency subsidiary, associated with its net working capital denominated in Chilean Pesos, mainly cash, accounts receivable and VAT receivables. Losses of $57 million in the Philippines were primarily due to remeasurement losses at Masinloc, a Philippine Peso functional currency subsidiary, on U.S. Dollar denominated debt resulting from depreciation of the Philippine Peso of 16% in 2008. Losses of $44 million in Brazil were primarily due to the realization of deferred exchange variance on past energy purchases made by Eletropaulo denominated in U.S. Dollar, resulting in foreign currency transaction losses of $41 million. Losses of $22 million in Argentina were primarily due to the devaluation of the Argentinean Peso by 10% in 2008, resulting in losses at Alicura, an Argentine Peso functional currency subsidiary, associated with its U.S. Dollar denominated debt. 109 Table of Contents Losses of $9 million in Mexico were primarily due to the devaluation of the Mexican Peso by 26% in 2008, resulting in losses of approximately $9 million at TEG/TEP. Gains of $38 million at The AES Corporation were primarily due to debt denominated in British Pounds and gains on foreign exchange derivatives, partially offset by losses on notes receivable denominated in Euro. Gains of $11 million in Kazakhstan were primarily due to net foreign currency transaction gains of $16 million related to energy sales denominated and fixed in the U.S. Dollar, offset by $5 million of foreign currency transaction losses on external and intercompany debt denominated in other than functional currencies. Foreign currency transaction gains of $24 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 primarily consisted of gains at The AES Corporation and in Kazakhstan partially offset by losses in Argentina and Colombia. Gains of $31 million at The AES Corporation were primarily the result of favorable exchange rates for debt denominated in British Pounds and the Euro. Gains of $10 million in Kazakhstan were primarily due to $12 million of gains related to debt denominated in currencies other than the Kazakh Tenge functional currency, partially offset by $3 million of losses related to energy sales denominated and fixed in the U.S. Dollar. Losses of $8 million in Argentina were primarily due to the devaluation of the Argentine Peso by 3% in 2007, resulting in losses of $11 million at Alicura associated with its U.S. Dollar denominated debt. Losses of $7 million in Colombia were primarily due to the appreciation of the Colombian Peso by 11% in 2007 at Chivor, a U.S. Dollar function currency subsidiary. Foreign currency transaction losses of $80 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 primarily consisted of losses in Brazil, Pakistan and at The AES Corporation. Losses of $49 million in Brazil were primarily the result of losses of $45 million at Eletropaulo from swap contracts that were paid and executed in 2006 as Eletropaulo converted U.S. Dollar debt to Brazilian Real debt. Losses of $18 million in Pakistan were primarily the result of the depreciation of the Pakistani Rupee. Losses of $17 million at AES Corporation were primarily the result of unfavorable exchange rates for debt denominated in British Pounds and the Euro. Other non operating expense Other non operating expense was $15 million in 2008 compared to $57 million in 2007. The 2008 expense related primarily to an impairment of the Companys investment in a company developing a "blue gas" (coal to gas) technology project. The Company made this investment in September 2007 and accounted for the investment in convertible preferred shares under the cost method of accounting. During the fourth quarter of 2008, the market value of the shares materially declined due to downward trends in the capital markets and management concluded that the decline was other than temporary and recorded an impairment charge of $10 million. Additionally, the Company recorded an other than temporary impairment charge of approximately $5 million related to its investments in other entities developing new energy technology and products. Other non operating expense in 2007 reflected the impairment in the Companys investment in AgCert, a U.K. based corporation, publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange, that produces CER credits. The Company acquired its investment in AgCert in May 2006 and, similar to the circumstances stated above, the market value of the Companys investment materially declined during 110 Table of Contents the first half of 2007 and the Company recorded an other than temporary impairment charge of $52 million in 2007. An additional charge of $5 million was recognized for the decrease in value of the AgCert warrants also held by the Company. The Company began consolidating AgCert in January 2008 when it became the primary beneficiary. Income taxes Income tax expense on continuing operations increased $95 million, or 14%, to $774 million in 2008. The Companys effective tax rates were 28% for 2008 and 45% for 2007. The decrease in the 2008 effective tax rate was primarily due to the non taxable gain of $905 million on the sale of the Kazakhstan businesses in the second quarter of 2008, offset by U.S. taxes on distributions from the Companys primary holding company to facilitate early retirement of parent debt in 2008. The decrease was also attributable to the implementation of a tax planning strategy that mitigated the impact of the Mexico Flat Rate Business Tax ("IETU") enacted in the fourth quarter of 2007. The strategy resulted in a reduction to deferred tax expense in 2008 of $24 million and $23 million at TEG and TEP, respectively. Income tax expense related to continuing operations increased $320 million, or 89%, to $679 million in 2007. The Companys effective tax rates were 45% for 2007 and 39% for 2006. The increase in the 2007 effective tax rate was due, in part, to an impairment at Uruguaiana for which no tax benefit was recorded, the impact of an appreciating Real in certain of our Brazilian subsidiaries, and the impact of income tax law changes in Mexico, partially offset by the nontaxable gain on the sales of shares of one of the Companys Chilean subsidiaries and a release of valuation allowance at one of our subsidiaries in Argentina. Net equity in earnings of affiliates Net equity in earnings of affiliates decreased $43 million, or 57%, to $33 million in 2008 primarily due to the impact of increased coal prices at Yangcheng, a coal fired plant in China, a decrease as a result of development costs related to AES Solar, formed in March 2008, and an additional write off of three projects in Turkey that were abandoned in December 2007. Additionally, earnings decreased due to the sale of a wind project in the fourth quarter of 2007, a decrease in earnings at OPGC, in India, and decreased earnings due to a discontinuance of hedge accounting for a number of interest rate swaps at Guacolda in Chile. These losses were partially offset by a decrease in net losses at Cartagena in Spain primarily from a write off of deferred financing costs in 2007 that did not recur in 2008. Net equity in earnings of affiliates increased $3 million, or 4%, to $76 million in 2007 primarily due to a full year of operations at Cartagena in 2007 and the absence of liquidated damages incurred in 2006 for construction delays. The increase was partially offset by a decrease in earnings in 2007 at AES Barry compared to 2006, due to proceeds received in 2006 from the settlement of a legal claim that did not recur in 2007. Minority interest Minority interest expense, net of tax, increased $363 million, or 84%, to $794 million in 2008 primarily due to the decreased losses as a result of the impairment recognized at Uruguaiana during 2007, increased earnings at Eletropaulo, Gener, Itabo, Panama and Tiet&ecirc;, as well as an increase in minority shareholders from approximately 20% to approximately 29% as a result of the sale of shares in Gener in November 2008. These increases were partially offset by an impairment recognized in the Bahamas, a net loss at Masinloc, and decreased earnings at Ras Laffan, Sonel, and Caess EEO & Clesa in El Salvador. Minority interest expense, net of tax, decreased $29 million, or 6%, to $431 million in 2007 primarily due to the recognition of previously deferred currency translation losses associated with the sale of Eletropaulo shares during the third quarter 2006, resulting in a decrease of our economic ownership in 111 Table of Contents Eletropaulo from 34% to 16%. See Note 17 Subsidiary Stock to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K for a further discussion of the sale of Eletropaulo shares and the Brasiliana restructuring. The decrease was also attributable to the minority interest impact of the impairment recognized at Uruguaiana in 2007, offset by increased earnings at Tiet&ecirc;. Discontinued operations As further discussed in Note 21 Discontinued Operations and Held for Sale Businesses to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K, Discontinued Operations includes the results of five businesses: Jiaozuo, a generation business in China, (sold in December 2008); La Electricidad de Caracas ("EDC"), a utility business in Venezuela, (sold in May 2007); Central Valley, a generation business in California (sold in July 2007); Eden, a utility business in Argentina (sold in June 2007), and Indian Queens, a generation business in the U.K. (sold in May 2006). Prior periods have been restated to reflect these businesses within Discontinued Operations for all periods presented. In 2008, income from operations of discontinued businesses, net of tax, was $12 million and reflected the operations of Jiaozuo, a coal fired generation facility in China sold in December 2008. The Company received $73 million for its 70% interest in the business. The net gain on the disposition was $7 million. In 2007, income from operations of discontinued businesses, net of tax, was $79 million and reflected the operations of Jiaozuo, EDC, Central Valley and Eden. EDC and Central Valley were sold in May 2007 and July 2007 for $739 million and $51 million, respectively, and the Eden sale was finalized in June 2007, therefore their results are reflected in the Companys results of operations through their respective sales dates. The loss on the disposal of discontinued businesses was $661 million and primarily related to the $680 million loss on the sale of EDC. In 2006, income from operations of discontinued businesses, net of tax, was $115 million and reflected the operations of Jiaozuo, EDC, Central Valley, Eden and Indian Queens. Indian Queens was sold in May 2006 therefore its results are reflected in the Companys results of operations through the sale date. The loss on the disposal of discontinued businesses was $57 million and primarily related to the $62 million impairment charge recognized at Eden to adjust the carrying value of its assets to their estimated net realizable value when the Company reached an agreement to sell Eden in May 2006. The Eden sale was finalized in June 2007. Extraordinary item In May 2006, AES purchased an additional 25% interest in Itabo, a power generation business located in the Dominican Republic for approximately $23 million. Prior to May, the Company held a 25% interest in Itabo, through its Gener subsidiary, and had accounted for the investment using the equity method of accounting with a corresponding investment balance reflected in the "Investments in and advances to affiliates" line item on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. As a result of the transaction, the Company consolidates Itabo and, therefore, the investment balance has been reclassified to the appropriate line items on the Consolidated Balance Sheets with a corresponding minority interest liability for the remaining 50% interest not owned by AES. The Company realized an after tax extraordinary gain of $21 million as a result of the transaction due to an excess of the fair value of the noncurrent assets over the purchase price.  Critical Accounting Estimates The Consolidated Financial Statements of AES are prepared in conformity with GAAP, which requires the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. AESs significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 General and 112 Table of Contents Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K. An accounting estimate is considered critical if: the estimate requires management to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the estimate was made; different estimates reasonably could have been used; or the impact of the estimates and assumptions on financial condition or operating performance is material. Management believes that the accounting estimates employed are appropriate and the resulting balances are reasonable; however, actual results could differ from the original estimates, requiring adjustments to these balances in future periods. Management has discussed these critical accounting policies with the audit committee, as appropriate. Listed below are certain significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Income Tax Reserves We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our worldwide income tax provision requires significant judgment and is based on calculations and assumptions that are subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service and other taxing authorities. The Company and certain of its subsidiaries are under examination by relevant taxing authorities for various tax years. The Company regularly assesses the potential outcome of these examinations in each of the taxing jurisdictions when determining the adequacy of the provision for income taxes. The Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Interpretation ("FIN") No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, ("FIN No. 48") effective January 1, 2007. The Interpretation prescribes a more likely than not recognition threshold and establishes new measurement requirements for financial statement reporting of an entitys income tax positions. Tax reserves have been established, which the Company believes to be adequate in relation to the potential for additional assessments. Once established, reserves are adjusted only when there is more information available or when an event occurs necessitating a change to the reserves. While the Company believes that the amount of the tax estimates are reasonable, it is possible that the ultimate outcome of current or future examinations may exceed current reserves in amounts that could be material. Goodwill We test goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or circumstances make it more likely than not that impairment may have occurred. Such indicators could include a significant adverse change in the business climate or a decision to sell or dispose all or a portion of a reporting unit. Goodwill impairment is evaluated using a two step process. The first step is to identify if a potential impairment exists by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying value. Determining whether an impairment has occurred requires the valuation of the respective reporting unit. The Company uses a discounted cash flow method to estimate the fair value. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, goodwill of the reporting unit is not considered to be impaired and no further analysis is required. In applying this methodology, we rely on a number of factors, including actual operating results, future business plans, economic projections and market data. Assumptions about operating results and growth rates are based on forecasts, future business plans, economic projections and anticipated future cash flows, among other things. Changes in any of these assumptions could result in management reaching a different conclusion regarding the potential impairment of a reporting unit. Our impairment analysis contains uncertainties from uncontrollable events that could positively or negatively impact the anticipated future economic and operating conditions. 113 Table of Contents If the carrying value exceeds the reporting units fair value, this could indicate potential impairment and step two of the goodwill evaluation process is required to determine if goodwill is impaired and to measure the amount of impairment loss to recognize, if any. The measurement of impairment requires a fair value estimate of each identified tangible and intangible asset in the same manner the fair value would be determined in a business combination. In this case, we supplement the cash flow approach discussed above with appraisals, or other observable sources of fair value, as appropriate. Regulatory Assets and Liabilities The Company accounts for certain of its regulated operations under the provisions of SFAS No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation, ("SFAS No. 71"). As a result, AES recognizes assets and liabilities that result from the regulated ratemaking process that would not be recognized under GAAP for non regulated entities. Regulatory assets generally represent incurred costs that have been deferred because such costs are probable of future recovery in customer rates. Regulatory liabilities generally represent obligations to make refunds to customers for previous collections for costs that are not likely to be incurred or included in future rate initiatives. Management continually assesses whether the regulatory assets are probable of future recovery by considering factors such as applicable regulatory changes, recent rate orders applicable to other regulated entities and the status of any pending or potential deregulation legislation. If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, any asset write offs would be required to be recognized in operating income. Fair Value Fair Value of Financial Instruments A significant number of the Companys financial instruments are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in earnings or other comprehensive income each period. The Company makes estimates regarding valuation of assets and liabilities measured at fair value in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements. These assets and liabilities include short and long term investments in debt and equity securities, included in the balance sheet line items "Short term investments" and "Other assets (Noncurrent)", derivative assets, included in "Other current assets" and "Other assets (Noncurrent)" and derivative liabilities, included in "Accrued and other liabilities (current)" and "Other long term liabilities". The Company uses valuation techniques and methodologies that maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. Where available, fair value is based on observable market prices or parameters or derived from such prices or parameters. Where observable prices or inputs are not available, valuation models are applied. The valuation techniques involve some level of management estimation and judgment, the degree of which is dependent on the price transparency for the instruments or market and the instruments complexity. Investments are generally fair valued based on quoted market prices or other observable market data such as interest rate indices. The Companys investments are primarily certificates of deposit, government debt securities and money market funds. Derivatives are valued using observable data as inputs into internal valuation models. The Companys derivatives primarily consist of interest rate swaps, foreign currency instruments, and commodity and embedded derivatives. Additional discussion regarding the nature of these financial instruments and valuation techniques can be found in Note 6 Fair Value of Financial Instruments. Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities We enter into various derivative transactions in order to hedge our exposure to certain market risks. We primarily use derivative instruments to manage our interest rate, commodity, and foreign currency exposures. We do not enter into derivative transactions for trading purposes. 114 Table of Contents Under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities as amended, ("SFAS No. 133"), we recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the balance sheet and measure those instruments at fair value except where derivatives qualify and are designated as "normal purchase/normal sale" transactions. Changes in fair value of derivatives are recognized in earnings unless specific hedge criteria are met. Income and expense related to derivative instruments are recognized in the same category as generated by the underlying asset or liability. SFAS No. 133 enables companies to designate qualifying derivatives as hedging instruments based on the exposure being hedged. These hedge designations include fair value hedges and cash flow hedges. Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is highly effective and is designated and qualifies as a fair value hedge, are recognized in earnings as offsets to the changes in fair value of the exposure being hedged. The Company has no fair value hedges at this time. Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is highly effective and is designated as and qualifies as a cash flow hedge, are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income and are recognized into earnings as the hedged transactions occur. Any ineffectiveness is recognized in earnings immediately. For all hedge contracts, the Company provides formal documentation of the hedge and effectiveness testing in accordance with SFAS No. 133. The Company adopted SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurement, ("SFAS No. 157") on January 1, 2008. SFAS No. 157 provides additional guidance on the definition of fair value and defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date, or exit price. SFAS No. 157 requires the Company to consider and reflect the assumptions of market participants in the fair value calculation. These factors include nonperformance risk (the risk that the obligation will not be fulfilled) and credit risk, both of the reporting entity (for liabilities) and of the counterparty (for assets). These factors were not previously considered in the fair value calculation. Due to the nature of the Companys interest rate swaps, which are typically associated with non recourse debt, credit risk for AES is evaluated at the subsidiary level rather than at the Parent Company level. Nonperformance risk on the Companys derivative instruments is an adjustment to the initial asset/liability fair value position that is derived from internally developed valuation models that utilize observable market inputs. As a result of uncertainty, complexity and judgment, accounting estimates related to derivative accounting could result in material changes to our financial statements under different conditions or utilizing different assumptions. As a part of accounting for these derivatives, we make estimates concerning nonperformance, volatilities, market liquidity, future commodity prices, interest rates, credit ratings (both ours and our counterpartys), and exchange rates. The fair value of our derivative portfolio is generally determined using internal valuation models, most of which are based on observable market inputs including interest rate curves and forward and spot prices for currencies and commodities. The Company derives most of its financial instrument market assumptions from market efficient data sources (e.g. Bloomberg and Platts). In some cases, where market data is not readily available, management uses comparable market sources and empirical evidence to derive market assumptions to determine a financial instruments fair value. In certain instances, the published curve may not extend through the remaining term of the contract and management must make assumptions to extrapolate the curve. Additionally, in the absence of quoted prices, we may rely on "indicative pricing" quotes from financial institutions to input into our valuation model for certain of our foreign currency swaps. These indicative pricing quotes do not constitute either a bid or ask price and therefore are not considered observable market data. For individual contracts, the use of different valuation models or assumptions could have a material effect on the calculated fair value. 115  Table of Contents Fair Value Hierarchy The Company uses valuation techniques and methodologies that maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. Where available, fair value is based on observable market prices or parameters or derived from such prices or parameters. Where observable prices or inputs are not available, valuation models are applied. The valuation techniques involve some level of management estimation and judgment, the degree of which is dependent on the price transparency for the instruments or market and the instruments complexity. To increase consistency and enhance disclosure of the fair value of financial instruments, SFAS No. 157 creates a fair value hierarchy to prioritize the inputs used to measure fair value into three categories. A financial instruments level within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of input significant to the fair value measurement, where Level 1 is the highest and Level 3 is the lowest. For more information regarding the fair value hierarchy, see Note 1 General and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in Item 8 in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The selected financial data for each of the years in the five year period ended December 31, 2008 have been derived from our audited Consolidated Financial Statements. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of our future results. Acquisitions, disposals, reclassifications and changes in accounting principles affect the comparability of information included in the tables below. Please refer to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10 K for further explanation of the effect of such activities. Please also refer to Item 1A Risk Factors and Note 24 Risks and Uncertainties to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K for certain risks and uncertainties that may cause the data reflected herein not to be indicative of our future financial condition or results of operations. 88 Table of Contents SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Year Ended December 31, Statement of Operations Data 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 (in millions, except per share amounts) Revenues $ 16,070 $ 13,516 $ 11,509 $ 10,183 $ 8,667 Income from continuing operations 1,216 487 168 355 172 Discontinued operations, net of tax 18 (582 ) 58 198 143 Extraordinary items, net of tax 21 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, net of tax (4 ) Net income (loss) available to common stockholders $ 1,234 $ (95 ) $ 247 $ 549 $ 315 Basic (loss) earnings per share: Income from continuing operations, net of tax $ 1.82 $ 0.73 $ 0.25 $ 0.54 $ 0.27 Discontinued operations, net of tax 0.02 (0.87 ) 0.09 0.31 0.22 Extraordinary items, net of tax 0.03 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, net of tax (0.01 ) Basic earnings (loss) per share $ 1.84 $ (0.14 ) $ 0.37 $ 0.84 $ 0.49 Diluted (loss) earnings per share: Income from continuing operations, net of tax $ 1.80 $ 0.72 $ 0.25 $ 0.53 $ 0.27 Discontinued operations, net of tax 0.02 (0.86 ) 0.09 0.31 0.22 Extraordinary items, net of tax 0.03 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, net of tax (0.01 ) Diluted earnings (loss) per share $ 1.82 $ (0.14 ) $ 0.37 $ 0.83 $ 0.49 December 31, Balance Sheet Data: 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 (in millions) Total assets $ 34,806 $ 34,453 $ 31,274 $ 29,025 $ 28,449 Non recourse debt (long term) $ 11,869 $ 11,293 $ 9,840 $ 10,308 $ 10,563 Non recourse debt (long term) Discontinued operations $ $ 37 $ 342 $ 467 $ 750 Recourse debt (long term) $ 4,994 $ 5,332 $ 4,790 $ 4,682 $ 5,010 Accumulated deficit $ (8 ) $ (1,241 ) $ (1,093 ) $ (1,340 ) $ (1,889 ) Stockholders equity $ 3,669 $ 3,164 $ 2,979 $ 1,583 $ 997 89  Table of Contents  ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  Overview of Our Business AES is a global power company. We own or operate a portfolio of electricity generation and distribution businesses with generation capacity totaling approximately 43,000 MW and distribution networks serving over 11 million people. In addition, we have more than 3,000 MW under construction in ten countries. Our global footprint includes operations in 29 countries on five continents with 83% of our revenue in 2008 generated outside the United States. We operate two primary lines of business. The first is our Generation business, where we own and or operate power plants to generate and sell power to wholesale customers such as utilities and other intermediaries. The second is our Utilities business, where we own and or operate utilities to distribute, transmit and sell electricity to end user customers in the residential, commercial, industrial and governmental sectors within a defined service area. Each of our primary lines of business generates approximately half of our revenues. We are also continuing to expand our wind generation business and are pursuing additional renewables projects in solar, climate solutions, biomass and energy storage. These initiatives are not material contributors to our revenue, gross margin or income, but we believe that they may become material in the future. Generation. We currently own or operate a portfolio of approximately 38,000 MW, consisting of 93 facilities in 26 countries on five continents at our generation businesses. We also have approximately 2,900 MW of capacity currently under construction in six countries. Our core Generation businesses use a wide range of technologies and fuel types including coal, combined cycle gas turbines, hydroelectric power and biomass. The majority of the electricity produced by our Generation businesses is sold under long term contracts, or PPAs, to wholesale customers. Approximately 61% of the revenues from our Generation businesses during 2008 was derived from plants that operate under PPAs of five years or longer for 75% or more of their output capacity. These businesses often reduce their exposure to fuel supply risks by entering into long term fuel supply contracts or fuel tolling contracts where the customer assumes full responsibility for purchasing and supplying the fuel to the power plant. These long term contractual agreements result in relatively predictable cash flow and earnings and reduce exposure to volatility in the market price for electricity and fuel; however, the amount of earnings and cash flow predictability varies from business to business based on the degree to which its exposure is limited by the contracts that it has negotiated. The balance of our Generation businesses sell power through competitive markets under short term contracts or directly in the spot market. As a result, the cash flows and earnings associated with these businesses are more sensitive to fluctuations in the market price for electricity, natural gas, coal and other fuels. However, for a number of these facilities, including our plants in New York, which include a fleet of coal fired plants, we have hedged the majority of our exposure to fuel, energy and emissions pricing for 2009. Utilities. Our Utilities businesses distribute power to more than 11 million people in seven countries on five continents. Our Utilities business consists primarily of 14 companies owned and or operated under management agreements, all of which operate in a defined service area. These businesses also include 15 generation plants in two countries totaling approximately 4,400 MW. In addition, we have one generation plant under construction totaling 86 MW. These businesses have a variety of structures ranging from pure distribution businesses to fully integrated utilities, which generate, transmit and distribute power. 90 Table of Contents Renewables and Other Initiatives. In recent years, as demand for renewable sources of energy has grown, we have placed increasing emphasis on developing projects in wind, solar, energy storage and the creation of carbon offsets. We have also developed projects and investments in climate solutions and energy storage. AES Wind Generation, which is one of the largest producers of wind power in the U.S., has 16 wind generation facilities in three countries with over 1,200 MW in operation and 11 wind generation facilities under construction in four countries. AES Solar, our joint venture with Riverstone Holdings, was formed to develop, own and operate utility scale photo voltaic (PV) solar installations. Since its launch, AES Solar has developed eight plants totaling 24 MW of solar projects in Spain. In climate solutions, we have developed and are implementing projects to produce GHG Credits. In the U.S., we formed Greenhouse Gas Services, LLC as a joint venture with GE Energy Financial Services to create high quality verifiable offsets for the voluntary U.S. market. We also have formed an initiative to develop and implement utility scale energy systems (such as batteries), which store and release power when needed. While these renewables and other initiatives are not currently material to our operations, we believe that in the future, they may become a material contributor to our revenue and gross margin. However, there are risks associated with these initiatives, which are further disclosed in Item 1A Risk Factors of this Form 10 K. Our Organization and Segments. As of the end of 2008, our Generation and Utilities businesses were organized within four defined geographic regions: (1) Latin America, (2) North America, (3) Europe & Africa, and (4) Asia and the Middle East, ("Asia"). Three regions, North America, Latin America and Europe & Africa, are engaged in both Generation and Utility businesses while the Asia region operates only Generation businesses. Accordingly, these businesses and regions account for seven reportable segments. "Corporate and Other" includes corporate overhead costs which are not directly associated with the operations of our seven primary reportable segments; interest income and expense; other inter company charges such as management fees and self insurance premiums which are fully eliminated in consolidation; and revenue, development costs and the operational results related to AES Wind Generation and our other renewables projects, which are currently not material to our operations. Beginning in 2009, the Company began to implement certain organizational changes in an effort to streamline the organization. The new structure will continue to be organized along our two lines of business, but within three regions instead of four: (1) North America, (2) Latin America & Africa and (3) Europe, Middle East & Asia ("EMEA"). In addition, we will no longer have an alternative energy group, the operation of which was previously reported under "Corporate and other." Instead, AES Wind Generation, will be managed as part of our North America region (even though some projects are not in North America) while climate solutions projects will be managed in the region in which they are located. Management is currently evaluating the impact of the reorganization on the Companys externally reported segments in accordance with SFAS No. 131. AES Solar is accounted for using the equity method and will continue to be reflected in Corporate and Other in 2009. Key Drivers of Our Results of Operations. Our Utilities and Generation businesses are distinguished by the nature of their customers, operational differences, cost structure, regulatory environment and risk exposure. As a result, each line of business has slightly different drivers which affect operating results. Performance drivers for our Generation businesses include, among other things, plant availability and reliability, management of fixed and operational costs and the extent to which our plants have hedged their exposure to fuel cost volatility. For our Generation businesses which sell power under short term contract or in the spot market one of the most crucial factors is the market price of electricity and the plants ability to generate electricity at a cost below that price. Growth in our Generation business is largely tied to securing new PPAs, expanding capacity in our existing facilities and building new power plants. Performance drivers for our Utilities businesses include, but are not limited to, reliability of service; negotiation of tariff adjustments; compliance with extensive regulatory requirements; management of working capital; and in developing countries, reduction of 91 Table of Contents commercial and technical losses. The results of operations of our Utilities businesses are sensitive to changes in economic growth and weather conditions in the area in which they operate. One of the key factors which affect both our revenue and costs of sales is changes in the cost of fuel. When fuel costs increase, many of our Generation businesses with long term contracts and our Utilities are able to pass these costs on to the customer through fuel pass through or fuel indexing arrangements in their contracts or through increases in tariff rates. Therefore, in a rising fuel cost environment as was the case in 2007 and much of 2008, increases in fuel costs for these businesses often resulted in increases in revenue (though not necessarily on a one for one basis). While these circumstances may not have a large impact on gross margin, they can significantly affect gross margin as a percentage of revenue. Other factors that can affect gross margin include our ability to expand the number of facilities we own; and in our existing plants, to sign up new customers and or purchasing parties, collect receivables from existing customers and operate our plants more efficiently. Another key driver of our results is the management of risk. Our assets are diverse with respect to fuel source and type of market, which helps reduce certain types of operating risk. Our portfolio employs a broad range of fuels, including coal, gas, fuel oil and renewable sources such as hydroelectric power, wind and solar, which reduces the risks associated with dependence on any one fuel source. For additional information regarding our facilities see Item 1 Our Organization and Segments. Our presence in mature markets helps reduce the volatility associated with our businesses in faster growing emerging markets. In addition, as noted above, our Generation portfolio is largely contracted, which reduces the risk related to the market prices of electricity and fuel. We also attempt to limit risk by hedging much of our currency and commodity risk, and by matching the currency of most of our subsidiary debt to the revenue of the business that issued that debt. However, our businesses are still subject to these risks, as further described in Item 1A Risk Factors, "We may not be adequately hedged against our exposure to changes in commodity prices or interest rates." Highlights of 2008 Results of Operations. In 2008, management continued to focus its efforts on increasing shareholder value by improving operations, executing our growth strategy and strategically managing our portfolio of businesses. Our 2008 results of operations were positively impacted by a number of factors including the gain on the sale of Ekibastuz and Maikuben in Kazakhstan, higher generation rates, utilities tariffs and favorable foreign currency translation. revenues of $16.1 billion and gross margin of $3.7 billion, or 23% of revenue; income from continuing operations of $1.2 billion, or $1.80 per diluted share; and cash flow from operating activities of $2.2 billion. Our results were negatively impacted by higher fuel costs in Asia and the unfavorable impact of mark to market adjustments on derivative instruments. We also saw an increase in fixed costs, primarily in Brazil and Cameroon, related to maintenance, higher provisions for bad debt, contractor services and higher purchased energy costs. In the fourth quarter of 2008, and in response to the financial market crisis, we reviewed and prioritized projects in our development pipeline. As a result, we recognized an impairment charge of approximately $75 million ($34 million, net of minority interest and income taxes). The projects determined to be impaired primarily included two liquefied natural gas projects in North America and a non power development project at one of our facilities in North America. As the Company continues to review and streamline its project pipeline, it is possible that further impairments could be identified in the future, some of which could be material. During 2008, we also recognized additional impairment charges of $36 million related to long lived assets at Uruguaiana, our gas powered generation plant in Brazil. The impairment was triggered by the combination of gas curtailments and increases in the spot 92 Table of Contents market price of energy in 2007 that continued in 2008. Following an initial impairment charge in the fourth quarter of 2007, further charges were incurred in 2008 due to fixed asset purchase agreements in place. During the first half of 2008, we withdrew from projects in South Africa and Israel which resulted in impairment charges of $36 million. We also recognized an impairment of $18 million related to the shutdown of the Hefei plant in China. Investment and Financing Activities. In addition to the financial results presented above, the additional highlights for the year ended December 31, 2008 include the following: Financing activities We were able to refinance recourse debt at lower interest rates and with extended maturities, reducing our 2009 recourse debt maturities from $467 million at December 31, 2007 to $154 million at December 31, 2008. Our consolidated subsidiaries raised approximately $2.7 billion in 2008 for the purposes of refinancing existing debt and to fund acquisitions and construction. For example, in October, the Company obtained approximately $1 billion in non recourse financing to support the development of Angamos, a 518 MW coal fired generation facility in Chile. Angamos is expected to begin commercial operations in 2011. We reduced outstanding recourse debt by $360 million and repurchased 10.7 million shares of our common stock at a total cost of $143 million. Acquisitions In April, the Company completed the purchase of a 92% interest in Masinloc, a 660 gross MW coal fired thermal power generation facility in Masinloc, Philippines. The purchase price was $930 million in cash (excluding anticipated improvements). Non recourse financing of $665 million was obtained to fund the acquisition and improve the facilities. Investments in Renewable Energy and Related Projects Wind Generation Highlights from AES Wind Generation include the following: The Company expanded its portfolio of wind generation businesses with the acquisition of Mountain View Power Partners ("Mountain View"), which consists of 111 wind turbines with a capacity of 67 MW in Palm Springs, California. In July, we acquired a 49% interest in Guohua Hulunbeier Wind Farm, a 49.5 MW wind farm development in China. The Company also reached a separate agreement with Guohua to move to phase II of our jointly owned Huanghua wind project to expand the facility, doubling the capacity to 99 MW. AES has a 49% interest in the Huanghua Project. In December, the Company obtained financing to build a 156 MW wind farm in Kavarna, the largest in Bulgaria, and a 22 MW wind farm in Scotland. Additionally we acquired a 34 MW wind farm from our affiliate, InnoVent. All three are expected to commence commercial operations in 2009. Solar Energy In March, the Company formed AES Solar, a joint venture with Riverstone. AES Solar will develop land based solar photovoltaic panels that capture sunlight to convert into electricity that feed directly into power grids. AES Solar has commenced commercial operations of 24 MW solar projects in Spain. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company and Riverstone will each provide up to $500 million of capital over the next five years. Through December 31, 2008, the Company has contributed total capital of $135 million. 93 Table of Contents Climate Solutions Highlights from our climate solutions activities include: In April, the Company acquired the rights to the gas from a landfill project in El Salvador ("Nejapa"). Nejapa produces emission reduction credits and plans to build a 6 MW generation facility that could potentially increase to 25 MW in the future. In June, as a result of a financial restructuring, the Company assumed 100% ownership of AgCert International Plc, an Irish company investing in GHG projects primarily in Brazil and Mexico. AgCert currently produces approximately 1.4 million tonnes per year of CERs. In September, Greenhouse Gas Services LLC, the Companys joint venture with General Electric, announced an agreement with Google to co develop projects to reduce GHG emissions and produce GHG credits. The first project will capture methane gas in North Carolina. Construction As of December 31, 2008, the Company has more than 3,000 Gross MW of new generation capacity. The projects under construction include 14 core power projects totaling 2,993 MW and 11 wind power projects totaling 410 MW. We began construction of Angamos, a 518 MW coal fired generation facility in Chile expected to begin commercial operations in 2011. We also further advanced our recent projects with the start of construction of three hydro projects in Turkey that are being developed through our investment made in May 2007 in the IC Ictas Energy Group. In July, the Company achieved early successful testing of simple cycle operation for the Amman East facility in Jordan, a 380 MW natural gas fired project expected to achieve full combined cycle operation in the first half of 2009. In August, the Company started commercial operations of the 170 MW Buffalo Gap III wind farm in Abilene, Texas, bringing the total wind generation capacity of the Buffalo Gap wind farm to 524 MW. For a complete listing of the Companys projects under construction or in development please see Item 1 Our Organizations and Segments. Portfolio Management In the first quarter of 2008, the Company finalized our termination agreement with the Chinese government and shut down Hefei, a 115 MW oil fueled generation facility. The plant became the property of the Anhui Province and we received termination compensation of approximately $39 million in March 2008. In May 2008, the Company completed the sale of Ekibastuz and Maikuben West, a coal fired power plant and a coal mine with operations in Kazakhstan. Proceeds from the sale of these businesses totaled approximately $1.1 billion, a portion of which was used to pay down debt in June 2008. We have the opportunity to receive additional consideration of up to approximately $380 million under performance incentives and a management agreement to continue operation and management of the plants for the next three years. In November 2008, the Company sold a 9.6% ownership in AES Gener for $175 million which reduced the Companys ownership percentage from 80.2% to 70.6%. As a result, the Company recognized a pre tax loss of $31 million in the fourth quarter of 2008. The net proceeds from 94 Table of Contents this transaction were used to participate in Geners capital increase in February 2009 as discussed under Outlook for the Future. In December 2008, the Company sold its 70% interest in Jiaozuo, a 250 MW coal fired generation plant in China for net proceeds of $73 million. Prior periods have been restated to reflect this business within Discontinued Operations for all periods presented. Credit Crisis and the Macroeconomic Environment In the second half of 2007, conditions in the credit markets began to deteriorate in the United States and abroad. In the third and fourth quarter of 2008, this crisis and associated market conditions worsened dramatically, with unprecedented market volatility, widening credit spreads, volatile currencies, illiquidity, and increased counterparty credit risk. Beginning in the second half of 2007, the Company began a series of debt related initiatives, including the refinancing of approximately $2.0 billion of recourse debt in transactions executed in the fourth quarter of 2007 and the second quarter of 2008. As a result of these transactions, The AES Corporation reduced the 2009 maturities on its recourse debt from $467 million as of June 30, 2007 to $154 million as of December 31, 2008. The AES Corporation also eliminated many of the restrictive covenants in its 8.75% Second Priority Senior Secured Notes due 2013 and modified certain covenants contained in its senior secured credit facility. The amendments made the financial covenants less restrictive and made certain other changes, such as expanding the Companys ability to repurchase its own common stock. For further information regarding these covenant changes, see the Capital Resources and Liquidity Parent Company Liquidity section of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. In addition, The AES Corporation successfully replaced Lehman Commercial Paper with another bank as a lender under its senior secured credit facility. Because of the factors described above, management currently believes that it can meet its near term liquidity requirements through a combination of existing cash and cash equivalent balances, cash provided by operating activities, financings, and, if needed, borrowings under its secured and unsecured credit facilities. Although there can be no assurance due to the challenging times currently faced by financial institutions, management believes that the participating banks under its facilities will be able to meet their funding commitments. The Company is also subject to credit risk, which includes risk related to the ability of counterparties (such as parties to our PPAs, fuel supply agreements, hedging agreements, and other contractual arrangements) to meet their contractual payment obligations or the potential nonperformance of counterparties to deliver contracted commodities or services at the contracted price. While counterparty credit risk has increased in the current crisis and there can be no assurances regarding the future, to date the Company has not suffered any material effects related to its counterparties. The global economic slowdown could also result in a decline in the value of our assets, which could result in material impairments of certain assets or result in an increase in our obligations which could be material to our operations. For example, as discussed above, during the fourth quarter of 2008, and in response to the financial market crisis, the Company reviewed and prioritized the projects in our development pipeline. As a result we recognized an impairment charge of approximately $75 million ($34 million, net of minority interest and income taxes). The projects that were impaired included two liquefied natural gas projects in North America and a non power development project at one of our facilities in North America. In addition to the decline in development assets noted above, there is a risk that the fair value of other assets could also decline, resulting in additional impairment charges and or a material increase in 95 Table of Contents our obligations. Certain subsidiaries of the Company have defined benefit pension plans. The Company periodically evaluates the value of the pension plan assets to ensure that they will be sufficient to fund their respective pension obligations. Given the declines in worldwide asset values, we are expecting an increase in pension expense and funding requirements in future periods, which may be material. As of December 31, 2008 we expect the Company to make future employer contributions to its defined benefit pension plans in 2009 of approximately $154 million, of which $21 million will be made to its U.S. plans and $133 million to foreign plans primarily in Brazil (subject to changes in foreign currency exchange rates), compared to employer contributions made in 2008 of $197 million, of which $59 million was made to U.S. plans and $138 million to foreign plans. In Brazilian real ("R$") contributions for our subsidiaries in Brazil are expected to increase from R$236 million in 2008 to R$294 million in 2009. The decline in the fair value of pension plan assets will also result in increased pension expense in 2009, currently estimated at $124 million in 2009 (subject to changes in foreign currency exchange rates) compared to $60 million in 2008. Expense at our subsidiaries in Brazil, in local currency, is expected to be R$176 million in 2009 compared to R$77 million in 2008. See Item 1A Risk Factors, "Some of our subsidiaries participate in defined benefit pension plans and their net pension plan obligations may require additional significant contributions." To date, other than the impacts described above, the global economic slowdown has not significantly impacted the Company. However, in the event that the credit crisis and global recession deteriorate further, or are protracted, there could be a material adverse impact on the Company. The Company could be materially impacted if such events or other events occur such that participating lenders under its secured and unsecured facilities fail to meet their commitments, or the Company is unable to access the capital markets on favorable terms or at all, is unable to raise funds through the sale of assets, or is otherwise unable to finance its activities or refinance its debt, or if capital market disruptions result in increased borrowing costs (including with respect to interest payments on the Companys variable rate debt). The Company could also be adversely affected if general economic or political conditions in the markets where the Company operates deteriorate, resulting in a reduction in cash flow from operations, a reduction in the value of currencies in these markets relative to the dollar (which could cause currency losses), an increase in the price of commodities used in our operations and construction, or if the value of its assets remain depressed or decline further. If any of the foregoing events occur, such events (or a combination thereof) could have a material impact on the Company, its results of operations, liquidity, financial covenants, and or its credit rating. The Company could also be adversely affected if the foregoing effects are exacerbated or general economic or political conditions in the markets where the Company operates deteriorate, resulting in a reduction in cash flow from operations, a reduction in the value of currencies in these markets relative to the dollar (which could cause currency losses), an increase in the price of commodities used in our operations and construction or a decline in asset values. Outlook for the Future In 2008, management continued to focus its efforts on improving operations, executing our growth strategy, managing our risk and strategically managing our portfolio of businesses. As market conditions deteriorated in the second half of 2008, our strategy evolved, with an increased emphasis on preserving liquidity. We also recognized that uncertain economic conditions could potentially slow global demand for power for some period of time. Accordingly, we scaled back our development plans mid year to focus on projects that we believe will still have attractive returns and can still attract capital in difficult financial markets and on completing our projects that are currently under construction. If the Company has capital available for investment beyond these priorities (whether for further development, reductions in debt, or repurchases of stock), it will be allocated based on managements assessment of its most effective use. 96 Table of Contents Consistent with this strategy, in the fourth quarter of 2008, management conducted a review of its development pipeline, and determined that certain projects in the pipeline may not achieve financial close, will not provide the returns originally anticipated, or are otherwise unfeasible, or that other uses of capital such as debt repayment or stock repurchases offer a better return on the Companys capital. Accordingly, management has determined it will not pursue certain projects and will delay others until the credit markets recover. Furthermore, management will continue to review its pipeline and may further reduce the number of projects it pursues. The Company is also evaluating other options with respect to its pipeline, such as the addition of partners who can contribute capital, share project risk and or provide strategic expertise. There can be no assurance regarding the outcome of any such decisions on the Company, its results of operations or its financial condition. The AES Corporation has $154 million in recourse debt maturing in 2009 compared with Parent Company liquidity of approximately $1.4 billion. With regard to its projects currently under construction, the Company believes that it can complete these projects through a combination of existing cash and cash equivalent balances, cash provided by operating activities, financings, and, if needed, borrowings under its secured and unsecured credit facilities. The Company has secured the financing for the vast majority of projects under construction. The Company is also focused on operational improvements and cost reductions to help further improve its cash flow from operations and enhance its financial flexibility. The Company has already commenced efforts to reduce costs and streamline our organization. These efforts include the reorganization of the Company from four regions to three regions, which is expected to eliminate redundancies and improve our cost structure. Recent Events On December 23, 2008, the local Chilean SEC approved Geners issuance of approximately 945 million new shares at a price of $162.50 Chilean Pesos. The proceeds of the share issuance were $246 million and Gener anticipates using these proceeds for future expansion plans, working capital and other operating needs. The preemptive rights period began on January 7, 2009 remained open for 30 days and closed on February 5, 2009. During the preemptive rights period AES, through its wholly owned subsidiary, Cachagua, paid $175 million from the proceeds of the November 2008 share sale to maintain its current ownership percentage of approximately 70.6%.  2008 Performance Highlights Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 ($s in millions, except per share amounts) Revenue $ 16,070 $ 13,516 $ 11,509 Gross Margin $ 3,707 $ 3,392 $ 3,419 Gross Margin as a % of Revenue 23.1 % 25.1 % 29.7 % Diluted Earnings Per Share from Continuing Operations $ 1.80 $ 0.72 $ 0.25 Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities $ 2,165 $ 2,353 $ 2,348 Revenue Revenue increased 19% to $16.1 billion in 2008 compared with $13.5 billion in 2007 primarily due to higher generation rates in Latin America, the impact of favorable foreign currency translation of approximately $350 million and utility tariffs and volume. 97 Table of Contents Gross margin Gross margin increased 9% to $3.7 billion in 2008 compared with $3.4 billion in 2007 primarily due to higher generation rates in Latin America, favorable foreign currency impact, utility volume and tariff, partially offset by an increase in fixed costs associated with allowances for bad debts and higher purchased energy costs, primarily in Brazil and Cameroon. Gross margin as a percentage of revenue decreased to 23.1% in 2008 compared with 25.1% in 2007 driven by the increase in fixed costs. Our gross margin remained at approximately $3.4 billion in 2006 and 2007 and increased to $3.7 billion in 2008. Gross margin however declined in the fourth quarter of 2008 due to several factors including the mix of earnings within our portfolio, foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and recent acquisitions, such as Masinloc in the Philippines. We believe that it is reasonably possible that the recent trend in gross margin reported in the fourth quarter will continue. The Companys future gross margin trends may be significantly impacted by currency exchange rates, commodity prices and the impact of any significant regulatory developments in each country where the Company conducts its business. The Company is subject to extensive and complex governmental regulations which affect most aspects of our business, such as regulations governing the generation and distribution of electricity and environmental regulations, as described more fully in the Business section of the Form 10 K. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations increased $1.08 per share to $1.80 per share in 2008 compared to $0.72 per share in 2007. The 2008 results included a net positive impact of $0.74 per share relating to : (i) a gain from the sale of the Companys northern Kazakhstan businesses in the second quarter of 2008 of $905 million (pre tax) or $1.31; (ii) additional tax expense of $144 million or $0.21 related to the repatriation of a portion of the Kazakhstan sale proceeds (iii) loss related to corporate debt restructuring charges of $55 million (pre tax) or $0.05 (iv) impairment charges taken in the fourth quarter on certain LNG and other development efforts of $34 million (net of tax and minority interest) or $0.05, (v) other impairment charges in Brazil and South Africa of $45 million (net of tax and minority interest) or $0.06 and (vi) net currency translation and transaction losses of $0.20 per share. These were compared to 2007 results which included (i) a gain of approximately $0.15 per diluted share related to the acquisition of a leasehold interest at Eastern Energy in New York and the recovery of certain tax assets in Latin America; (ii) impairment charges related to Uruguaiana and AgCert of $0.33 per share and (iii) corporate debt retirement costs in 2007 of $0.08 per share. The remaining increase in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations from 2007 to 2008 of $0.08 per share is mainly the result of improved performance in 2008. Net cash from operating activities Net cash from operating activities decreased 8% to $2.2 billion in 2008 compared with $2.4 billion in 2007. Excluding the decrease in net cash provided by operating activities from EDC in Venezuela, which was sold in May 2007, net cash provided by operating activities would have decreased $37 million. This decrease was primarily due to increased employer pension contributions at our U.S. and foreign subsidiaries and an increase in regulatory assets related to future recoverable purchased energy costs in Brazil. These decreases were partially offset by a decrease in cash used by a Brazilian subsidiary to pay income taxes in 2008 as a result of tax credits used as the primary payment method in 2008 and improved operations in Latin America and Europe & Africa. Please refer to Consolidated Cash Flows Operating Activities for further discussion. 98  Table of Contents  Consolidated Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, Results of operations 2008 2007 2006 $ change 2008 vs. 2007 $ change 2007 vs. 2006 (in millions, except per share amounts) Revenue: Latin America Generation $ 4,465 $ 3,510 $ 2,615 $ 955 $ 895 Latin America Utilities 5,911 5,172 4,552 739 620 North America Generation 2,234 2,168 1,928 66 240 North America Utilities 1,079 1,052 1,032 27 20 Europe & Africa Generation 1,160 975 852 185 123 Europe & Africa Utilities 782 660 570 122 90 Asia Generation 1,264 817 718 447 99 Corporate and Other(1) (825 ) (838 ) (758 ) 13 (80 ) Total Revenue $ 16,070 $ 13,516 $ 11,509 $ 2,554 $ 2,007 Gross Margin: Latin America Generation $ 1,394 $ 955 $ 1,052 $ 439 $ (97 ) Latin America Utilities 885 865 888 20 (23 ) North America Generation 657 702 610 (45 ) 92 North America Utilities 261 313 277 (52 ) 36 Europe & Africa Generation 294 275 247 19 28 Europe & Africa Utilities 57 63 103 (6 ) (40 ) Asia Generation 143 176 186 (33 ) (10 ) Total Corporate and Other Expense(2) (355 ) (336 ) (245 ) (19 ) (91 ) Interest expense (1,844 ) (1,788 ) (1,769 ) (56 ) (19 ) Interest income 540 500 434 40 66 Other expense (163 ) (255 ) (451 ) 92 196 Other income 379 358 116 21 242 Gain on sale of investments 909 98 909 (98 ) (Loss) gain on sale of subsidiary stock (31 ) 134 (535 ) (165 ) 669 Impairment expense (175 ) (408 ) (17 ) 233 (391 ) Foreign currency transaction (losses) gains on net monetary position (185 ) 24 (80 ) (209 ) 104 Other non operating expense (15 ) (57 ) 42 (57 ) Income tax expense (774 ) (679 ) (359 ) (95 ) (320 ) Net equity in earnings of affiliates 33 76 73 (43 ) 3 Minority interest expense (794 ) (431 ) (460 ) (363 ) 29 Income from continuing operations 1,216 487 168 729 319 Income from operations of discontinued businesses 12 79 115 (67 ) (36 ) Gain (loss) from disposal of discontinued businesses 6 (661 ) (57 ) 667 (604 ) Extraordinary items 21 (21 ) Net income (loss) $ 1,234 $ (95 ) $ 247 $ 1,329 $ (342 ) Per share data: Basic income per share from continuing operations $ 1.82 $ 0.73 $ 0.25 $ 1.09 $ 0.48 Diluted income per share from continuing operations $ 1.80 $ 0.72 $ 0.25 $ 1.08 $ 0.47 (1)Corporate and Other includes revenues from renewables and inter segment eliminations of revenues related to transfers of electricity from Tiet&ecirc; (generation) to Eletropaulo (utility) in Latin America. (2)Total Corporate and Other expenses include corporate general and administrative expenses, expenses related to our renewables initiatives as well as certain inter segment eliminations, primarily corporate charges for management fees and self insurance premiums. 99 Table of Contents Segment Analysis Latin America The following table summarizes revenue and gross margin for our Generation segment in Latin America for the periods indicated: For the Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 % Change 2008 vs. 2007 % Change 2007 vs. 2006 (Dollars in millions) Latin America Generation Revenue $ 4,465 $ 3,510 $ 2,615 27 % 34 % Gross Margin $ 1,394 $ 955 $ 1,052 46 % (9 )% Gross Margin as a % of Segment Revenue 31 % 27 % 40 % Fiscal Year 2008 versus 2007 Generation revenue increased $955 million, or 27%, from the previous year primarily due to higher contract and spot prices and higher volume at Gener in Chile and our businesses in Argentina of approximately $508 million and $188 million, respectively, higher contract and spot prices at our businesses in the Dominican Republic of approximately $132 million, favorable foreign currency translation of approximately $77 million and higher spot prices at our businesses in Panama of approximately $45 million. Generation gross margin increased $439 million, or 46%, from the previous year primarily due to higher contract and spot prices and higher volume at Gener and our businesses in Argentina of approximately $318 million, higher contract and spot prices at our businesses in the Dominican Republic of approximately $86 million, favorable foreign currency translation of approximately $44 million, and higher spot prices at our businesses in Panama of approximately $30 million. These increases were partially offset by higher purchased energy prices of approximately $57 million at Uruguaiana in Brazil. Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Generation revenue increased $895 million, or 34%, from the previous year primarily due to higher rates and volume at Gener and our businesses in Argentina of approximately $443 million and $95 million, respectively; and increased volume and intercompany sales from Tiet&ecirc;, in Brazil, to Eletropaulo, our Brazilian utility, of approximately $130 million. Our increase in ownership of the controlling shares of Itabo, in the Dominican Republic, which resulted in a change from the equity method of accounting consolidation, contributed approximately $87 million in revenue. The increase from foreign currency translation was approximately $38 million. Generation gross margin decreased $97 million, or 9%, from the previous year primarily due to increased cost from gas supply curtailments, drier than normal hydrology and higher spot prices for electricity in the Companys businesses in Argentina, Chile and Southern Brazil of approximately $173 million and one time transmission charges at Tiet&ecirc; of $39 million, offset in part, by higher sales at Itabo of $23 million and intercompany sales in Tiet&ecirc; of $103 million. 100 Table of Contents The following table summarizes revenue and gross margin for our Utilities segment in Latin America for the periods indicated: For the Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 % Change 2008 vs. 2007 % Change 2007 vs. 2006 (Dollars in millions) Latin America Utilities Revenue $ 5,911 $ 5,172 $ 4,552 14 % 14 % Gross Margin $ 885 $ 865 $ 888 2 % (3 )% Gross Margin as a % of Segment Revenue 15 % 17 % 20 % Fiscal Year 2008 versus 2007 Utilities revenue increased $739 million, or 14%, from the previous year primarily due to favorable foreign currency translation of approximately $357 million at our businesses in Brazil, increased rates primarily associated with higher pass through purchased energy and transmission costs at Eletropaulo of approximately $148 million, and higher volume at Eletropaulo and Sul in Brazil of approximately $162 million and $30 million, respectively. Utilities gross margin increased $20 million, or 2%, from the previous year primarily due to higher volume at Eletropaulo of approximately $162 million and favorable foreign currency translation of approximately $67 million at our businesses in Brazil. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in the non pass through rates at Eletropaulo as a result of the July 2007 tariff reset of approximately $74 million, increased fixed costs of approximately $71 million at Eletropaulo primarily due to higher provisions for bad debts and higher purchased energy costs at Eletropaulo of approximately $68 million. Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Utilities revenue increased $620 million, or 14%, from the previous year primarily due to favorable foreign currency translation of $493 million, and increased rates and volume at Sul and at our plants in El Salvador of $58 million and $41 million, respectively, offset by a net decrease in tariffs of $24 million at Eletropaulo. Utilities gross margin decreased $23 million, or 3%, from the previous year primarily due to reduced tariff rates at Eletropaulo of $355 million offset by lower costs, favorable foreign currency translation of $148 million and higher volume of $74 million. Additionally, Sul had increased rates and volume of $27 million and favorable foreign currency translation of $19 million. North America The following table summarizes revenue and gross margin for our Generation segment in North America for the periods indicated: For the Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 % Change 2008 vs. 2007 % Change 2007 vs. 2006 (Dollars in millions) North America Generation Revenue $ 2,234 $ 2,168 $ 1,928 3 % 12 % Gross Margin $ 657 $ 702 $ 610 (6 )% 15 % Gross Margin as a % of Segment Revenue 29 % 32 % 32 % 101 Table of Contents Fiscal Year 2008 versus 2007 Generation revenue increased $66 million, or 3%, from the previous year primarily due to higher volume of $38 million at TEG/TEP in Mexico, and net higher revenue at Merida in Mexico of $29 million primarily due to the pass through of higher fuel costs offset by a revenue adjustment. In addition, revenue increased $8 million at Red Oak in New Jersey, due to higher pricing and availability bonuses. At Warrior Run in Maryland, revenue increased $12 million due to the pass through of higher fuel costs and higher volume due to no significant outages in 2008. These effects were partially offset by lower volume in New York of $23 million primarily due to planned outages and lower capacity factors. Generation gross margin decreased $45 million, or 6%, and decreased as a percentage of revenue from the previous year due to lower gross margin in New York of $46 million mainly due to a planned outage and lower volume, and higher fuel prices and outages of $16 million at Deepwater in Texas. Gross margin decreased $13 million at TEG/TEP due primarily to outages and lower rates due to changes in the sales contract rates associated with the refinancing in 2007. These decreases were partially offset by a net increase in gross margin in Hawaii of $29 million primarily due to a $22 million net mark to market derivative gain on a coal supply contract and a one time use tax refund of $6 million. Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Generation revenue increased $240 million, or 12%, from the previous year primarily due to approximately $200 million in new business as a result of our acquisition of TEG/TEP and approximately $96 million in higher rate and volume sales at the Companys New York facilities; offset by mark to market adjustments for embedded derivatives of $51 million at Deepwater and lower emission sales of $39 million. Generation gross margin increased $92 million, or 15%, from the previous year primarily due to approximately $62 million related to our acquisition of TEG/TEP and $90 million related to higher rates and volumes and lower cost at the Companys New York facilities offset by lower sales of excess emissions allowances of approximately $39 million. The following table summarizes revenue and gross margin for our Utilities segment in North America for the periods indicated: For the Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 % Change 2008 vs. 2007 % Change 2007 vs. 2006 (Dollars in millions) North America Utilities Revenue $ 1,079 $ 1,052 $ 1,032 3 % 2 % Gross Margin $ 261 $ 313 $ 277 (17 )% 13 % Gross Margin as a % of Segment Revenue 24 % 30 % 27 % Fiscal Year 2008 versus 2007 Utilities revenue increased $27 million, or 3%, from the previous year primarily due to a $42 million increase in rate adjustments at IPL in Indiana, related to environmental investments, $42 million of higher fuel and purchased power costs and an $8 million increase in wholesale prices. These increases were offset by $32 million of credits to customers established during the first six months of 2008, $16 million of lower retail volume primarily due to unfavorable weather compared to 2007 and an $18 million decrease in wholesale volume. 102 Table of Contents Utilities gross margin decreased $52 million, or 17%, from the previous year primarily due to lower variable retail margin of $42 million driven by the credits to customers established during the first six months of 2008 and lower retail volume. In addition, IPL had higher maintenance expenses of $9 million primarily due to storm restoration costs and the timing and duration of major generating unit overhauls, an increase of $6 million in labor and benefits costs and an increase of $3 million in contractor and consulting costs. These decreases to gross margin were offset by a return recovered through rates on approved environmental investments of $14 million. Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Utilities revenue increased $20 million, or 2%, from the previous year primarily due to increased volume due to weather, offset by a decrease in fuel charges passed through to customer at IPL. Utilities gross margin increased $36 million, or 13%, from the previous year primarily due to increased volume sales and a return recovered through rates on approved environmental investments at IPL. Europe & Africa The following table summarizes revenue for our Generation segment in Europe & Africa for the periods indicated: For the Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 % Change 2008 vs. 2007 % Change 2007 vs. 2006 (Dollars in millions) Europe & Africa Generation Revenue $ 1,160 $ 975 $ 852 19 % 14 % Gross Margin $ 294 $ 275 $ 247 7 % 11 % Gross Margin as a % of Segment Revenue 25 % 28 % 29 % Fiscal Year 2008 versus 2007 Generation revenue increased $185 million, or 19%, from the previous year primarily due to an increase in capacity income and energy payments at Kilroot in Northern Ireland of approximately $105 million, rate recovery and higher volume of approximately $93 million at our businesses in Hungary and favorable foreign currency translation in Hungary of $32 million. In addition, revenue at Kilroot increased approximately $21 million compared to the previous year primarily due to the unfavorable impact of two major overhauls in 2007. These increases were partially offset by a reduction in revenue of approximately $49 million in Kazakhstan following the sale of Ekibastuz and Maikuben in the second quarter of 2008 that was partially offset by approximately $12 million in management fees earned from continuing management agreements for those businesses. In addition, revenue at Kilroot was approximately $37 million lower due to the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation. Generation gross margin increased $19 million, or 7%, from the previous year primarily due to higher rates and volume of $43 million at Tisza II in Hungary, and an increase in capacity income and fewer forced outages at Kilroot of approximately $32 million. These were offset by an increase in fixed costs of $24 million at Kilroot and Tisza II, unfavorable foreign currency translation of $12 million at Kilroot and a reduction in gross margin of $29 million in Kazakhstan following the sale of Ekibastuz and Maikuben in the second quarter of 2008 that was partially offset by $9 million in net gross margin from continuing management agreements for those businesses. 103 Table of Contents Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Generation revenue increased $123 million, or 14%, from the previous year primarily due to favorable foreign currency translation of $77 million and increased rate and volume sales of approximately $60 million at our businesses in Kazakhstan. Generation gross margin increased $28 million, or 11%, from the previous year primarily due to rate and volume increases at our businesses in Kazakhstan and Kilroot of $44 million and $13 million, respectively. These increases were offset by lower emission sales in Hungary and Bohemia in the Czech Republic of approximately $28 million. The following table summarizes gross margin for our Utilities segments in Europe & Africa for the periods indicated: For the Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 % Change 2008 vs. 2007 % Change 2007 vs. 2006 (Dollars in millions) Europe & Africa Utilities Revenue $ 782 $ 660 $ 570 18 % 16 % Gross Margin $ 57 $ 63 $ 103 (10 )% (39 )% Gross Margin as a % of Segment Revenue 7 % 10 % 18 % Fiscal Year 2008 versus 2007 Utilities revenue increased $122 million, or 18%, from the previous year primarily due to increased tariff rates of approximately $86 million at our businesses in Ukraine, approximately $30 million due to increased rates and volume and $26 million due to favorable foreign currency translation at Sonel in Cameroon. These increases were partially offset by an unfavorable foreign currency translation impact at our businesses in Ukraine of approximately $17 million. Utilities gross margin decreased $6 million, or 10%, from the previous year primarily due to higher fixed costs of approximately $55 million across the region, a mark to market derivative adjustment at Sonel of $9 million and the favorable impact in 2007 of fuel pass through costs under a concession agreement of $6 million, partially offset by increased rates and volume at Sonel of approximately $36 million and increased tariff rates of approximately $23 million at our businesses in Ukraine. Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Utilities revenue increased $90 million, or 16%, from the previous year primarily due to increased tariff rates and volume of approximately $57 million in the Ukraine and approximately $28 million in favorable foreign currency translation. Utilities gross margin decreased $40 million, or 39%, from the previous year primarily due to higher non fuel operating and maintenance costs as well as higher fuel usage at Sonel. 104 Table of Contents Asia The following table summarizes revenue and gross margin for our Generation segment in Asia for the periods indicated: For the Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 % Change 2008 vs. 2007 % Change 2007 vs. 2006 (Dollars in millions) Asia Generation Revenue $ 1,264 $ 817 $ 718 55 % 14 % Gross Margin $ 143 $ 176 $ 186 (19 )% (5 )% Gross Margin as a % of Segment Revenue 11 % 22 % 26 % Fiscal Year 2008 versus 2007 Generation revenue increased $447 million, or 55%, from the previous year primarily due to higher rates driven by increased pass through fuel prices of $259 million and volume of $41 million at our Lal Pir and Pak Gen businesses in Pakistan, an increase in rates due to pass through fuel prices at Kelanitissa in Sri Lanka, of approximately $55 million, and revenue generated from our new businesses, Masinloc in the Philippines, and Amman East in Jordan, of $148 million and $46 million, respectively. These increases were partially offset by unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation of $95 million in Pakistan. Generation gross margin decreased $33 million, or 19%, from the previous year primarily due to the impact of increased fuel prices on heat rate losses of approximately $14 million at Lal Pir and Pak Gen and a $15 million unfavorable impact on revenue from an amended PPA accounted for as a lease, and therefore revenue was recognized on a straight line basis in accordance with EITF No. 01 8, Determining Whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease at Ras Laffan in Qatar. In addition, Masinloc generated a net gross margin loss of $18 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. These unfavorable effects were partially offset by the favorable impact of $14 million from the start of commercial operations in July 2008 at Amman East. Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Generation revenue increased $99 million, or 14%, from the previous year primarily due to higher dispatch in Pakistan of $83 million and higher volume and rates at Kelanitissa of approximately $30 million offset by volume decreases of approximately $8 million at Chigen in China. Generation gross margin decreased $10 million, or 5%, from the previous year primarily due to decreased volume at Chigen. Corporate and Other Expense Corporate and other expenses include general and administrative expenses, executive management, finance, legal, human resources, information systems and certain development costs which are not allocable to our business segments. In addition, this includes net operating results from AES Wind Generation and other renewables initiatives which are immaterial for the purposes of separate segment disclosure and, the effects of eliminating transactions, such as management fee arrangements and self insurance charges, between the operating segments and corporate. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, Corporate and other expense was approximately 2 3% of total revenues. Corporate and other expense increased $19 million, or 6%, to $355 million in 2008 from $336 million in 2007. The increase was primarily due to higher spending of $16 million on 105 Table of Contents SAP implementation projects and $27 million on the expansion of AES Wind Generation, climate solutions projects and our renewables initiatives, offset partially by a reduction in professional fees related to material weakness remediation efforts. Corporate and other expense increased $91 million, or 37%, to $336 million in 2007 from $245 million in 2006. The increase was primarily due to higher spending in professional fees of approximately $24 million primarily to complete the restatement of our financial statements and for continued material weakness remediation efforts, higher spending due to headcount increases primarily related to the strengthening of our finance organization of approximately $15 million and increased spending of $18 million for our SAP implementation projects. Interest expense Interest expense increased $56 million, or 3%, to $1,844 million in 2008 primarily due to additional interest expense at our recently acquired subsidiary, Masinloc, interest expense associated with derivatives at Eletropaulo, Panama and Puerto Rico, as well as unfavorable foreign currency translation in Brazil. These increases were offset by decreases from the elimination of a financial transaction tax in Brazil, a decrease in regulatory liabilities at Eletropaulo, and a decrease in capitalized interest on development projects at Kilroot. Interest expense increased $19 million, or 1%, to $1,788 million in 2007 primarily due to unfavorable impacts from foreign currency translation in Brazil and interest expense associated with derivatives. These increases were offset by the benefits of debt retirement activity at several of our subsidiaries in Latin America and lower interest rates at one of our subsidiaries in Brazil. Interest income Interest income increased $40 million, or 8%, to $540 million in 2008 primarily due to interest income on short term investments and cash equivalents at two of our subsidiaries in Brazil, inflationary adjustments on accounts receivable at Gener, and interest earned on a convertible loan acquired in March 2008. These increases were offset by decreases due to lower interest income related to a gross receipts tax recovery at Tiet&ecirc; recorded during the second quarter of 2007 and decreased interest income related to derivatives at TEG/TEP. Interest income increased $66 million, or 15%, to $500 million in 2007 primarily due to favorable foreign currency translation on the Brazilian Real and higher cash and short term investment balances at certain of our subsidiaries, offset by decreases at two of our Brazilian subsidiaries due to lower interest rates. Other income Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Gain on extinguishment of liabilities $ 199 $ 22 $ 45 Insurance proceeds 40 18 30 Legal/dispute settlement 39 26 1 Gain on sale of assets 34 24 18 Contract settlement gain 135 Gross receipts tax recovery 93 Other 67 40 22 Total other income $ 379 $ 358 $ 116 106 Table of Contents Other income increased $21 million to $379 million in 2008 primarily due to gains on the extinguishment of a gross receipts tax liability and legal contingency of $117 million and $75 million, respectively, at Eletropaulo, $29 million of insurance recoveries for damaged turbines at Uruguaiana, $32 million of cash proceeds related to a favorable legal settlement at Southland in California, and compensation of $18 million for the impairment associated with the settlement agreement to shut down Hefei. These increases were offset by a $135 million contract settlement gain in 2007 at Eastern Energy and a $93 million gross receipts tax recovery in 2007 at Eletropaulo and Tiet&ecirc; in 2007. Other income increased $242 million to $358 million in 2007 primarily due to the Eastern Energy contract settlement gain and tax recoveries in Brazil noted above in addition to favorable legal settlements at Eletropaulo and Red Oak. These increases were offset by a decrease in gains on the extinguishment of debt, which were driven by debt retirement activities at several of our businesses in Latin America in 2006. Other expense Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Loss on extinguishment of liabilities $ 70 $ 106 $ 181 Loss on sale and disposal of assets 34 79 23 Legal/dispute settlement 19 36 31 Regulatory special obligations 139 Write down of disallowed regulatory assets 16 36 Other 40 18 41 Total other expense $ 163 $ 255 $ 451 Other expense decreased $92 million to $163 million in 2008, from $255 million in 2007, primarily due to a decrease in losses on sales and disposals of assets at Sul as well as an extinguishment of debt at the Parent Company. In 2008, there was a loss of $55 million on the retirement of Senior Notes at the Parent Company, compared to a loss of $90 million on a smaller debt retirement in 2007. Other expense decreased $196 million to $255 million in 2007 primarily due to higher losses in 2006 associated with debt retirement activities at several of our Latin American businesses, special obligation charges and the write down of disallowed regulatory assets at Eletropaulo in 2006. In 2007, there was a loss of $90 million on the retirement of Senior Notes at the Parent Company, as well as higher losses on sales and disposals of assets at Eletropaulo and Sul. Impairment Expense As discussed in Note 19 Impairment Expense to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K, impairment expense for the year 2008 was $175 million and consisted primarily of the following: In the fourth quarter of 2008, and in response to the financial market crisis, the Company reviewed and prioritized projects in the development pipeline. From this review, the Company determined that the carrying value exceeded the future discounted cash flows for certain projects. As a result, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $75 million ($34 million, net of minority interest and income taxes) related to two liquefied natural gas projects in North America and a non power development project at one of our facilities in North America. During 2008, the Company recognized additional impairment charges of $36 million related to long lived assets at Uruguaiana. The impairment was triggered by a combination of gas curtailments and increases in the spot market price of energy in 2007 that continued in 2008. Following an initial impairment charge in the fourth quarter 107 Table of Contents of 2007, further charges were incurred in 2008 due to fixed asset purchase agreements in place. During the first half of 2008, the Company withdrew from projects in South Africa and Israel which resulted in impairment charges of $36 million. The Company also recognized an impairment of $18 million related to the shut down of the Hefei plant in China. Impairment expense for the year 2007 was $408 million and consisted primarily of the following: In the fourth quarter of 2007, the Company recognized a pre tax impairment charge of approximately $14 million related to a $52 million prepayment advanced to AgCert for a specified amount of future CER credits. AgCert, a United Kingdom based corporation that produces emission reduction credits, notified AES that it was not able to meet its contractual obligations to deliver CERs, which triggered an analysis of the assets recoverability and resulted in the asset impairment charge. Also during the fourth quarter of 2007, there was a pre tax impairment charge of approximately $352 million at Uruguaiana, a gas fired thermoelectric plant located in Brazil. The impairment was the result of an analysis of Uruguaianas long lived assets, which was triggered by the combination of gas curtailments and increases in the spot market price of energy. In August 2007, there was a pre tax impairment charge of $25 million triggered by the failure of a compressor at our Placerita subsidiary in California. The fixed asset impairment was caused by damage sustained to one of the plants gas turbines. Also during the third quarter of 2007, a pre tax fixed asset impairment charge of approximately $10 million was recognized related to the curtailment of operations at Coal Creek Minerals, LLC, a coal mining company owned by our subsidiary Cavanal Minerals located in the United States. Impairment expense for the year 2006 was $17 million and consisted primarily of the following: During the fourth quarter of 2006, there was a pre tax impairment charge of $6 million related to AES China Generating Co. Ltd. ("Chigen") equity investment in Wuhu, a coal fired plant located in China. The equity impairment in Wuhu was required as a result of a goodwill impairment analysis at Chigen. During the third quarter of 2006, there was an impairment charge of $5 million related to a decrease in the market value of five held for sale gas turbines at our subsidiary Itabo located in the Dominican Republic. Gain on sale of investments Gain on sale of investments of $909 million in 2008 consisted primarily of the sale in May 2008 of our two wholly owned subsidiaries in Kazakhstan, AES Ekibastuz LLP and Maikuben West LLP for a net gain of $905 million. There was no gain on sale of investments for the year ended December 31, 2007. Gain on sale of investments in 2006 of $98 million was the result of a net gain of $87 million from our sale of an equity investment in a power project in Canada (Kingston) in March 2006 and a net gain of $10 million related to our transfer of Infoenergy, a wholly owned AES subsidiary, to Brasiliana in September 2006. Brasiliana is 53.85% owned by BNDES, but controlled by AES. This transaction was part of the Companys agreement with BNDES to terminate the Sul Option. (Loss) gain on sale of subsidiary stock In November 2008, Cachagua, our wholly owned subsidiary, which owned 80.2% of AES Gener S.A. ("Gener") shares prior to the transaction, sold 9.6% of its ownership in Gener to a third party. After this transaction, Cachaguas new ownership in Gener was 70.6%. As a result of this transaction, the Company recorded a net loss on the sale of shares of $31 million. Gain on sale of subsidiary stock in 2007 of $134 million was a result of net gains recognized on the sale of a 0.91% and 10.18% ownership interest in Gener in May and October of 2007, respectively. 108  Table of Contents As discussed in Note 17 Subsidiary Stock to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10 K, in September 2006, Brasilianas wholly owned subsidiary, Transg&aacute;s sold a 33% economic ownership in Eletropaulo, a regulated electric utility in Brazil. Despite the reduction in economic ownership, there was no change in Brasilianas voting interest in Eletropaulo, and Brasiliana continues to control Eletropaulo. Brasiliana received $522 million in net proceeds on the sale. On October 5, 2006 Transg&aacute;s, sold an additional 5% economic ownership in Eletropaulo for net proceeds of $78 million. In 2006, AES recognized a pre tax loss of $535 million primarily as a result of the recognition of previously deferred currency translation losses. Foreign currency transaction gains (losses) on net monetary position The following table summarizes the gains (losses) on the Companys net monetary position from foreign currency transaction activities: Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) AES Corporation $ 38 $ 31 $ (17 ) Chile (102 ) (4 ) Philippines (57 ) Brazil (44 ) 5 (49 ) Argentina (22 ) (8 ) (3 ) Kazakhstan 11 10 1 Mexico (9 ) (2 ) Colombia 5 (7 ) (1 ) Pakistan (1 ) (4 ) (18 ) Other (4 ) 3 7 Total(1) $ (185 ) $ 24 $ (80 ) (1)Includes $10 million, ($22) million and ($51) million of gains (losses) on foreign currency derivative contracts for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The Company recognized foreign currency transaction losses of $185 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. These consisted primarily of losses in Chile, the Philippines, Brazil, Argentina and Mexico partially offset by gains at The AES Corporation and in Kazakhstan. Losses of $102 million in Chile were primarily due to the devaluation of the Chilean Peso by 28% in 2008, resulting in losses at Gener, a U.S. Dollar functional currency subsidiary, associated with its net working capital denominated in Chilean Pesos, mainly cash, accounts receivable and VAT receivables. Losses of $57 million in the Philippines were primarily due to remeasurement losses at Masinloc, a Philippine Peso functional currency subsidiary, on U.S. Dollar denominated debt resulting from depreciation of the Philippine Peso of 16% in 2008. Losses of $44 million in Brazil were primarily due to the realization of deferred exchange variance on past energy purchases made by Eletropaulo denominated in U.S. Dollar, resulting in foreign currency transaction losses of $41 million. Losses of $22 million in Argentina were primarily due to the devaluation of the Argentinean Peso by 10% in 2008, resulting in losses at Alicura, an Argentine Peso functional currency subsidiary, associated with its U.S. Dollar denominated debt. 109 Table of Contents Losses of $9 million in Mexico were primarily due to the devaluation of the Mexican Peso by 26% in 2008, resulting in losses of approximately $9 million at TEG/TEP. Gains of $38 million at The AES Corporation were primarily due to debt denominated in British Pounds and gains on foreign exchange derivatives, partially offset by losses on notes receivable denominated in Euro. Gains of $11 million in Kazakhstan were primarily due to net foreign currency transaction gains of $16 million related to energy sales denominated and fixed in the U.S. Dollar, offset by $5 million of foreign currency transaction losses on external and intercompany debt denominated in other than functional currencies. Foreign currency transaction gains of $24 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 primarily consisted of gains at The AES Corporation and in Kazakhstan partially offset by losses in Argentina and Colombia. Gains of $31 million at The AES Corporation were primarily the result of favorable exchange rates for debt denominated in British Pounds and the Euro. Gains of $10 million in Kazakhstan were primarily due to $12 million of gains related to debt denominated in currencies other than the Kazakh Tenge functional currency, partially offset by $3 million of losses related to energy sales denominated and fixed in the U.S. Dollar. Losses of $8 million in Argentina were primarily due to the devaluation of the Argentine Peso by 3% in 2007, resulting in losses of $11 million at Alicura associated with its U.S. Dollar denominated debt. Losses of $7 million in Colombia were primarily due to the appreciation of the Colombian Peso by 11% in 2007 at Chivor, a U.S. Dollar function currency subsidiary. Foreign currency transaction losses of $80 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 primarily consisted of losses in Brazil, Pakistan and at The AES Corporation. Losses of $49 million in Brazil were primarily the result of losses of $45 million at Eletropaulo from swap contracts that were paid and executed in 2006 as Eletropaulo converted U.S. Dollar debt to Brazilian Real debt. Losses of $18 million in Pakistan were primarily the result of the depreciation of the Pakistani Rupee. Losses of $17 million at AES Corporation were primarily the result of unfavorable exchange rates for debt denominated in British Pounds and the Euro. Other non operating expense Other non operating expense was $15 million in 2008 compared to $57 million in 2007. The 2008 expense related primarily to an impairment of the Companys investment in a company developing a "blue gas" (coal to gas) technology project. The Company made this investment in September 2007 and accounted for the investment in convertible preferred shares under the cost method of accounting. During the fourth quarter of 2008, the market value of the shares materially declined due to downward trends in the capital markets and management concluded that the decline was other than temporary and recorded an impairment charge of $10 million. Additionally, the Company recorded an other than temporary impairment charge of approximately $5 million related to its investments in other entities developing new energy technology and products. Other non operating expense in 2007 reflected the impairment in the Companys investment in AgCert, a U.K. based corporation, publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange, that produces CER credits. The Company acquired its investment in AgCert in May 2006 and, similar to the circumstances stated above, the market value of the Companys investment materially declined during 110 Table of Contents the first half of 2007 and the Company recorded an other than temporary impairment charge of $52 million in 2007. An additional charge of $5 million was recognized for the decrease in value of the AgCert warrants also held by the Company. The Company began consolidating AgCert in January 2008 when it became the primary beneficiary. Income taxes Income tax expense on continuing operations increased $95 million, or 14%, to $774 million in 2008. The Companys effective tax rates were 28% for 2008 and 45% for 2007. The decrease in the 2008 effective tax rate was primarily due to the non taxable gain of $905 million on the sale of the Kazakhstan businesses in the second quarter of 2008, offset by U.S. taxes on distributions from the Companys primary holding company to facilitate early retirement of parent debt in 2008. The decrease was also attributable to the implementation of a tax planning strategy that mitigated the impact of the Mexico Flat Rate Business Tax ("IETU") enacted in the fourth quarter of 2007. The strategy resulted in a reduction to deferred tax expense in 2008 of $24 million and $23 million at TEG and TEP, respectively. Income tax expense related to continuing operations increased $320 million, or 89%, to $679 million in 2007. The Companys effective tax rates were 45% for 2007 and 39% for 2006. The increase in the 2007 effective tax rate was due, in part, to an impairment at Uruguaiana for which no tax benefit was recorded, the impact of an appreciating Real in certain of our Brazilian subsidiaries, and the impact of income tax law changes in Mexico, partially offset by the nontaxable gain on the sales of shares of one of the Companys Chilean subsidiaries and a release of valuation allowance at one of our subsidiaries in Argentina. Net equity in earnings of affiliates Net equity in earnings of affiliates decreased $43 million, or 57%, to $33 million in 2008 primarily due to the impact of increased coal prices at Yangcheng, a coal fired plant in China, a decrease as a result of development costs related to AES Solar, formed in March 2008, and an additional write off of three projects in Turkey that were abandoned in December 2007. Additionally, earnings decreased due to the sale of a wind project in the fourth quarter of 2007, a decrease in earnings at OPGC, in India, and decreased earnings due to a discontinuance of hedge accounting for a number of interest rate swaps at Guacolda in Chile. These losses were partially offset by a decrease in net losses at Cartagena in Spain primarily from a write off of deferred financing costs in 2007 that did not recur in 2008. Net equity in earnings of affiliates increased $3 million, or 4%, to $76 million in 2007 primarily due to a full year of operations at Cartagena in 2007 and the absence of liquidated damages incurred in 2006 for construction delays. The increase was partially offset by a decrease in earnings in 2007 at AES Barry compared to 2006, due to proceeds received in 2006 from the settlement of a legal claim that did not recur in 2007. Minority interest Minority interest expense, net of tax, increased $363 million, or 84%, to $794 million in 2008 primarily due to the decreased losses as a result of the impairment recognized at Uruguaiana during 2007, increased earnings at Eletropaulo, Gener, Itabo, Panama and Tiet&ecirc;, as well as an increase in minority shareholders from approximately 20% to approximately 29% as a result of the sale of shares in Gener in November 2008. These increases were partially offset by an impairment recognized in the Bahamas, a net loss at Masinloc, and decreased earnings at Ras Laffan, Sonel, and Caess EEO & Clesa in El Salvador. Minority interest expense, net of tax, decreased $29 million, or 6%, to $431 million in 2007 primarily due to the recognition of previously deferred currency translation losses associated with the sale of Eletropaulo shares during the third quarter 2006, resulting in a decrease of our economic ownership in 111 Table of Contents Eletropaulo from 34% to 16%. See Note 17 Subsidiary Stock to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K for a further discussion of the sale of Eletropaulo shares and the Brasiliana restructuring. The decrease was also attributable to the minority interest impact of the impairment recognized at Uruguaiana in 2007, offset by increased earnings at Tiet&ecirc;. Discontinued operations As further discussed in Note 21 Discontinued Operations and Held for Sale Businesses to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K, Discontinued Operations includes the results of five businesses: Jiaozuo, a generation business in China, (sold in December 2008); La Electricidad de Caracas ("EDC"), a utility business in Venezuela, (sold in May 2007); Central Valley, a generation business in California (sold in July 2007); Eden, a utility business in Argentina (sold in June 2007), and Indian Queens, a generation business in the U.K. (sold in May 2006). Prior periods have been restated to reflect these businesses within Discontinued Operations for all periods presented. In 2008, income from operations of discontinued businesses, net of tax, was $12 million and reflected the operations of Jiaozuo, a coal fired generation facility in China sold in December 2008. The Company received $73 million for its 70% interest in the business. The net gain on the disposition was $7 million. In 2007, income from operations of discontinued businesses, net of tax, was $79 million and reflected the operations of Jiaozuo, EDC, Central Valley and Eden. EDC and Central Valley were sold in May 2007 and July 2007 for $739 million and $51 million, respectively, and the Eden sale was finalized in June 2007, therefore their results are reflected in the Companys results of operations through their respective sales dates. The loss on the disposal of discontinued businesses was $661 million and primarily related to the $680 million loss on the sale of EDC. In 2006, income from operations of discontinued businesses, net of tax, was $115 million and reflected the operations of Jiaozuo, EDC, Central Valley, Eden and Indian Queens. Indian Queens was sold in May 2006 therefore its results are reflected in the Companys results of operations through the sale date. The loss on the disposal of discontinued businesses was $57 million and primarily related to the $62 million impairment charge recognized at Eden to adjust the carrying value of its assets to their estimated net realizable value when the Company reached an agreement to sell Eden in May 2006. The Eden sale was finalized in June 2007. Extraordinary item In May 2006, AES purchased an additional 25% interest in Itabo, a power generation business located in the Dominican Republic for approximately $23 million. Prior to May, the Company held a 25% interest in Itabo, through its Gener subsidiary, and had accounted for the investment using the equity method of accounting with a corresponding investment balance reflected in the "Investments in and advances to affiliates" line item on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. As a result of the transaction, the Company consolidates Itabo and, therefore, the investment balance has been reclassified to the appropriate line items on the Consolidated Balance Sheets with a corresponding minority interest liability for the remaining 50% interest not owned by AES. The Company realized an after tax extraordinary gain of $21 million as a result of the transaction due to an excess of the fair value of the noncurrent assets over the purchase price.  Critical Accounting Estimates The Consolidated Financial Statements of AES are prepared in conformity with GAAP, which requires the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. AESs significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 General and 112 Table of Contents Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K. An accounting estimate is considered critical if: the estimate requires management to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the estimate was made; different estimates reasonably could have been used; or the impact of the estimates and assumptions on financial condition or operating performance is material. Management believes that the accounting estimates employed are appropriate and the resulting balances are reasonable; however, actual results could differ from the original estimates, requiring adjustments to these balances in future periods. Management has discussed these critical accounting policies with the audit committee, as appropriate. Listed below are certain significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Income Tax Reserves We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our worldwide income tax provision requires significant judgment and is based on calculations and assumptions that are subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service and other taxing authorities. The Company and certain of its subsidiaries are under examination by relevant taxing authorities for various tax years. The Company regularly assesses the potential outcome of these examinations in each of the taxing jurisdictions when determining the adequacy of the provision for income taxes. The Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Interpretation ("FIN") No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, ("FIN No. 48") effective January 1, 2007. The Interpretation prescribes a more likely than not recognition threshold and establishes new measurement requirements for financial statement reporting of an entitys income tax positions. Tax reserves have been established, which the Company believes to be adequate in relation to the potential for additional assessments. Once established, reserves are adjusted only when there is more information available or when an event occurs necessitating a change to the reserves. While the Company believes that the amount of the tax estimates are reasonable, it is possible that the ultimate outcome of current or future examinations may exceed current reserves in amounts that could be material. Goodwill We test goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or circumstances make it more likely than not that impairment may have occurred. Such indicators could include a significant adverse change in the business climate or a decision to sell or dispose all or a portion of a reporting unit. Goodwill impairment is evaluated using a two step process. The first step is to identify if a potential impairment exists by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying value. Determining whether an impairment has occurred requires the valuation of the respective reporting unit. The Company uses a discounted cash flow method to estimate the fair value. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, goodwill of the reporting unit is not considered to be impaired and no further analysis is required. In applying this methodology, we rely on a number of factors, including actual operating results, future business plans, economic projections and market data. Assumptions about operating results and growth rates are based on forecasts, future business plans, economic projections and anticipated future cash flows, among other things. Changes in any of these assumptions could result in management reaching a different conclusion regarding the potential impairment of a reporting unit. Our impairment analysis contains uncertainties from uncontrollable events that could positively or negatively impact the anticipated future economic and operating conditions. 113 Table of Contents If the carrying value exceeds the reporting units fair value, this could indicate potential impairment and step two of the goodwill evaluation process is required to determine if goodwill is impaired and to measure the amount of impairment loss to recognize, if any. The measurement of impairment requires a fair value estimate of each identified tangible and intangible asset in the same manner the fair value would be determined in a business combination. In this case, we supplement the cash flow approach discussed above with appraisals, or other observable sources of fair value, as appropriate. Regulatory Assets and Liabilities The Company accounts for certain of its regulated operations under the provisions of SFAS No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation, ("SFAS No. 71"). As a result, AES recognizes assets and liabilities that result from the regulated ratemaking process that would not be recognized under GAAP for non regulated entities. Regulatory assets generally represent incurred costs that have been deferred because such costs are probable of future recovery in customer rates. Regulatory liabilities generally represent obligations to make refunds to customers for previous collections for costs that are not likely to be incurred or included in future rate initiatives. Management continually assesses whether the regulatory assets are probable of future recovery by considering factors such as applicable regulatory changes, recent rate orders applicable to other regulated entities and the status of any pending or potential deregulation legislation. If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, any asset write offs would be required to be recognized in operating income. Fair Value Fair Value of Financial Instruments A significant number of the Companys financial instruments are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in earnings or other comprehensive income each period. The Company makes estimates regarding valuation of assets and liabilities measured at fair value in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements. These assets and liabilities include short and long term investments in debt and equity securities, included in the balance sheet line items "Short term investments" and "Other assets (Noncurrent)", derivative assets, included in "Other current assets" and "Other assets (Noncurrent)" and derivative liabilities, included in "Accrued and other liabilities (current)" and "Other long term liabilities". The Company uses valuation techniques and methodologies that maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. Where available, fair value is based on observable market prices or parameters or derived from such prices or parameters. Where observable prices or inputs are not available, valuation models are applied. The valuation techniques involve some level of management estimation and judgment, the degree of which is dependent on the price transparency for the instruments or market and the instruments complexity. Investments are generally fair valued based on quoted market prices or other observable market data such as interest rate indices. The Companys investments are primarily certificates of deposit, government debt securities and money market funds. Derivatives are valued using observable data as inputs into internal valuation models. The Companys derivatives primarily consist of interest rate swaps, foreign currency instruments, and commodity and embedded derivatives. Additional discussion regarding the nature of these financial instruments and valuation techniques can be found in Note 6 Fair Value of Financial Instruments. Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities We enter into various derivative transactions in order to hedge our exposure to certain market risks. We primarily use derivative instruments to manage our interest rate, commodity, and foreign currency exposures. We do not enter into derivative transactions for trading purposes. 114 Table of Contents Under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities as amended, ("SFAS No. 133"), we recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the balance sheet and measure those instruments at fair value except where derivatives qualify and are designated as "normal purchase/normal sale" transactions. Changes in fair value of derivatives are recognized in earnings unless specific hedge criteria are met. Income and expense related to derivative instruments are recognized in the same category as generated by the underlying asset or liability. SFAS No. 133 enables companies to designate qualifying derivatives as hedging instruments based on the exposure being hedged. These hedge designations include fair value hedges and cash flow hedges. Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is highly effective and is designated and qualifies as a fair value hedge, are recognized in earnings as offsets to the changes in fair value of the exposure being hedged. The Company has no fair value hedges at this time. Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is highly effective and is designated as and qualifies as a cash flow hedge, are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income and are recognized into earnings as the hedged transactions occur. Any ineffectiveness is recognized in earnings immediately. For all hedge contracts, the Company provides formal documentation of the hedge and effectiveness testing in accordance with SFAS No. 133. The Company adopted SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurement, ("SFAS No. 157") on January 1, 2008. SFAS No. 157 provides additional guidance on the definition of fair value and defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date, or exit price. SFAS No. 157 requires the Company to consider and reflect the assumptions of market participants in the fair value calculation. These factors include nonperformance risk (the risk that the obligation will not be fulfilled) and credit risk, both of the reporting entity (for liabilities) and of the counterparty (for assets). These factors were not previously considered in the fair value calculation. Due to the nature of the Companys interest rate swaps, which are typically associated with non recourse debt, credit risk for AES is evaluated at the subsidiary level rather than at the Parent Company level. Nonperformance risk on the Companys derivative instruments is an adjustment to the initial asset/liability fair value position that is derived from internally developed valuation models that utilize observable market inputs. As a result of uncertainty, complexity and judgment, accounting estimates related to derivative accounting could result in material changes to our financial statements under different conditions or utilizing different assumptions. As a part of accounting for these derivatives, we make estimates concerning nonperformance, volatilities, market liquidity, future commodity prices, interest rates, credit ratings (both ours and our counterpartys), and exchange rates. The fair value of our derivative portfolio is generally determined using internal valuation models, most of which are based on observable market inputs including interest rate curves and forward and spot prices for currencies and commodities. The Company derives most of its financial instrument market assumptions from market efficient data sources (e.g. Bloomberg and Platts). In some cases, where market data is not readily available, management uses comparable market sources and empirical evidence to derive market assumptions to determine a financial instruments fair value. In certain instances, the published curve may not extend through the remaining term of the contract and management must make assumptions to extrapolate the curve. Additionally, in the absence of quoted prices, we may rely on "indicative pricing" quotes from financial institutions to input into our valuation model for certain of our foreign currency swaps. These indicative pricing quotes do not constitute either a bid or ask price and therefore are not considered observable market data. For individual contracts, the use of different valuation models or assumptions could have a material effect on the calculated fair value. 115  Table of Contents Fair Value Hierarchy The Company uses valuation techniques and methodologies that maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. Where available, fair value is based on observable market prices or parameters or derived from such prices or parameters. Where observable prices or inputs are not available, valuation models are applied. The valuation techniques involve some level of management estimation and judgment, the degree of which is dependent on the price transparency for the instruments or market and the instruments complexity. To increase consistency and enhance disclosure of the fair value of financial instruments, SFAS No. 157 creates a fair value hierarchy to prioritize the inputs used to measure fair value into three categories. A financial instruments level within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of input significant to the fair value measurement, where Level 1 is the highest and Level 3 is the lowest. For more information regarding the fair value hierarchy, see Note 1 General and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  Overview of Our Business AES is a global power company. We own or operate a portfolio of electricity generation and distribution businesses with generation capacity totaling approximately 43,000 MW and distribution networks serving over 11 million people. In addition, we have more than 3,000 MW under construction in ten countries. Our global footprint includes operations in 29 countries on five continents with 83% of our revenue in 2008 generated outside the United States. We operate two primary lines of business. The first is our Generation business, where we own and or operate power plants to generate and sell power to wholesale customers such as utilities and other intermediaries. The second is our Utilities business, where we own and or operate utilities to distribute, transmit and sell electricity to end user customers in the residential, commercial, industrial and governmental sectors within a defined service area. Each of our primary lines of business generates approximately half of our revenues. We are also continuing to expand our wind generation business and are pursuing additional renewables projects in solar, climate solutions, biomass and energy storage. These initiatives are not material contributors to our revenue, gross margin or income, but we believe that they may become material in the future. Generation. We currently own or operate a portfolio of approximately 38,000 MW, consisting of 93 facilities in 26 countries on five continents at our generation businesses. We also have approximately 2,900 MW of capacity currently under construction in six countries. Our core Generation businesses use a wide range of technologies and fuel types including coal, combined cycle gas turbines, hydroelectric power and biomass. The majority of the electricity produced by our Generation businesses is sold under long term contracts, or PPAs, to wholesale customers. Approximately 61% of the revenues from our Generation businesses during 2008 was derived from plants that operate under PPAs of five years or longer for 75% or more of their output capacity. These businesses often reduce their exposure to fuel supply risks by entering into long term fuel supply contracts or fuel tolling contracts where the customer assumes full responsibility for purchasing and supplying the fuel to the power plant. These long term contractual agreements result in relatively predictable cash flow and earnings and reduce exposure to volatility in the market price for electricity and fuel; however, the amount of earnings and cash flow predictability varies from business to business based on the degree to which its exposure is limited by the contracts that it has negotiated. The balance of our Generation businesses sell power through competitive markets under short term contracts or directly in the spot market. As a result, the cash flows and earnings associated with these businesses are more sensitive to fluctuations in the market price for electricity, natural gas, coal and other fuels. However, for a number of these facilities, including our plants in New York, which include a fleet of coal fired plants, we have hedged the majority of our exposure to fuel, energy and emissions pricing for 2009. Utilities. Our Utilities businesses distribute power to more than 11 million people in seven countries on five continents. Our Utilities business consists primarily of 14 companies owned and or operated under management agreements, all of which operate in a defined service area. These businesses also include 15 generation plants in two countries totaling approximately 4,400 MW. In addition, we have one generation plant under construction totaling 86 MW. These businesses have a variety of structures ranging from pure distribution businesses to fully integrated utilities, which generate, transmit and distribute power. 90 Table of Contents Renewables and Other Initiatives. In recent years, as demand for renewable sources of energy has grown, we have placed increasing emphasis on developing projects in wind, solar, energy storage and the creation of carbon offsets. We have also developed projects and investments in climate solutions and energy storage. AES Wind Generation, which is one of the largest producers of wind power in the U.S., has 16 wind generation facilities in three countries with over 1,200 MW in operation and 11 wind generation facilities under construction in four countries. AES Solar, our joint venture with Riverstone Holdings, was formed to develop, own and operate utility scale photo voltaic (PV) solar installations. Since its launch, AES Solar has developed eight plants totaling 24 MW of solar projects in Spain. In climate solutions, we have developed and are implementing projects to produce GHG Credits. In the U.S., we formed Greenhouse Gas Services, LLC as a joint venture with GE Energy Financial Services to create high quality verifiable offsets for the voluntary U.S. market. We also have formed an initiative to develop and implement utility scale energy systems (such as batteries), which store and release power when needed. While these renewables and other initiatives are not currently material to our operations, we believe that in the future, they may become a material contributor to our revenue and gross margin. However, there are risks associated with these initiatives, which are further disclosed in Item 1A Risk Factors of this Form 10 K. Our Organization and Segments. As of the end of 2008, our Generation and Utilities businesses were organized within four defined geographic regions: (1) Latin America, (2) North America, (3) Europe & Africa, and (4) Asia and the Middle East, ("Asia"). Three regions, North America, Latin America and Europe & Africa, are engaged in both Generation and Utility businesses while the Asia region operates only Generation businesses. Accordingly, these businesses and regions account for seven reportable segments. "Corporate and Other" includes corporate overhead costs which are not directly associated with the operations of our seven primary reportable segments; interest income and expense; other inter company charges such as management fees and self insurance premiums which are fully eliminated in consolidation; and revenue, development costs and the operational results related to AES Wind Generation and our other renewables projects, which are currently not material to our operations. Beginning in 2009, the Company began to implement certain organizational changes in an effort to streamline the organization. The new structure will continue to be organized along our two lines of business, but within three regions instead of four: (1) North America, (2) Latin America & Africa and (3) Europe, Middle East & Asia ("EMEA"). In addition, we will no longer have an alternative energy group, the operation of which was previously reported under "Corporate and other." Instead, AES Wind Generation, will be managed as part of our North America region (even though some projects are not in North America) while climate solutions projects will be managed in the region in which they are located. Management is currently evaluating the impact of the reorganization on the Companys externally reported segments in accordance with SFAS No. 131. AES Solar is accounted for using the equity method and will continue to be reflected in Corporate and Other in 2009. Key Drivers of Our Results of Operations. Our Utilities and Generation businesses are distinguished by the nature of their customers, operational differences, cost structure, regulatory environment and risk exposure. As a result, each line of business has slightly different drivers which affect operating results. Performance drivers for our Generation businesses include, among other things, plant availability and reliability, management of fixed and operational costs and the extent to which our plants have hedged their exposure to fuel cost volatility. For our Generation businesses which sell power under short term contract or in the spot market one of the most crucial factors is the market price of electricity and the plants ability to generate electricity at a cost below that price. Growth in our Generation business is largely tied to securing new PPAs, expanding capacity in our existing facilities and building new power plants. Performance drivers for our Utilities businesses include, but are not limited to, reliability of service; negotiation of tariff adjustments; compliance with extensive regulatory requirements; management of working capital; and in developing countries, reduction of 91 Table of Contents commercial and technical losses. The results of operations of our Utilities businesses are sensitive to changes in economic growth and weather conditions in the area in which they operate. One of the key factors which affect both our revenue and costs of sales is changes in the cost of fuel. When fuel costs increase, many of our Generation businesses with long term contracts and our Utilities are able to pass these costs on to the customer through fuel pass through or fuel indexing arrangements in their contracts or through increases in tariff rates. Therefore, in a rising fuel cost environment as was the case in 2007 and much of 2008, increases in fuel costs for these businesses often resulted in increases in revenue (though not necessarily on a one for one basis). While these circumstances may not have a large impact on gross margin, they can significantly affect gross margin as a percentage of revenue. Other factors that can affect gross margin include our ability to expand the number of facilities we own; and in our existing plants, to sign up new customers and or purchasing parties, collect receivables from existing customers and operate our plants more efficiently. Another key driver of our results is the management of risk. Our assets are diverse with respect to fuel source and type of market, which helps reduce certain types of operating risk. Our portfolio employs a broad range of fuels, including coal, gas, fuel oil and renewable sources such as hydroelectric power, wind and solar, which reduces the risks associated with dependence on any one fuel source. For additional information regarding our facilities see Item 1 Our Organization and Segments. Our presence in mature markets helps reduce the volatility associated with our businesses in faster growing emerging markets. In addition, as noted above, our Generation portfolio is largely contracted, which reduces the risk related to the market prices of electricity and fuel. We also attempt to limit risk by hedging much of our currency and commodity risk, and by matching the currency of most of our subsidiary debt to the revenue of the business that issued that debt. However, our businesses are still subject to these risks, as further described in Item 1A Risk Factors, "We may not be adequately hedged against our exposure to changes in commodity prices or interest rates." Highlights of 2008 Results of Operations. In 2008, management continued to focus its efforts on increasing shareholder value by improving operations, executing our growth strategy and strategically managing our portfolio of businesses. Our 2008 results of operations were positively impacted by a number of factors including the gain on the sale of Ekibastuz and Maikuben in Kazakhstan, higher generation rates, utilities tariffs and favorable foreign currency translation. revenues of $16.1 billion and gross margin of $3.7 billion, or 23% of revenue; income from continuing operations of $1.2 billion, or $1.80 per diluted share; and cash flow from operating activities of $2.2 billion. Our results were negatively impacted by higher fuel costs in Asia and the unfavorable impact of mark to market adjustments on derivative instruments. We also saw an increase in fixed costs, primarily in Brazil and Cameroon, related to maintenance, higher provisions for bad debt, contractor services and higher purchased energy costs. In the fourth quarter of 2008, and in response to the financial market crisis, we reviewed and prioritized projects in our development pipeline. As a result, we recognized an impairment charge of approximately $75 million ($34 million, net of minority interest and income taxes). The projects determined to be impaired primarily included two liquefied natural gas projects in North America and a non power development project at one of our facilities in North America. As the Company continues to review and streamline its project pipeline, it is possible that further impairments could be identified in the future, some of which could be material. During 2008, we also recognized additional impairment charges of $36 million related to long lived assets at Uruguaiana, our gas powered generation plant in Brazil. The impairment was triggered by the combination of gas curtailments and increases in the spot 92 Table of Contents market price of energy in 2007 that continued in 2008. Following an initial impairment charge in the fourth quarter of 2007, further charges were incurred in 2008 due to fixed asset purchase agreements in place. During the first half of 2008, we withdrew from projects in South Africa and Israel which resulted in impairment charges of $36 million. We also recognized an impairment of $18 million related to the shutdown of the Hefei plant in China. Investment and Financing Activities. In addition to the financial results presented above, the additional highlights for the year ended December 31, 2008 include the following: Financing activities We were able to refinance recourse debt at lower interest rates and with extended maturities, reducing our 2009 recourse debt maturities from $467 million at December 31, 2007 to $154 million at December 31, 2008. Our consolidated subsidiaries raised approximately $2.7 billion in 2008 for the purposes of refinancing existing debt and to fund acquisitions and construction. For example, in October, the Company obtained approximately $1 billion in non recourse financing to support the development of Angamos, a 518 MW coal fired generation facility in Chile. Angamos is expected to begin commercial operations in 2011. We reduced outstanding recourse debt by $360 million and repurchased 10.7 million shares of our common stock at a total cost of $143 million. Acquisitions In April, the Company completed the purchase of a 92% interest in Masinloc, a 660 gross MW coal fired thermal power generation facility in Masinloc, Philippines. The purchase price was $930 million in cash (excluding anticipated improvements). Non recourse financing of $665 million was obtained to fund the acquisition and improve the facilities. Investments in Renewable Energy and Related Projects Wind Generation Highlights from AES Wind Generation include the following: The Company expanded its portfolio of wind generation businesses with the acquisition of Mountain View Power Partners ("Mountain View"), which consists of 111 wind turbines with a capacity of 67 MW in Palm Springs, California. In July, we acquired a 49% interest in Guohua Hulunbeier Wind Farm, a 49.5 MW wind farm development in China. The Company also reached a separate agreement with Guohua to move to phase II of our jointly owned Huanghua wind project to expand the facility, doubling the capacity to 99 MW. AES has a 49% interest in the Huanghua Project. In December, the Company obtained financing to build a 156 MW wind farm in Kavarna, the largest in Bulgaria, and a 22 MW wind farm in Scotland. Additionally we acquired a 34 MW wind farm from our affiliate, InnoVent. All three are expected to commence commercial operations in 2009. Solar Energy In March, the Company formed AES Solar, a joint venture with Riverstone. AES Solar will develop land based solar photovoltaic panels that capture sunlight to convert into electricity that feed directly into power grids. AES Solar has commenced commercial operations of 24 MW solar projects in Spain. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company and Riverstone will each provide up to $500 million of capital over the next five years. Through December 31, 2008, the Company has contributed total capital of $135 million. 93 Table of Contents Climate Solutions Highlights from our climate solutions activities include: In April, the Company acquired the rights to the gas from a landfill project in El Salvador ("Nejapa"). Nejapa produces emission reduction credits and plans to build a 6 MW generation facility that could potentially increase to 25 MW in the future. In June, as a result of a financial restructuring, the Company assumed 100% ownership of AgCert International Plc, an Irish company investing in GHG projects primarily in Brazil and Mexico. AgCert currently produces approximately 1.4 million tonnes per year of CERs. In September, Greenhouse Gas Services LLC, the Companys joint venture with General Electric, announced an agreement with Google to co develop projects to reduce GHG emissions and produce GHG credits. The first project will capture methane gas in North Carolina. Construction As of December 31, 2008, the Company has more than 3,000 Gross MW of new generation capacity. The projects under construction include 14 core power projects totaling 2,993 MW and 11 wind power projects totaling 410 MW. We began construction of Angamos, a 518 MW coal fired generation facility in Chile expected to begin commercial operations in 2011. We also further advanced our recent projects with the start of construction of three hydro projects in Turkey that are being developed through our investment made in May 2007 in the IC Ictas Energy Group. In July, the Company achieved early successful testing of simple cycle operation for the Amman East facility in Jordan, a 380 MW natural gas fired project expected to achieve full combined cycle operation in the first half of 2009. In August, the Company started commercial operations of the 170 MW Buffalo Gap III wind farm in Abilene, Texas, bringing the total wind generation capacity of the Buffalo Gap wind farm to 524 MW. For a complete listing of the Companys projects under construction or in development please see Item 1 Our Organizations and Segments. Portfolio Management In the first quarter of 2008, the Company finalized our termination agreement with the Chinese government and shut down Hefei, a 115 MW oil fueled generation facility. The plant became the property of the Anhui Province and we received termination compensation of approximately $39 million in March 2008. In May 2008, the Company completed the sale of Ekibastuz and Maikuben West, a coal fired power plant and a coal mine with operations in Kazakhstan. Proceeds from the sale of these businesses totaled approximately $1.1 billion, a portion of which was used to pay down debt in June 2008. We have the opportunity to receive additional consideration of up to approximately $380 million under performance incentives and a management agreement to continue operation and management of the plants for the next three years. In November 2008, the Company sold a 9.6% ownership in AES Gener for $175 million which reduced the Companys ownership percentage from 80.2% to 70.6%. As a result, the Company recognized a pre tax loss of $31 million in the fourth quarter of 2008. The net proceeds from 94 Table of Contents this transaction were used to participate in Geners capital increase in February 2009 as discussed under Outlook for the Future. In December 2008, the Company sold its 70% interest in Jiaozuo, a 250 MW coal fired generation plant in China for net proceeds of $73 million. Prior periods have been restated to reflect this business within Discontinued Operations for all periods presented. Credit Crisis and the Macroeconomic Environment In the second half of 2007, conditions in the credit markets began to deteriorate in the United States and abroad. In the third and fourth quarter of 2008, this crisis and associated market conditions worsened dramatically, with unprecedented market volatility, widening credit spreads, volatile currencies, illiquidity, and increased counterparty credit risk. Beginning in the second half of 2007, the Company began a series of debt related initiatives, including the refinancing of approximately $2.0 billion of recourse debt in transactions executed in the fourth quarter of 2007 and the second quarter of 2008. As a result of these transactions, The AES Corporation reduced the 2009 maturities on its recourse debt from $467 million as of June 30, 2007 to $154 million as of December 31, 2008. The AES Corporation also eliminated many of the restrictive covenants in its 8.75% Second Priority Senior Secured Notes due 2013 and modified certain covenants contained in its senior secured credit facility. The amendments made the financial covenants less restrictive and made certain other changes, such as expanding the Companys ability to repurchase its own common stock. For further information regarding these covenant changes, see the Capital Resources and Liquidity Parent Company Liquidity section of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. In addition, The AES Corporation successfully replaced Lehman Commercial Paper with another bank as a lender under its senior secured credit facility. Because of the factors described above, management currently believes that it can meet its near term liquidity requirements through a combination of existing cash and cash equivalent balances, cash provided by operating activities, financings, and, if needed, borrowings under its secured and unsecured credit facilities. Although there can be no assurance due to the challenging times currently faced by financial institutions, management believes that the participating banks under its facilities will be able to meet their funding commitments. The Company is also subject to credit risk, which includes risk related to the ability of counterparties (such as parties to our PPAs, fuel supply agreements, hedging agreements, and other contractual arrangements) to meet their contractual payment obligations or the potential nonperformance of counterparties to deliver contracted commodities or services at the contracted price. While counterparty credit risk has increased in the current crisis and there can be no assurances regarding the future, to date the Company has not suffered any material effects related to its counterparties. The global economic slowdown could also result in a decline in the value of our assets, which could result in material impairments of certain assets or result in an increase in our obligations which could be material to our operations. For example, as discussed above, during the fourth quarter of 2008, and in response to the financial market crisis, the Company reviewed and prioritized the projects in our development pipeline. As a result we recognized an impairment charge of approximately $75 million ($34 million, net of minority interest and income taxes). The projects that were impaired included two liquefied natural gas projects in North America and a non power development project at one of our facilities in North America. In addition to the decline in development assets noted above, there is a risk that the fair value of other assets could also decline, resulting in additional impairment charges and or a material increase in 95 Table of Contents our obligations. Certain subsidiaries of the Company have defined benefit pension plans. The Company periodically evaluates the value of the pension plan assets to ensure that they will be sufficient to fund their respective pension obligations. Given the declines in worldwide asset values, we are expecting an increase in pension expense and funding requirements in future periods, which may be material. As of December 31, 2008 we expect the Company to make future employer contributions to its defined benefit pension plans in 2009 of approximately $154 million, of which $21 million will be made to its U.S. plans and $133 million to foreign plans primarily in Brazil (subject to changes in foreign currency exchange rates), compared to employer contributions made in 2008 of $197 million, of which $59 million was made to U.S. plans and $138 million to foreign plans. In Brazilian real ("R$") contributions for our subsidiaries in Brazil are expected to increase from R$236 million in 2008 to R$294 million in 2009. The decline in the fair value of pension plan assets will also result in increased pension expense in 2009, currently estimated at $124 million in 2009 (subject to changes in foreign currency exchange rates) compared to $60 million in 2008. Expense at our subsidiaries in Brazil, in local currency, is expected to be R$176 million in 2009 compared to R$77 million in 2008. See Item 1A Risk Factors, "Some of our subsidiaries participate in defined benefit pension plans and their net pension plan obligations may require additional significant contributions." To date, other than the impacts described above, the global economic slowdown has not significantly impacted the Company. However, in the event that the credit crisis and global recession deteriorate further, or are protracted, there could be a material adverse impact on the Company. The Company could be materially impacted if such events or other events occur such that participating lenders under its secured and unsecured facilities fail to meet their commitments, or the Company is unable to access the capital markets on favorable terms or at all, is unable to raise funds through the sale of assets, or is otherwise unable to finance its activities or refinance its debt, or if capital market disruptions result in increased borrowing costs (including with respect to interest payments on the Companys variable rate debt). The Company could also be adversely affected if general economic or political conditions in the markets where the Company operates deteriorate, resulting in a reduction in cash flow from operations, a reduction in the value of currencies in these markets relative to the dollar (which could cause currency losses), an increase in the price of commodities used in our operations and construction, or if the value of its assets remain depressed or decline further. If any of the foregoing events occur, such events (or a combination thereof) could have a material impact on the Company, its results of operations, liquidity, financial covenants, and or its credit rating. The Company could also be adversely affected if the foregoing effects are exacerbated or general economic or political conditions in the markets where the Company operates deteriorate, resulting in a reduction in cash flow from operations, a reduction in the value of currencies in these markets relative to the dollar (which could cause currency losses), an increase in the price of commodities used in our operations and construction or a decline in asset values. Outlook for the Future In 2008, management continued to focus its efforts on improving operations, executing our growth strategy, managing our risk and strategically managing our portfolio of businesses. As market conditions deteriorated in the second half of 2008, our strategy evolved, with an increased emphasis on preserving liquidity. We also recognized that uncertain economic conditions could potentially slow global demand for power for some period of time. Accordingly, we scaled back our development plans mid year to focus on projects that we believe will still have attractive returns and can still attract capital in difficult financial markets and on completing our projects that are currently under construction. If the Company has capital available for investment beyond these priorities (whether for further development, reductions in debt, or repurchases of stock), it will be allocated based on managements assessment of its most effective use. 96 Table of Contents Consistent with this strategy, in the fourth quarter of 2008, management conducted a review of its development pipeline, and determined that certain projects in the pipeline may not achieve financial close, will not provide the returns originally anticipated, or are otherwise unfeasible, or that other uses of capital such as debt repayment or stock repurchases offer a better return on the Companys capital. Accordingly, management has determined it will not pursue certain projects and will delay others until the credit markets recover. Furthermore, management will continue to review its pipeline and may further reduce the number of projects it pursues. The Company is also evaluating other options with respect to its pipeline, such as the addition of partners who can contribute capital, share project risk and or provide strategic expertise. There can be no assurance regarding the outcome of any such decisions on the Company, its results of operations or its financial condition. The AES Corporation has $154 million in recourse debt maturing in 2009 compared with Parent Company liquidity of approximately $1.4 billion. With regard to its projects currently under construction, the Company believes that it can complete these projects through a combination of existing cash and cash equivalent balances, cash provided by operating activities, financings, and, if needed, borrowings under its secured and unsecured credit facilities. The Company has secured the financing for the vast majority of projects under construction. The Company is also focused on operational improvements and cost reductions to help further improve its cash flow from operations and enhance its financial flexibility. The Company has already commenced efforts to reduce costs and streamline our organization. These efforts include the reorganization of the Company from four regions to three regions, which is expected to eliminate redundancies and improve our cost structure. Recent Events On December 23, 2008, the local Chilean SEC approved Geners issuance of approximately 945 million new shares at a price of $162.50 Chilean Pesos. The proceeds of the share issuance were $246 million and Gener anticipates using these proceeds for future expansion plans, working capital and other operating needs. The preemptive rights period began on January 7, 2009 remained open for 30 days and closed on February 5, 2009. During the preemptive rights period AES, through its wholly owned subsidiary, Cachagua, paid $175 million from the proceeds of the November 2008 share sale to maintain its current ownership percentage of approximately 70.6%.  2008 Performance Highlights Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 ($s in millions, except per share amounts) Revenue $ 16,070 $ 13,516 $ 11,509 Gross Margin $ 3,707 $ 3,392 $ 3,419 Gross Margin as a % of Revenue 23.1 % 25.1 % 29.7 % Diluted Earnings Per Share from Continuing Operations $ 1.80 $ 0.72 $ 0.25 Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities $ 2,165 $ 2,353 $ 2,348 Revenue Revenue increased 19% to $16.1 billion in 2008 compared with $13.5 billion in 2007 primarily due to higher generation rates in Latin America, the impact of favorable foreign currency translation of approximately $350 million and utility tariffs and volume. 97 Table of Contents Gross margin Gross margin increased 9% to $3.7 billion in 2008 compared with $3.4 billion in 2007 primarily due to higher generation rates in Latin America, favorable foreign currency impact, utility volume and tariff, partially offset by an increase in fixed costs associated with allowances for bad debts and higher purchased energy costs, primarily in Brazil and Cameroon. Gross margin as a percentage of revenue decreased to 23.1% in 2008 compared with 25.1% in 2007 driven by the increase in fixed costs. Our gross margin remained at approximately $3.4 billion in 2006 and 2007 and increased to $3.7 billion in 2008. Gross margin however declined in the fourth quarter of 2008 due to several factors including the mix of earnings within our portfolio, foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and recent acquisitions, such as Masinloc in the Philippines. We believe that it is reasonably possible that the recent trend in gross margin reported in the fourth quarter will continue. The Companys future gross margin trends may be significantly impacted by currency exchange rates, commodity prices and the impact of any significant regulatory developments in each country where the Company conducts its business. The Company is subject to extensive and complex governmental regulations which affect most aspects of our business, such as regulations governing the generation and distribution of electricity and environmental regulations, as described more fully in the Business section of the Form 10 K. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations increased $1.08 per share to $1.80 per share in 2008 compared to $0.72 per share in 2007. The 2008 results included a net positive impact of $0.74 per share relating to : (i) a gain from the sale of the Companys northern Kazakhstan businesses in the second quarter of 2008 of $905 million (pre tax) or $1.31; (ii) additional tax expense of $144 million or $0.21 related to the repatriation of a portion of the Kazakhstan sale proceeds (iii) loss related to corporate debt restructuring charges of $55 million (pre tax) or $0.05 (iv) impairment charges taken in the fourth quarter on certain LNG and other development efforts of $34 million (net of tax and minority interest) or $0.05, (v) other impairment charges in Brazil and South Africa of $45 million (net of tax and minority interest) or $0.06 and (vi) net currency translation and transaction losses of $0.20 per share. These were compared to 2007 results which included (i) a gain of approximately $0.15 per diluted share related to the acquisition of a leasehold interest at Eastern Energy in New York and the recovery of certain tax assets in Latin America; (ii) impairment charges related to Uruguaiana and AgCert of $0.33 per share and (iii) corporate debt retirement costs in 2007 of $0.08 per share. The remaining increase in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations from 2007 to 2008 of $0.08 per share is mainly the result of improved performance in 2008. Net cash from operating activities Net cash from operating activities decreased 8% to $2.2 billion in 2008 compared with $2.4 billion in 2007. Excluding the decrease in net cash provided by operating activities from EDC in Venezuela, which was sold in May 2007, net cash provided by operating activities would have decreased $37 million. This decrease was primarily due to increased employer pension contributions at our U.S. and foreign subsidiaries and an increase in regulatory assets related to future recoverable purchased energy costs in Brazil. These decreases were partially offset by a decrease in cash used by a Brazilian subsidiary to pay income taxes in 2008 as a result of tax credits used as the primary payment method in 2008 and improved operations in Latin America and Europe & Africa. Please refer to Consolidated Cash Flows Operating Activities for further discussion. 98  Table of Contents  Consolidated Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, Results of operations 2008 2007 2006 $ change 2008 vs. 2007 $ change 2007 vs. 2006 (in millions, except per share amounts) Revenue: Latin America Generation $ 4,465 $ 3,510 $ 2,615 $ 955 $ 895 Latin America Utilities 5,911 5,172 4,552 739 620 North America Generation 2,234 2,168 1,928 66 240 North America Utilities 1,079 1,052 1,032 27 20 Europe & Africa Generation 1,160 975 852 185 123 Europe & Africa Utilities 782 660 570 122 90 Asia Generation 1,264 817 718 447 99 Corporate and Other(1) (825 ) (838 ) (758 ) 13 (80 ) Total Revenue $ 16,070 $ 13,516 $ 11,509 $ 2,554 $ 2,007 Gross Margin: Latin America Generation $ 1,394 $ 955 $ 1,052 $ 439 $ (97 ) Latin America Utilities 885 865 888 20 (23 ) North America Generation 657 702 610 (45 ) 92 North America Utilities 261 313 277 (52 ) 36 Europe & Africa Generation 294 275 247 19 28 Europe & Africa Utilities 57 63 103 (6 ) (40 ) Asia Generation 143 176 186 (33 ) (10 ) Total Corporate and Other Expense(2) (355 ) (336 ) (245 ) (19 ) (91 ) Interest expense (1,844 ) (1,788 ) (1,769 ) (56 ) (19 ) Interest income 540 500 434 40 66 Other expense (163 ) (255 ) (451 ) 92 196 Other income 379 358 116 21 242 Gain on sale of investments 909 98 909 (98 ) (Loss) gain on sale of subsidiary stock (31 ) 134 (535 ) (165 ) 669 Impairment expense (175 ) (408 ) (17 ) 233 (391 ) Foreign currency transaction (losses) gains on net monetary position (185 ) 24 (80 ) (209 ) 104 Other non operating expense (15 ) (57 ) 42 (57 ) Income tax expense (774 ) (679 ) (359 ) (95 ) (320 ) Net equity in earnings of affiliates 33 76 73 (43 ) 3 Minority interest expense (794 ) (431 ) (460 ) (363 ) 29 Income from continuing operations 1,216 487 168 729 319 Income from operations of discontinued businesses 12 79 115 (67 ) (36 ) Gain (loss) from disposal of discontinued businesses 6 (661 ) (57 ) 667 (604 ) Extraordinary items 21 (21 ) Net income (loss) $ 1,234 $ (95 ) $ 247 $ 1,329 $ (342 ) Per share data: Basic income per share from continuing operations $ 1.82 $ 0.73 $ 0.25 $ 1.09 $ 0.48 Diluted income per share from continuing operations $ 1.80 $ 0.72 $ 0.25 $ 1.08 $ 0.47 (1)Corporate and Other includes revenues from renewables and inter segment eliminations of revenues related to transfers of electricity from Tiet&ecirc; (generation) to Eletropaulo (utility) in Latin America. (2)Total Corporate and Other expenses include corporate general and administrative expenses, expenses related to our renewables initiatives as well as certain inter segment eliminations, primarily corporate charges for management fees and self insurance premiums. 99 Table of Contents Segment Analysis Latin America The following table summarizes revenue and gross margin for our Generation segment in Latin America for the periods indicated: For the Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 % Change 2008 vs. 2007 % Change 2007 vs. 2006 (Dollars in millions) Latin America Generation Revenue $ 4,465 $ 3,510 $ 2,615 27 % 34 % Gross Margin $ 1,394 $ 955 $ 1,052 46 % (9 )% Gross Margin as a % of Segment Revenue 31 % 27 % 40 % Fiscal Year 2008 versus 2007 Generation revenue increased $955 million, or 27%, from the previous year primarily due to higher contract and spot prices and higher volume at Gener in Chile and our businesses in Argentina of approximately $508 million and $188 million, respectively, higher contract and spot prices at our businesses in the Dominican Republic of approximately $132 million, favorable foreign currency translation of approximately $77 million and higher spot prices at our businesses in Panama of approximately $45 million. Generation gross margin increased $439 million, or 46%, from the previous year primarily due to higher contract and spot prices and higher volume at Gener and our businesses in Argentina of approximately $318 million, higher contract and spot prices at our businesses in the Dominican Republic of approximately $86 million, favorable foreign currency translation of approximately $44 million, and higher spot prices at our businesses in Panama of approximately $30 million. These increases were partially offset by higher purchased energy prices of approximately $57 million at Uruguaiana in Brazil. Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Generation revenue increased $895 million, or 34%, from the previous year primarily due to higher rates and volume at Gener and our businesses in Argentina of approximately $443 million and $95 million, respectively; and increased volume and intercompany sales from Tiet&ecirc;, in Brazil, to Eletropaulo, our Brazilian utility, of approximately $130 million. Our increase in ownership of the controlling shares of Itabo, in the Dominican Republic, which resulted in a change from the equity method of accounting consolidation, contributed approximately $87 million in revenue. The increase from foreign currency translation was approximately $38 million. Generation gross margin decreased $97 million, or 9%, from the previous year primarily due to increased cost from gas supply curtailments, drier than normal hydrology and higher spot prices for electricity in the Companys businesses in Argentina, Chile and Southern Brazil of approximately $173 million and one time transmission charges at Tiet&ecirc; of $39 million, offset in part, by higher sales at Itabo of $23 million and intercompany sales in Tiet&ecirc; of $103 million. 100 Table of Contents The following table summarizes revenue and gross margin for our Utilities segment in Latin America for the periods indicated: For the Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 % Change 2008 vs. 2007 % Change 2007 vs. 2006 (Dollars in millions) Latin America Utilities Revenue $ 5,911 $ 5,172 $ 4,552 14 % 14 % Gross Margin $ 885 $ 865 $ 888 2 % (3 )% Gross Margin as a % of Segment Revenue 15 % 17 % 20 % Fiscal Year 2008 versus 2007 Utilities revenue increased $739 million, or 14%, from the previous year primarily due to favorable foreign currency translation of approximately $357 million at our businesses in Brazil, increased rates primarily associated with higher pass through purchased energy and transmission costs at Eletropaulo of approximately $148 million, and higher volume at Eletropaulo and Sul in Brazil of approximately $162 million and $30 million, respectively. Utilities gross margin increased $20 million, or 2%, from the previous year primarily due to higher volume at Eletropaulo of approximately $162 million and favorable foreign currency translation of approximately $67 million at our businesses in Brazil. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in the non pass through rates at Eletropaulo as a result of the July 2007 tariff reset of approximately $74 million, increased fixed costs of approximately $71 million at Eletropaulo primarily due to higher provisions for bad debts and higher purchased energy costs at Eletropaulo of approximately $68 million. Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Utilities revenue increased $620 million, or 14%, from the previous year primarily due to favorable foreign currency translation of $493 million, and increased rates and volume at Sul and at our plants in El Salvador of $58 million and $41 million, respectively, offset by a net decrease in tariffs of $24 million at Eletropaulo. Utilities gross margin decreased $23 million, or 3%, from the previous year primarily due to reduced tariff rates at Eletropaulo of $355 million offset by lower costs, favorable foreign currency translation of $148 million and higher volume of $74 million. Additionally, Sul had increased rates and volume of $27 million and favorable foreign currency translation of $19 million. North America The following table summarizes revenue and gross margin for our Generation segment in North America for the periods indicated: For the Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 % Change 2008 vs. 2007 % Change 2007 vs. 2006 (Dollars in millions) North America Generation Revenue $ 2,234 $ 2,168 $ 1,928 3 % 12 % Gross Margin $ 657 $ 702 $ 610 (6 )% 15 % Gross Margin as a % of Segment Revenue 29 % 32 % 32 % 101 Table of Contents Fiscal Year 2008 versus 2007 Generation revenue increased $66 million, or 3%, from the previous year primarily due to higher volume of $38 million at TEG/TEP in Mexico, and net higher revenue at Merida in Mexico of $29 million primarily due to the pass through of higher fuel costs offset by a revenue adjustment. In addition, revenue increased $8 million at Red Oak in New Jersey, due to higher pricing and availability bonuses. At Warrior Run in Maryland, revenue increased $12 million due to the pass through of higher fuel costs and higher volume due to no significant outages in 2008. These effects were partially offset by lower volume in New York of $23 million primarily due to planned outages and lower capacity factors. Generation gross margin decreased $45 million, or 6%, and decreased as a percentage of revenue from the previous year due to lower gross margin in New York of $46 million mainly due to a planned outage and lower volume, and higher fuel prices and outages of $16 million at Deepwater in Texas. Gross margin decreased $13 million at TEG/TEP due primarily to outages and lower rates due to changes in the sales contract rates associated with the refinancing in 2007. These decreases were partially offset by a net increase in gross margin in Hawaii of $29 million primarily due to a $22 million net mark to market derivative gain on a coal supply contract and a one time use tax refund of $6 million. Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Generation revenue increased $240 million, or 12%, from the previous year primarily due to approximately $200 million in new business as a result of our acquisition of TEG/TEP and approximately $96 million in higher rate and volume sales at the Companys New York facilities; offset by mark to market adjustments for embedded derivatives of $51 million at Deepwater and lower emission sales of $39 million. Generation gross margin increased $92 million, or 15%, from the previous year primarily due to approximately $62 million related to our acquisition of TEG/TEP and $90 million related to higher rates and volumes and lower cost at the Companys New York facilities offset by lower sales of excess emissions allowances of approximately $39 million. The following table summarizes revenue and gross margin for our Utilities segment in North America for the periods indicated: For the Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 % Change 2008 vs. 2007 % Change 2007 vs. 2006 (Dollars in millions) North America Utilities Revenue $ 1,079 $ 1,052 $ 1,032 3 % 2 % Gross Margin $ 261 $ 313 $ 277 (17 )% 13 % Gross Margin as a % of Segment Revenue 24 % 30 % 27 % Fiscal Year 2008 versus 2007 Utilities revenue increased $27 million, or 3%, from the previous year primarily due to a $42 million increase in rate adjustments at IPL in Indiana, related to environmental investments, $42 million of higher fuel and purchased power costs and an $8 million increase in wholesale prices. These increases were offset by $32 million of credits to customers established during the first six months of 2008, $16 million of lower retail volume primarily due to unfavorable weather compared to 2007 and an $18 million decrease in wholesale volume. 102 Table of Contents Utilities gross margin decreased $52 million, or 17%, from the previous year primarily due to lower variable retail margin of $42 million driven by the credits to customers established during the first six months of 2008 and lower retail volume. In addition, IPL had higher maintenance expenses of $9 million primarily due to storm restoration costs and the timing and duration of major generating unit overhauls, an increase of $6 million in labor and benefits costs and an increase of $3 million in contractor and consulting costs. These decreases to gross margin were offset by a return recovered through rates on approved environmental investments of $14 million. Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Utilities revenue increased $20 million, or 2%, from the previous year primarily due to increased volume due to weather, offset by a decrease in fuel charges passed through to customer at IPL. Utilities gross margin increased $36 million, or 13%, from the previous year primarily due to increased volume sales and a return recovered through rates on approved environmental investments at IPL. Europe & Africa The following table summarizes revenue for our Generation segment in Europe & Africa for the periods indicated: For the Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 % Change 2008 vs. 2007 % Change 2007 vs. 2006 (Dollars in millions) Europe & Africa Generation Revenue $ 1,160 $ 975 $ 852 19 % 14 % Gross Margin $ 294 $ 275 $ 247 7 % 11 % Gross Margin as a % of Segment Revenue 25 % 28 % 29 % Fiscal Year 2008 versus 2007 Generation revenue increased $185 million, or 19%, from the previous year primarily due to an increase in capacity income and energy payments at Kilroot in Northern Ireland of approximately $105 million, rate recovery and higher volume of approximately $93 million at our businesses in Hungary and favorable foreign currency translation in Hungary of $32 million. In addition, revenue at Kilroot increased approximately $21 million compared to the previous year primarily due to the unfavorable impact of two major overhauls in 2007. These increases were partially offset by a reduction in revenue of approximately $49 million in Kazakhstan following the sale of Ekibastuz and Maikuben in the second quarter of 2008 that was partially offset by approximately $12 million in management fees earned from continuing management agreements for those businesses. In addition, revenue at Kilroot was approximately $37 million lower due to the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation. Generation gross margin increased $19 million, or 7%, from the previous year primarily due to higher rates and volume of $43 million at Tisza II in Hungary, and an increase in capacity income and fewer forced outages at Kilroot of approximately $32 million. These were offset by an increase in fixed costs of $24 million at Kilroot and Tisza II, unfavorable foreign currency translation of $12 million at Kilroot and a reduction in gross margin of $29 million in Kazakhstan following the sale of Ekibastuz and Maikuben in the second quarter of 2008 that was partially offset by $9 million in net gross margin from continuing management agreements for those businesses. 103 Table of Contents Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Generation revenue increased $123 million, or 14%, from the previous year primarily due to favorable foreign currency translation of $77 million and increased rate and volume sales of approximately $60 million at our businesses in Kazakhstan. Generation gross margin increased $28 million, or 11%, from the previous year primarily due to rate and volume increases at our businesses in Kazakhstan and Kilroot of $44 million and $13 million, respectively. These increases were offset by lower emission sales in Hungary and Bohemia in the Czech Republic of approximately $28 million. The following table summarizes gross margin for our Utilities segments in Europe & Africa for the periods indicated: For the Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 % Change 2008 vs. 2007 % Change 2007 vs. 2006 (Dollars in millions) Europe & Africa Utilities Revenue $ 782 $ 660 $ 570 18 % 16 % Gross Margin $ 57 $ 63 $ 103 (10 )% (39 )% Gross Margin as a % of Segment Revenue 7 % 10 % 18 % Fiscal Year 2008 versus 2007 Utilities revenue increased $122 million, or 18%, from the previous year primarily due to increased tariff rates of approximately $86 million at our businesses in Ukraine, approximately $30 million due to increased rates and volume and $26 million due to favorable foreign currency translation at Sonel in Cameroon. These increases were partially offset by an unfavorable foreign currency translation impact at our businesses in Ukraine of approximately $17 million. Utilities gross margin decreased $6 million, or 10%, from the previous year primarily due to higher fixed costs of approximately $55 million across the region, a mark to market derivative adjustment at Sonel of $9 million and the favorable impact in 2007 of fuel pass through costs under a concession agreement of $6 million, partially offset by increased rates and volume at Sonel of approximately $36 million and increased tariff rates of approximately $23 million at our businesses in Ukraine. Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Utilities revenue increased $90 million, or 16%, from the previous year primarily due to increased tariff rates and volume of approximately $57 million in the Ukraine and approximately $28 million in favorable foreign currency translation. Utilities gross margin decreased $40 million, or 39%, from the previous year primarily due to higher non fuel operating and maintenance costs as well as higher fuel usage at Sonel. 104 Table of Contents Asia The following table summarizes revenue and gross margin for our Generation segment in Asia for the periods indicated: For the Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 % Change 2008 vs. 2007 % Change 2007 vs. 2006 (Dollars in millions) Asia Generation Revenue $ 1,264 $ 817 $ 718 55 % 14 % Gross Margin $ 143 $ 176 $ 186 (19 )% (5 )% Gross Margin as a % of Segment Revenue 11 % 22 % 26 % Fiscal Year 2008 versus 2007 Generation revenue increased $447 million, or 55%, from the previous year primarily due to higher rates driven by increased pass through fuel prices of $259 million and volume of $41 million at our Lal Pir and Pak Gen businesses in Pakistan, an increase in rates due to pass through fuel prices at Kelanitissa in Sri Lanka, of approximately $55 million, and revenue generated from our new businesses, Masinloc in the Philippines, and Amman East in Jordan, of $148 million and $46 million, respectively. These increases were partially offset by unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation of $95 million in Pakistan. Generation gross margin decreased $33 million, or 19%, from the previous year primarily due to the impact of increased fuel prices on heat rate losses of approximately $14 million at Lal Pir and Pak Gen and a $15 million unfavorable impact on revenue from an amended PPA accounted for as a lease, and therefore revenue was recognized on a straight line basis in accordance with EITF No. 01 8, Determining Whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease at Ras Laffan in Qatar. In addition, Masinloc generated a net gross margin loss of $18 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. These unfavorable effects were partially offset by the favorable impact of $14 million from the start of commercial operations in July 2008 at Amman East. Fiscal Year 2007 versus 2006 Generation revenue increased $99 million, or 14%, from the previous year primarily due to higher dispatch in Pakistan of $83 million and higher volume and rates at Kelanitissa of approximately $30 million offset by volume decreases of approximately $8 million at Chigen in China. Generation gross margin decreased $10 million, or 5%, from the previous year primarily due to decreased volume at Chigen. Corporate and Other Expense Corporate and other expenses include general and administrative expenses, executive management, finance, legal, human resources, information systems and certain development costs which are not allocable to our business segments. In addition, this includes net operating results from AES Wind Generation and other renewables initiatives which are immaterial for the purposes of separate segment disclosure and, the effects of eliminating transactions, such as management fee arrangements and self insurance charges, between the operating segments and corporate. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, Corporate and other expense was approximately 2 3% of total revenues. Corporate and other expense increased $19 million, or 6%, to $355 million in 2008 from $336 million in 2007. The increase was primarily due to higher spending of $16 million on 105 Table of Contents SAP implementation projects and $27 million on the expansion of AES Wind Generation, climate solutions projects and our renewables initiatives, offset partially by a reduction in professional fees related to material weakness remediation efforts. Corporate and other expense increased $91 million, or 37%, to $336 million in 2007 from $245 million in 2006. The increase was primarily due to higher spending in professional fees of approximately $24 million primarily to complete the restatement of our financial statements and for continued material weakness remediation efforts, higher spending due to headcount increases primarily related to the strengthening of our finance organization of approximately $15 million and increased spending of $18 million for our SAP implementation projects. Interest expense Interest expense increased $56 million, or 3%, to $1,844 million in 2008 primarily due to additional interest expense at our recently acquired subsidiary, Masinloc, interest expense associated with derivatives at Eletropaulo, Panama and Puerto Rico, as well as unfavorable foreign currency translation in Brazil. These increases were offset by decreases from the elimination of a financial transaction tax in Brazil, a decrease in regulatory liabilities at Eletropaulo, and a decrease in capitalized interest on development projects at Kilroot. Interest expense increased $19 million, or 1%, to $1,788 million in 2007 primarily due to unfavorable impacts from foreign currency translation in Brazil and interest expense associated with derivatives. These increases were offset by the benefits of debt retirement activity at several of our subsidiaries in Latin America and lower interest rates at one of our subsidiaries in Brazil. Interest income Interest income increased $40 million, or 8%, to $540 million in 2008 primarily due to interest income on short term investments and cash equivalents at two of our subsidiaries in Brazil, inflationary adjustments on accounts receivable at Gener, and interest earned on a convertible loan acquired in March 2008. These increases were offset by decreases due to lower interest income related to a gross receipts tax recovery at Tiet&ecirc; recorded during the second quarter of 2007 and decreased interest income related to derivatives at TEG/TEP. Interest income increased $66 million, or 15%, to $500 million in 2007 primarily due to favorable foreign currency translation on the Brazilian Real and higher cash and short term investment balances at certain of our subsidiaries, offset by decreases at two of our Brazilian subsidiaries due to lower interest rates. Other income Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Gain on extinguishment of liabilities $ 199 $ 22 $ 45 Insurance proceeds 40 18 30 Legal/dispute settlement 39 26 1 Gain on sale of assets 34 24 18 Contract settlement gain 135 Gross receipts tax recovery 93 Other 67 40 22 Total other income $ 379 $ 358 $ 116 106 Table of Contents Other income increased $21 million to $379 million in 2008 primarily due to gains on the extinguishment of a gross receipts tax liability and legal contingency of $117 million and $75 million, respectively, at Eletropaulo, $29 million of insurance recoveries for damaged turbines at Uruguaiana, $32 million of cash proceeds related to a favorable legal settlement at Southland in California, and compensation of $18 million for the impairment associated with the settlement agreement to shut down Hefei. These increases were offset by a $135 million contract settlement gain in 2007 at Eastern Energy and a $93 million gross receipts tax recovery in 2007 at Eletropaulo and Tiet&ecirc; in 2007. Other income increased $242 million to $358 million in 2007 primarily due to the Eastern Energy contract settlement gain and tax recoveries in Brazil noted above in addition to favorable legal settlements at Eletropaulo and Red Oak. These increases were offset by a decrease in gains on the extinguishment of debt, which were driven by debt retirement activities at several of our businesses in Latin America in 2006. Other expense Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Loss on extinguishment of liabilities $ 70 $ 106 $ 181 Loss on sale and disposal of assets 34 79 23 Legal/dispute settlement 19 36 31 Regulatory special obligations 139 Write down of disallowed regulatory assets 16 36 Other 40 18 41 Total other expense $ 163 $ 255 $ 451 Other expense decreased $92 million to $163 million in 2008, from $255 million in 2007, primarily due to a decrease in losses on sales and disposals of assets at Sul as well as an extinguishment of debt at the Parent Company. In 2008, there was a loss of $55 million on the retirement of Senior Notes at the Parent Company, compared to a loss of $90 million on a smaller debt retirement in 2007. Other expense decreased $196 million to $255 million in 2007 primarily due to higher losses in 2006 associated with debt retirement activities at several of our Latin American businesses, special obligation charges and the write down of disallowed regulatory assets at Eletropaulo in 2006. In 2007, there was a loss of $90 million on the retirement of Senior Notes at the Parent Company, as well as higher losses on sales and disposals of assets at Eletropaulo and Sul. Impairment Expense As discussed in Note 19 Impairment Expense to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K, impairment expense for the year 2008 was $175 million and consisted primarily of the following: In the fourth quarter of 2008, and in response to the financial market crisis, the Company reviewed and prioritized projects in the development pipeline. From this review, the Company determined that the carrying value exceeded the future discounted cash flows for certain projects. As a result, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $75 million ($34 million, net of minority interest and income taxes) related to two liquefied natural gas projects in North America and a non power development project at one of our facilities in North America. During 2008, the Company recognized additional impairment charges of $36 million related to long lived assets at Uruguaiana. The impairment was triggered by a combination of gas curtailments and increases in the spot market price of energy in 2007 that continued in 2008. Following an initial impairment charge in the fourth quarter 107 Table of Contents of 2007, further charges were incurred in 2008 due to fixed asset purchase agreements in place. During the first half of 2008, the Company withdrew from projects in South Africa and Israel which resulted in impairment charges of $36 million. The Company also recognized an impairment of $18 million related to the shut down of the Hefei plant in China. Impairment expense for the year 2007 was $408 million and consisted primarily of the following: In the fourth quarter of 2007, the Company recognized a pre tax impairment charge of approximately $14 million related to a $52 million prepayment advanced to AgCert for a specified amount of future CER credits. AgCert, a United Kingdom based corporation that produces emission reduction credits, notified AES that it was not able to meet its contractual obligations to deliver CERs, which triggered an analysis of the assets recoverability and resulted in the asset impairment charge. Also during the fourth quarter of 2007, there was a pre tax impairment charge of approximately $352 million at Uruguaiana, a gas fired thermoelectric plant located in Brazil. The impairment was the result of an analysis of Uruguaianas long lived assets, which was triggered by the combination of gas curtailments and increases in the spot market price of energy. In August 2007, there was a pre tax impairment charge of $25 million triggered by the failure of a compressor at our Placerita subsidiary in California. The fixed asset impairment was caused by damage sustained to one of the plants gas turbines. Also during the third quarter of 2007, a pre tax fixed asset impairment charge of approximately $10 million was recognized related to the curtailment of operations at Coal Creek Minerals, LLC, a coal mining company owned by our subsidiary Cavanal Minerals located in the United States. Impairment expense for the year 2006 was $17 million and consisted primarily of the following: During the fourth quarter of 2006, there was a pre tax impairment charge of $6 million related to AES China Generating Co. Ltd. ("Chigen") equity investment in Wuhu, a coal fired plant located in China. The equity impairment in Wuhu was required as a result of a goodwill impairment analysis at Chigen. During the third quarter of 2006, there was an impairment charge of $5 million related to a decrease in the market value of five held for sale gas turbines at our subsidiary Itabo located in the Dominican Republic. Gain on sale of investments Gain on sale of investments of $909 million in 2008 consisted primarily of the sale in May 2008 of our two wholly owned subsidiaries in Kazakhstan, AES Ekibastuz LLP and Maikuben West LLP for a net gain of $905 million. There was no gain on sale of investments for the year ended December 31, 2007. Gain on sale of investments in 2006 of $98 million was the result of a net gain of $87 million from our sale of an equity investment in a power project in Canada (Kingston) in March 2006 and a net gain of $10 million related to our transfer of Infoenergy, a wholly owned AES subsidiary, to Brasiliana in September 2006. Brasiliana is 53.85% owned by BNDES, but controlled by AES. This transaction was part of the Companys agreement with BNDES to terminate the Sul Option. (Loss) gain on sale of subsidiary stock In November 2008, Cachagua, our wholly owned subsidiary, which owned 80.2% of AES Gener S.A. ("Gener") shares prior to the transaction, sold 9.6% of its ownership in Gener to a third party. After this transaction, Cachaguas new ownership in Gener was 70.6%. As a result of this transaction, the Company recorded a net loss on the sale of shares of $31 million. Gain on sale of subsidiary stock in 2007 of $134 million was a result of net gains recognized on the sale of a 0.91% and 10.18% ownership interest in Gener in May and October of 2007, respectively. 108  Table of Contents As discussed in Note 17 Subsidiary Stock to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10 K, in September 2006, Brasilianas wholly owned subsidiary, Transg&aacute;s sold a 33% economic ownership in Eletropaulo, a regulated electric utility in Brazil. Despite the reduction in economic ownership, there was no change in Brasilianas voting interest in Eletropaulo, and Brasiliana continues to control Eletropaulo. Brasiliana received $522 million in net proceeds on the sale. On October 5, 2006 Transg&aacute;s, sold an additional 5% economic ownership in Eletropaulo for net proceeds of $78 million. In 2006, AES recognized a pre tax loss of $535 million primarily as a result of the recognition of previously deferred currency translation losses. Foreign currency transaction gains (losses) on net monetary position The following table summarizes the gains (losses) on the Companys net monetary position from foreign currency transaction activities: Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) AES Corporation $ 38 $ 31 $ (17 ) Chile (102 ) (4 ) Philippines (57 ) Brazil (44 ) 5 (49 ) Argentina (22 ) (8 ) (3 ) Kazakhstan 11 10 1 Mexico (9 ) (2 ) Colombia 5 (7 ) (1 ) Pakistan (1 ) (4 ) (18 ) Other (4 ) 3 7 Total(1) $ (185 ) $ 24 $ (80 ) (1)Includes $10 million, ($22) million and ($51) million of gains (losses) on foreign currency derivative contracts for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The Company recognized foreign currency transaction losses of $185 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. These consisted primarily of losses in Chile, the Philippines, Brazil, Argentina and Mexico partially offset by gains at The AES Corporation and in Kazakhstan. Losses of $102 million in Chile were primarily due to the devaluation of the Chilean Peso by 28% in 2008, resulting in losses at Gener, a U.S. Dollar functional currency subsidiary, associated with its net working capital denominated in Chilean Pesos, mainly cash, accounts receivable and VAT receivables. Losses of $57 million in the Philippines were primarily due to remeasurement losses at Masinloc, a Philippine Peso functional currency subsidiary, on U.S. Dollar denominated debt resulting from depreciation of the Philippine Peso of 16% in 2008. Losses of $44 million in Brazil were primarily due to the realization of deferred exchange variance on past energy purchases made by Eletropaulo denominated in U.S. Dollar, resulting in foreign currency transaction losses of $41 million. Losses of $22 million in Argentina were primarily due to the devaluation of the Argentinean Peso by 10% in 2008, resulting in losses at Alicura, an Argentine Peso functional currency subsidiary, associated with its U.S. Dollar denominated debt. 109 Table of Contents Losses of $9 million in Mexico were primarily due to the devaluation of the Mexican Peso by 26% in 2008, resulting in losses of approximately $9 million at TEG/TEP. Gains of $38 million at The AES Corporation were primarily due to debt denominated in British Pounds and gains on foreign exchange derivatives, partially offset by losses on notes receivable denominated in Euro. Gains of $11 million in Kazakhstan were primarily due to net foreign currency transaction gains of $16 million related to energy sales denominated and fixed in the U.S. Dollar, offset by $5 million of foreign currency transaction losses on external and intercompany debt denominated in other than functional currencies. Foreign currency transaction gains of $24 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 primarily consisted of gains at The AES Corporation and in Kazakhstan partially offset by losses in Argentina and Colombia. Gains of $31 million at The AES Corporation were primarily the result of favorable exchange rates for debt denominated in British Pounds and the Euro. Gains of $10 million in Kazakhstan were primarily due to $12 million of gains related to debt denominated in currencies other than the Kazakh Tenge functional currency, partially offset by $3 million of losses related to energy sales denominated and fixed in the U.S. Dollar. Losses of $8 million in Argentina were primarily due to the devaluation of the Argentine Peso by 3% in 2007, resulting in losses of $11 million at Alicura associated with its U.S. Dollar denominated debt. Losses of $7 million in Colombia were primarily due to the appreciation of the Colombian Peso by 11% in 2007 at Chivor, a U.S. Dollar function currency subsidiary. Foreign currency transaction losses of $80 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 primarily consisted of losses in Brazil, Pakistan and at The AES Corporation. Losses of $49 million in Brazil were primarily the result of losses of $45 million at Eletropaulo from swap contracts that were paid and executed in 2006 as Eletropaulo converted U.S. Dollar debt to Brazilian Real debt. Losses of $18 million in Pakistan were primarily the result of the depreciation of the Pakistani Rupee. Losses of $17 million at AES Corporation were primarily the result of unfavorable exchange rates for debt denominated in British Pounds and the Euro. Other non operating expense Other non operating expense was $15 million in 2008 compared to $57 million in 2007. The 2008 expense related primarily to an impairment of the Companys investment in a company developing a "blue gas" (coal to gas) technology project. The Company made this investment in September 2007 and accounted for the investment in convertible preferred shares under the cost method of accounting. During the fourth quarter of 2008, the market value of the shares materially declined due to downward trends in the capital markets and management concluded that the decline was other than temporary and recorded an impairment charge of $10 million. Additionally, the Company recorded an other than temporary impairment charge of approximately $5 million related to its investments in other entities developing new energy technology and products. Other non operating expense in 2007 reflected the impairment in the Companys investment in AgCert, a U.K. based corporation, publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange, that produces CER credits. The Company acquired its investment in AgCert in May 2006 and, similar to the circumstances stated above, the market value of the Companys investment materially declined during 110 Table of Contents the first half of 2007 and the Company recorded an other than temporary impairment charge of $52 million in 2007. An additional charge of $5 million was recognized for the decrease in value of the AgCert warrants also held by the Company. The Company began consolidating AgCert in January 2008 when it became the primary beneficiary. Income taxes Income tax expense on continuing operations increased $95 million, or 14%, to $774 million in 2008. The Companys effective tax rates were 28% for 2008 and 45% for 2007. The decrease in the 2008 effective tax rate was primarily due to the non taxable gain of $905 million on the sale of the Kazakhstan businesses in the second quarter of 2008, offset by U.S. taxes on distributions from the Companys primary holding company to facilitate early retirement of parent debt in 2008. The decrease was also attributable to the implementation of a tax planning strategy that mitigated the impact of the Mexico Flat Rate Business Tax ("IETU") enacted in the fourth quarter of 2007. The strategy resulted in a reduction to deferred tax expense in 2008 of $24 million and $23 million at TEG and TEP, respectively. Income tax expense related to continuing operations increased $320 million, or 89%, to $679 million in 2007. The Companys effective tax rates were 45% for 2007 and 39% for 2006. The increase in the 2007 effective tax rate was due, in part, to an impairment at Uruguaiana for which no tax benefit was recorded, the impact of an appreciating Real in certain of our Brazilian subsidiaries, and the impact of income tax law changes in Mexico, partially offset by the nontaxable gain on the sales of shares of one of the Companys Chilean subsidiaries and a release of valuation allowance at one of our subsidiaries in Argentina. Net equity in earnings of affiliates Net equity in earnings of affiliates decreased $43 million, or 57%, to $33 million in 2008 primarily due to the impact of increased coal prices at Yangcheng, a coal fired plant in China, a decrease as a result of development costs related to AES Solar, formed in March 2008, and an additional write off of three projects in Turkey that were abandoned in December 2007. Additionally, earnings decreased due to the sale of a wind project in the fourth quarter of 2007, a decrease in earnings at OPGC, in India, and decreased earnings due to a discontinuance of hedge accounting for a number of interest rate swaps at Guacolda in Chile. These losses were partially offset by a decrease in net losses at Cartagena in Spain primarily from a write off of deferred financing costs in 2007 that did not recur in 2008. Net equity in earnings of affiliates increased $3 million, or 4%, to $76 million in 2007 primarily due to a full year of operations at Cartagena in 2007 and the absence of liquidated damages incurred in 2006 for construction delays. The increase was partially offset by a decrease in earnings in 2007 at AES Barry compared to 2006, due to proceeds received in 2006 from the settlement of a legal claim that did not recur in 2007. Minority interest Minority interest expense, net of tax, increased $363 million, or 84%, to $794 million in 2008 primarily due to the decreased losses as a result of the impairment recognized at Uruguaiana during 2007, increased earnings at Eletropaulo, Gener, Itabo, Panama and Tiet&ecirc;, as well as an increase in minority shareholders from approximately 20% to approximately 29% as a result of the sale of shares in Gener in November 2008. These increases were partially offset by an impairment recognized in the Bahamas, a net loss at Masinloc, and decreased earnings at Ras Laffan, Sonel, and Caess EEO & Clesa in El Salvador. Minority interest expense, net of tax, decreased $29 million, or 6%, to $431 million in 2007 primarily due to the recognition of previously deferred currency translation losses associated with the sale of Eletropaulo shares during the third quarter 2006, resulting in a decrease of our economic ownership in 111 Table of Contents Eletropaulo from 34% to 16%. See Note 17 Subsidiary Stock to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K for a further discussion of the sale of Eletropaulo shares and the Brasiliana restructuring. The decrease was also attributable to the minority interest impact of the impairment recognized at Uruguaiana in 2007, offset by increased earnings at Tiet&ecirc;. Discontinued operations As further discussed in Note 21 Discontinued Operations and Held for Sale Businesses to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K, Discontinued Operations includes the results of five businesses: Jiaozuo, a generation business in China, (sold in December 2008); La Electricidad de Caracas ("EDC"), a utility business in Venezuela, (sold in May 2007); Central Valley, a generation business in California (sold in July 2007); Eden, a utility business in Argentina (sold in June 2007), and Indian Queens, a generation business in the U.K. (sold in May 2006). Prior periods have been restated to reflect these businesses within Discontinued Operations for all periods presented. In 2008, income from operations of discontinued businesses, net of tax, was $12 million and reflected the operations of Jiaozuo, a coal fired generation facility in China sold in December 2008. The Company received $73 million for its 70% interest in the business. The net gain on the disposition was $7 million. In 2007, income from operations of discontinued businesses, net of tax, was $79 million and reflected the operations of Jiaozuo, EDC, Central Valley and Eden. EDC and Central Valley were sold in May 2007 and July 2007 for $739 million and $51 million, respectively, and the Eden sale was finalized in June 2007, therefore their results are reflected in the Companys results of operations through their respective sales dates. The loss on the disposal of discontinued businesses was $661 million and primarily related to the $680 million loss on the sale of EDC. In 2006, income from operations of discontinued businesses, net of tax, was $115 million and reflected the operations of Jiaozuo, EDC, Central Valley, Eden and Indian Queens. Indian Queens was sold in May 2006 therefore its results are reflected in the Companys results of operations through the sale date. The loss on the disposal of discontinued businesses was $57 million and primarily related to the $62 million impairment charge recognized at Eden to adjust the carrying value of its assets to their estimated net realizable value when the Company reached an agreement to sell Eden in May 2006. The Eden sale was finalized in June 2007. Extraordinary item In May 2006, AES purchased an additional 25% interest in Itabo, a power generation business located in the Dominican Republic for approximately $23 million. Prior to May, the Company held a 25% interest in Itabo, through its Gener subsidiary, and had accounted for the investment using the equity method of accounting with a corresponding investment balance reflected in the "Investments in and advances to affiliates" line item on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. As a result of the transaction, the Company consolidates Itabo and, therefore, the investment balance has been reclassified to the appropriate line items on the Consolidated Balance Sheets with a corresponding minority interest liability for the remaining 50% interest not owned by AES. The Company realized an after tax extraordinary gain of $21 million as a result of the transaction due to an excess of the fair value of the noncurrent assets over the purchase price.  Critical Accounting Estimates The Consolidated Financial Statements of AES are prepared in conformity with GAAP, which requires the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. AESs significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 General and 112 Table of Contents Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10 K. An accounting estimate is considered critical if: the estimate requires management to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the estimate was made; different estimates reasonably could have been used; or the impact of the estimates and assumptions on financial condition or operating performance is material. Management believes that the accounting estimates employed are appropriate and the resulting balances are reasonable; however, actual results could differ from the original estimates, requiring adjustments to these balances in future periods. Management has discussed these critical accounting policies with the audit committee, as appropriate. Listed below are certain significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Income Tax Reserves We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our worldwide income tax provision requires significant judgment and is based on calculations and assumptions that are subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service and other taxing authorities. The Company and certain of its subsidiaries are under examination by relevant taxing authorities for various tax years. The Company regularly assesses the potential outcome of these examinations in each of the taxing jurisdictions when determining the adequacy of the provision for income taxes. The Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Interpretation ("FIN") No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, ("FIN No. 48") effective January 1, 2007. The Interpretation prescribes a more likely than not recognition threshold and establishes new measurement requirements for financial statement reporting of an entitys income tax positions. Tax reserves have been established, which the Company believes to be adequate in relation to the potential for additional assessments. Once established, reserves are adjusted only when there is more information available or when an event occurs necessitating a change to the reserves. While the Company believes that the amount of the tax estimates are reasonable, it is possible that the ultimate outcome of current or future examinations may exceed current reserves in amounts that could be material. Goodwill We test goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or circumstances make it more likely than not that impairment may have occurred. Such indicators could include a significant adverse change in the business climate or a decision to sell or dispose all or a portion of a reporting unit. Goodwill impairment is evaluated using a two step process. The first step is to identify if a potential impairment exists by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying value. Determining whether an impairment has occurred requires the valuation of the respective reporting unit. The Company uses a discounted cash flow method to estimate the fair value. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, goodwill of the reporting unit is not considered to be impaired and no further analysis is required. In applying this methodology, we rely on a number of factors, including actual operating results, future business plans, economic projections and market data. Assumptions about operating results and growth rates are based on forecasts, future business plans, economic projections and anticipated future cash flows, among other things. Changes in any of these assumptions could result in management reaching a different conclusion regarding the potential impairment of a reporting unit. Our impairment analysis contains uncertainties from uncontrollable events that could positively or negatively impact the anticipated future economic and operating conditions. 113 Table of Contents If the carrying value exceeds the reporting units fair value, this could indicate potential impairment and step two of the goodwill evaluation process is required to determine if goodwill is impaired and to measure the amount of impairment loss to recognize, if any. The measurement of impairment requires a fair value estimate of each identified tangible and intangible asset in the same manner the fair value would be determined in a business combination. In this case, we supplement the cash flow approach discussed above with appraisals, or other observable sources of fair value, as appropriate. Regulatory Assets and Liabilities The Company accounts for certain of its regulated operations under the provisions of SFAS No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation, ("SFAS No. 71"). As a result, AES recognizes assets and liabilities that result from the regulated ratemaking process that would not be recognized under GAAP for non regulated entities. Regulatory assets generally represent incurred costs that have been deferred because such costs are probable of future recovery in customer rates. Regulatory liabilities generally represent obligations to make refunds to customers for previous collections for costs that are not likely to be incurred or included in future rate initiatives. Management continually assesses whether the regulatory assets are probable of future recovery by considering factors such as applicable regulatory changes, recent rate orders applicable to other regulated entities and the status of any pending or potential deregulation legislation. If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, any asset write offs would be required to be recognized in operating income. Fair Value Fair Value of Financial Instruments A significant number of the Companys financial instruments are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in earnings or other comprehensive income each period. The Company makes estimates regarding valuation of assets and liabilities measured at fair value in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements. These assets and liabilities include short and long term investments in debt and equity securities, included in the balance sheet line items "Short term investments" and "Other assets (Noncurrent)", derivative assets, included in "Other current assets" and "Other assets (Noncurrent)" and derivative liabilities, included in "Accrued and other liabilities (current)" and "Other long term liabilities". The Company uses valuation techniques and methodologies that maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. Where available, fair value is based on observable market prices or parameters or derived from such prices or parameters. Where observable prices or inputs are not available, valuation models are applied. The valuation techniques involve some level of management estimation and judgment, the degree of which is dependent on the price transparency for the instruments or market and the instruments complexity. Investments are generally fair valued based on quoted market prices or other observable market data such as interest rate indices. The Companys investments are primarily certificates of deposit, government debt securities and money market funds. Derivatives are valued using observable data as inputs into internal valuation models. The Companys derivatives primarily consist of interest rate swaps, foreign currency instruments, and commodity and embedded derivatives. Additional discussion regarding the nature of these financial instruments and valuation techniques can be found in Note 6 Fair Value of Financial Instruments. Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities We enter into various derivative transactions in order to hedge our exposure to certain market risks. We primarily use derivative instruments to manage our interest rate, commodity, and foreign currency exposures. We do not enter into derivative transactions for trading purposes. 114 Table of Contents Under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities as amended, ("SFAS No. 133"), we recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the balance sheet and measure those instruments at fair value except where derivatives qualify and are designated as "normal purchase/normal sale" transactions. Changes in fair value of derivatives are recognized in earnings unless specific hedge criteria are met. Income and expense related to derivative instruments are recognized in the same category as generated by the underlying asset or liability. SFAS No. 133 enables companies to designate qualifying derivatives as hedging instruments based on the exposure being hedged. These hedge designations include fair value hedges and cash flow hedges. Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is highly effective and is designated and qualifies as a fair value hedge, are recognized in earnings as offsets to the changes in fair value of the exposure being hedged. The Company has no fair value hedges at this time. Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is highly effective and is designated as and qualifies as a cash flow hedge, are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income and are recognized into earnings as the hedged transactions occur. Any ineffectiveness is recognized in earnings immediately. For all hedge contracts, the Company provides formal documentation of the hedge and effectiveness testing in accordance with SFAS No. 133. The Company adopted SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurement, ("SFAS No. 157") on January 1, 2008. SFAS No. 157 provides additional guidance on the definition of fair value and defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date, or exit price. SFAS No. 157 requires the Company to consider and reflect the assumptions of market participants in the fair value calculation. These factors include nonperformance risk (the risk that the obligation will not be fulfilled) and credit risk, both of the reporting entity (for liabilities) and of the counterparty (for assets). These factors were not previously considered in the fair value calculation. Due to the nature of the Companys interest rate swaps, which are typically associated with non recourse debt, credit risk for AES is evaluated at the subsidiary level rather than at the Parent Company level. Nonperformance risk on the Companys derivative instruments is an adjustment to the initial asset/liability fair value position that is derived from internally developed valuation models that utilize observable market inputs. As a result of uncertainty, complexity and judgment, accounting estimates related to derivative accounting could result in material changes to our financial statements under different conditions or utilizing different assumptions. As a part of accounting for these derivatives, we make estimates concerning nonperformance, volatilities, market liquidity, future commodity prices, interest rates, credit ratings (both ours and our counterpartys), and exchange rates. The fair value of our derivative portfolio is generally determined using internal valuation models, most of which are based on observable market inputs including interest rate curves and forward and spot prices for currencies and commodities. The Company derives most of its financial instrument market assumptions from market efficient data sources (e.g. Bloomberg and Platts). In some cases, where market data is not readily available, management uses comparable market sources and empirical evidence to derive market assumptions to determine a financial instruments fair value. In certain instances, the published curve may not extend through the remaining term of the contract and management must make assumptions to extrapolate the curve. Additionally, in the absence of quoted prices, we may rely on "indicative pricing" quotes from financial institutions to input into our valuation model for certain of our foreign currency swaps. These indicative pricing quotes do not constitute either a bid or ask price and therefore are not considered observable market data. For individual contracts, the use of different valuation models or assumptions could have a material effect on the calculated fair value. 115  Table of Contents Fair Value Hierarchy The Company uses valuation techniques and methodologies that maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. Where available, fair value is based on observable market prices or parameters or derived from such prices or parameters. Where observable prices or inputs are not available, valuation models are applied. The valuation techniques involve some level of management estimation and judgment, the degree of which is dependent on the price transparency for the instruments or market and the instruments complexity. To increase consistency and enhance disclosure of the fair value of financial instruments, SFAS No. 157 creates a fair value hierarchy to prioritize the inputs used to measure fair value into three categories. A financial instruments level within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of input significant to the fair value measurement, where Level 1 is the highest and Level 3 is the lowest. For more information regarding the fair value hierarchy, see Note 1 General and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in 
 
