Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward Looking Statements This report contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. The statements that are not purely historical should be considered forward looking statements. Often they can be identified by the use of forward looking words, such as may, will, could, project, believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, continue, potential, plan, forecasts, and the like. Statements concerning current conditions may also be forward looking if they imply a continuation of current conditions. These statements appear in a number of places in this report and include statements regarding the intentions, plans, strategies, beliefs or current expectations of the Company with respect to, among other things: the financial prospects of the Company; litigation and other contingencies potentially affecting the Companys financial position, operating results or liquidity; trends affecting the Companys financial condition or operating results; the Companys strategies for growth, operations, product development and commercialization; and conditions or trends in or factors affecting the computer, data storage, home entertainment or hard drive industry. Forward looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward looking statements. Readers are urged to carefully review the disclosures made by the Company concerning risks and other factors that may affect the Companys business and operating results, including those made under the headings Risk factors related to the hard drive industry in which we operate and Risk factors relating to Western Digital particularly, in this report, as well as the Companys other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. The Company undertakes no obligation to publish revised forward looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Unless otherwise indicated, references herein to specific years and quarters are to the Companys fiscal years and fiscal quarters. 16 Table of Contents Results of Operations Summary of 2002, 2001 and 2000 Comparison The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, items in the Companys statements of operations expressed as a percentage of total revenue. This table and the following discussion exclude the results of the discontinued businesses. Years ended June 28, June 29, June 30, 2002 2001 2000 Revenues, net 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenues (86.9 ) (89.4 ) (99.5 ) Gross profit 13.1 10.6 0.5 Research and development (5.6 ) (5.8 ) (7.7 ) Selling, general and administrative (5.2 ) (5.9 ) (6.5 ) Restructuring charges (4.4 ) Total operating expenses (10.8 ) (11.7 ) (18.6 ) Operating income (loss) 2.3 (1.1 ) (18.1 ) Net interest and other income (expense) 0.1 (2.7 ) 0.3 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income tax benefit 2.4 (3.8 ) (17.8 ) Income tax benefit 0.1 1.0 Income (loss) from continuing operations 2.5 % (3.8 )% (16.8 )% Net Revenues Consolidated net revenues were $2.2, $2.0 and $2.0 billion in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The increase in net revenues in 2002 from 2001 of $0.2 billion, or 10.1%, was primarily due to an increase in unit shipments of 31%, partially offset by a 16% decrease in average selling prices (ASPs). The significant change in units and ASPs in 2002 from 2001 is primarily due to expansion of the Companys hard drive product line into lower end desktop PC and consumer electronics markets. Consolidated net revenues in 2001 were flat with 2000, at approximately $2.0 billion. Excluding $141.8 million of revenue in 2000 related to the Companys discontinued small computer system interface (SCSI) product line, revenue increased $138.0 million or 7.6% in 2001. This improvement was due to an increase in EIDE drive unit shipments of approximately 19%, partially offset by a 10% decline in ASPs. Gross Profit Gross profit was $281.6 million, or 13.1% of revenue in 2002, $207.7 million, or 10.6% of revenue in 2001, and $9.6 million, or 0.5% of revenue, in 2000. Gross profit for 2000 included $72.5 million of special charges, of which $34.8 million related to costs associated with exiting the SCSI hard drive product line, and $37.7 million related to costs to repair recalled drives. Excluding special charges, gross profit was $82.1 million, or 4.2% of revenue, for 2000. The increase in gross profit in 2002 from 2001 was primarily the result of more cost effective designs and higher unit volume, partially offset by lower ASPs. The increase in gross profit in 2001 from 2000 (excluding the 2000 special charges) was primarily the result of higher volume and lower manufacturing costs due to 2000 expense reduction efforts, partially offset by lower ASPs. Operating Expenses Research and development (R&D) expense was $120.1, $113.4 and $150.7 million for 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The increase in R&D expense in 2002 from 2001 of $6.7 million was due to increases in new development programs and higher employee incentive payments, partially offset by expense reduction 17 Table of Contents efforts. The decrease in 2001 from 2000 of $37.3 million was primarily due to the Companys exit from the SCSI hard drive market during 2000 and expense reduction efforts in its remaining hard drive operations. Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expense was $110.8, $115.8 and $127.0 million for 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The decrease in SG&A expense in 2002 from 2001 of $5.0 million was primarily due to expense reduction efforts, partially offset by higher employee incentive payments. The decrease in 2001 from 2000 of $11.2 million was primarily due to the Companys exit from the SCSI hard drive market in 2000 and expense reduction efforts in its remaining hard drive operations. Restructuring Charges During 2000, the Company initiated restructuring actions to improve operational efficiency and reduce operating expenses. These actions primarily consisted of a consolidation of the Companys Asian operations and termination of its SCSI hard drive product line. Restructuring charges recorded in connection with these actions totaled $85.8 million and consisted of severance and outplacement costs, the retirement of manufacturing equipment and information systems assets, and net lease cancellation costs. Also recorded in connection with these actions were special charges to cost of revenues of $34.8 million for vendor settlements, incremental warranty, and inventory write downs associated with exiting the SCSI hard drive product line. Interest and Other Income (Expense) Net interest and other income (expense) was $1.4, ($53.1) and $4.9 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. This includes net investment gains of $4.8 million in 2002, investment write offs and related lease contingency accruals of $52.4 million in 2001, and net investment gains of $14.8 million in 2000. Excluding these nonrecurring items, net interest and other expense was $3.4, $0.7 and $9.9 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The increase in net expense in 2002 (excluding nonrecurring items) was primarily due to a decrease in interest income as a result of lower interest rates. The decrease in net expense in 2001 (excluding nonrecurring items) was primarily due to lower interest expense on lower average debt balances resulting from the payment in 2000 of an outstanding term loan of $50.0 million and redemptions during 2000 and 2001 of the Companys 5.25% zero coupon convertible debentures. Included in 2002s net investment gains is a $9.0 million recovery from the sale of the Companys remaining Komag investments to a third party. These investments were part of the $52.4 million nonoperating charge recorded to net interest and other expense during 2001 to adjust the carrying value of equity investments in and notes receivable from Komag and accruals of Komag contingent guarantees, resulting from Komags announcement to file for Chapter 11 reorganization. Income Tax Benefit The Companys 2002 net income tax benefit of $1.1 million included a federal income tax refund of $3.1 million for a loss carryback available as a result of tax legislation enacted during the year. During 2001, the Company did not record an income tax benefit, as no loss carrybacks were available at that time. During 2000, the Company recorded an income tax benefit of $19.5 million to adjust its current and deferred tax accruals. The accruals were established in prior years primarily for the unremitted income of foreign subsidiaries. However, due to the significant increase of net operating loss carryforwards and reevaluation of the accruals after the substantial international restructurings in 2000, the Company believed the accruals were no longer necessary. See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Discontinued Operations During 2002, the Company discontinued the operations of new business ventures, including Connex, Inc. (Connex), SANavigator, Inc. (SANavigator) and Keen Personal Media, Inc. (Keen). The Company sold substantially all of the assets of its Connex and SANavigator businesses for a net gain of $24.5 million and terminated the Keen operations. These operating losses for the periods reported and the net gain recognized on the sale of Connex and SANavigator have been segregated from continuing operations and reported separately on the statements of operations as discontinued operations. 18 Table of Contents Extraordinary Item During 2002, the Company issued 2.6 million shares of common stock and paid $17.6 million in cash in exchange for $72.4 million in face value of its convertible debentures (with a book value of $31.6 million). During 2001, the Company issued 16.0 million shares of common stock in exchange for $295.7 million in face value of its convertible debentures (with a book value of $120.3 million). During 2000, the Company issued 26.7 million shares of common stock in exchange for $735.6 million in face value of its convertible debentures (with a book value of $284.1 million). These redemptions were private, individually negotiated transactions with certain institutional investors. As a result of the redemptions, the Company recognized an extraordinary loss of $0.1 million in 2002 and extraordinary gains of $22.4 and $166.9 million in 2001 and 2000, respectively (see also New Accounting Pronouncements). Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company had cash and cash equivalents of $223.7 million at June 28, 2002 and $167.6 million at June 29, 2001. Net cash provided by continuing operations was $82.8 million during 2002 as compared to net cash used for continuing operations of $58.8 million during 2001. This $141.6 million improvement in cash provided by continuing operations consists of a $79.7 million improvement in the Companys net income, net of non cash items, and a $61.9 million decrease in cash used to fund working capital requirements. These improvements are due to significantly better operating performance by the Company, including higher sales volume, improved cost management, and a lower cash conversion cycle. The Companys cash conversion cycle, which represents the sum of the number of days sales outstanding (DSO) and days inventory outstanding (DIO) less days payable outstanding (DPO), was negative 9 days for 2002, a 2 day improvement over the prior year. Accounts receivable at June 28, 2002 was higher than the prior year as a result of higher fourth quarter revenue combined with longer average collection days due to the elimination of certain early payment discount programs. However, this increase in average collection days was offset by improved inventory turns and longer payment days with suppliers. The allowance for doubtful accounts decreased to $7.6 million at June 28, 2002 from $13.3 million at June 29, 2001 as a result of the write off of fully reserved accounts receivable balances which management determined to be uncollectable. Other uses of cash during 2002 included net capital expenditures of $47.7 million, primarily for normal replacement of existing assets and the purchase of assets for the Companys new manufacturing facility in Thailand, and $17.6 million for debenture redemptions. Other sources of cash during 2002 included $9.9 million received from the sale of assets, $10.2 million received in connection with stock option and warrant exercises and Employee Stock Purchase Plan purchases, and $0.5 million received by the Companys subsidiary from minority investors. Other uses of cash during 2001 included net capital expenditures of $50.7 million, primarily to upgrade the Companys hard drive production capabilities and for normal replacement of existing assets. Other sources of cash during 2001 included proceeds of $15.0 million received upon the sale of marketable equity securities, $110.5 million received upon issuance of 23.5 million shares of the Company stock under the Companys equity facility and $7.1 million received in connection with the stock option exercises and Employee Stock Purchase Plan purchases. The Company anticipates that capital expenditures in 2003 will not be more than $65.0 million and will relate to normal replacement of existing assets and expansion of the Companys new Thailand facility. Discontinued operations provided net cash proceeds of $18.2 million in 2002, including approximately $36.7 million net proceeds from asset sales. This compares to $39.5 million in net cash used to fund the operating, investing and financing activities of the discontinued operations for 2001. The Company has zero coupon convertible subordinated debentures due February 18, 2018 (the Debentures). The Debentures are subordinated to all senior debt; are redeemable at the option of the Company any time after February 18, 2003 at the issue price plus accrued original issue discount to the date of redemption; and at the holders option, will be redeemed by the Company, as of February 18, 2003, 19 Table of Contents February 18, 2008 or February 18, 2013, or if there is a Fundamental Change (as defined in the Debenture documents), at the issue price plus accrued original issue discount to the date of redemption. The payment on those dates, with the exception of a Fundamental Change, can be in cash, stock or any combination, at the Companys option. The Debentures are convertible into shares of the Companys common stock at the rate of 14.935 shares per $1,000 principal amount at maturity. Since issuance of the Debentures in 1998, the Company has redeemed Debentures with a book value of $435.9 million and an aggregate principal amount at maturity of $1.1 billion through the issuance of cash and/ or common stock. These redemptions were private, individually negotiated transactions with certain institutional investors. As of June 28, 2002, the remaining book value of the Debentures was $86.2 million, the aggregate principal amount at maturity was $193.5 million and the market value was $83.0 million. Based on current forecasts that show the Company continuing to generate positive cash flow from operations, the Company now intends to satisfy the majority, if not all, of its put obligations in cash instead of common stock. Accordingly, the Debentures have been classified as a current liability at June 28, 2002. Debentures not put to the Company in February 2003, if any, will be reclassified as long term debt. During 2001, the Company entered into a three year Senior Credit Facility, replacing a previous facility that had matured on March 31, 2000. The Senior Credit Facility provides up to $125 million in revolving credit (subject to outstanding letters of credit and a borrowing base calculation), matures on September 20, 2003 and is secured by accounts receivable, inventory, 65% of the stock in its foreign subsidiaries and other assets. At the option of the Company, borrowings bear interest at either LIBOR (with option periods of one to three months) or a base rate, plus a margin determined by the borrowing base. The Senior Credit Facility requires the Company to maintain certain amounts of tangible net worth, prohibits the payment of cash dividends on common stock and contains a number of other covenants. As of the date hereof, there were no borrowings under the facility. However, the Company has issued a $25 million standby letter of credit under the facility to Cirrus Logic, Inc. (Cirrus) concerning $25 million in disputed accounts payable. These disputed accounts payable have been recorded in the Companys financial statements, but are part of the Companys litigation against Cirrus (see Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). The availability under the Senior Credit Facility has been reduced by a corresponding amount of the outstanding letter of credit. During 2001 and 2000, respectively, the Company issued 23.5 and 24.6 million shares of common stock under preexisting shelf registrations for net cash proceeds of $110.5 and $111.8 million. During 2002, no common stock was issued under these shelf registrations and the Company withdrew them as management determined they would not be utilized in the foreseeable future. At June 28, 2002, the Company had cash and cash equivalents of $223.7 million, working capital of $34.8 million (net of the Debentures) and shareholders equity of $102.9 million. In addition, the Company has a Senior Credit Facility providing up to $125 million in revolving credit (subject to outstanding letters of credit and a borrowing base calculation). The Company believes its current cash and cash equivalents and its existing credit facility will be sufficient to meet its working capital needs through the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that the Senior Credit Facility will continue to be available to the Company. Also, the Companys ability to sustain its working capital position is dependent upon a number of factors that are discussed below under the headings Risk factors related to the hard drive industry in which we operate and Risk factors relating to Western Digital particularly. Commitments The following is a summary of the Companys significant contractual cash obligations and commercial commitments at June 28, 2002: Convertible Debentures The Company has zero coupon convertible subordinated debentures due February 18, 2018 (the Debentures). For a description of the Debentures, see the discussion under Liquidity and Capital Resources. 20 Table of Contents Operating Leases The Company leases certain facilities and equipment under long term, non cancelable operating leases which expire at various dates through 2010. The following table summarizes the future payments of these leases (in thousands): Operating Leases 2003 $ 10,131 2004 8,213 2005 7,061 2006 7,004 2007 5,508 Thereafter 19,559 Total future minimum lease obligations $ 57,476 Purchase Orders In the normal course of business, to reduce the risk of component shortages, the Company enters into purchase commitments with suppliers for the purchase of hard drive components used to manufacture the Companys products. These commitments generally cover forecasted component supplies needed for production during the next quarter, become payable upon receipt of the components and may be non cancelable (cancellation charges may be significant). The Companys relationship with suppliers allows for some flexibility within these commitments and quantities are subject to change as a quarter progresses and the Companys needs change. Forward Exchange Contracts Although the majority of the Companys transactions are in U.S. Dollars, some transactions are based in various foreign currencies. The Company purchases short term, forward exchange contracts to hedge the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain underlying assets, liabilities and commitments for operating expenses denominated in foreign currencies. The Company does not purchase short term forward exchange contracts for trading purposes. As of June 28, 2002, the Company had $5.0 million outstanding of purchased foreign currency forward exchange contracts. The contracts have maturity dates that do not exceed three months. At June 28, 2002, the carrying value of the contracts approximates fair value. Critical Accounting Policies The preceding discussion and analysis of the Companys results of operations is based on its consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of the financial statements requires estimation and judgment that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. The Company has adopted accounting policies and practices that are generally accepted in the industry in which it operates. Following are the Companys most critical accounting policies that affect significant areas and involve managements judgment and estimates. If these estimates differ materially from actual results, the impact to the consolidated financial statements may be material. Revenue and Accounts Receivable In accordance with standard industry practice, the Company has agreements with resellers that provide price protection for inventories held by resellers at the time of published list price reductions. In addition the Company may have agreements with resellers that provide for stock rotation on slow moving items and other incentive programs. In accordance with current accounting standards, the Company recognizes revenue upon shipment or delivery to resellers and records a corresponding adjustment for estimated price protection and other programs in effect until the resellers sell such inventory to their customers. Adjustments are based on 21 Table of Contents anticipated price decreases, estimated amounts to be reimbursed to qualifying customers, estimated future returns, as well as historical pricing information. The Company establishes an allowance for doubtful accounts by analyzing specific customer accounts and assessing the risk of uncollectibility based on insolvency, disputes or other collection issues. In addition, the Company routinely analyzes the different receivable aging categories and establishes reserves based on the length of time receivables are past due. The Company records provisions against revenue and cost of revenues for estimated sales returns in the same period that the related revenues are recognized. The Company bases these provisions on existing product return notifications as well as historical returns by product type (see Warranty). Warranty The Company records an accrual for estimated warranty costs when revenue is recognized. Warranty covers cost of repair or replacement of the hard drive, and the warranty periods range from one to three years. The Company has comprehensive processes with which to estimate accruals for warranty, which include specific detail on hard drives in the field by product type, historical field return rates and costs to repair. Inventory Inventories are valued at the lower of cost (first in, first out basis) or net realizable value. Inventory write downs are recorded for the valuation of inventory at the lower of cost or net realizable value by analyzing market conditions, estimates of future sales prices, inventory costs and inventory balances. The Company evaluates inventory balances for excess quantities and obsolescence on a regular basis by analyzing backlog, estimated demand, inventory on hand, sales levels and other information. The Company writes down inventory balances for excess and obsolete inventory based on the analysis. Litigation and Other Contingencies The Company applies Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies to determine when and how much to accrue for and disclose related to legal and other contingencies. Accordingly, the Company accrues loss contingencies when management, in consultation with its legal advisors, concludes that a loss is probable and reasonably estimable. Deferred Tax Assets The Companys deferred tax assets, which consist primarily of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, are fully reserved due to managements determination that it is more likely than not that these assets will not be realized. This determination is based on the weight of available evidence, the most significant of which is the Companys loss history in the related tax jurisdictions. Should this determination change in the future, some amount of deferred tax assets could be recognized, resulting in a tax benefit or a reduction of future tax expense. New Accounting Pronouncements During April 2002, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 145, Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44, and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections (SFAS 145). SFAS 145 rescinds SFAS 4, Reporting Gains and Losses from Extinguishment of Debt, which required all gains and losses from extinguishment of debt to be classified as an extraordinary item. The Company will adopt SFAS 145 on June 29, 2002 at which time it will begin classifying gains and losses resulting from the extinguishment of debt as other income and expense, instead of extraordinary items. The adoption will not have a net impact on the Companys results of operations or liquidity. On September 11, 2002, the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) reached a consensus on Issue No. 02 15, Determining Whether Certain Conversions of Convertible Debt to Equity Securities are within 22 Table of Contents the Scope of FASB Statement No. 84, Induced Conversions of Convertible Debt (FAS 84). The EITF deliberated this issue because of diversity in practice in the accounting for conversions of convertible debt to equity initiated by the debt holder. In practice, some registrants accounted for these transactions following FAS 84 while others followed Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 26, Early Extinguishment of Debt (APB 26). The EITF concluded that FAS 84 applies to conversions of convertible debt when the offer for consideration in excess of the original conversion terms was made by the bondholder. The EITF concluded that this guidance should be followed for transactions entered into on or after September 12, 2002. The Companys previous extinguishments of its convertible debentures involving the issuance of stock have been accounted for under APB 26 whereby a gain on early extinguishment was recorded equal to the excess of the net book value of the indebtedness over the fair value of the consideration paid to extinguish the indebtedness. Following the guidance in EITF Issue No. 02 15, similar early extinguishments of the convertible debentures involving stock initiated by the debt holder will give rise to a conversion inducement expense equal to the fair value of the shares issued in excess of those required to be issued upon the exercise of the debenture conversion feature. The Company does not expect EITF Issue No. 02 15 to have a significant impact on the future results of operations because the Company does not expect to use stock to make early extinguishments of its convertible debentures. Risk factors related to the hard drive industry in which we operate Our operating results depend on our being among the first to market and first to volume with our new products at a low cost. To achieve consistent success with computer manufacturer customers, we must be an early provider of next generation hard drives featuring leading technology and high quality. If we fail to: consistently maintain or improve our time to market performance with our new products, produce these products in sufficient volume within our rapid product cycle, qualify these products with key customers on a timely basis by meeting our customers performance and quality specifications, achieve acceptable manufacturing yields and costs with these products, or consistently meet stated quality requirements on delivered products, our operating results would be adversely affected. Product life cycles require continuous technical innovation associated with higher areal densities. New products require higher areal densities (the gigabyte of storage per disk) than previous product generations, posing formidable technical challenges. Higher areal densities require fewer heads and disks to achieve a given drive capacity, which means that existing head technology must be improved to accommodate more data on a single disk. Our failure to bring these new products to market on time and at acceptable costs would put us at a competitive disadvantage to companies that achieve these results. Short product life cycles make it difficult to recover the cost of development. Over the past few years, hard drive areal density has increased at a much more rapid pace than previously experienced. This has significantly shortened product life cycles since each generation of drives is more cost effective than the previous one. Shorter product life cycles make it more difficult to recover the cost of product development. Short product life cycles and new products force us to continually qualify new products with our customers. Due to short product life cycles and continuously changing products, we must regularly engage in new product qualification with our customers. To be considered for qualification we must be among the leaders in time to market with our new products. Once a product is accepted for qualification testing, any failure or 23 Table of Contents delay in the qualification process can result in our losing sales to that customer until the next generation of products is introduced. The effect of missing a product qualification opportunity is magnified by the limited number of high volume computer manufacturers, most of which continue to consolidate their share of the PC market. These risks are increased because we expect cost improvements and competitive pressures to result in declining sales and gross margins on our current generation products. Unexpected technology advances in the hard drive industry could harm our competitive position. If one of our competitors were able to implement a significant advance in head or disk drive technology that enables a step change increase in areal density that permits greater storage of data on a disk, it could harm our operating results. Advances in magnetic, optical, semiconductor or other data storage technologies could result in competitive products that have better performance or lower cost per unit of capacity than our products. If these products prove to be superior in performance or cost per unit of capacity, we could be at a competitive disadvantage to the companies offering those products. Our average selling prices are declining. We expect that our average selling prices for hard drives will continue to decline. Increases in areal density mean that the average drive we sell has fewer heads and disks, and therefore lower component cost. Because of the competitiveness of the hard drive industry, lower costs generally mean lower prices. This is true even for those products that are competitive and introduced into the market in a timely manner. Our average selling prices decline even further when competitors lower prices to absorb excess capacity, liquidate excess inventories, restructure or attempt to gain market share. The hard drive industry is highly competitive and characterized by rapid shifts in market share among the major competitors. The price of hard drives has fallen over time due to increases in supply, cost reductions, technological advances and price reductions by competitors seeking to liquidate excess inventories or attempting to gain market share. In addition, rapid technological changes often reduce the volume and profitability of sales of existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence. These factors, taken together, result in significant and rapid shifts in market share among the industrys major participants. For example, during the first quarter of 2000, the Company lost market share as a result of a product recall. Similar losses in market share could adversely affect our operating results. Our prices and margins are subject to declines due to unpredictable end user demand and oversupply of hard drives. Demand for our hard drives depends on the demand for systems manufactured by our customers and on storage upgrades to existing systems. The demand for systems has been volatile in the past and often has had an exaggerated effect on the demand for hard drives in any given period. As a result, the hard drive market tends to experience periods of excess capacity, which typically lead to intense price competition. During calendar year 2001 and the first half of calendar year 2002, the industry experienced weak PC demand in the U.S. and other markets. If intense price competition occurs as a result of weak demand, we may be forced to lower prices sooner and more than expected, which could result in lower revenues and gross profits. Changes in the markets for hard drives require us to develop new products. Over the past few years the consumer market for desktop computers has shifted significantly towards lower priced systems, especially those systems priced below $1,000. Although we were late to market with a value line hard drive to serve the low cost PC market, we are now offering such value line products at prices that we view as competitive. However, if we are not able to continue to offer a competitively priced value line hard drive for the low cost PC market, our share of that market will likely fall, which could harm our operating results. 24 Table of Contents The PC market is fragmenting into a variety of computing devices and products. Some of these products, such as Internet appliances, may not contain a hard drive. On the other hand, many industry analysts expect, as do we, that as broadcasting and communications are increasingly converted to digital technology from the older, analog technology, the technology of computers and consumer electronics and communication devices will converge, and hard drives will be found in many consumer products other than computers. For 2002, more than 10% of our unit sales were for consumer products other than computers, primarily gaming devices. If we are not successful in using our hard drive technology and expertise to develop new products for these emerging markets, it will likely harm our operating results. The market acceptance for hard disk drives in game consoles continues to be uncertain. The use of hard disk drives in the game console market is a fairly recent trend. Due to the price competitive nature of the hard disk drive industry, with selling prices of personal computers being substantially higher than game consoles, game manufacturers may not have the ability to either incorporate or continue to incorporate hard disk drives into their overall architecture. In addition, current price reduction demands from either current or future game console customers may not make hard disk drive integration an attractive market for us or other hard drive manufacturers. We depend on our key personnel and skilled employees. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our key personnel and skilled employees, many of whom would be extremely difficult to replace. Worldwide competition for skilled employees in the hard drive industry is intense. We have lost a number of experienced hard drive engineers over the past two years as a result of the loss of retention value of their employee stock options (because of the decrease in price of our common stock) and aggressive recruiting of our employees. If we are unable to retain our existing key personnel or skilled employees or hire and integrate new key personnel or skilled employees, our operating results would likely be harmed. Risk factors relating to Western Digital particularly Loss of market share with a key customer could harm our operating results. A majority of our revenue comes from a few customers. For example, during 2002, sales to our top 10 customers accounted for approximately 58% of revenue. These customers have a variety of suppliers to choose from and therefore can make substantial demands on us. Even if we successfully qualify a product with a customer, the customer generally is not obligated to purchase any minimum volume of products from us and is able to terminate its relationship with us at any time. Our ability to maintain strong relationships with our principal customers is essential to our future performance. If we lose a key customer, or if any of our key customers reduce their orders of our products or require us to reduce our prices before we are able to reduce costs, our operating results would likely be harmed. For example, this occurred with our enterprise hard drive product line early in the third quarter of 2000 and is one of the factors which led to our decision to exit the enterprise hard drive market. Dependence on a limited number of qualified suppliers of components could lead to delays, lost revenue or increased costs. Because we do not manufacture any of the basic components in our hard drives, an extended shortage of required components or the failure of key suppliers to remain in business, adjust to market conditions, or to meet our quality, yield or production requirements could harm us more severely than our competitors, some of whom manufacture certain of the components for their hard drives, and could significantly harm our operating results. A number of the components used by us are available from only a single or limited number of qualified outside suppliers. If a component is in short supply, or a supplier fails to qualify or has a quality issue with a component, we may experience delays or increased costs in obtaining that component. In addition, if a component becomes unavailable, we could suffer significant loss of revenue. For example, we lost revenue in 25 Table of Contents September 1999 when we had to shut down our Caviar product line production for approximately two weeks as a result of a faulty power driver chip that was sole sourced from a third party supplier. To reduce the risk of component shortages, we attempt to provide significant lead times when buying these components. As a result, we may have to pay significant cancellation charges to suppliers if we cancel orders, as we did in 1998 when we accelerated our transition to magnetoresistive recording head technology, and as we did in 2000 as a result of our decision to exit the enterprise hard drive market. In April 1999, we entered into a three year volume purchase agreement with Komag under which we buy a substantial portion of our media components from Komag. In October 2001, we amended the Komag volume purchase agreement to extend the initial term to six years. Similarly, in February 2001, we entered into a two year volume purchase agreement with IBM under which we buy a substantial portion of our read channel chips from IBM. Effective June 2002, we amended the IBM volume purchase agreement to extend the initial term through December 31, 2003. These strategic relationships have increased our dependence on each of Komag and IBM as a supplier. Our future operating results may depend substantially on Komags ability to timely qualify its media components in our new development programs, and each of Komags and IBMs ability to supply us with these components or chips, as the case may be, in sufficient volume to meet our production requirements. A significant disruption in Komags ability to manufacture and supply us with media components or IBMs ability to manufacture and supply us with read channel chips could harm our operating results. To develop new products we must maintain effective partner relationships with our strategic component suppliers. Under our business model, we do not manufacture any of the component parts used in our hard drives. As a result, the success of our products depends on our ability to gain access to and integrate parts that are best in class from reliable component suppliers. To do so we must effectively manage our relationships with our strategic component suppliers. We must also effectively integrate different products from a variety of suppliers, each of which employs variations on technology which can impact, for example, feasible combinations of heads and media components. We are currently engaged in litigation with Cirrus, which until this year was the sole source of read channel chips for our hard drives. As a result of the disputes that gave rise to the litigation, our business operations were at risk until another suppliers read channel chips could be designed into our products. Similar disputes with other strategic component suppliers could adversely affect our operating results. We have only one primary high volume manufacturing facility, and a secondary smaller facility, which subjects us to the risk of damage or loss of either facility. The majority of our manufacturing volume comes from one facility in Malaysia. During 2002, we acquired a second, smaller manufacturing facility in Thailand. A fire, flood, earthquake or other disaster, condition or event that adversely affects either our Malaysia or Thailand facility or ability to manufacture could result in a loss of sales and revenue and harm our operating results. Terrorist attacks may adversely affect our business and operating results. The terrorist attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001, the United States led military response to counter terrorism and the continued threat of terrorist activity and other acts of war or hostility have created uncertainty in the financial and insurance markets and have significantly increased the political, economic and social instability in some of the geographic areas in which the Company operates. It is possible that further acts of terrorism may be directed against the United States domestically or abroad and such acts of terrorism could be directed against properties and personnel of U.S. owned companies such as ours. 26 Table of Contents Manufacturing our products abroad subjects us to numerous risks. We are subject to risks associated with our foreign manufacturing operations, including: obtaining requisite United States and foreign governmental permits and approvals; currency exchange rate fluctuations or restrictions; political instability and civil unrest; transportation delays or higher freight rates; labor problems; trade restrictions or higher tariffs; exchange, currency and tax controls and reallocations; increasing labor and overhead costs; and loss or non renewal of favorable tax treatment under agreements or treaties with foreign tax authorities. We have attempted to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes by, among other things, entering into short term, forward exchange contracts. However, those contracts do not cover our full exposure and can be canceled by the issuer if currency controls are put in place, which occurred in Malaysia during the first quarter of 1999. As a result of the Malaysian currency controls, we are no longer hedging the Malaysian currency risk. Currently, we hedge the Thai Baht and British Pound Sterling. The nature of our business and our reliance on intellectual property and other proprietary information subjects us to the risk of significant litigation. The hard drive industry has been characterized by significant litigation. This includes litigation relating to patent and other intellectual property rights, product liability claims and other types of litigation. We are currently evaluating notices of alleged patent infringement or notices of patents from patent holders. We also are a party to several judicial and other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. If we conclude that a claim of infringement is valid, we may be required to obtain a license or cross license, modify our existing technology or design a new non infringing technology. Such licenses or design modifications can be extremely costly. We may also be liable for any past infringement. If there is an adverse ruling against us in an infringement lawsuit, an injunction could be issued barring production or sale of any infringing product. It could also result in a damage award equal to a reasonable royalty or lost profits or, if there is a finding of willful infringement, treble damages. Any of these results would likely increase our costs and harm our operating results. Our reliance on intellectual property and other proprietary information subjects us to the risk that these key ingredients of our business could be copied by competitors. Our success depends, in significant part, on the proprietary nature of our technology, including non patentable intellectual property such as our process technology. Despite safeguards, to the extent that a competitor is able to reproduce or otherwise capitalize on our technology, it may be difficult, expensive or impossible for us to obtain necessary legal protection. Also, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In addition to patent protection of intellectual property rights, we consider elements of our product designs and processes to be proprietary and confidential. We rely upon employee, consultant and vendor non disclosure agreements and contractual provisions and a system of internal safeguards to protect our proprietary information. However, any of our registered or unregistered intellectual property rights may be challenged or exploited by others in the industry, which might harm our operating results. 27 Table of Contents Inaccurate projections of demand for our product can cause large fluctuations in our quarterly results. If we do not forecast total quarterly demand accurately, it can have a material adverse effect on our quarterly results. We typically book and ship a high percentage (at times up to 58%) of our total quarterly sales in the third month of the quarter, which makes it difficult for us to match our production plans to customer demands. In addition, our quarterly projections and results may be subject to significant fluctuations as a result of a number of other factors including: the timing of orders from and shipment of products to major customers; our product mix; changes in the prices of our products; manufacturing delays or interruptions; acceptance by customers of competing products in lieu of our products; variations in the cost of components for our products; limited access to components that we obtain from a single or a limited number of suppliers, such as Komag and IBM; competition and consolidation in the data storage industry; and seasonal and other fluctuations in demand for computers often due to technological advances. Rapidly changing market conditions in the hard drive industry make it difficult to estimate actual results. We have made and continue to make a number of estimates and assumptions relating to our consolidated financial reporting. The rapidly changing market conditions with which we deal means that actual results may differ significantly from our estimates and assumptions. Key estimates and assumptions for us include: accruals for warranty costs related to product defects; price protection adjustments and other sales promotions and allowances on products sold to retailers, resellers and distributors; inventory adjustments for write down of inventories to lower of cost or market value (net realizable value); reserves for doubtful accounts; accruals for product returns; accruals for litigation and other contingencies; and reserves for deferred tax assets. The market price of our common stock is volatile. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, extremely volatile. Factors such as the following may significantly affect the market price of our common stock: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors which may decrease the volume and profitability of sales of our existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence; new products introduced by us or our competitors; periods of severe pricing pressures due to oversupply or price erosion resulting from competitive pressures; 28 Table of Contents developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights; conditions and trends in the hard drive, data and content management, storage and communication industries; and changes in financial estimates by securities analysts relating specifically to us or the hard drive industry in general. In addition, general economic conditions may cause the stock market to experience extreme price and volume fluctuations from time to time that particularly affect the stock prices of many high technology companies. These fluctuations often appear to be unrelated to the operating performance of the companies. Securities class action lawsuits are often brought against companies after periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. A number of such suits have been filed against us in the past, and should any new lawsuits be filed, such matters could result in substantial costs and a diversion of resources and managements attention. We may be unable to raise future capital through debt or equity financing. Due to the risks described herein, in the future we may be unable to maintain adequate financial resources for capital expenditures, expansion or acquisition activity, working capital and research and development. We have a credit facility, which matures on September 20, 2003. If we decide to increase or accelerate our capital expenditures or research and development efforts, or if results of operations do not meet our expectations, we could require additional debt or equity financing. However, we cannot ensure that additional financing will be available to us or available on acceptable terms. An equity financing could also be dilutive to our existing stockholders. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Disclosure About Foreign Currency Risk Although the majority of the Companys transactions are in U.S. Dollars, some transactions are based in various foreign currencies. The Company purchases short term, forward exchange contracts to hedge the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain underlying assets, liabilities and commitments for operating expenses denominated in foreign currencies. The purpose for entering into these hedge transactions is to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on the results of operations. A majority of the increases or decreases in the Companys local currency operating expenses are offset by gains and losses on the hedges. The contracts have maturity dates that do not exceed three months. The Company does not purchase short term forward exchange contracts for trading purposes. Historically, the Company has focused on hedging its foreign currency risk related to the Singapore Dollar, the British Pound Sterling and the Malaysian Ringgit. With the establishment of currency controls and the prohibition of purchases or sales of the Malaysian Ringgit by offshore companies, the Company discontinued hedging its Malaysian Ringgit currency risk in 1999. Future hedging of this currency will depend on currency conditions in Malaysia. As a result of the closure of the Companys Singapore operations in 2000, the Company has also discontinued its hedging program related to the Singapore Dollar. During the third quarter of 2002, the Company purchased a manufacturing facility in Thailand and began hedging the Thai Baht. 29 Table of Contents As of June 28, 2002, the Company had outstanding the following purchased foreign currency forward exchange contracts (in millions, except average contract rate): June 28, 2002 Contract Weighted Average Unrealized Amount Contract Rate Gain (Loss) (U.S. Dollar equivalent amounts) Foreign currency forward contracts: British Pound Sterling 2.0 1.52 Thai Baht 3.0 41.25 In 2002, 2001 and 2000, total realized transaction and forward exchange contract currency gains and losses were not material to the consolidated financial statements and the carrying value of the contracts approximated fair value. Based on historical experience, the Company does not expect that a significant change in foreign exchange rates would materially affect the Companys consolidated financial statements. Disclosure About Other Market Risks Fixed Interest Rate Risk At June 28, 2002, the market value of the Companys 5.25% zero coupon convertible subordinated debentures due in 2018 was approximately $83.0 million, compared to the related book value of $86.2 million. The convertible debentures will be repurchased by the Company, at the option of the holder, as of February 18, 2003, February 18, 2008, or February 18, 2013, or if there is a Fundamental Change (as defined in the Debenture documents), at the issue price plus accrued original issue discount to the date of redemption. The payment on those dates, with the exception of a Fundamental Change, can be in cash, stock or any combination, at the Companys option. Variable Interest Rate Risk At the option of the Company, borrowings under the Senior Credit Facility would bear interest at either LIBOR (with option periods of one to three months) or a base rate, plus a margin determined by the borrowing base. This is the only debt which does not have a fixed rate of interest. At June 28, 2002, there were no borrowings outstanding under the Facility. Fair Value Risk The Company owns approximately 1.0 million shares of Vixel common stock. As of June 28, 2002, the market value of the Vixel shares was $2.6 million. Changes in the market value of the Vixel shares are recorded as unrealized gains or losses in other comprehensive income (shareholders equity). As of June 28, 2002, a $2.6 million total accumulated unrealized gain has been recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income. If the Company sells any portion of this common stock, the related unrealized gain or loss on the date of sale will become realized and reflected as a gain or loss in the Companys income statement. As a result of market conditions, the market value of the shares had declined from $2.6 million as of June 28, 2002 to $1.5 million as of September 20, 2002. Due to market fluctuations, an additional decline in the stocks fair market value could occur. 30 Table of Contents 
 
