Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward Looking Statements This report contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. The statements that are not purely historical should be considered forward looking statements. Often they can be identified by the use of forward looking words, such as may, will, could, project, believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, continue, potential, plan, forecasts, and the like. Statements concerning current conditions may also be forward looking if they imply a continuation of current conditions. Forward looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward looking statements. Readers are urged to carefully review the disclosures made by the Company concerning risks and other factors that may affect the Companys business and operating results, including those made in this report under the caption Risk Factors That May Affect Future Results as well as the Companys other reports filed with the SEC. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. The Company undertakes no obligation to publish revised forward looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Unless otherwise indicated, references herein to specific years and quarters are to the Companys fiscal years and fiscal quarters. Description of the Business Western Digital designs, develops, manufactures and markets hard drives for digital information storage. The Companys hard drives are used in desktop PCs, servers, network attached storage devices and an expanding list of consumer electronics (CE) products such as video game consoles, digital video recorders and satellite and cable set top boxes. Western Digital markets its hard drives directly to PC manufacturers, including large, brand name PC manufacturers such as Dell and HP; to CE manufacturers; and to distributors, resellers and retailers that serve a wide range of end users. Unless otherwise noted, all references to market share and industry data included in this discussion are according to the March 2003 report published by TrendFOCUS, the July 2003 report published by International Data Corporation (IDC) and the June 2003 report published by Gartner, Inc. (Gartner). Western Digital builds hard drives in two assembly facilities, one in Malaysia and one in Thailand, procuring components from industry leading technology companies that work with the Company from design and development through manufacturing. Hard drive industry dynamics have changed significantly over the last several years. In calendar year 2002, seven hard drive vendors competed in the $20 billion a year hard drive market, compared to 15 vendors two years ago. Consolidation in the industry has produced more efficient operations, tighter supply chain management, leaner cost structures and more predictable operating results. According to TrendFOCUS quarterly reports for 2003 and calendar year 2002, Western Digital, Seagate Technologies, Maxtor Corporation, and Hitachi Global Storage Technologies (including sales by IBM and Hitachi prior to the formation of the joint venture in 2003) supplied approximately 85% of the total hard drive market during 2003. Western Digital believes that its business model allows the Company to benefit from leading edge component technologies and cost saving innovations while minimizing investment expenditures. High efficiency facilities, lean staffing and careful control of costs and working capital enable Western Digital to fund a growing revenue stream without commensurate operating expenses and to convert substantial portions of incremental revenue into earnings. The Company focuses on providing quality products, superior customer service and flexibility by intensively managing the aspects of the business it can control: technology deployment, manufacturing, cost, delivery, quality and reliability. Western Digitals growth will be influenced greatly by developments in the PC hard drive market. TrendFOCUS estimates that desktop PC hard drive shipments totaled approximately 155 million units in calendar year 2002 and that this market will grow by approximately 6% per year through calendar year 2006. The Company has increased its resources to address the fast growing emerging markets of Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe, where its revenue grew to 34% of total Company revenue in fiscal year 2003 from 32% a year earlier. Gartner estimates that demand for 16 Table of Contents desktop hard drives in emerging markets will increase 13% per year through calendar year 2007. Geographical financial data may be found in Note 8 to the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements in this report. Because CE demand for hard drives is relatively new, with many consumer applications employing the same hard drive technology as is found in desktop PCs, Western Digital believes it can grow in this developing market without significant increases in operating expenses. TrendFOCUS estimates that unit shipments of hard drives in CE markets, which totaled approximately 9 million units in calendar year 2002, will grow by approximately 57% per year through calendar year 2006. The Company is pursuing new revenue opportunities in enterprise storage through its application of the new SATA interface, which, the Company believes, over the next few years will replace the present parallel ATA interface in desktop PCs. The SATA interface contains many of the same benefits of the Small Computer Systems Interface, or SCSI the predominant interface currently used in most enterprise hard drive applications at a lower cost. TrendFOCUS estimates that 36% of enterprise hard drive unit shipments will use the ATA/ SATA interface by calendar year 2006. In addition, the Company is evaluating entering the mobile hard drive market. TrendFOCUS forecasts that unit sales of hard drives to the mobile market will grow from approximately 33 million in calendar year 2002 to approximately 53 million in calendar year 2006, reflecting a compound annual growth rate of approximately 13%. Fiscal 2003 Overview According to the June 2003 IDC PC Tracker data, the desktop PC market, the primary market for Western Digitals products, grew by less than 1% in fiscal year 2003. Despite minimal growth in this market, IDC estimates that the hard disk drive market increased by 11% based on unit shipments. In this environment, Western Digital produced strong financial results by delivering high quality products at the right time and continuing to improve its efficiencies by controlling expenses and intensively managing working capital. Western Digital, in 2003, produced a net revenue increase of 26%, to $2.7 billion, on unit shipments of 39.7 million. Based on quarterly reports published by TrendFOCUS in 2003 and calendar 2002, the Company believes that its market share in hard disk drives increased to 17% from 13% in 2002. Greater revenue and strong cost control enabled the Company to increase operating income by 268%, to $187 million. Operating margins increased to 6.9% as a percentage of net revenue, compared with 2.4% in 2002. Strong fiscal management enabled Western Digital to generate $281 million in cash flow from operations in 2003. The Company also retired all of its convertible debt and finished the year with $393 million in cash and cash equivalents, an increase of $170 million from the prior years total. Recent Developments In June 2003, Read Rite Corporation, one of the Companys suppliers of heads, commenced voluntary Chapter 7 bankruptcy proceedings. On July 31, 2003, in an effort to increase the Companys operational flexibility and ensure access to future head technologies, Western Digital purchased substantially all of the assets of Read Rite Corporation, including the wafer fabrication equipment in Fremont, California and the manufacturing facility in Bang Pa In, Thailand. The total cost of the acquisition will be between $170 million and $180 million. This includes cash consideration of approximately $95 million, assumed debt obligations of the Thailand operations of approximately $60 million and direct costs of the acquisition and other miscellaneous assumed obligations totaling approximately $15 million to $25 million. As of August 29, 2003, the Company has hired 4,733 employees to continue the operations in California and Thailand. As a result of the acquisition, the Company anticipates that its average gross margin will improve during the second half of 2004 as the acquired assets are integrated with those of the Company. However, gross margin for the first quarter of 2004 is expected to be lower due to start up expenses, including factory employee severance costs and under absorbed overhead related to low initial head production volumes. The Company expects that first quarter net income will be negatively impacted by one time charges of up to $50 million for the aforementioned start up costs and acquired in process research and development costs. 17 Table of Contents Results of Operations Summary of 2003, 2002 and 2001 Comparison The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, summary information from the Companys statement of operations (in millions). Years Ended June 27, 2003 June 28, 2002 June 29, 2001 Revenue, net $ 2,718.5 100.0 % $ 2,151.2 100.0 % $ 1,953.4 100.0 % Gross margin 442.9 16.3 281.6 13.1 207.7 10.6 Total operating expenses 256.1 9.4 230.9 10.7 229.2 11.7 Operating income (loss) 186.8 6.9 50.7 2.4 (21.5 ) (1.1 ) Net interest and other income (expense) 1.6 0.0 1.4 0.0 (30.7 ) (1.6 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes 188.4 6.9 52.1 2.4 (52.2 ) (2.7 ) Income tax expense (benefit) 7.6 0.3 (1.1 ) (0.0 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations 180.8 6.6 53.2 2.4 (52.2 ) (2.7 ) Net Revenue Net revenue was $2.7 billion for fiscal year 2003, an increase of 26%, or $567 million, from fiscal year 2002. Total unit shipments increased to 39.7 million for the year as compared to 29.1 million from the prior year as a result of the Companys improved market share as well as an increase in demand for hard drives in the PC market. Average selling price (ASP) decreased to $68 per unit for the year from $74 in 2002. Historically, ASPs in the desktop hard drive industry have generally declined annually in the 10 20% range. However, those price declines have moderated over the past few quarters given longer product life cycles, industry consolidation, improved supply/ demand management and fewer component cost reduction opportunities. Net revenue increased $198 million or 10% in 2002 from 2001. This increase in net revenue was primarily due to an increase in unit shipments to 29.1 million in 2002 from 22.3 million in 2001, partially offset by a decrease in ASPs to $74 per unit from $88 per unit. The significant change in units and ASPs in 2002 from 2001 is primarily due to expansion of the Companys hard drive product line into lower end desktop PC and consumer electronics markets. Gross Margin For fiscal year 2003, gross margin percentage increased to 16.3% from 13.1% for 2002. The increase in gross margin percentage over the prior year was primarily the result of a more moderate pricing environment, manufacturing efficiencies associated with higher unit volume and continuing cost reduction efforts, offset by an $18.5 million charge related to the Cirrus Logic, Inc. (Cirrus) litigation settlement. For fiscal year 2002, gross margin percentage increased to 13.1% from 10.6% for 2001. The increase in gross margin in 2002 from 2001 was primarily a result of more cost efficient designs and higher unit volume, partially offset by lower ASPs. Operating Expenses Total operating expenses, consisting of research and development (R&D) and selling, general and administrative (SG&A), decreased to 9.4% of net revenue in fiscal 2003 as compared to 10.7% of net revenue in fiscal 2002 and 11.7% of net revenue in fiscal 2001. Absolute dollar increases in operating expenses over the prior years is primarily due to higher pay for performance and retention plan expenses, resulting from improved Company performance. R&D expense was $135 million, $120 million and $113 million for fiscal year 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The increase in R&D expense in 2003 from 2002 of $15 million and in 2002 from 2001 of $7 million was due to increases in new development programs and higher employee incentive payments, partially offset by expense reduction efforts. 18 Table of Contents SG&A expense was $121 million, $111 million and $116 million for fiscal year 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The increase in SG&A expense in 2003 from 2002 of $10 million was primarily related to higher incentive payments resulting from improved operational results. The decrease in SG&A expense in 2002 from 2001 of $5 million was primarily due to expense reduction efforts, partially offset by higher employee incentive payments. Interest and Other Income (Expense) Net interest and other income (expense) was $1.6 million, $1.4 million and ($30.7) million in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. This includes net investment gains of $3.4 million in 2003, $4.8 million in 2002, and investment write offs and related lease contingency accruals of $52.4 million, offset by gains on the redemption of debenture of $22.4 million in 2001. Excluding these items, net interest and other expense was $1.8 million, $3.4 million and $0.7 million in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The decrease in net expense in 2003 was primarily due to the Companys redemption of its convertible debentures resulting in lower interest expense. The increase in net expense in 2002 was primarily due to a decrease in interest income as a result of lower interest rates. Income Tax Expense (Benefit) Income tax expense was $7.6 million in 2003 as compared to the income tax benefit of $1.1 million in 2002. The increase in the income tax expense of $8.7 million from 2002 is primarily related to an increase in earnings within certain tax jurisdictions. Differences between the effective tax rate for 2003 of 4%, as compared to the U.S. federal statutory rate, are primarily due to earnings of certain subsidiaries which are taxed at substantially lower tax rates as compared with U.S. statutory rates and the partial utilization of net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards. The Companys 2002 net income tax benefit of $1.1 million included a federal income tax refund of $3.1 million for a loss carryback available as a result of tax legislation enacted during the year. During 2001, the Company did not record an income tax benefit, as no loss carrybacks were available at that time. See Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Discontinued Operations During 2002, the Company discontinued the operations of new business ventures, including Connex, Inc. (Connex), SANavigator, Inc. (SANavigator) and Keen Personal Media, Inc. (Keen). The Company sold substantially all of the assets of its Connex and SANavigator businesses for a net gain of $24.5 million and terminated the Keen operations. These operating losses for the periods reported and the net gain recognized on the sale of Connex and SANavigator have been segregated from continuing operations and reported separately on the statements of operations as discontinued operations. During 2003, the Company settled the remaining debt obligations related to one of the discontinued operations and as a result of a favorable settlement, recorded a gain of $1.3 million. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company had cash and cash equivalents of $393 million at June 27, 2003 and $224 million at June 28, 2002. Net cash provided by continuing operations was $281 million and $83 million during 2003 and 2002, respectively. This $198 million improvement in cash provided by continuing operations consists of a $149 million improvement in the Companys net income, net of non cash items, and a $49 million increase in cash provided by working capital. These improvements are due to significantly better operating performance by the Company, including higher sales volume and improved cost management. The Companys cash conversion cycle, which represents the sum of the number of days sales outstanding (DSO) and days inventory outstanding (DIO) less days payable outstanding (DPO), was negative 9 days for 2003 and 2002. Accounts receivable at June 27, 2003 was higher than the prior year as a result of higher fourth quarter revenue combined with longer average collection days. However, this increase in average collection days was offset by improved inventory turns and longer payment days with suppliers. The allowance for doubtful accounts decreased to $5 million at June 27, 2003 from $8 million at June 28, 2002 as a result of the write off of fully reserved accounts receivable balances which management determined to be uncollectable. Other uses of cash during 2003 included net capital expenditures of $62 million, primarily to upgrade the Companys desktop hard drive production capabilities and for the normal replacement of existing assets, $88 million for the extinguishment or redemption of the Companys remaining 5.25% zero coupon convertible subordinated debentures 19 Table of Contents due February 18, 2018 and $6 million for the repayment of a subsidiarys loan. Other sources of cash during 2003 included $44 million received in connection with stock option exercises and Employee Stock Purchase Plan purchases. Other uses of cash during 2002 included net capital expenditures of $48 million, primarily for normal replacement of existing assets and the purchase of assets for the Companys manufacturing facility in Thailand and $18 million for debenture redemptions. Other sources of cash during 2002 included $10 million received from the sale of assets, and $10 million received in connection with stock option and warrant exercises and Employee Stock Purchase Plan purchases. In 2003, discontinued operations used $3 million of cash. In 2002, discontinued operations, provided $18 million of cash, which included approximately $37 million net proceeds from asset sales. As discussed above under the heading Recent Developments, Western Digital purchased substantially all of the assets of Read Rite Corporation, including the wafer fabrication equipment in Fremont, California and the manufacturing facility in Bang Pa In, Thailand for $95 million, plus the assumption of liabilities and other costs of between $75 million and $80 million. The Company funded the purchase of these assets through working capital. For additional discussion on this acquisition, see below, under the heading Risk Factors That May Effect Future Results. On August 22, 2003, the Company agreed to settle its outstanding litigation with Cirrus. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company will make a one time payment to Cirrus on or before October 17, 2003 of $45 million. Western Digital had previously recorded an obligation totaling approximately $26.5 million related to the disputed payables. The difference of approximately $18.5 million between the settlement amount and the amount previously recorded was included in the cost of sales for the fourth quarter and year ended June 27, 2003. The Company anticipates that capital expenditures in 2004 will be between $140 million to $160 million, including between $70 million and $90 million relating to the Companys new head manufacturing operations. On September 19, 2003, the Company entered into a new $125 million five year credit facility (Senior Credit Facility) replacing the facility that matured on September 20, 2003. The new Senior Credit Facility provides up to $75 million in revolving credit and a term loan of $50 million (subject to outstanding letters of credit and a borrowing base calculation). Both the term loan and revolving credit facility mature on September 19, 2008, and are secured by the Companys accounts receivable, inventory, 65% of its stock in its foreign subsidiaries and other assets. At the option of the Company, borrowings bear interest at either LIBOR (with option periods of one to three months) or a base rate, plus a margin. The Senior Credit Facility requires the Company to maintain certain levels of income, prohibits the payment of cash dividends on common stock, and contains a number of other covenants. The $50 million term loan was funded on September 22, 2003 and requires quarterly principal payments of $3 million beginning in October 2004. The Company intends to use the proceeds from the term loan to repay obligations incurred as a result of the Read Rite asset acquisition. There were no borrowings under the revolving credit facility. However, the Company has issued a $25 million standby letter of credit under the facility to Cirrus concerning the $26.5 million in disputed accounts payable. As discussed in the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements, the Cirrus litigation has been settled and upon payment of the settlement on or before October 17, 2003, the letter of credit will be released (refer to Part II, Item 8, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 5 Legal Proceedings included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K). The Company believes its current cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet its working capital needs through the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that the Senior Credit Facility will continue to be available to the Company. Also, the Companys ability to sustain its working capital position is dependent upon a number of factors that are discussed below under the headings Risk Factors That May Affect Future Results. 20 Table of Contents Commitments The following is a summary of the Companys significant contractual cash obligations and commercial commitments at June 27, 2003: Operating Leases The Company leases certain facilities and equipment under long term, non cancelable operating leases which expire at various dates through 2012. The following table summarizes the future payments of these leases (in millions): Operating Leases 2004 $ 9.5 2005 7.7 2006 7.5 2007 5.7 2008 5.7 Thereafter 14.6 Total future minimum lease obligations $ 50.7 In connection with its acquisition of the assets of Read Rite in July 2003, the Company will assume Read Rites lease of an approximately 181,000 square foot facility in Fremont, California that is used for wafer fabrication. The lease expires in February 2008 with annual rental payments of $1.9 million. Purchase Orders In the normal course of business, to reduce the risk of component shortages, the Company enters into purchase commitments with suppliers for the purchase of hard drive components used to manufacture the Companys products. These commitments generally cover forecasted component supplies needed for production during the next quarter, become payable upon receipt of the components and may be non cancelable (cancellation charges may be significant). The Companys relationship with suppliers allows for some flexibility within these commitments and quantities are subject to change as a quarter progresses and the Companys needs change. Forward Exchange Contracts Although the majority of the Companys transactions are in U.S. Dollars, some transactions are based in various foreign currencies. The Company purchases short term, forward exchange contracts to hedge the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain underlying assets, liabilities and commitments for operating expenses and product costs denominated in foreign currencies. The Company does not purchase short term forward exchange contracts for trading purposes. As of June 27, 2003, the Company had $36 million outstanding of purchased foreign currency forward exchange contracts. The contracts have maturity dates that do not exceed three months. At June 27, 2003, the carrying value of the contracts approximates fair value. Critical Accounting Policies The Company has prepared the accompanying consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of the financial statements requires the use of judgment and estimates that affect the reported amounts of revenue, expenses, assets and liabilities. The Company has adopted accounting policies and practices that are generally accepted in the industry in which it operates. The Company believes the following are its most critical accounting policies that affect significant areas and involve managements judgment and estimates. If these estimates differ materially from actual results, the impact to the consolidated financial statements may be material. 21 Table of Contents Revenue and Accounts Receivable In accordance with standard industry practice, the Company has agreements with resellers that provide price protection for inventories held by resellers at the time of published list price reductions. In addition the Company may have agreements with resellers that provide for stock rotation on slow moving items and other incentive programs. In accordance with current accounting standards, the Company recognizes revenue upon shipment or delivery to resellers and records a reduction to revenue for estimated price protection and other programs in effect until the resellers sell such inventory to their customers. Adjustments are based on anticipated price decreases during the reseller holding period, estimated amounts to be reimbursed to qualifying customers, as well as historical pricing information. If end market demand for hard drives declines significantly, the Company may have to increase sell through incentive payments to resellers, resulting in an increase in price protection allowances, which could adversely impact operating results. The Company establishes an allowance for doubtful accounts by analyzing specific customer accounts and assessing the risk of loss based on insolvency, disputes or other collection issues. In addition, the Company routinely analyzes the different receivable aging categories and establishes reserves based on the length of time receivables are past due. If the financial condition of a significant customer deteriorates resulting in their inability to pay their accounts when due, an increase in our allowance for doubtful accounts would be required, which could negatively affect operating results. The Company records provisions against revenue and cost of revenue for estimated sales returns in the same period that the related revenue is recognized. The Company bases these provisions on existing product return notifications as well as historical returns by product type (see Warranty). If actual sales returns exceed expectations, an increase in the sales return provision would be required, which could negatively affect operating results. Warranty The Company records an accrual for estimated warranty costs when revenue is recognized. Warranty covers cost of repair or replacement of the hard drive over the warranty period, which ranges from one to five years. The Company has comprehensive processes with which to estimate accruals for warranty, which include specific detail on hard drives in the field by product type, historical field return rates and costs to repair. If actual product return rates or costs to repair returned products increase above expectations, an increase in the warranty provision would be required, which could negatively affect operating results. Inventory Inventories are valued at the lower of cost (first in, first out basis) or net realizable value. Inventory write downs are recorded for the valuation of inventory at the lower of cost or net realizable value by analyzing market conditions and estimates of future sales prices as compared to inventory costs and inventory balances. The Company evaluates inventory balances for excess quantities and obsolescence on a regular basis by analyzing backlog, estimated demand, inventory on hand, sales levels and other information. The Company writes down inventory balances for excess and obsolete inventory based on the analysis. Unanticipated changes in technology or customer demand could result in a decrease in demand for one or more of our products, which may require an increase in inventory write downs, which could negatively affect operating results. Litigation and Other Contingencies The Company applies Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies (SFAS 5) to determine when and how much to accrue for and disclose related to legal and other contingencies. Accordingly, the Company accrues loss contingencies when management, in consultation with its legal advisors, concludes that a loss is probable and reasonably estimable. (Refer to Part II, Item 8, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 5 Legal Proceedings included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K). Deferred Tax Assets The Companys deferred tax assets, which consist primarily of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, are fully reserved due to managements determination that it is more likely than not that these assets will not be realized. This determination is based on the weight of available evidence, the most significant of which is the Companys loss 22 Table of Contents history in the related tax jurisdictions. Should this determination change in the future, some amount of deferred tax assets could be recognized, resulting in a tax benefit or a reduction of future tax expense. Risk Factors That May Affect Future Results Our operating results depend on optimizing time to market and time to volume, overall quality of new technologies and costs of new and established products. To achieve consistent success with computer manufacturer customers, we must balance four key attributes: time to market, time to volume, quality and cost. If we fail to: maintain overall quality of products on new and established programs, maintain competitive cost structures on new and established products, produce sufficient quantities of products at the capacities our customers demand while managing the integration of new and established technologies, qualify new products that have changes in overall specifications or features that our customers may require for their business needs, qualify these products with key customers on a timely basis by meeting all of our customers needs for performance, quality and features, or consistently meet stated quality requirements on delivered products, our operating results would be adversely affected. Product life cycles require continuous technical innovation associated with higher areal densities. New products may require higher areal densities (the gigabyte of storage per disk) than previous product generations, posing formidable technical challenges. Higher areal densities require fewer heads and disks to achieve a given drive capacity, which means that existing head technology must be improved or new technology developed to accommodate more data on a single disk. In addition, our introduction of new products during a technology transition increases the likelihood of unexpected quality concerns. Our failure to bring high quality new products to market on time and at acceptable costs would put us at a competitive disadvantage to companies that achieve these results. Increases in areal density may outpace customers demand for storage capacity. The rate of increase in areal density may be greater than the increase in our customers demand for aggregate storage capacity. This could lead to our customers storage capacity needs being satisfied with more lower cost single surface drives, thereby decreasing our revenue. As a result, even with increasing aggregate demand for storage capacity, our ASPs could decline, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Short product life cycles make it difficult to recover the cost of development. Product life cycles have extended during the past twelve months due to a decrease in the rate of hard drive areal density growth. However, there can be no assurance that this trend will continue. Historically, more rapid increases in areal density resulted in shorter product life cycles, with each generation of hard drives being more cost efficient than the previous one. Shorter product life cycles makes it more difficult to recover the cost of product development before the product becomes obsolete. Although we believe that the current rate of growth in areal density is lower than in the past several years and will continue to decrease in the near term, we expect that areal density will continue to increase. Our failure to recover the cost of product development in the future could adversely affect our operating results. Increasing product life cycles may require us to reduce our costs to remain competitive. Longer product life cycles have resulted from a decrease in the rate of areal density growth in the past twelve months. If longer product life cycles continue, we may need to develop new technologies or programs, such as system on a chip, to reduce our costs on any particular product in order to maintain competitive pricing for such product. This may 23 Table of Contents result in an increase in our overall expenses and a decrease in our gross margins, both of which could adversely affect our operating results. If we fail to qualify our products with our customers, they may not purchase any units of a particular product line, which would have a significant adverse impact on our sales. We regularly engage in new product qualification with our customers. To be considered for qualification we must be among the leaders in time to market with our new products. Once a product is accepted for qualification testing, failures or delays in the qualification process can result in our losing sales to that customer until the next generation of products is introduced. The effect of missing a product qualification opportunity is magnified by the limited number of high volume computer manufacturers, most of which continue to consolidate their share of the PC market. If product life cycles continue to be extended due to a decrease in the rate of areal density growth, we may have a significantly longer period to wait before we have an opportunity to qualify a new product with a customer, which could harm our competitive position. These risks are increased because we expect cost improvements and competitive pressures to result in declining gross margins on our current generation products. Unexpected technology advances in the hard drive industry could harm our competitive position. If one of our competitors were able to implement a significant advance in head or disk drive technology that enables a step change increase in areal density that permits greater storage of data on a disk, it could put us at a competitive disadvantage and harm our operating results. Advances in magnetic, optical, semiconductor or other data storage technologies could result in competitive products that have better performance or lower cost per unit of capacity than our products. If these products prove to be superior in performance or cost per unit of capacity, we could be at a competitive disadvantage to the companies offering those products. The decline in ASPs in the hard disk drive industry could adversely affect our operating results. The hard disk drive industry has experienced declining ASPs in recent years. Although the rate of decline has decreased in recent quarters, there can be no assurance that this trend will continue. Increases in areal density mean that the average drive we sell has fewer heads and disks for the same capacity, and therefore lower component cost. Because of the competitiveness of the hard drive industry, lower costs generally mean lower prices. This is true even for those products that are competitive and introduced into the market in a timely manner. Our ASPs decline even further when competitors lower prices as a result of decreased costs or to absorb excess capacity, liquidate excess inventories, restructure or attempt to gain market share. A continued decline in ASPs could cause our operating results to suffer. The hard drive industry is highly competitive and characterized by rapid shifts in market share among the major competitors. The price of hard drives has fallen over time due to increases in supply, cost reductions, technological advances and price reductions by competitors seeking to liquidate excess inventories or attempting to gain market share. In addition, rapid technological changes often reduce the volume and profitability of sales of existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence. These factors, taken together, result in significant and rapid shifts in market share among the industrys major participants. For example, during the first quarter of 2000, the Company lost market share as a result of a product recall. Similar losses in market share could adversely affect our operating results. Our prices and margins are subject to declines due to unpredictable end user demand and oversupply of hard drives. Demand for our hard drives depends on the demand for systems manufactured by our customers and on storage upgrades to existing systems. The demand for systems has been volatile in the past and often has had an exaggerated effect on the demand for hard drives in any given period. As a result, the hard drive market has experienced periods of excess capacity, which has led to intense price competition. During the middle of 2003, the industry experienced weak PC demand in the U.S. and other markets due in part to general economic conditions worldwide. If intense price competition occurs as a result of weak demand, we may be forced to lower prices sooner and more than expected, which could result in lower revenue and gross margins. 24 Table of Contents Changes in the markets for hard drives require us to develop new products. Over the past few years the consumer market for desktop computers has shifted significantly towards lower priced systems. According to data released by International Data Corporation Tracker in December 2002, systems priced below $600 currently comprise the fastest growing segment of the consumer market for desktop computers. Although we were late to market with a value line hard drive to serve the low cost PC market, we are now offering such value line products at prices that we view as competitive. However, if we are not able to continue to offer a competitively priced value line hard drive for the low cost PC market, our share of that market will likely fall, which could harm our operating results. In addition, the PC market is fragmenting into a variety of computing devices and products. Some of these products may not contain a hard drive. On the other hand, many industry analysts expect, as do we, that as communications are increasingly converted to digital technology from the older, analog technology, the technology of computers and consumer electronics will continue to converge, and hard drives will be found in many consumer products other than computers. For example, several game console manufacturers have expressed support for hard drives in their products. However, market acceptance of the use of hard drives in game consoles remains in its early stages. In addition, some consumer electronics, such as PVRs and DVRs, may require attributes not currently offered in our products, which may result in a need to expend capital, increasing our overall operational expense. If we are not successful in using our hard drive technology and expertise to develop new products for the emerging consumer electronics market, or if we are required to incur significant costs in developing such products, it may harm our operating results. If we do not successfully expand into new hard drive market segments, our business may suffer. To remain a significant supplier of hard disk drives, we will need to offer a broad range of disk drive products to our customers. We currently offer a variety of 3.5 inch form factor hard disk drives for the desktop computer market. However, demand for desktop hard drives may shift to products in smaller form factors, which we do not currently offer, but which some of our competitors offer. In addition, the desktop PC industry is transitioning to higher speed interfaces such as SATA to handle higher data transfer rates and 80 GB per platter technology for increased capacity. The Company currently offers SATA and 80 GB per platter products, however, the transition of technology and the introduction of new products is challenging and creates risks. While we continue to develop new products and look to expand into non desktop applications such as consumer electronics and mobile products, the success of our new product introductions is dependent on a number of factors, including difficulties faced in manufacturing ramp, market acceptance, effective management of inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand, and the risk that our new products will have quality problems or other defects in the early stages of introduction that were not anticipated in the design of those products. If we fail to successfully develop and manufacture new products, customers may decrease the amount of our products that they purchase, and we may lose business to our competitors who offer these products or who use their dominance in the enterprise or mobile market to encourage sales of desktop hard drives. We depend on our key personnel and skilled employees. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our key personnel and skilled employees, many of whom would be extremely difficult to replace. Worldwide competition for skilled employees in the hard drive industry is intense. Volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key personnel or skilled employees who have been granted stock options. If we are unable to retain our existing key personnel or skilled employees or hire and integrate new key personnel or skilled employees, our operating results would likely be harmed. Loss of market share with a key customer could harm our operating results. A majority of our revenue comes from a few customers. For example, during 2003, sales to our top 10 customers accounted for approximately 55% of revenue. These customers have a variety of suppliers to choose from and therefore can make substantial demands on us. Even if we successfully qualify a product with a customer, the customer generally is not obligated to purchase any minimum volume of products from us and is able to terminate its relationship with us at any time. Our ability to maintain strong relationships with our principal customers is essential to our future performance. If we lose a key customer, or if any of our key customers reduce their orders of our products or require us to reduce our prices before we are able to reduce costs, our operating results would likely be harmed. For example, this occurred with 25 Table of Contents our SCSI enterprise hard drive product line early in the third quarter of 2000 and is one of the factors which led to our decision to exit the SCSI enterprise hard drive market. Dependence on a limited number of qualified suppliers of components could lead to delays, lost revenue or increased costs. Because we depend on a limited number of suppliers for certain hard drive components, an extended shortage of required components or the failure of key suppliers to remain in business, adjust to market conditions, or to meet our quality, yield or production requirements could significantly harm our operating results. A number of the components used by us are available from only a single or limited number of qualified outside suppliers, and there is continued attrition and consolidation in our supplier base. In June 2003, Read Rite Corporation, one of our suppliers of heads, commenced voluntary Chapter 7 bankruptcy proceedings. In July 2003, we acquired the assets of Read Rite in an effort to increase our operational flexibility and ensure our access to future head technologies. Although it is anticipated that our acquisition will reduce our dependence on outside suppliers for heads, we may not be able to supply all of our head needs, and, therefore, we may still be required to purchase heads, as well as other hard drive components, from outside sources. If a component is in short supply, or a supplier fails to qualify or has a quality issue with a component, we may experience delays or increased costs in obtaining that component. In addition, if a component becomes unavailable, we could suffer significant loss of revenue. For example, we lost revenue in September 1999 when we had to shut down production of a product line for approximately two weeks as a result of a faulty power driver chip that was sole sourced from a third party supplier. To reduce the risk of component shortages, we attempt to provide significant lead times when buying these components. As a result, we may have to pay significant cancellation charges to suppliers if we cancel orders, as we did in 1998 when we accelerated our transition to giant magnetoresistive head technology, and as we did in 2000 as a result of our decision to exit the SCSI enterprise hard drive market. In some cases, not only are we dependent on a limited number of suppliers, but we also have entered into contractual commitments that require us to buy a substantial number of components from certain suppliers. For example in April 1999, we entered into a three year volume purchase agreement with Komag under which we buy a substantial portion of our media components from Komag. In October 2001, we amended the Komag volume purchase agreement to extend the initial term to six years. Similarly, we have entered into contractual commitments with both IBM and Marvell for the supply of our read channel devices. In February 2001, we entered into a two year volume purchase agreement with IBM under which we buy a portion of our read channel devices from IBM. Effective June 2002, we amended the IBM volume purchase agreement to extend the initial term through December 31, 2003. In addition, in June 2002, we entered into a five year volume purchase agreement with Marvell under which we buy a portion of our read channel devices from Marvell. These relationships have increased our dependence on each of Komag, IBM and Marvell as a supplier. Our future operating results may depend substantially on Komags ability to timely qualify its media components in our new development programs, and each of Komags, IBMs and Marvells ability to supply us with these components in sufficient volume to meet our production requirements. A significant disruption in Komags ability to manufacture and supply us with media components or IBMs or Marvells ability to manufacture and supply us with read channel devices could harm our operating results. If we are unable to timely and cost effectively develop heads with leading technology, our ability to sell our products may be significantly diminished, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. As a result of our acquisition of the assets of Read Rite, we are developing and manufacturing heads for use in the hard drives we manufacture. Consequently, we will be more dependent upon our own development efforts and less able to take advantage of head technologies developed by other head manufacturers. In November 2002, Read Rite announced that it had achieved an areal density of 146 gigabits per square inch using perpendicular recording technology. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be successful in timely and cost effectively developing and manufacturing heads for products using perpendicular recording technology, or other future technologies. We also may not achieve acceptable manufacturing yields using such technologies necessary to satisfy our customers product needs. In addition, we may not have access to external sources of supply without incurring substantial costs. If we fail to timely manufacture heads containing leading technology, or if we are unable to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields of heads, our ability to sell our products may be adversely affected. Moreover, if we fail to develop new technologies in a timely manner, and if our 26 Table of Contents competitors succeed in doing so or have access to external sources of supply that incorporate such new technologies, our business and financial results could suffer. If we are unable to successfully integrate the assets of Read Rite Corporation into our business in a timely manner, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. In July 2003, we acquired the assets of Read Rite Corporation, formerly one of our suppliers of heads, and we are in the process of integrating the acquired assets into our company. We may not successfully address the integration challenges in a timely manner, or at all. Integration requires varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. It may be difficult for us to successfully integrate the assets, products, technologies or personnel of Read Rite, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In connection with our acquisition of Read Rites assets, we will experience additional costs and risks. Our acquisition of Read Rites assets represents a fundamental change in our operating structure, as we are now manufacturing heads for use in the hard drives we manufacture. Due to the vertical integration of part of our supply chain, we carry a higher percentage of fixed costs than traditionally assumed in our overall business model. If the overall level of production decreases for any reason, the acquired assets may face under utilization that may impact our results of operations. We are therefore subject to additional risks related to overall asset utilization, including: the need to operate at high levels of utilization to drive competitive costs; the greater need for predictability of quarterly production to ensure best utilization of assets to drive competitive costs; and the need for assured supply of components, especially hard drive media, that is optimized to work with our heads. Moreover, capital expenditures and working capital investments required to operate Read Rites assets will utilize additional cash. For example, while the purchased assets of Read Rite, including intellectual property, head designs, and manufacturing equipment, would indicate successful internal qualification of a Western Digital manufactured 80 GB per platter giant magnetoresistive head, we expect significant investment in research and development and investigation of new recording technologies to extend recording technology will be required. The Company expects its capital expenditures, viewed as an average over several years, to increase by approximately $70 million to $90 million to support the acquired manufacturing operations of Read Rite. In addition, we may incur additional costs, expenses and risks, including: costs and expenses related to inventory adjustments, legal, accounting and financial advisory fees; we may not have sufficient head sources in the event that we are unable to manufacture a sufficient supply of heads to satisfy our needs; third party head suppliers may not deal with us or may not deal with us on the same terms and conditions we have previously enjoyed; component suppliers of Read Rite may not deal with us on favorable terms; management may be unduly distracted in operating the newly acquired Read Rite assets; we may not be able to attract and retain former Read Rite employees to work in our facilities; the costs of operating Read Rites assets may exceed the prices we have historically paid for heads or the prices that might be otherwise available to us from other vendors; we may be subject to claims that our manufacturing of heads may infringe certain intellectual property rights of other companies; and 27 Table of Contents we could incur substantial costs, including clean up costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws applicable to our new Fremont, California facility, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water. If we do not adequately address the challenges related to the acquisition, our ongoing operations could be disrupted, resulting in a decrease in our revenue or profit margins, and negatively impacting our operating results. To develop new products we must maintain effective partner relationships with our strategic component suppliers. Under our business model, we do not manufacture any of the component parts used in our hard drives, other than heads as a result of our recent acquisition of the assets of Read Rite. As a result, the success of our products depends on our ability to gain access to and integrate parts that are best in class from reliable component suppliers. To do so we must effectively manage our relationships with our strategic component suppliers. We must also effectively integrate different products from a variety of suppliers, each of which employs variations on technology, which can impact, for example, feasible combinations of heads and media components. Until recently, we were engaged in litigation with Cirrus, a supplier who previously was the sole source of read channel devices for our hard drives. We settled this litigation in August 2003. As a result of the disputes that gave rise to the litigation, our business operations were at risk until another suppliers read channel devices could be designed into our products. Similar disputes with other strategic component suppliers could adversely affect our operating results. Some of our customers have adopted a subcontractor model that increases our credit risk and could result in an increase in our operating costs. Some of our OEM customers have adopted a subcontractor model that requires us to contract directly with companies that provide manufacturing services to our OEM customers. Because these subcontractors are generally not as well capitalized as our direct OEM customers, this subcontractor model exposes us to increased credit risks. Our agreements with our OEM customers may not permit us to increase our product prices to alleviate this increased credit risk. Any credit losses we may suffer as a result of this increased risk would increase our operating costs, which may negatively impact our operating results. We have only two high volume hard drive manufacturing facilities and two head manufacturing facilities, which subjects us to the risk of damage or loss of any of these facilities. The majority of our hard drive manufacturing volume comes from one facility in Malaysia. During 2002, we acquired a second, smaller manufacturing facility in Thailand. In addition, following our acquisition of the assets of Read Rite in July 2003, we are operating a wafer fabrication facility in Fremont, California and a slider fabrication facility in Thailand. A fire, flood, earthquake or other disaster, condition or event that adversely affects any of these facilities or our ability to manufacture could result in a loss of sales and revenue and harm our operating results. Terrorist attacks may adversely affect our business and operating results. The terrorist attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001, the United States led military response to counter terrorism and the continued threat of terrorist activity and other acts of war or hostility have created uncertainty in the financial and insurance markets and have significantly increased the political, economic and social instability in some of the geographic areas in which the Company operates. Further acts of terrorism, either domestically or abroad, could create further uncertainties and instability. To the extent this results in disruption or delays of our manufacturing capabilities or shipments of our products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Manufacturing our products abroad subjects us to numerous risks. We are subject to risks associated with our foreign manufacturing operations, including: obtaining requisite United States and foreign governmental permits and approvals; currency exchange rate fluctuations or restrictions; political instability and civil unrest; 28 Table of Contents transportation delays or higher freight rates; labor problems; trade restrictions or higher tariffs; exchange, currency and tax controls and reallocations; increasing labor and overhead costs; and loss or non renewal of favorable tax treatment under agreements or treaties with foreign tax authorities. We have attempted to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes by, among other things, entering into short term, forward exchange contracts. However, those contracts do not cover our full exposure and can be canceled by the issuer if currency controls are put in place, which occurred in Malaysia during the first quarter of 1999. As a result of the Malaysian currency controls, we are no longer hedging the Malaysian currency risk. Currently, we hedge the Euro, Thai Baht and British Pound Sterling. The nature of our business and our reliance on intellectual property and other proprietary information subjects us to the risk of significant litigation. The hard drive industry has been characterized by significant litigation. This includes litigation relating to patent and other intellectual property rights, product liability claims and other types of litigation. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy, and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of litigation are inherently uncertain and may result in adverse rulings or decisions. We may enter into settlements or be subject to judgments that may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are currently evaluating notices of alleged patent infringement or notices of patents from patent holders. We also are a party to several judicial and other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. If claims or actions are asserted against us, we may be required to obtain a license or cross license, modify our existing technology or design a new non infringing technology. Such licenses or design modifications can be extremely costly. We may also be liable for any past infringement. If there is an adverse ruling against us in an infringement lawsuit, an injunction could be issued barring production or sale of any infringing product. It could also result in a damage award equal to a reasonable royalty or lost profits or, if there is a finding of willful infringement, treble damages. Any of these results would likely increase our costs and harm our operating results. Our reliance on intellectual property and other proprietary information subjects us to the risk that these key ingredients of our business could be copied by competitors. Our success depends, in significant part, on the proprietary nature of our technology, including non patentable intellectual property such as our process technology. Despite safeguards, to the extent that a competitor is able to reproduce or otherwise capitalize on our technology, it may be difficult, expensive or impossible for us to obtain necessary legal protection. Also, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In addition to patent protection of intellectual property rights, we consider elements of our product designs and processes to be proprietary and confidential. We rely upon employee, consultant and vendor non disclosure agreements and contractual provisions and a system of internal safeguards to protect our proprietary information. However, any of our registered or unregistered intellectual property rights may be challenged or exploited by others in the industry, which might harm our operating results. We are subject to risks related to product defect, which could subject us to warranty claims in excess of our warranty provisions or which are greater than anticipated due to the unenforceability of liability limitations. We generally warrant our products for one to five years. The standard warranties used by us contain limits on damages and exclusions of liability for consequential damages and for negligent or improper use of the products. We record an accrual for estimated warranty costs at the time revenue is recognized. We may incur additional operating expenses if our warranty provision does not reflect the actual cost of resolving issues related to defects in our products. If these additional expenses are significant, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 29 Table of Contents Inaccurate projections of demand for our product can cause large fluctuations in our quarterly results. We often book and ship a high percentage (at times in excess of 50%) of our total quarterly sales in the third month of the quarter, which makes it difficult for us to forecast our financial results prior to the end of the quarter. In addition, our quarterly projections and results may be subject to significant fluctuations as a result of a number of other factors including: the timing of orders from and shipment of products to major customers; our product mix; changes in the prices of our products; manufacturing delays or interruptions; acceptance by customers of competing products in lieu of our products; variations in the cost of components for our products; limited access to components that we obtain from a single or a limited number of suppliers, such as Komag, IBM and Marvell; competition and consolidation in the data storage industry; seasonal and other fluctuations in demand for PCs often due to technological advances; and availability and rates of transportation. Rapidly changing market conditions in the hard drive industry make it difficult to estimate actual results. We have made and continue to make a number of estimates and assumptions relating to our consolidated financial reporting. The rapidly changing market conditions with which we deal means that actual results may differ significantly from our estimates and assumptions. Key estimates and assumptions for us include: accruals for warranty costs related to product defects; price protection adjustments and other sales promotions and allowances on products sold to retailers, resellers and distributors; inventory adjustments for write down of inventories to lower of cost or market value (net realizable value); reserves for doubtful accounts; accruals for product returns; accruals for litigation and other contingencies; and reserves for deferred tax assets. The market price of our common stock is volatile. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, extremely volatile. Factors such as the following may significantly affect the market price of our common stock: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors which may decrease the volume and profitability of sales of our existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence; new products introduced by us or our competitors; periods of severe pricing pressures due to oversupply or price erosion resulting from competitive pressures; developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights; 30 Table of Contents conditions and trends in the hard drive, data and content management, storage and communication industries; and changes in financial estimates by securities analysts relating specifically to us or the hard drive industry in general. In addition, general economic conditions may cause the stock market to experience extreme price and volume fluctuations from time to time that particularly affect the stock prices of many high technology companies. These fluctuations often appear to be unrelated to the operating performance of the companies. Securities class action lawsuits are often brought against companies after periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. A number of such suits have been filed against us in the past, and should any new lawsuits be filed, such matters could result in substantial costs and a diversion of resources and managements attention. We may be unable to raise future capital through debt or equity financing. Due to the risks described herein, in the future we may be unable to maintain adequate financial resources for capital expenditures, expansion or acquisition activity, working capital and research and development. We have a credit facility, which matures on September 19, 2008. If we decide to increase or accelerate our capital expenditures or research and development efforts, or if results of operations do not meet our expectations, we could require additional debt or equity financing. However, we cannot ensure that additional financing will be available to us or available on acceptable terms. An equity financing could also be dilutive to our existing stockholders. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Disclosure About Foreign Currency Risk Although the majority of the Companys transactions are in U.S. Dollars, some transactions are based in various foreign currencies. The Company purchases short term, forward exchange contracts to hedge the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain underlying assets, liabilities and commitments for operating expenses and product costs denominated in foreign currencies. The purpose of entering into these hedge transactions is to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on the results of operations. The resulting impact from these hedge contracts is to offset a majority of the currency gains and losses in the Companys local currency operating expenses. The contract maturity dates do not exceed three months. The Company does not purchase short term forward exchange contracts for trading purposes. Currently, the Company focuses on hedging its foreign currency risk related to the Thai Baht, British Pound Sterling and the Euro. As of June 27, 2003, the Company had outstanding the following purchased foreign currency forward exchange contracts (in millions, except weighted average contract rate): June 27, 2003 Contract Weighted Average Unrealized Amount Contract Rate Gain (Loss) Foreign currency forward contracts: Thai Baht $ 31.0 41.73 British Pound Sterling $ 3.3 1.65 Euro $ 1.5 1.15 In 2003, 2002 and 2001, total realized transaction and forward exchange contract currency gains and losses were not material to the consolidated financial statements. Based on historical experience, the Company does not expect that a significant change in foreign exchange rates would materially affect the Companys consolidated financial statements. Disclosure About Other Market Risks Fixed Interest Rate Risk During 2003, the Company redeemed its remaining outstanding 5.25% zero coupon convertible subordinated debentures due February 18, 2018 (the Debentures) and paid $88 million in cash and issued approximately 0.1 million shares of common stock. The aggregate principal amount at maturity was $194 million. 31 Table of Contents Variable Interest Rate Risk At the option of the Company, borrowings under the Senior Credit Facility would bear interest at either LIBOR (with option periods of one to three months) or a base rate, plus a margin determined by the borrowing base. This is the only Company borrowing facility which does not have a fixed rate of interest. At June 27, 2003, there were no borrowings outstanding under the Facility. Fair Value Risk During 2003, the Company sold all of its remaining shares of Vixel Corporation common stock resulting in a gain of $3.4 million. 32 Table of Contents 
 
