Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward Looking Statements This report contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. The statements that are not purely historical should be considered forward looking statements. Often they can be identified by the use of forward looking words, such as may, will, could, project, believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, continue, potential, plan, forecasts, and the like. Statements concerning current conditions may also be forward looking if they imply a continuation of current conditions. Examples of forward looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning the growth of unit sales of desktop PCs; growth of unit shipments of hard disk drives in the desktop PC, CE (including audio video), and mobile markets; growth of revenue from sales of hard disk drives in the desktop PC market; increase in sales of notebook systems; growth rate of sales of home electronic game devices that include hard disk drives; increase in the demand for desktop PC hard disk drives in Asia; the Companys expansion into the CE market; expansion of the SATA interface in desktop PCs and growth of EIDE and SATA interfaces in enterprise hard disk drives; growth of the market for enterprise and other non desktop PC applications of 3.5 inch form factor hard disk drives; the Companys entrance into the mobile hard disk drive market; the Companys current expectations regarding depreciation expense for the head manufacturing operations, capital expenditures, gross margin percentages, cash conversion cycle, inventory turns, cash and cash equivalents, liquidity and cash flows; the impact of the acquisition of head manufacturing assets on the Companys long term financial business model, operating income, working capital investments, and research and development expenses; and increase in areal density (the measure of storage per disk) and decrease in areal density growth rate. Forward looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward looking statements. Readers are urged to carefully review the disclosures made by the Company concerning risks and other factors that may affect the Companys business and operating results, including those made in this report under the caption Risk Factors That May Affect Future Results as well as the Companys other reports filed with the SEC. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward looking statements, 15 Table of Contents which speak only as of the date hereof. The Company undertakes no obligation to publish revised forward looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Unless otherwise indicated, references herein to specific years and quarters are to the Companys fiscal years and fiscal quarters. Business Overview Western Digital designs, develops, manufactures and markets hard disk drives for digital information storage. The Companys hard disk drives are used in desktop PCs, enterprise servers, network attached storage devices, an expanding list of CE products such as video game consoles, personal/digital video recorders and satellite and cable set top boxes, and as external storage devices. Western Digital markets its hard disk drives directly to PC manufacturers, including large, brand name PC manufacturers such as Dell and Hewlett Packard; to CE manufacturers; and to distributors, resellers and retailers that serve a wide range of end users. Unless otherwise noted, all references to market share and industry data included in this discussion are according to the Gartner report published in April of 2004. Western Digital builds hard disk drives in assembly facilities in Malaysia and Thailand. The Company also builds hard disk drive components such as printed circuit board assemblies and head stack assemblies in its Malaysia and Thailand facilities. In July 2003, the Company acquired head manufacturing facilities in California and Thailand, and currently produces a significant portion of its head requirements. Western Digital procures other components from industry leading technology companies, many of which work with the Company from design and development through manufacturing. Currently, eight hard disk drive vendors compete in the $22 billion a year hard disk drive market, compared to fifteen vendors in calendar year 2000. According to Gartner quarterly reports published in 2004 and calendar year 2003, Western Digital, Seagate Technology, Maxtor Corporation, and Hitachi Global Storage Technologies supplied approximately 80% of the total hard disk drive market during 2004. The Company focuses on providing quality products, superior customer service and flexibility by managing its technology deployment, manufacturing, cost, delivery, quality and reliability. Western Digital believes that its low cost business model allows it to access leading edge component technologies and cost saving innovations while minimizing investment expenditures. Western Digitals growth will be influenced greatly by developments in the PC hard disk drive market. Gartner estimates that unit shipments of hard disk drives in the desktop PC market will grow by approximately 4% per year through calendar year 2008. The Company has increased its resources to address certain fast growing geographic markets such as Asia, Latin America, Eastern Europe and Russia. The Companys revenue in Asia during 2004 increased to 29% of total revenue as compared to 22% of total revenue for 2003. Gartner estimates that demand for desktop PC hard disk drives in Asia will increase 12% per year through calendar year 2008. Because CE demand for hard disk drives is relatively new, with many consumer applications currently employing similar hard disk drive technology as is found in desktop PCs, Western Digital presently believes it can expand shipments into this developing market. As this market develops, additional investments by the Company may be required. Gartner estimates that unit shipments of 3.5 inch form factor hard disk drives in CE markets will grow by approximately 26% per year through calendar year 2008. The Company is also pursuing new revenue opportunities in non PC, information technology (IT) applications through its application of the SATA interface. The SATA interface contains many of the same benefits of SCSI the predominant interface currently used in most enterprise hard disk drive applications at a lower cost. TrendFOCUS estimates that 43% of enterprise hard disk drive unit shipments will use the EIDE or SATA interface by calendar year 2007. In addition to the CE and SATA growth opportunities, the Company has plans to enter the mobile hard disk drive market in calendar year 2004 to provide hard disk drives for notebook PCs. Gartner forecasts that unit sales of 2.5 inch form factor hard disk drives to the mobile computing market will grow from an estimated 47 million in calendar year 2003 to approximately 97 million in calendar year 2008, reflecting a compound annual growth rate of approximately 15%. 16 Table of Contents Fiscal 2004 Overview According to quarterly reports for 2004 and calendar year 2003 from Gartner, the desktop hard disk drive market increased by approximately 17% based on unit shipments. Based on quarterly reports published by Gartner in 2004 and calendar 2003, the Company believes that its market share in desktop hard disk drives increased to 24% from 23% in 2003. While Western Digitals unit shipments grew by 22% in 2004, the average selling price of its hard disk drives declined by 8% due to aggressive pricing pressures and mix of products. In 2004, Western Digitals net revenue increased by 12%, to $3.0 billion, on unit shipments of 48.3 million. However, in 2004, gross margin decreased to 15.2% from 16.3% in 2003 primarily as a result of aggressive pricing pressures. In addition, the Company incurred approximately $50 million of start up expenses and other charges related to the acquisition of substantially all the assets of Read Rite Corporation (Read Rite) in July 2003. These factors offset the ongoing positive contribution of the Companys newly acquired head manufacturing operations. As a result, operating income decreased by $31.9 million, to $154.9 million, and operating margins decreased to 5.1% as a percentage of net revenue, compared with 6.9% in 2003. For 2005, the Company expects incremental benefits from its integrated head operations; however, it is not clear whether this will be enough to offset any continued downward pressure on gross margin caused by competitive pricing. Western Digital generated $190.0 million in cash flow from operations in 2004 and finished the year with $377.8 million in cash and cash equivalents, a decrease of $15.4 million from the prior years balance. Read Rite Asset Acquisition In June 2003, Read Rite, then one of the Companys suppliers of magnetic recording heads, commenced voluntary Chapter 7 bankruptcy proceedings. On July 31, 2003, Western Digital purchased substantially all of the assets of Read Rite, including its wafer fabrication equipment in Fremont, California and manufacturing facility in Bang Pa In, Thailand. The cost of the acquisition was $172.0 million and consisted of cash consideration of $94.8 million, assumed debt obligations of the Thailand operations of approximately $60.2 million, direct costs of the acquisition and other miscellaneous assumed obligations totaling $17.0 million. Proceeds from a $50 million term loan were used to repay obligations assumed as a result of the acquired head manufacturing operations in Thailand. Western Digitals acquisition of the head manufacturing operations represented a fundamental change in the Companys operating structure as the Company is now manufacturing heads for use in its hard disk drives. Previously, the Company purchased all of its recording head requirements from external suppliers, including Read Rite. The Company acquired the Read Rite assets for the following reasons: to enhance its financial business model, to gain better control of head technology as the Companys business grows, to improve flexibility, product planning and quality, and to improve its cost structure and tighten its supply chain through better operational integration. Taking the asset acquisition into consideration, the Company expects its long term financial business model to benefit from a higher gross margin percentage, offset by higher research and development expenses, than it otherwise would have had without the acquisition. The gross margin percentage improvement will result from lower cost of sales, as the Company develops the ability to manufacture heads at a lower cost than what it would have otherwise paid external suppliers. This is expected to result in higher operating income than it otherwise would have had without the acquisition. The Company began realizing these net financial benefits in 2004. However, these benefits were offset by downward pressures on gross margins caused by an aggressive pricing environment. The incremental benefits from an integrated head manufacturing operation are expected to increase as the Company continues to ramp its head manufacturing capability. The Company is currently satisfying a substantial portion of its head requirements through its own head manufacturing operations. As a result of integrating the head manufacturing operations, the Company carries a higher percentage of fixed costs than assumed in its prior financial business model. For example, depreciation expense for the head manufacturing operations is expected to be between $15 million and $20 million per quarter by the end of 2005. 17 Table of Contents Capital expenditures and working capital investments required to support the head manufacturing operations will increase when compared to the Companys prior financial business model. For example, capital expenditures related to the head manufacturing operations are expected to average between $80 million and $100 million on an annual basis after initial capital investments are completed. Also, inventory turns are expected to decrease to between 17 and 19 from the Companys historical average of between 20 and 22. The Company accounted for this transaction as an asset acquisition. The estimated fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed are as follows: Current assets $ 17.4 Property and equipment 90.2 Purchased technology 38.8 In process research and development 25.6 $ 172.0 As of the date of the acquisition, Read Rite had two in process research and development (IPR&D) projects: 120 gigabyte per platter and 160 gigabyte per platter products. The fair value allocated to these projects as part of the acquisition was $17.8 million and $7.8 million, respectively. The multi period excess earnings method, a discounted cash flow income approach, was used to determine the value allocated to the IPR&D. The rate utilized to discount the cash flows to their present values was based on the weighted average cost of capital and an additional risk premium based on an analysis of the technology and the IPR&D stages of completion. Based on these factors, 27% was used as the annual discount rate. These acquired IPR&D projects had not reached technological feasibility and had no alternative future use. Accordingly, the Company recorded the $25.6 million as a charge to research and development expense at the time of the acquisition. Results of Operations Summary of 2004, 2003 and 2002 Comparison The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, summary information from the Companys statements of income (in millions). Years Ended July 2, 2004 June 27, 2003 June 28, 2002 Revenue, net $ 3,046.7 100.0 % $ 2,718.5 100.0 % $ 2,151.2 100.0 % Gross margin 461.6 15.2 442.9 16.3 281.6 13.1 Operating expenses 306.7 10.1 256.1 9.4 230.9 10.7 Operating income 154.9 5.1 186.8 6.9 50.7 2.4 Net interest and other income 0.3 0.0 2.9 0.0 1.4 0.0 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 155.2 5.1 189.7 7.0 52.1 2.4 Income tax expense (benefit) 3.9 0.1 7.6 0.3 (1.1 ) (0.0 ) Income from continuing operations 151.3 5.0 182.1 6.7 53.2 2.4 Net Revenue Net revenue was $3.0 billion for 2004, an increase of 12%, or $328 million, from 2003. Total unit shipments increased to 48.3 million for the year as compared to 39.7 million from the prior year as a result of an increase in market share and overall demand for hard disk drives in the desktop PC market. This growth in units was partially offset by a $5 per unit decline in average selling prices (ASPs) to $63 per unit for 2004 from $68 per unit in 2003. Revenue by geographic region for 2004 was 41% from the Americas, 30% from Europe and 29% from Asia, compared to 48%, 30% and 22%, respectively, for 2003. These changes reflect the Companys continued focus on revenue growth in emerging geographic markets. 18 Table of Contents Revenue by sales channel for 2004 was 51% from OEMs, 42% from distributors and 7% from the retail channel, compared to 52%, 40% and 8%, respectively, for 2003. The distribution of revenue by sales channel has remained relatively consistent for the past several quarters. Net revenue increased $567 million or 26% in 2003 from 2002. This increase in net revenue was primarily due to the Companys improved market share as well as an increase in demand for hard disk drives in the PC market. Unit shipments increased to 39.7 million in 2003 from 29.1 million in 2002, partially offset by a decrease in ASPs to $68 per unit in 2003 from $74 per unit in 2002. Gross Margin For 2004, gross margin percentage decreased to 15.2% from 16.3% for 2003. The decrease in gross margin percentage over the prior year was primarily the result of aggressive pricing pressures. The Company anticipates that competitive pricing pressure may continue to adversely affect gross margin percentages in 2005. Also contributing to the decrease in the gross margin percentage were start up expenses and other charges totaling $18.1 million incurred during the first quarter of 2004 relating to the Companys head manufacturing operations acquired in July 2003. Western Digital was able to partially offset the impact of these pricing conditions and start up related costs with the ongoing accretive benefit of its head manufacturing operations. For 2003, gross margin percentage increased to 16.3% from 13.1% for 2002. This increase in gross margin percentage was primarily a result of a more moderate pricing environment, manufacturing efficiencies associated with higher unit volume and continuing cost reduction efforts, offset by an $18.5 million charge related to the Cirrus Logic, Inc. litigation settlement. Operating Expenses Total operating expenses, consisting of research and development (R&D) and selling, general and administrative (SG&A), were 10.1% of net revenue in 2004 as compared to 9.4% of net revenue in 2003 and 10.7% of net revenue in 2002. R&D expense was $201 million, $135 million and $120 million for 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The increase of $66 million in R&D expense in 2004 from 2003 was primarily related to head design, mobile and enterprise platform development, as well as the charge of $26 million incurred during the first quarter of 2004 for acquired IPR&D, offset by reduced employee incentive payments. The $26 million charge related to IPR&D projects acquired from Read Rite that had not reached technological feasibility and had no alternative future use. As of July 2, 2004, progress on these projects was consistent with managements original estimates, including the costs incurred towards completion and projected release dates. The increase of $15 million in R&D in 2003 over 2002 was due to increases in new development programs and higher employee incentive payments, partially offset by expense reduction efforts. SG&A expense was $106 million, $121 million and $111 million for 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The $15 million decrease in SG&A expense in 2004 from 2003 was primarily due to a reduction in employee incentive programs and reductions in baseline spending. The $10 million increase in SG&A expense in 2003 from 2002 was primarily related to higher incentive payments resulting from improved operational results. The Company will continue to manage its operating expense structure in line with its operating profit objectives. Interest and Other Income Net interest and other income was $0.3 million, $2.9 million and $1.4 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. This includes net investment gains of $4.4 million in 2003 and $5.4 million in 2002. Excluding these items, net interest and other income (expense) was $0.3 million, ($1.5) million and ($4.0) million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The increase in net interest income over the past two years was primarily due to the Companys redemption of its convertible debentures during the third quarter of 2003, resulting in lower interest expense as compared to 2002. Income Tax Expense (Benefit) Income tax expense was $3.9 million in 2004 as compared to $7.6 million in 2003 and an income tax benefit of $1.1 million in 2002. The decrease in the income tax expense of $3.7 million in 2004 primarily related to lower overall 19 Table of Contents earnings and a more favorable mix of earnings within certain tax jurisdictions. Differences between the effective tax rate for 2004 of 2.5%, as compared to the U.S. federal statutory rate, are primarily due to tax holidays in Malaysia and Thailand that expire at various points in time ranging from 2005 to 2014. The 2003 increase in the income tax expense of $8.7 million from 2002 is primarily related to higher overall earnings in 2003 and the non recurrence of certain tax benefits realized in 2002. The Companys 2002 net income tax benefit of $1.1 million included a federal income tax refund of $3.1 million for a loss carryback available as a result of tax legislation enacted during that year. Discontinued Operations During 2002, the Company discontinued the operations of new business ventures, including Connex, Inc. (Connex), SANavigator, Inc. (SANavigator) and Keen Personal Media, Inc. (Keen). The Company sold substantially all of the assets of its Connex and SANavigator businesses in 2002 for a net gain of $24.5 million and terminated the Keen operations. The 2002 operating losses for the new ventures and the net gain recognized on the sale of Connex and SANavigator have been excluded from continuing operations and reported separately on the statements of income as discontinued operations. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company had cash and cash equivalents of $378 million at July 2, 2004 and $393 million at June 27, 2003. Net cash provided by operating activities during 2004 was $190 million as compared to $278 million for 2003. Net cash flows from operating activities primarily resulted from net income. This represents the Companys principal source of cash. Operating cash flows were impacted by net cash used to fund working capital requirements of $89 million for 2004, an increase of $116 million from 2003. The increase in net cash used to fund working capital requirements was primarily due to a higher accounts receivable balance associated with changes in the Companys mix of customers, higher work in process inventory associated with the head manufacturing operations and the payment of a $45 million litigation settlement. The Companys working capital requirements depend upon the effective management of the Companys cash conversion cycle. The cash conversion cycle, which consisted of 39 days sales outstanding (DSO) plus 20 days inventory outstanding (DIO) less 61 days payable outstanding (DPO), was negative two days for 2004 as compared to negative nine days for 2003. The increase in the cash conversion cycle was due to higher DSOs as a result of changes in the Companys mix of customers and higher DIOs as a result of the longer production cycle associated with the head manufacturing operations. These increases were partially offset by an increase in DPOs. The Company expects its financial business model will continue to generate a negative cash conversion cycle going forward. Net cash used in investing activities for 2004 was $227 million as compared to $59 million for 2003. The 2004 investing activities consisted of $95 million for the Read Rite asset acquisition and $132 million of net capital expenditures. The 2003 investing activities related primarily to net capital expenditures. The increase in net capital expenditures was primarily for assets purchased to upgrade the Companys head manufacturing capabilities, increase desktop hard disk drive production capabilities and for the normal replacement of existing assets. For 2005, capital expenditures are expected to increase to approximately $250 million. The increase in capital expenditures is expected to consist primarily of investments in mobile hard disk drive manufacturing capacity, continued expansion of head manufacturing operations and IT infrastructure upgrades. The Company expects to use planned capital lease facilities to offset up to $100 million of its capital expenditures. Approximately $19 million of capital leases were completed in 2004. Net cash provided by financing activities for 2004 was $21 million as compared to net cash used by financing activities of $50 million for 2003. The net cash provided by financing activities in 2004 consisted primarily of $24 million received upon issuance of common stock under employee plans and $14 million of net proceeds from long term debt, partially offset by $16 million used in the Companys stock repurchase program. The net cash used by financing activities for the year ended 2003 consisted primarily of $88 million used for redemption of the Companys remaining convertible debentures, partially offset by $44 million received upon issuance of common stock under employee plans. 20 Table of Contents Capital Commitments The following is a summary of the Companys significant contractual cash obligations and commercial commitments at July 2, 2004 (in millions): Less than More than Total 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years 5 Years Long term debt, including current portion $ 50.0 $ 9.4 $ 25.0 $ 15.6 $ Capital lease obligations 17.9 5.9 12.0 Operating leases 57.4 9.8 18.9 15.0 13.7 Purchase obligations 867.3 855.8 9.5 2.0 Total $ 992.6 $ 880.9 $ 65.4 $ 32.6 $ 13.7 Long Term Debt On September 19, 2003, the Company entered into a new $125 million five year credit facility (Senior Credit Facility) replacing the facility that matured on September 20, 2003. The new Senior Credit Facility provides up to $75 million (subject to outstanding letters of credit and a borrowing base calculation) in revolving credit and a term loan of $50 million. Both the term loan and revolving credit facility mature on September 19, 2008, and are secured by the Companys accounts receivable, inventory, 65% of its stock in its foreign subsidiaries and other assets. At the option of the Company, borrowings bear interest at either LIBOR (with option periods of one to three months) or a base rate, plus a margin. The Senior Credit Facility requires the Company to maintain certain levels of income, prohibits the payment of cash dividends on common stock, and contains a number of other covenants. The Company was in compliance with all such covenants at July 2, 2004. The $50 million term loan was funded on September 22, 2003 and requires quarterly principal payments of $3 million beginning in October 2004. The Company used the proceeds from the term loan to repay obligations incurred as a result of the Read Rite asset acquisition (see Note 3, Read Rite Asset Acquisition included in the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements). At July 2, 2004 there were no borrowings under the revolving credit facility and $71 million was available. Purchase Orders In the normal course of business to reduce the risk of component shortages, the Company enters into purchase orders with suppliers for the purchase of hard disk drive components used to manufacture the Companys products. These purchase orders generally cover forecasted component supplies needed for production during the next quarter, become payable upon receipt of the components, and generally may be changed or canceled at any time prior to shipment of the components. In some cases we may be obligated to pay for certain costs related to changes to, or cancellation of, a purchase order, such as costs incurred for raw materials or work in process. The Company has entered into long term purchase agreements for components with certain vendors such as Komag, IBM, and Marvell. Future purchases under these agreements are not fixed and determinable as they depend on the Companys overall unit volume requirements and are contingent upon the prices, technology and quality of the suppliers products remaining competitive. These arrangements are not included under Purchase Obligations in the table above. See below under the heading Risk Factors That May Affect Future Results for a discussion of these commitments. Forward Exchange Contracts The Company purchases short term, forward exchange contracts to hedge the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain underlying assets, liabilities and commitments for operating expenses and product costs denominated in foreign currencies. See Part II, Item 7A, under the heading Disclosure About Foreign Currency Risk, for the Companys current forward exchange contract commitments. Stock Repurchase Program The Company announced a stock repurchase program on May 5, 2004. Under the program, the Company may purchase on the open market up to $100 million of its common stock depending on market conditions and other 21 Table of Contents corporate considerations. Stock repurchases are expected to be funded by operating cash flow. Some of the repurchased shares will offset the dilutive impact of common stock issued under employee stock option and share purchase programs. During the fourth quarter of 2004 the Company repurchased 1.9 million shares of its common stock at a total cost of approximately $16.0 million. During 2005, the Company may continue to opportunistically repurchase its stock as market conditions allow. For example, during August 2004, the Company repurchased an additional 2.1 million shares of common stock at a total cost of $15.0 million. The Company believes its current cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet its working capital needs through the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that the Senior Credit Facility or lease financing will continue to be available to the Company. Also, the Companys ability to sustain its working capital position is dependent upon a number of factors that are discussed below under the heading Risk Factors That May Affect Future Results. The Company currently anticipates that it will continue to utilize its liquidity and cash flows to improve the efficiency and capability of its existing hard disk drive and head manufacturing operations. Critical Accounting Policies The Company has prepared the accompanying consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of the financial statements requires the use of judgment and estimates that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. The Company has adopted accounting policies and practices that are generally accepted in the industry in which it operates. The Company believes the following are its most critical accounting policies that affect significant areas and involve managements judgment and estimates. If these estimates differ significantly from actual results, the impact to the consolidated financial statements may be material. Revenue and Accounts Receivable In accordance with standard industry practice, the Company has agreements with resellers that provide price protection for inventories held by resellers at the time of published list price reductions. In addition, the Company may have agreements with resellers that provide for stock rotation on slow moving items and other incentive programs. In accordance with current accounting standards, the Company recognizes revenue upon shipment or delivery to resellers and records a reduction to revenue for estimated price protection and other programs in effect until the resellers sell such inventory to their customers. Adjustments are based on anticipated price decreases during the reseller holding period, estimated amounts to be reimbursed to qualifying customers, as well as historical pricing information. If end market demand for hard disk drives declines significantly, the Company may have to increase sell through incentive payments to resellers, resulting in an increase in price protection allowances, which could adversely impact operating results. The Company establishes an allowance for doubtful accounts by analyzing specific customer accounts and assessing the risk of loss based on insolvency, disputes or other collection issues. In addition, the Company routinely analyzes the different receivable aging categories and its bad debt loss history and establishes reserves based on a combination of past due receivables and expected future losses. If the financial condition of a significant customer deteriorates resulting in their inability to pay their accounts when due, an increase in the Companys allowance for doubtful accounts would be required, which could negatively affect operating results. The Company records provisions against revenue and cost of revenue for estimated sales returns in the same period that the related revenue is recognized. The Company bases these provisions on existing product return notifications as well as historical returns by product type (see Warranty). If actual sales returns exceed expectations, an increase in the sales return provision would be required, which could negatively affect operating results. Warranty The Company records an accrual for estimated warranty costs when revenue is recognized. Warranty covers costs of repair or replacement of the hard disk drive over the warranty period, which generally ranges from one to five years. The Company has comprehensive processes with which to estimate accruals for warranty, which include specific detail on hard disk drives in the field by product type, historical field return rates and costs to repair. If actual product return rates or costs to repair returned products increase above expectations, an increase in the warranty provision would be required, which could negatively affect operating results. 22 Table of Contents Inventory Inventories are valued at the lower of cost (first in, first out basis) or net realizable value. Inventory write downs are recorded for the valuation of inventory at the lower of cost or net realizable value by analyzing market conditions and estimates of future sales prices as compared to inventory costs and inventory balances. The Company evaluates inventory balances for excess quantities and obsolescence on a regular basis by analyzing backlog, estimated demand, inventory on hand, sales levels and other information, and writes down inventory balances for excess and obsolete inventory based on the analysis. Unanticipated changes in technology or customer demand could result in a decrease in demand for one or more of the Companys products, which may require an increase in inventory write downs that could negatively affect operating results. Litigation and Other Contingencies The Company applies Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies, to determine when and how much to accrue for and disclose related to legal and other contingencies. Accordingly, the Company accrues loss contingencies when management, in consultation with its legal advisors, concludes that a loss is probable and reasonably estimable. (Refer to Part II, Item 8, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 6 Legal Proceedings included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K). The ability to predict the ultimate outcome of such matters involves judgments, estimates and inherent uncertainties. The actual outcome of such matters could differ materially from managements estimates. Deferred Tax Assets The Companys deferred tax assets, which consist primarily of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, are fully reserved due to managements determination that it is more likely than not that these assets will not be realized. This determination is based on the weight of available evidence, the most significant of which is the Companys loss history in the related tax jurisdictions. Should this determination change in the future, some amount of deferred tax assets could be recognized, resulting in a tax benefit or a reduction of future tax expense. Risk Factors That May Affect Future Results Declines in ASPs in the hard disk drive industry adversely affect our operating results. The hard disk drive industry has experienced declining ASPs. Although the rate of decline has moderated in recent years, there can be no assurance that this trend will continue. In fact, during the fourth quarter of 2004, ASPs decreased significantly. Increases in areal density mean that the average drive we sell has fewer heads and disks for the same capacity and, therefore, a lower component cost. Because of the competitiveness of the hard disk drive industry, lower costs generally mean lower prices. This is true even for those products that are competitive and introduced into the market in a timely manner. Our ASPs decline even further when competitors lower prices as a result of decreased costs or to absorb excess capacity, liquidate excess inventories, restructure or attempt to gain market share. Our operating results depend on optimizing time to market and time to volume, overall quality, and costs of new and established products. To achieve consistent success with our customers who manufacturer computers, systems and consumer electronic devices, we must balance several key attributes: time to market, time to volume, quality, cost, service, price and a broad product portfolio. If we fail to: maintain overall quality of products on new and established programs, maintain competitive cost structures on new and established products, produce sufficient quantities of products at the capacities our customers demand while managing the integration of new and established technologies, develop and qualify new products that have changes in overall specifications or features that our customers may require for their business needs, 23 Table of Contents qualify these products with key customers on a timely basis by meeting all of our customers needs for performance, quality and features, or consistently meet stated quality requirements on delivered products, our operating results would be adversely affected. Product life cycles in the desktop hard disk drive market require continuous technical innovation associated with higher areal densities. New products in the desktop hard disk drive market may require higher areal densities than previous product generations, posing formidable technical and manufacturing challenges. Higher areal densities require existing head technology to be improved or new technology developed to accommodate more data on a single disk. In addition, our introduction of new products during a technology transition increases the likelihood of unexpected quality concerns. Our failure to bring high quality new products to market on time and at acceptable costs may put us at a competitive disadvantage to companies that achieve these results. In addition, technology improvements may require us to reduce the price on existing products to remain competitive. Increases in areal density may outpace customers demand for storage capacity. The rate of increase in areal density may be greater than the increase in our customers demand for aggregate storage capacity. This could lead to our customers storage capacity needs being satisfied with more lower cost single surface drives, thereby decreasing our revenue. As a result, even with increasing aggregate demand for storage capacity, our ASPs could decline, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Product life cycles influence our financial results. Product life cycles have been extending since the middle of calendar year 2002 due in large part to a decrease in the rate of hard disk drive areal density growth. However, there can be no assurance that this trend will continue. If longer product life cycles continue, we may need to develop new technologies or programs to reduce our costs on any particular product in order to maintain competitive pricing for such product. This may result in an increase in our overall expenses and a decrease in our gross margins, both of which could adversely affect our operating results. If product life cycles shorten, it may be more difficult to recover the cost of product development before the product becomes obsolete. Although we believe that the current rate of growth in areal density is lower than in the past several years and will continue to decrease in the near term, we expect that areal density will continue to increase. Our failure to recover the cost of product development in the future could adversely affect our operating results. If we fail to qualify our products with our customers, they may not purchase any units of a particular product line, which would have a significant adverse impact on our sales. We regularly engage in new product qualification with our customers. To be considered for qualification, we must be among the leaders in time to market with our new products. Once a product is accepted for qualification testing, failures or delays in the qualification process can result in our losing sales to that customer until the next generation of products is introduced. The effect of missing a product qualification opportunity is magnified by the limited number of high volume computer manufacturers, most of which continue to consolidate their share of the PC market. If product life cycles continue to be extended due to a decrease in the rate of areal density growth, we may have a significantly longer period to wait before we have an opportunity to qualify a new product with a customer, which could harm our competitive position. These risks are increased because we expect cost improvements and competitive pressures to result in declining gross margins on our current generation products. Unexpected technology advances in the hard disk drive industry could harm our competitive position. If one of our competitors were able to implement a significant advance in head or hard disk drive technology that enables a step change increase in areal density that permits greater storage of data on a disk, it could put us at a competitive disadvantage and harm our operating results. 24 Table of Contents Advances in magnetic, optical, semiconductor or other data storage technologies could result in competitive products that have better performance or lower cost per unit of capacity than our products. If these products prove to be superior in performance or cost per unit of capacity, we could be at a competitive disadvantage to the companies offering those products. A fundamental change in recording technology could result in significant increases in our operating expenses and could put us at a competitive disadvantage. Currently the hard disk drive industry uses giant magnetoresistive head technology, which allows significantly higher storage capacities than the previously utilized thin film head technology. However, the industry is developing new recording technologies that may enable greater recording densities than currently available using magnetoresistive head technology, including perpendicular, current perpendicular to plane, and tunneling junction technology. If the industry experiences a fundamental shift in recording technology, hard disk drive manufacturers would need to timely adjust their designs and processes to accommodate the new technology in order to remain competitive. As a result, we could incur substantial costs in developing new technologies, media, and tools to remain competitive. We may also become more dependent on suppliers to ensure our access to components that accommodate the new technology. These results would increase our operating costs, which may negatively impact our operating results. The hard disk drive industry is highly competitive and characterized by rapid shifts in market share among the major competitors. The price of hard disk drives has fallen over time due to increases in supply, cost reductions, technological advances and price reductions by competitors seeking to liquidate excess inventories or attempting to gain market share. In addition, rapid technological changes often reduce the volume and profitability of sales of existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence. These factors, taken together, result in significant and rapid shifts in market share among the industrys major participants. In addition, product recalls can lead to a loss of market share, which could adversely affect our operating results. Our prices and margins are subject to declines due to unpredictable end user demand and oversupply of hard disk drives. Demand for our hard disk drives depends on the demand for systems manufactured by our customers and on storage upgrades to existing systems. The demand for systems has been volatile in the past and often has had an exaggerated effect on the demand for hard disk drives in any given period. As a result, the hard disk drive market has experienced periods of excess capacity, which has led to intense price competition. If intense price competition occurs, we may be forced to lower prices sooner and more than expected, which could result in lower revenue and gross margins. Changes in the markets for hard disk drives require us to develop new products. Over the past few years the consumer market for desktop computers has shifted significantly towards lower priced systems. According to data released by TrendFOCUS in November 2003, systems priced below $600 comprised the fastest growing segment of the desktop computer market. If we are not able to offer a competitively priced hard disk drive for the low cost PC market, our share of that market will likely fall, which could harm our operating results. The market for hard disk drives is also fragmenting into a variety of devices and products. Many industry analysts expect, as do we, that as communications are increasingly converted to digital technology from the older, analog technology, the technology of computers and consumer electronics will continue to converge, and hard disk drives will be found in many consumer products other than computers. For example, although general market acceptance remains in its early stages, the use of hard disk drives has expanded into the game console market. Microsoft and Sony currently incorporate a hard disk drive into their video game systems. However, there can be no assurance that these companies will continue incorporating a hard disk drive into their game consoles, or that the market for these products will grow. In addition, we expect that the consumer market for audio video products incorporating a hard disk drive will continue to grow. However, because this market remains relatively new, although overall growth has been strong, accurate forecasts for future growth remain challenging. Moreover, some of the devices, such as personal video recorders and digital video recorders, may require attributes not currently offered in our products, which may result in a need to expend capital, increasing our overall operational expense. If we are not successful in using our hard disk drive technology and 25 Table of Contents expertise to develop new products for the emerging consumer electronics market, or if we are required to incur significant costs in developing such products, it may harm our operating results. If we do not successfully expand into new hard disk drive market segments, our business may suffer. To remain a significant supplier of hard disk drives, we will need to offer a broad range of hard disk drive products to our customers. We currently offer a variety of 3.5 inch form factor hard disk drives for the desktop computer market. However, demand for hard disk drives may shift to products in smaller form factors, which we do not currently offer, but which some of our competitors offer. In addition, the enterprise and desktop PC industries are transitioning to higher speed interfaces such as SATA to handle higher data transfer rates. We currently offer SATA products; however, the transition of technology and the introduction of new products is challenging and creates risks. While we continue to develop new products and look to expand into non desktop applications such as consumer electronics and mobile products, the success of our new product introductions is dependent on a number of factors, including difficulties faced in manufacturing ramp, market acceptance, effective management of inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand, and the risk that our new products will have quality problems or other defects in the early stages of introduction that were not anticipated in the design of those products. If we fail to successfully develop and manufacture new products, customers may decrease the amount of our products that they purchase, and we may lose business to our competitors who offer these products or who use their dominance in the enterprise or mobile market to encourage sales of desktop hard disk drives. We depend on our key personnel and skilled employees. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our key personnel and skilled employees, many of whom would be extremely difficult to replace. Worldwide competition for skilled employees in the hard disk drive industry is intense. Volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key personnel or skilled employees who have been granted stock options. If we are unable to retain our existing key personnel or skilled employees, or hire and integrate new key personnel or skilled employees, our operating results would likely be harmed. Loss of market share with a key customer could harm our operating results. A majority of our revenue comes from a few customers. For example, during 2004, sales to our top 10 customers accounted for 51% of revenue, as compared to 55% of revenue for 2003. These customers have a variety of suppliers to choose from and therefore can make substantial demands on us. Even if we successfully qualify a product with a customer, the customer generally is not obligated to purchase any minimum volume of products from us and is able to terminate its relationship with us at any time. Our ability to maintain strong relationships with our principal customers is essential to our future performance. If we lose a key customer, or if any of our key customers reduce their orders of our products or require us to reduce our prices before we are able to reduce costs, our operating results would likely be harmed. In addition, if customer pressures require us to reduce our pricing such that our gross margins are diminished, we could decide not to sell our products to a particular customer, which could result in a decrease in our revenue. Dependence on a limited number of qualified suppliers of components and manufacturing equipment could lead to delays, lost revenue or increased costs. Because we depend on a limited number of suppliers for certain hard disk drive components and manufacturing equipment, an increase in the cost of such components or equipment, an extended shortage of required components or equipment, or the failure of key suppliers to remain in business, adjust to market conditions, or to meet our quality, yield or production requirements could significantly harm our operating results. A number of the components used by us are available from only a single or limited number of qualified outside suppliers, and there is continued attrition and consolidation in our supplier base. In addition, some of the components (or component types) used in our products are used in other devices, such as mobile telephones and digital cameras. If there is a significant simultaneous upswing in demand for such a component (or component type) from several high volume industries, resulting in a supply reduction, or a component is otherwise in short supply, or if a supplier fails to qualify or has a quality issue with a component, we may experience delays or increased costs in obtaining that component. In addition, if a component becomes unavailable, we could suffer significant loss of revenue. 26 Table of Contents To reduce the risk of component shortages, we attempt to provide significant lead times when buying these components. As a result, we may be subject to cancellation charges if we cancel orders, which may occur when we make technology transitions. In some cases, not only are we dependent on a limited number of suppliers, but we also have entered into contractual commitments that require us to buy a substantial number of components from certain suppliers. For example, we have entered into a volume purchase agreement with Komag for the purchase of media components, and volume purchase agreements with IBM and Marvell for the purchase of read channel devices. Our future operating results may depend substantially on Komags ability to timely qualify their components in our programs, and each of Komags, IBMs, and Marvells ability to supply us with these components in sufficient volume to meet our production requirements. A significant disruption in any of these suppliers ability to manufacture and supply us with the components could harm our operating results. In addition, certain equipment we use in our manufacturing or testing processes is available only from a limited number of suppliers. Some of this equipment uses materials that at times could be in short supply. If these materials are not available, or are not available in the quantities we require for our manufacturing and testing processes, our ability to manufacture our products could be impacted, and we could suffer significant loss of revenue. If we are unable to timely and cost effectively develop heads with leading technology and overall quality, our ability to sell our products may be significantly diminished, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. As a result of our head manufacturing operations, we are developing and manufacturing a substantial portion of the heads used in the hard disk drives we manufacture. Consequently, we are more dependent upon our own development and execution efforts and less able to take advantage of head technologies developed by other head manufacturers. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be successful in timely and cost effectively developing and manufacturing heads for products using perpendicular recording technology, or other future technologies. We also may not achieve acceptable manufacturing yields using such technologies necessary to satisfy our customers product needs, or we may encounter quality problems with the heads we manufacture. In addition, we may not have access to external sources of supply without incurring substantial costs. If we fail to develop new technologies in a timely manner, or if we encounter quality problems with the heads we manufacture, and if we do not have access to external sources of supply that incorporate new technologies, we would have a competitive disadvantage to companies that are successful in this regard, and our business and financial results could suffer. We will experience additional costs and risks in connection with our head manufacturing operations. Our acquisition of head manufacturing assets represented a fundamental change in our operating structure, as we are now manufacturing heads for use in the hard disk drives we manufacture. Consequently, we carry a higher percentage of fixed costs than assumed in our prior financial business model. If the overall level of production decreases for any reason, our head manufacturing assets may face under utilization that may impact our results of operations. We are therefore subject to additional risks related to overall asset utilization, including the need to operate at high levels of utilization to drive competitive costs, and the need for assured supply of components, especially hard disk drive media, that is optimized to work with our heads. Moreover, capital expenditures and working capital investments required to support the head manufacturing operations, including research and development expenses and expenses necessary to investigate new recording technologies to extend technology, will increase. In addition, we may incur additional costs, expenses and risks, including: we may not have sufficient head sources in the event that we are unable to manufacture a sufficient supply of heads to satisfy our needs; third party head suppliers may not deal with us or may not deal with us on the same terms and conditions we have previously enjoyed; 27 Table of Contents the costs of operating head manufacturing assets may exceed the prices we have historically paid for heads or the prices that might be otherwise available to us from other vendors; we may be subject to claims that our manufacturing of heads may infringe certain intellectual property rights of other companies; we could incur substantial costs, including clean up costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws applicable to our Fremont, California facility, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water; and it may be difficult and time consuming for us to locate suitable manufacturing equipment for our head manufacturing processes and replacement parts for such equipment. If we do not adequately address the challenges related to our head manufacturing operations, our ongoing operations could be disrupted, resulting in a decrease in our revenue or profit margins and negatively impacting our operating results. To develop new products, we must maintain effective partner relationships with our major component suppliers. Under our business model, we do not manufacture any of the component parts used in our hard disk drives, other than heads as a result of our acquisition of head manufacturing assets in July 2003. As a result, the success of our products depends on our ability to gain access to and integrate parts that are best in class from reliable component suppliers. To do so, we must effectively manage our relationships with our major component suppliers. We must also effectively integrate different products from a variety of suppliers, each of which employs variations on technology, which can impact, for example, feasible combinations of heads and media components. In August 2003 we settled litigation we were engaged in with Cirrus Logic, Inc., a supplier who previously was the sole source of read channel devices for our hard disk drives. As a result of the disputes that gave rise to the litigation, our profitability was at risk until another suppliers read channel devices could be designed into our products. Similar disputes with other strategic component suppliers could adversely affect our operating results. Our failure to timely and efficiently transition our enterprise resource planning software from the version we currently use to a new version could adversely affect our business and financial results. We use enterprise resource planning software in the operation of our business and maintenance of business and financial data related to our daily operations. We are in the process of upgrading this software and we anticipate transitioning to new enterprise resource planning software during the next year. We may experience unexpected difficulties in transitioning to the new software, including difficulties related to the failure or inefficient operation of the new software. Such difficulties or failures could result in our inability to access business and financial information stored on the system or the loss of such information. Any inability to access, or loss of, such information could affect our daily operations, including our ability to ship products and invoice our customers, which could have a significant adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of our customers have adopted a subcontractor model that increases our credit risk and could result in an increase in our operating costs. Some of our computer manufacturer customers (also referred to as OEMs) have adopted a subcontractor model that requires us to contract directly with companies that provide manufacturing services to our OEM customers. Because these subcontractors are generally not as well capitalized as our direct OEM customers, this subcontractor model exposes us to increased credit risks. Our agreements with our OEM customers may not permit us to increase our product prices to alleviate this increased credit risk. Any credit losses we may suffer as a result of this increased risk would increase our operating costs, which may negatively impact our operating results. We have two high volume hard drive manufacturing facilities and two facilities supporting our head manufacturing operations, which subjects us to the risk of damage or loss of any of these facilities. Our hard disk drives are manufactured in facilities in Malaysia and in Thailand. In addition, following our acquisition of head manufacturing assets in July 2003, we are operating a head wafer fabrication and research and 28 Table of Contents development facility in Fremont, California and a slider fabrication, HGA and HSA assembly, and research and development facility in Thailand. A fire, flood, earthquake or other disaster, condition or event that adversely affects any of these facilities or our ability to manufacture could result in a loss of sales and revenue and harm our operating results. Terrorist attacks may adversely affect our business and operating results. The terrorist attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001, the United States led military response to counter terrorism and the continued threat of terrorist activity and other acts of war or hostility, including the war in Iraq, have created uncertainty in the financial and insurance markets and have significantly increased the political, economic and social instability in some of the geographic areas in which we operate. Further acts of terrorism, either domestically or abroad, could create further uncertainties and instability. To the extent this results in disruption or delays of our manufacturing capabilities or shipments of our products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Manufacturing our products abroad subjects us to numerous risks. We are subject to risks associated with our foreign manufacturing operations, including: obtaining requisite United States and foreign governmental permits and approvals; currency exchange rate fluctuations or restrictions; political instability and civil unrest; transportation delays or higher freight rates; labor problems; trade restrictions or higher tariffs; exchange, currency and tax controls and reallocations; increasing labor and overhead costs; and loss or non renewal of favorable tax treatment under agreements or treaties with foreign tax authorities. Because we manufacture our products abroad, our operating costs are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Further fluctuations in the exchange rate of the Thai Baht, a floating currency, or a determination by the Malaysian government to repeg the Malaysian Ringgit or convert it to a floating currency, could result in an increase in our operating costs, which may negatively impact our operating results. We have attempted to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes by, among other things, entering into short term, forward exchange contracts. However, those contracts do not cover our full exposure and can be canceled by the issuer if currency controls are put in place. As a result of the Malaysian currency controls, we are no longer hedging the Malaysian currency risk. Currently, we hedge the Thai Baht, British Pound Sterling and the Euro. There has been a trend toward a weakening U.S. dollar relative to most foreign currencies. If this trend continues the U.S. dollar equivalents of unhedged manufacturing costs could increase because a significant portion of our production costs are foreign currency denominated. Conversely, there would not be an offsetting impact to revenues since revenues are substantially U.S. dollar denominated. Unforeseen environmental costs could harm our operating results. We may be subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products and making producers of those products financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal of certain products. Such laws and regulations have been passed in several jurisdictions in which we operate, including various European Union member countries. Similar legislation may be enacted in other locations where we manufacture or sell our products. We could incur substantial costs in connection with our compliance with such environmental laws and regulations, and we could also be subject to governmental fines and liability to our customers if we were to violate these laws. If we 29 Table of Contents have to make significant capital expenditures to comply with environmental laws, or if we are subject to significant capital expenses in connection with a violation of these laws, our financial condition or operating results could suffer. The nature of our business and our reliance on intellectual property and other proprietary information subjects us to the risk of significant litigation. The hard disk drive industry has been characterized by significant litigation. This includes litigation relating to patent and other intellectual property rights, product liability claims and other types of litigation. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy, and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of litigation are inherently uncertain and may result in adverse rulings or decisions. We may enter into settlements or be subject to judgments that may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are currently evaluating notices of alleged patent infringement or notices of patents from patent holders. We also are a party to several judicial and other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. If claims or actions are asserted against us, we may be required to obtain a license or cross license, modify our existing technology or design a new non infringing technology. Such licenses or design modifications can be extremely costly. We may also be liable for any past infringement. If there is an adverse ruling against us in an infringement lawsuit, an injunction could be issued barring production or sale of any infringing product. It could also result in a damage award equal to a reasonable royalty or lost profits or, if there is a finding of willful infringement, treble damages. Any of these results would likely increase our costs and harm our operating results. Our reliance on intellectual property and other proprietary information subjects us to the risk that these key ingredients of our business could be copied by competitors. Our success depends, in significant part, on the proprietary nature of our technology, including non patentable intellectual property such as our process technology. Despite safeguards, to the extent that a competitor is able to reproduce or otherwise capitalize on our technology, it may be difficult, expensive or impossible for us to obtain necessary legal protection. Also, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In addition to patent protection of intellectual property rights, we consider elements of our product designs and processes to be proprietary and confidential. We rely upon employee, consultant and vendor non disclosure agreements and contractual provisions and a system of internal safeguards to protect our proprietary information. However, any of our registered or unregistered intellectual property rights may be challenged or exploited by others in the industry, which might harm our operating results. We are subject to risks related to product defects, which could result in product recalls and could subject us to warranty claims in excess of our warranty provisions or which are greater than anticipated due to the unenforceability of liability limitations. We generally warrant our products for one to five years. We test our hard disk drives in our manufacturing facilities through a variety of means. However, there can be no assurance that our testing will reveal latent defects in our products, which may not become apparent until after the products have been sold into the market. Accordingly, there is a risk that product defects will occur, which could require a product recall. Product recalls can be expensive to implement and, if a product recall occurs during the products warranty period, we may be required to replace the defective product. In addition, a product recall may damage our relationship with our customers, and we may lose market share with our customers, including our OEM customers. The standard warranties used by us contain limits on damages and exclusions of liability for consequential damages and for negligent or improper use of the products. We record an accrual for estimated warranty costs at the time revenue is recognized. We may incur additional operating expenses if our warranty provision does not reflect the actual cost of resolving issues related to defects in our products. If these additional expenses are significant, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 30 Table of Contents Inaccurate projections of demand for our product can cause large fluctuations in our quarterly results. We often ship a high percentage (at times in excess of 50%) of our total quarterly sales in the third month of the quarter, which makes it difficult for us to forecast our financial results prior to the end of the quarter. In addition, our quarterly projections and results may be subject to significant fluctuations as a result of a number of other factors including: the timing of orders from and shipment of products to major customers; our product mix; changes in the prices of our products; manufacturing delays or interruptions; acceptance by customers of competing products in lieu of our products; variations in the cost of components for our products; limited access to components that we obtain from a single or a limited number of suppliers, such as Komag, IBM, Marvell, ALPS Electric Co., Ltd., STMicroelectronics, and SAE Magnetics Ltd., a subsidiary of TDK Corporation; competition and consolidation in the data storage industry; seasonal and other fluctuations in demand for PCs often due to technological advances; and availability and rates of transportation. Rapidly changing market conditions in the hard disk drive industry make it difficult to estimate actual results. We have made and continue to make a number of estimates and assumptions relating to our consolidated financial reporting. The rapidly changing market conditions with which we deal means that actual results may differ significantly from our estimates and assumptions. Key estimates and assumptions for us include: accruals for warranty costs related to product defects; price protection adjustments and other sales promotions and allowances on products sold to retailers, resellers and distributors; inventory adjustments for write down of inventories to lower of cost or market value (net realizable value); reserves for doubtful accounts; accruals for product returns; accruals for litigation and other contingencies; and reserves for deferred tax assets. The market price of our common stock is volatile. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, extremely volatile. Factors such as the following may significantly affect the market price of our common stock: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors which may decrease the volume and profitability of sales of our existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence; new products introduced by us or our competitors; periods of severe pricing pressures due to oversupply or price erosion resulting from competitive pressures; developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights; 31 Table of Contents conditions and trends in the hard disk drive, data and content management, storage and communication industries; and changes in financial estimates by securities analysts relating specifically to us or the hard disk drive industry in general. In addition, general economic conditions may cause the stock market to experience extreme price and volume fluctuations from time to time that particularly affect the stock prices of many high technology companies. These fluctuations often appear to be unrelated to the operating performance of the companies. Securities class action lawsuits are often brought against companies after periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. A number of such suits have been filed against us in the past, and should any new lawsuits be filed, such matters could result in substantial costs and a diversion of resources and managements attention. We may be unable to raise future capital through debt or equity financing. Due to the risks described herein, in the future we may be unable to maintain adequate financial resources for capital expenditures, expansion or acquisition activity, working capital and research and development. We have a credit facility, which matures on September 19, 2008, and planned capital lease facilities. If we decide to increase or accelerate our capital expenditures or research and development efforts, or if results of operations do not meet our expectations, we could require additional debt or equity financing. However, we cannot ensure that additional financing will be available to us or available on acceptable terms. An equity financing could also be dilutive to our existing stockholders. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Disclosure About Foreign Currency Risk Although the majority of the Companys transactions are in U.S. Dollars, some transactions are based in various foreign currencies. The Company purchases short term, forward exchange contracts to hedge the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain underlying assets, liabilities and commitments for operating expenses and product costs denominated in foreign currencies. The purpose of entering into these hedge transactions is to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on the results of operations. The resulting impact from these hedge contracts is to offset a majority of the currency gains and losses in the Companys local currency operating expenses. The contract maturity dates do not exceed six months. The Company does not purchase short term forward exchange contracts for trading purposes. Currently, the Company focuses on hedging its foreign currency risk related to the Thai Baht, the British Pound Sterling, and the Euro. As of July 2, 2004, the Company had outstanding the following purchased foreign currency forward exchange contracts (in millions, except weighted average contract rate): July 2, 2004 Contract Weighted Average Unrealized Amount Contract Rate* Gain (Loss) Foreign currency forward contracts: Thai Baht $ 170.3 40.81 0.2 British Pound Sterling $ 2.0 0.55 Euro $ 1.4 0.81 * Expressed in units of foreign currency per dollar. In 2004, 2003 and 2002, total realized transaction and forward exchange contract currency gains and losses were not material to the consolidated financial statements. 32 Table of Contents Disclosure About Other Market Risks Variable Interest Rate Risk At the option of the Company, borrowings under the Senior Credit Facility would bear interest at either LIBOR (with option periods of one to three months) or a base rate, plus a margin. If LIBOR or the base rate increases, the Companys interest payments could also increase. At July 2, 2004 the Company had a $50 million term loan outstanding under the Senior Credit Facility. A one percent increase in the variable rate of interest on the Senior Credit Facility would increase interest expense by approximately $0.5 million annually. 33 Table of Contents 
 
