Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward Looking Statements This report contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. The statements that are not purely historical should be considered forward looking statements. Often they can be identified by the use of forward looking words, such as may, will, could, project, believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, continue, potential, plan, forecasts, and the like. Statements concerning current conditions may also be forward looking if they imply a continuation of current conditions. Examples of forward looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning: the growth of unit sales of desktop PCs; growth in demand for and unit shipments of hard disk drives in the desktop PC, CE (including multi media applications, PVR and DVR), and mobile markets; growth of revenue from sales of hard disk drives in the desktop PC market; increase in sales of notebook systems and the Companys on going volume ramp of its Scorpio 2.5 inch hard disk drives; increase in the demand for desktop PC hard disk drives in emerging economies such as India and China; the Companys expansion into the CE market; the growth rate of the mobile computing market relative to the desktop PC market; expansion of the SATA interface in desktop PCs and growth of SATA interfaces in enterprise hard disk drives; increase in use of hard disk drives in near line storage applications; growth of the market for enterprise and other non desktop PC applications of 3.5 inch form factor hard disk drives; growth of the external hard disk drive market and acceptance of external storage in consumer electronics products; increase in demand for higher capacity hard disk drives; the Companys planned entrance into 1.0 inch hard disk drive market and use of hard disk drives in consumer products; the Companys planned use of perpendicular recording in certain products; trends in the area of custom integrated circuits for hard disk drives; increase in areal density (the measure of storage per disk) and decrease in areal density growth rate; the Companys expectations regarding traditional seasonal demand trends for the hard disk drive industry in the September 2005 quarter; the Companys expectations regarding its stock repurchase program; the Companys expectations regarding capital expenditures for 2006 and operating expenses for the September 2005 quarter; the Companys beliefs regarding the sufficiency of its cash, cash equivalents and short term investments to meet its working capital needs; the Companys expectations regarding its utilization of its liquidity and cash flows to improve the efficiency and capability of its existing hard disk drive and head manufacturing operations; and the Companys expectations regarding the impact of new accounting standards. 16 Forward looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward looking statements. Readers are urged to carefully review the disclosures made by the Company concerning risks and other factors that may affect the Companys business and operating results, including those made in this report under the caption Risk Factors That May Affect Future Results as well as the Companys other reports filed with the SEC. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. The Company undertakes no obligation to publish revised forward looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Unless otherwise indicated, references herein to specific years and quarters are to the Companys fiscal years and fiscal quarters. The Company Western Digital Corporation designs, develops, manufactures and sells hard disk drives. A hard disk drive is a device that stores data on one or more rotating magnetic disks to allow fast access to data. Hard disk drives are one of the key components found in most computers and data storage subsystems. The Companys hard disk drives are used in desktop personal computers (PCs), notebook computers, enterprise applications such as servers, workstations, network attached storage and storage area networks, and in consumer electronics (CE) products such as personal/digital video recorders (DVRs) and satellite and cable set top boxes (STBs). In addition, the Companys hard disk drives are used in external hard disk drive products that feature high speed buses such as 1394/ FireWire/iLinktm, Universal Serial Bus (USB) and Ethernet. Hard disk drives provide non volatile data storage, which means that the data is not lost when power is no longer applied to the device. The Companys hard disk drive products currently include 3.5 inch and 2.5 inch form factor drives. The 3.5 inch form factor drives have capacities ranging from 40 gigabytes (GB) to 400 GB, nominal rotation speeds of 5400, 7200 and 10,000 revolutions per minute (RPM), and offer interfaces including Enhanced Integrated Drive Electronics (EIDE) and Serial Advanced Technology Attachment (SATA). The 2.5 inch form factor drives have capacities ranging from 40 GB to 80 GB, nominal rotation speed of 5400 RPMs, and offer the EIDE interface. In addition, the Company has plans to enter the 1.0 inch hard disk drive market in the future. The Company anticipates that 1.0 inch hard disk drive products could be used in a variety of handheld consumer devices such as MP3 players, cameras, and cell phones. The Company sells its products worldwide to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) for inclusion in computer systems or subsystems, and to distributors, resellers and retailers. The Companys hard disk drive products are currently manufactured in Malaysia and Thailand. For geographical financial data, see the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 9 thereto included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Market Overview For calendar year 2004, the Company believes that the total market for hard disk drives was more than 300 million units, or almost $24 billion. Over half of these unit shipments were to the desktop PC market. Thus, total hard disk drive unit growth depends greatly on developments in the PC market. WD believes that the demand for hard disk drives in the PC market will continue to grow in part due to: the overall growth of PC sales in established markets; the growth in emerging economies, such as India and China, driving the increased deployment of personal computers; the increasing needs of businesses and individuals to store larger amounts of data on their PCs; the increasing sales of mobile computers that may have shorter replacement cycles and or additional sales for individuals to have both a desktop and a mobile computer; the continuing development of software applications to manage multimedia content; and the increasing use of broadband Internet, including downloading content from the Internet onto PC hard disk drives. 17 The Company believes the rate of hard disk drive unit growth in the desktop PC market is affected by several factors, including maturing PC markets in North America and Western Europe, an increase in first time buyers of PCs in Eastern Europe and Asia, the lengthening of PC replacement cycles and an increasing preference for notebook systems. The Company expects that the mobile computing market, which is primarily notebook computers, to grow faster than the desktop PC market due to customer preference in the next three years. Western Digital entered the mobile hard disk drive market in October 2004, commencing volume production of its WD Scorpiotm family of 2.5 inch hard disk drives for notebooks. As the market for consumer applications expands, additional investments by the Company will be required. For example, CE products such as handheld digital audio players currently utilize sub 2.5 inch form factor hard disk drives. In January 2005, Western Digital announced it has plans to enter the miniature hard disk drive market with a 1.0 inch 6 gigabyte product. In addition, while CE products may require hard disk drives that are similar in nature to desktop hard disk drives, these products have often required specialized features or functions driving additional development versus desktop products. The enterprise market for hard disk drives focuses on customers that make workstations, servers, network attached storage devices, storage area networks, and other computing systems or subsystems. Western Digital serves this market through its application of the SATA interface. The SATA interface contains many of the same benefits of the small computer systems interface, or SCSI the predominant interface currently used in most enterprise hard disk drive applications. The Company believes that the use of the SATA interfaces in enterprise hard disk drives is growing. Results of Operations Fiscal 2005 Overview In 2005, Western Digitals net revenue increased by 19% to $3.6 billion on unit shipments of 61.4 million as compared to 48.3 million in 2004. In 2005, 21% of WDs revenue was derived from non desktop PC sources including CE products, enterprise applications, notebook PCs and retail sales as compared to 14% in 2004. Gross margin increased to 16.2% from 15.2% in 2004. Operating income increased by $42 million to $197 million, which included the impact of a $19 million charge for the settlement of a patent infringement lawsuit. Operating margins increased to 5.4% as a percentage of net revenue in 2005 compared with 5.1% in 2004. Western Digital generated $461 million in cash flow from operations in 2005 compared with $190 million in 2004, finishing the year with $598 million in cash and short term investments, an increase of $221 million from the prior year. Historically, industry unit shipments have increased 5% to 10% between the June and September quarters. The Company anticipates traditional seasonal demand trends for the hard disk drive industry in the September 2005 quarter. WD also expects to continue to benefit from its growing participation in the CE market and the on going volume ramp of its Scorpio 2.5 inch hard disk drives. Summary of 2005, 2004 and 2003 Comparison The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, summary information from the Companys statements of income (in millions). Years Ended July 1, 2005 July 2, 2004 June 27, 2003 Revenue, net $ 3,639 100.0 % $ 3,047 100.0 % $ 2,719 100.0 % Gross margin 590 16.2 462 15.2 443 16.3 Operating expenses 393 10.8 307 10.1 256 9.4 Operating income 197 5.4 155 5.1 187 6.9 Net interest and other income 5 0.2 0.0 3 0.0 Income before income taxes 202 5.6 155 5.1 190 7.0 Income tax expense 4 0.1 4 0.1 8 0.3 Net income 198 5.5 151 5.0 182 6.7 18 Net Revenue Net revenue was $3.6 billion for 2005, an increase of 19% or $592 million from 2004. Total unit shipments increased to 61.4 million for the year as compared to 48.3 million for the prior year. This unit increase resulted from the Companys higher desktop market share, stronger overall demand for hard disk drives in the desktop PC market and WDs increasing focus on the non desktop PC market. For example, WD shipped 6.6 million units to the CE market in 2005 as compared to 2.8 million units in 2004. The growth in total unit shipments was partially offset by a $4 per unit decline in average selling prices (ASPs) to $59 per unit for 2005. Revenue contribution by geographic region for 2005 was 38% from the Americas, 29% from Europe and 33% from Asia compared to 41%, 30% and 29%, respectively, for 2004 and 48%, 30% and 22%, respectively, for 2003. These changes reflect the Companys continued focus on revenue growth in emerging geographic markets, primarily in Asia. Revenue contribution by sales channel for 2005 was 58% from OEMs, 36% from distributors and 6% from the retail channel, compared to 51%, 42% and 7%, respectively, for 2004 and 52%, 40% and 8%, respectively for 2003. WDs revenue contribution from OEMs increased in 2005 due to higher sales to the non desktop PC markets, which are serviced primarily by OEMs. Net revenue increased $328 million, or 12%, in 2004 from 2003. This increase in net revenue was primarily due to the Companys improved market share as well as an increase in demand for hard disk drives in the PC market. Unit shipments increased to 48.3 million in 2004 from 39.7 million in 2003, while ASPs decreased to $63 per unit in 2004 from $68 per unit in 2003. Gross Margin Gross margin percentage increased to 16.2% for 2005 from 15.2% for 2004. The Companys 2004 gross margin was impacted by start up expenses and other charges totaling $18 million relating to the Companys head manufacturing operations acquired in July 2003. The increase in gross margin percentage over the prior year was also impacted by continuing improvements in quality, manufacturing cost efficiencies and product mix, partially offset by unit price declines. The gross margin percentage for 2003 was 16.3%, which included the impact of a $19 million charge for the settlement of litigation. The decrease in gross margin percentage from 2003 to 2004 was primarily a result of the $18 million of start up expenses incurred in 2004 relating to the acquisition of the Companys head manufacturing operations as well as aggressive pricing pressures. WD was able to partially offset the 2004 impact of these pricing conditions and start up related costs with the ongoing accretive benefit of its head manufacturing operations. Operating Expenses Total operating expenses, consisting of research and development (R&D) and selling, general and administrative (SG&A), were 10.8% of net revenue in 2005, as compared to 10.1% of net revenue in 2004 and 9.4% of net revenue in 2003. Operating expenses are expected to increase slightly for the first fiscal quarter of 2006 as a result of the Companys continued investment in the expansion of its product and technology portfolio and the costs associated with expensing stock options. R&D expense was $239 million, $201 million and $135 million for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The increase of $38 million in R&D expense in 2005 over 2004 was primarily related to development of new product platforms in support of WDs entry into new markets, expenditures for advanced head technologies and an increase of $26 million in employee incentive compensation programs. The increase of $66 million in R&D in 2004 over 2003 was due to head design, mobile and enterprise platform development, as well as a $26 million charge for acquired in process research and development related to the Read Rite asset acquisition. SG&A expense was $154 million, $106 million and $121 million for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The $48 million increase in SG&A expense in 2005 from 2004 was primarily due to an expansion of sales resources to support increasing PC demand in certain geographic regions and the growing mobile and CE markets, an increase of $15 million in employee incentive compensation programs and a $19 million charge for the settlement of a patent infringement lawsuit. The $15 million decrease in SG&A expense in 2004 from 2003 was primarily related to a reduction in employee incentive compensation programs and continuing cost reductions. 19 Interest and Other Income Net interest and other income was $5 million, $0 and $3 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. This includes net investment gains of $4 million in 2003. Excluding these net gains, net interest and other income (expense) was $5 million, $0 and ($1) million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The increase in net interest income in 2005 over 2004 was primarily due to a higher average cash and short term investments balance as well as an increase in the rates of return on investments, yielding higher interest income in 2005 as compared to 2004. The increase in net interest income in 2004 over net interest expense in 2003 was primarily due to the Companys redemption of its convertible debentures during the third quarter of 2003, resulting in lower interest expense in 2004. Income Tax Expense Income tax expense was $4 million, $4 million and $8 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Tax expense as a percentage of income before taxes was 1.9%, 2.5% and 4.0% for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Differences between the effective tax rates and the U.S. Federal statutory rate are primarily due to tax holidays in Malaysia and Thailand that expire at various times ranging from 2008 to 2019. The 2005 effective tax rate benefited by approximately 0.7% from the favorable resolution of certain tax contingencies. The decrease in income tax expense from 2003 to 2004 is primarily related to lower overall earnings in 2004 and a more favorable mix of earnings within certain tax jurisdictions. Liquidity and Capital Resources Western Digital ended fiscal 2005 with total cash, cash equivalents and short term investments of $598 million, an increase of $220 million from July 2, 2004. The Companys investment policy is to manage its investment portfolio to preserve principal and liquidity while maximizing return through the full investment of available funds. A large portion of Western Digitals available funds is invested in auction rate securities, which are short term investments in bonds with original maturities greater than 90 days. The following table summarizes the results of the Companys statements of cash flows for the three year periods ended July 1, 2005, July 2, 2004 and June 27, 2003. Years Ended July 1, July 2, June 27, 2005 2004 2003 Net cash flow provided by (used for): Operating activities $ 461 $ 190 $ 258 Investing activities (314 ) (259 ) (59 ) Financing activities (7 ) 21 (30 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 140 $ (48 ) $ 169 Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities during 2005 was $461 million as compared to $190 million during 2004 and $258 million for 2003. Cash flow from operations consists of net income, adjusted for non cash charges, plus or minus working capital changes. This represents the Companys principal source of cash. Net cash provided by working capital changes was $128 million for 2005 as compared to net cash used to fund working capital of $89 million for 2004 and net cash provided by working capital of $45 million for 2003. 20 Western Digitals working capital requirements depend upon the effective management of its cash conversion cycle, which measures how quickly a company can convert its products into cash through sales. The cash conversion cycles for 2005, 2004 and 2003 were as follows: Years Ended July 1, July 2, June 27, 2005 2004 2003 Days sales outstanding 40 39 31 Days in inventory 16 20 16 Days payables outstanding (65 ) (61 ) (56 ) Cash conversion cycle (9 ) (2 ) (9 ) The improvement in the cash conversion cycle for 2005 was primarily due to better alignment in the timing of the Companys inventory build and sales schedules. Cash flow from operations for 2005 also benefited from an increase in other expenses that did not require the use of cash in 2005. The decrease in the 2004 cash conversion cycle as compared to 2003 was primarily due to a higher accounts receivable balance associated with changes in the Companys mix of customers and higher work in process inventory associated with the head manufacturing operations. Cash flow from operations for 2004 was also impacted by the payment of a $45 million litigation settlement. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for 2005 was $314 million as compared to $259 million for 2004 and $59 million for 2003. During 2005, cash used in investing activities consisted of $233 million for capital expenditures and $81 million for short term investments. The net cash used in investing activities for 2004 consisted of $132 million for capital expenditures, $95 million for the Read Rite asset acquisition and $32 million for short term investments. The increase in capital expenditures in 2005 was primarily a result of assets purchased to upgrade the Companys head manufacturing capabilities, increased desktop and mobile hard disk drive production capabilities and for the normal replacement of existing assets. The increase in short term investments in 2005 was a result of additional investments in auction rate securities. The 2003 investing activities related primarily to capital expenditures. The increase in capital expenditures in 2004 was primarily for assets purchased to upgrade the Companys head manufacturing capabilities, increase desktop hard disk drive production capabilities and for the normal replacement of existing assets. For 2006, capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $275 million to $300 million. This increase in capital expenditures is expected to consist primarily of investments in advanced head technologies, new product platforms and capacity for WDs broadening and growing product portfolio. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities for 2005 was $7 million as compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $21 million for 2004 and net cash used in financing activities of $30 million for 2003. The net cash used in financing activities in 2005 consisted of $45 million used for common stock repurchases and $20 million for debt payments partially offset by $58 million received upon issuance of common stock under employee plans. The net cash provided by financing activities for 2004 consisted primarily of $24 million received upon issuance of common stock under employee plans and $14 million in net proceeds from long term debt partially offset by $16 million used for common stock repurchases. The net cash used by financing activities for 2003 consisted primarily of $68 million used for redemption of the Companys remaining convertible debentures, partially offset by $44 million received upon issuance of common stock under employee plans. 21 Capital Commitments The following is a summary of the Companys significant contractual cash obligations and commercial commitments at July 1, 2005 (in millions): Less than More than Total 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years 5 Years Long term debt, including current portion $ 38 $ 13 $ 25 $ $ Capital lease obligations 15 7 8 Operating leases 60 11 21 16 12 Purchase obligations* 2,835 1,821 1,014 Total $ 2,948 $ 1,852 $ 1,068 $ 16 $ 12 * Includes long term purchase agreements entered into before August 17, 2005. Long Term Debt The Company has a $125 million credit facility (Senior Credit Facility) consisting of a revolving credit line (subject to outstanding letters of credit and a borrowing base calculation) and a term loan of $38 million. Both the revolving credit facility and the term loan mature on September 19, 2008 and are secured by the Companys accounts receivable, inventory, 65% of its stock in its foreign subsidiaries and other assets. For the year ended July 1, 2005, the Company had no borrowings on the revolving credit line and the average variable rate on the Companys term loan was 4.5%. The Senior Credit Facility prohibits the payment of cash dividends on common stock and contains specific financial covenants. The Company is required to maintain an available liquidity level of $300 million at the end of each quarter. Available liquidity is defined as cash plus eligible trade receivables. As of July 1, 2005, the Company was in compliance with this covenant. Should the Companys available liquidity be less than $300 million, the Company would then be subject to minimum EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) requirements and capital expenditure limitations. The term loan requires quarterly principal payments of approximately $3 million. Principal payments made on the term loan increase the amount of revolving credit available. At July 1, 2005, $85 million was available for borrowing under the revolving credit line and the Company had $3 million in outstanding letters of credit. Purchase Orders In the normal course of business, the Company enters into purchase orders with suppliers for the purchase of hard disk drive components used to manufacture the Companys products. These purchase orders generally cover forecasted component supplies needed for production during the next quarter, are recorded as a liability upon receipt of the components, and generally may be changed or canceled at any time prior to shipment of the components. In some cases the Company may be obligated to pay for certain costs related to changes to, or cancellation of, a purchase order, such as costs incurred for raw materials or work in process. The Company has entered into long term purchase agreements with various component suppliers. The commitments are subject to minimum quality requirements. In addition, the dollar amount of the purchases may depend on the specific products ordered and future price negotiations. The estimated related minimum purchase requirements are included in Purchase Obligations in the table above. The Company enters into, from time to time, other long term purchase agreements for components with certain vendors. Generally, future purchases under these agreements are not fixed and determinable as they depend on the Companys overall unit volume requirements and are contingent upon the prices, technology and quality of the suppliers products remaining competitive. These arrangements are not included under Purchase Obligations in the table above. See below under the heading Risk Factors That May Affect Future Results for a discussion of these commitments. 22 Forward Exchange Contracts The Company purchases short term, forward exchange contracts to hedge the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain underlying assets, liabilities and commitments for operating expenses and product costs denominated in foreign currencies. See Part II, Item 7A, under the heading Disclosure About Foreign Currency Risk, for the Companys current forward exchange contract commitments. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, the Company may provide indemnifications of varying scope and terms to customers, vendors, lessors, business partners and other parties with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, losses arising out of our breach of such agreements, services to be provided by us, or from intellectual property infringement claims made by third parties. In addition, the Company has entered into indemnification agreements with its directors and certain of its officers that will require it, among other things, to indemnify them against certain liabilities that may arise by reason of their status or service as directors or officers. The Company maintains director and officer insurance, which may cover certain liabilities arising from its obligation to indemnify its directors and officers in certain circumstances. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Such indemnification agreements may not be subject to maximum loss clauses. Historically, the Company has not incurred material costs as a result of obligations under these agreements. Stock Repurchase Program WD announced a stock repurchase program on May 5, 2004. Under the program, the Company may purchase on the open market up to $100 million of its common stock depending on market conditions and other corporate considerations. Stock repurchases are expected to be funded principally by operating cash flow. During 2005, WD repurchased 4.8 million shares of common stock at a total cost of $45 million. In addition, between July 2, 2005 and September 9, 2005 the Company repurchased 0.4 million shares of common stock at a cost of $6 million. Since the inception of the program and through September 9, 2005, the Company has repurchased 7.1 million shares for a total cost of $67 million (including commissions). WD may continue to repurchase its stock as it deems appropriate and market conditions allow. Western Digital believes its current cash, cash equivalents and short term investments will be sufficient to meet its working capital needs through the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that the Senior Credit Facility will continue to be available to the Company. Also, WDs ability to sustain its working capital position is dependent upon a number of factors that are discussed below under the heading Risk Factors That May Affect Future Results. The Company currently anticipates that it will continue to utilize its liquidity and cash flows to improve the efficiency and capability of its existing hard disk drive and head manufacturing operations. Critical Accounting Policies The Company has prepared the accompanying consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of the financial statements requires the use of judgment and estimates that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. The Company has adopted accounting policies and practices that are generally accepted in the industry in which it operates. The Company believes the following are its most critical accounting policies that affect significant areas and involve managements judgment and estimates. If these estimates differ significantly from actual results, the impact to the consolidated financial statements may be material. Revenue and Accounts Receivable In accordance with standard industry practice, Western Digital has agreements with resellers that provide limited price protection for inventories held by resellers at the time of published list price reductions and other incentive programs. In accordance with current accounting standards, the Company recognizes revenue upon shipment or delivery 23 to resellers and records a reduction to revenue for estimated price protection and other programs in effect until the resellers sell such inventory to their customers. Adjustments are based on anticipated price decreases during the reseller holding period, estimated amounts to be reimbursed to qualifying customers, as well as historical pricing information. If end market demand for hard disk drives declines significantly, the Company may have to increase sell through incentive payments to resellers, resulting in an increase in price protection allowances, which could adversely impact operating results. Western Digital establishes an allowance for doubtful accounts by analyzing specific customer accounts and assessing the risk of loss based on insolvency, disputes or other collection issues. In addition, the Company routinely analyzes the different receivable aging categories and its bad debt loss history and establishes reserves based on a combination of past due receivables and expected future losses based primarily on the Companys historical levels of bad debt losses. If the financial condition of a significant customer deteriorates resulting in its inability to pay its accounts when due, or if the overall loss history of the Company changes significantly, an adjustment in the Companys allowance for doubtful accounts would be required, which could affect operating results. Western Digital records provisions against revenue and cost of revenue for estimated sales returns in the same period that the related revenue is recognized. The Company bases these provisions on existing product return notifications as well as historical returns by product type (see Warranty). If actual sales returns exceed expectations, an increase in the sales return provision would be required, which could negatively affect operating results. Warranty Western Digital records an accrual for estimated warranty costs when revenue is recognized. Warranty covers costs of repair or replacement of the hard disk drive over the warranty period, which generally ranges from one to five years. The Company has comprehensive processes with which to estimate accruals for warranty, which include specific detail on hard disk drives in the field by product type, historical field return rates and costs to repair. If actual product return rates or costs to repair returned products differ significantly from current expectations, a change in the warranty provision would be required. For a summary of historical changes in estimates related to pre existing warranty provisions, refer to Part II, Item 8, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 5 Commitments and Contingencies included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Inventory Inventories are valued at the lower of cost (first in, first out basis) or net realizable value. Inventory write downs are recorded for the valuation of inventory at the lower of cost or net realizable value by analyzing market conditions and estimates of future sales prices as compared to inventory costs and inventory balances. The Company evaluates inventory balances for excess quantities and obsolescence on a regular basis by analyzing backlog, estimated demand, inventory on hand, sales levels and other information, and reduces inventory balances to net realizable value for excess and obsolete inventory based on the analysis. Unanticipated changes in technology or customer demand could result in a decrease in demand for one or more of the Companys products, which may require an increase in inventory balance adjustments that could negatively affect operating results. Litigation and Other Contingencies Western Digital applies Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies, to determine when and how much to accrue for and disclose related to legal and other contingencies. Accordingly, the Company accrues loss contingencies when management, in consultation with its legal advisors, concludes that a loss is probable and reasonably estimable. (Refer to Part II, Item 8, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 6 Legal Proceedings included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K). The ability to predict the ultimate outcome of such matters involves judgments, estimates and inherent uncertainties. The actual outcome of such matters could differ materially from managements estimates. 24 Deferred Tax Assets Western Digitals deferred tax assets, which consist primarily of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, are fully reserved due to managements determination that it is more likely than not that these assets will not be realized. This determination is based on the weight of available evidence, the most significant of which is the Companys loss history in the related tax jurisdictions. Should this determination change in the future, some amount of deferred tax assets could be recognized, resulting in a tax benefit or a reduction of future tax expense. The Company records estimated tax liabilities to the extent the contingencies are probable and can be reasonably estimated. However, the actual liability in any such tax contingencies may be materially different from our estimates, which could result in the need to record additional tax liabilities or potentially adjust previously recorded tax liabilities. New Accounting Standards In November 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 151, Inventory Costs, an Amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4 (SFAS No. 151), which clarifies the accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs and wasted material (spoilage) and requires those items be recognized as current period charges regardless of whether they meet the definition of so abnormal. SFAS No. 151 is effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. The Company does not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 151 to have a material impact on its financial statements. In December 2004, the FASB issued revised statement SFAS No. 123, Share Based Payment (SFAS No. 123 R), which supersedes APB Opinion No. 25 and replaces the current SFAS No. 123. SFAS No. 123 R requires companies to expense the estimated fair value of employee stock options and similar awards and provides guidance on the valuation methods used in determining the estimated fair value. The provisions of SFAS No. 123 R will be effective beginning with the Companys first quarter of fiscal year 2006. Under SFAS No. 123 R, compensation expense for existing awards where the requisite service period has not been completed by the effective date will be charged to expense over the remaining service period using the same fair value currently calculated for pro forma disclosure purposes under SFAS No. 123. For fiscal year 2005, the proforma net impact of stock option expense as reported in footnote 1 to the consolidated financial statements was approximately $25 million. The Company is currently in the process of determining the impact of SFAS 123 R on its 2006 financial statements. The actual effect of adopting SFAS 123R will be dependent on several factors including the levels and timing of future share based payment grants, the assumed award forfeiture rate and the method of recognizing the fair value of awards over the service period. In March 2005, the FASB issued FIN 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143 (FIN 47), which requires an entity to recognize a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement obligation when incurred if the liabilitys fair value can be reasonably estimated. FIN 47 is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2005. The Company does not expect the adoption of FIN 47 to have a material impact on its financial statements. Risk Factors That May Affect Future Results Declines in average selling prices (ASPs) in the hard disk drive industry adversely affect our operating results. The hard disk drive industry historically has experienced declining ASPs. Although the rate of decline has moderated in recent years, there can be no assurance that this trend will continue. Our ASPs tend to decline when competitors lower prices as a result of decreased costs or to absorb excess capacity, liquidate excess inventories, restructure or attempt to gain market share. Our ASPs also decline when there is a shift in the mix of product sales, and sales of lower priced products increase relative to those of higher priced products. 25 Our operating results depend on optimizing time to market and time to volume, overall quality, and costs of new and established products. To achieve consistent success with our customers who manufacturer computers, systems and consumer electronic products, we must balance several key attributes such as time to market, time to volume, quality, cost, service, price and a broad product portfolio. If we fail to: maintain overall quality of products on new and established programs, maintain competitive cost structures on new and established products, produce sufficient quantities of products at the capacities our customers demand while managing the integration of new and established technologies, develop and qualify new products that have changes in overall specifications or features that our customers may require for their business needs, obtain commitments from our customers to qualify new products, redesigns of current products, or new components in our existing products, qualify these products with key customers on a timely basis by meeting all of our customers needs for performance, quality and features, maintain an adequate supply of components required to manufacture our products, maintain the manufacturing capability to quickly change our product mix between different capacities, form factors and spin speeds in response to changes in customers product demands, or consistently meet stated quality requirements on delivered products, our operating results could be adversely affected. Product life cycles influence our financial results. Product life cycles have been extending since the middle of calendar year 2002 due in large part to a decrease in the rate of hard disk drive areal density growth. However, there can be no assurance that this trend will continue. If longer product life cycles continue, we may need to develop new technologies or programs to reduce our costs on any particular product in order to maintain competitive pricing for such product. This may result in an increase in our overall expenses and a decrease in our gross margins, both of which could adversely affect our operating results. If product life cycles shorten, it may be more difficult to recover the cost of product development before the product becomes obsolete. Our failure to recover the cost of product development in the future could adversely affect our operating results. Product life cycles in the desktop hard disk drive market require continuous technical innovation associated with higher areal densities. New products in the desktop hard disk drive market may require higher areal densities than previous product generations, posing formidable technical and manufacturing challenges. Higher areal densities require existing head technology to be improved or new technology developed to accommodate more data on a single disk. In addition, our introduction of new products during a technology transition increases the likelihood of unexpected quality concerns. Our failure to bring high quality new products to market on time and at acceptable costs may put us at a competitive disadvantage to companies that achieve these results. In addition, technology improvements may require us to reduce the price on existing products to remain competitive. The difficulty of introducing hard disk drives with higher levels of areal density and the challenges of reducing other costs may impact our ability to achieve historical levels of cost reduction. Storage capacity of the hard disk drive, as manufactured by us, is determined by the number of disks and each disks areal density. Areal density is a measure of the amount of magnetic bits that can be stored on the recording surface of the disk. Generally, the higher the areal density, the more information can be stored on a single platter. Historically, we have been able to achieve a large percentage of cost reduction through increases in areal density. Increases in areal 26 density mean that the average drive we sell has fewer heads and disks for the same capacity and, therefore, may result in a lower component cost. However, because increases in areal density have become more difficult in the hard disk drive industry, such increases may require increases in component costs. In addition, other opportunities to reduce costs may not continue at historical rates. Our inability to achieve cost reductions could adversely affect our operating results. Increases in areal density may outpace customers demand for storage capacity. Historically, the industry has experienced periods of increased areal density growth rates. Although in recent years there has been a decrease in the rate of areal density growth, if industry conditions return to periods of increased growth rates, the rate of increase in areal density may exceed the increase in our customers demand for aggregate storage capacity. This could lead to our customers storage capacity needs being satisfied with more lower cost single surface drives, thereby decreasing our revenue. As a result, even with increasing aggregate demand for storage capacity, our ASPs could decline, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in the markets for hard disk drives require us to develop new products and new technology. Over the past few years the consumer market for desktop computers has shifted significantly towards lower priced systems. If we are not able to offer a competitively priced hard disk drive for the low cost PC market, our share of that market will likely fall, which could harm our operating results. The market for hard disk drives is also fragmenting into a variety of devices and products. Many industry analysts expect, as do we, that as communications are increasingly converted to digital technology from the older, analog technology, the technology of computers and consumer electronics will continue to converge, and hard disk drives will be found in many CE products other than computers. In addition, we expect that the consumer market for multi media applications, including audio video products, incorporating a hard disk drive will continue to grow. However, because this market remains relatively new, accurate forecasts for future growth remain challenging. Moreover, some of the devices, such as personal video recorders and digital video recorders, or other products outside of the CE market, may require attributes not currently offered in our products, which have resulted in a need to expend capital to develop new interfaces, form factors, technical specifications or hard disk drive features, increasing our overall operational expense without corresponding incremental revenue at this stage. If we are not successful in using our hard disk drive technology and expertise to develop new products for the emerging CE market, or if we are required to incur significant costs in developing such products, it may harm our operating results. If we do not successfully expand into new hard disk drive markets, our business may suffer. To remain a significant supplier of hard disk drives, we will need to offer a broad range of hard disk drive products to our customers. We currently offer a variety of 3.5 inch hard disk drives for the desktop computer and CE markets, and we also offer 2.5 inch form factor hard disk drives for the mobile market. However, demand for hard disk drives may shift to products in smaller form factors, which our competitors may already offer. We recently announced our entry into the sub 2.5 inch hard disk drive market with a family of 1.0 inch drives, which we expect to ship in the future. We face various challenges in manufacturing a 1.0 inch hard disk drive because it requires the development of new manufacturing technologies and processes. If we are not able to adequately address these challenges, our expected shipment of this product may be delayed, resulting in a delay in our ability to realize revenue from this product. In addition, the enterprise and desktop PC markets are transitioning from the PATA interface to higher speed interfaces such as SATA to handle higher data transfer rates. We currently offer SATA products; however, the transition of technology and the introduction of new products are challenging and create risks. For example, acceptance of the SATA interface may not continue to grow, or customers may choose to purchase alternative interfaces that may not be compatible with future generations of SATA hard disk drives. Moreover, our customers may require new SATA features that we may not be able to deliver in a timely and cost effective manner. While we continue to develop new products and look to expand into other applications, the success of our new product introductions is dependent on a number of factors, including difficulties faced in manufacturing ramp, market acceptance, effective management of inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand, and the risk that our new 27 products may have quality problems or other defects in the early stages of introduction that were not anticipated in the design of those products. If we fail to successfully develop and manufacture new products, customers may decrease the amount of our products that they purchase, and we may lose business to our competitors who offer these products or who use their dominance in the enterprise or mobile market to encourage sales of hard disk drives. If we do not successfully expand into the 2.5 inch and sub 2.5 inch markets, our business may suffer. We began shipping 2.5 inch form factor hard disk drives for the mobile market during calendar year 2004. Although many of our customers who purchase 3.5 inch form factor hard disk drives also purchase the 2.5 inch form factor drives, the markets are characterized by different competitors, different sales channels and different overall requirements. If we are unable to adapt to these differences, we would have a competitive disadvantage to companies that are successful in this regard, and our business and financial results could suffer. In addition, if we incur significant costs in manufacturing and selling the 2.5 inch and sub 2.5 inch form factor hard disk drives, and if we are unable to recover those costs from sales of the products, then we may not be able to compete successfully in this market and our operating results may suffer. Selling to the retail market is an important part of our business, and if we fail to maintain and grow our market share or gain market acceptance of our retail products, our operating results could suffer. We sell our retail packaged products directly to a select group of major retailers such as computer superstores and CE stores, and authorize sales through distributors to other retailers. Our current retail customer base is primarily in the United States, Canada and Europe. We are facing increased competition from other companies for shelf space at major retailers, which could result in lower gross margins. If we fail to successfully maintain our market share in North America, our operating results may be adversely affected. In certain markets, we are trying to grow market share, and in the process may face strong competition, which could result in lower gross margins. We will continue to introduce new products in the retail market that incorporate our disk drives. There can be no assurance that these products gain market acceptance, and if they do not, our operating results could suffer. To develop new products, we must maintain effective partner relationships with our major component suppliers. Under our business model, we do not manufacture any of the component parts used in our hard disk drives, other than heads. As a result, the success of our products depends on our ability to gain access to and integrate parts that are best in class from reliable component suppliers. To do so, we must effectively manage our relationships with our major component suppliers. We must also effectively integrate different products from a variety of suppliers, each of which employs variations on technology, which can impact, for example, feasible combinations of heads and media components. In August 2003, we settled litigation we were engaged in with a supplier who previously was the sole source of read channel devices for our hard disk drives. As a result of the disputes that gave rise to the litigation, our profitability was at risk until another suppliers read channel devices could be designed into our products. Similar disputes with other strategic component suppliers could adversely affect our operating results. Dependence on a limited number of qualified suppliers of components and manufacturing equipment could lead to delays, lost revenue or increased costs. Because we depend on a limited number of suppliers for certain hard disk drive components and manufacturing equipment, an increase in the cost of such components or equipment, an extended shortage of required components or equipment, failure of a key suppliers business process, or the failure of key suppliers to remain in business, adjust to market conditions, or to meet our quality, yield or production requirements could significantly harm our operating results. Our future operating results may also depend substantially on our suppliers ability to timely qualify their components in our programs, and their ability to supply us with these components in sufficient volumes to meet our production requirements. A number of the components that we use are available from only a single or limited number of qualified outside suppliers, and may be used across multiple product lines. In addition, some of the components (or component types) used in our products are used in other devices, such as mobile telephones and digital cameras. If there is a significant simultaneous upswing in demand for such a component (or component type) from several high volume industries, resulting in a supply reduction, or a component is otherwise in short supply, or if a supplier fails to qualify or has a quality issue with a component, we may experience delays or increased costs in obtaining that component. For 28 example, the hard disk drive industry is currently facing a tightness in the availability of media (rotating magnetic disks) components. We may experience production delays if we are unable to obtain the necessary components or sufficient quantities of components. If a component becomes unavailable, we could suffer significant loss of revenue. To reduce the risk of component shortages, we attempt to provide significant lead times when buying these components. As a result, we may be subject to cancellation charges if we cancel orders, which may occur when we make technology transitions. In addition, we may enter into contractual commitments with certain component suppliers in an effort to increase and stabilize the supply of those components, and enable us to purchase such components at favorable prices. These commitments may require us to buy a substantial number of components from the supplier or make significant cash advances to the supplier. In addition, certain equipment we use in our manufacturing or testing processes is available only from a limited number of suppliers. Some of this equipment uses materials that at times could be in short supply. If these materials are not available, or are not available in the quantities we require for our manufacturing and testing processes, our ability to manufacture our products could be impacted, and we could suffer significant loss of revenue. Rising Costs of Commodity Materials May Result in Lower Operating Margins. The cost and availability of certain commodity materials used to manufacture hard disk drives and key components is critical to our success. Shortages of such materials such as steel and aluminum and the rising cost of oil increase our costs and may result in lower operating margins if we are unable to pass such increased costs through to our customers. A fundamental change in recording technology could result in significant increases in our operating expenses and could put us at a competitive disadvantage. Currently the hard disk drive industry uses giant magnetoresistive head technology, which allows significantly higher storage capacities than the previously utilized thin film head technology. However, the industry is developing new recording technologies that may enable greater recording densities than currently available using magnetoresistive head technology, including perpendicular, current perpendicular to plane, and tunneling junction technology. If the industry experiences a fundamental shift in recording technology, hard disk drive manufacturers would need to timely adjust their designs and processes to accommodate the new technology in order to remain competitive. As a result, we could incur substantial costs in developing new technologies, media, and tools to remain competitive. We may also become more dependent on suppliers to ensure our access to components that accommodate the new technology. These results would increase our operating costs, which may negatively impact our operating results. We experience additional costs and risks in connection with our head manufacturing operations. Our vertical integration of head manufacturing has resulted in a fundamental change in our operating structure, as we are now manufacturing heads for use in the hard disk drives we manufacture. Consequently, we make more capital investments than we would if we were not vertically integrated and carry a higher percentage of fixed costs than assumed in our prior financial business model. If the overall level of production decreases for any reason, and we are unable to reduce our fixed costs to match sales, our head manufacturing assets may face under utilization that may impact our results of operations. We are therefore subject to additional risks related to overall asset utilization, including the need to operate at high levels of utilization to drive competitive costs, and the need for assured supply of components, especially hard disk drive media, that is optimized to work with our heads. In addition, we may incur additional risks, including: we may not have sufficient head sources in the event that we are unable to manufacture a sufficient supply of heads to satisfy our needs; third party head suppliers may not continue to do business with us or may not do business with us on the same terms and conditions we have previously enjoyed; we may be subject to claims that our manufacturing of heads may infringe certain intellectual property rights of other companies; and 29 it may be difficult and time consuming for us to locate suitable manufacturing equipment for our head manufacturing processes and replacement parts for such equipment. If we do not adequately address the challenges related to our head manufacturing operations, our ongoing operations could be disrupted, resulting in a decrease in our revenue or profit margins and negatively impacting our operating results. If we are unable to timely and cost effectively develop heads with leading technology and overall quality, our ability to sell our products may be significantly diminished, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. As a result of our head manufacturing operations, we are developing and manufacturing a substantial portion of the heads used in the hard disk drives we manufacture. Consequently, we are more dependent upon our own development and execution efforts and less able to take advantage of head technologies developed by other head manufacturers. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be successful in timely and cost effectively developing and manufacturing heads for products using perpendicular recording technology, or other future technologies. We also may not achieve acceptable manufacturing yields using such technologies necessary to satisfy our customers product needs, or we may encounter quality problems with the heads we manufacture. In addition, we may not have access to external sources of supply without incurring substantial costs. For example, the Company anticipates using perpendicular recording heads in certain products in the future. If we fail to develop new technologies such as perpendicular recording in a timely manner, or if we encounter quality problems with the heads we manufacture, and if we do not have access to external sources of supply that incorporate new technologies, we would have a competitive disadvantage to companies that are successful in this regard, and our business and financial results could suffer. We have two high volume hard drive manufacturing facilities and two facilities supporting our head manufacturing operations, which subjects us to the risk of damage or loss of any of these facilities. Our hard disk drives are manufactured in facilities in Malaysia and Thailand. In addition, we operate a head wafer fabrication and research and development facility in Fremont, California and a slider fabrication, head gimbal assembly, head stack assembly, and research and development facility in Thailand. A fire, flood, earthquake or other disaster, condition or event such as a power outage that adversely affects any of these facilities or our ability to manufacture could result in a loss of sales and revenue and harm our operating results. Manufacturing our products abroad subjects us to numerous risks. We are subject to risks associated with our foreign manufacturing operations, including: obtaining requisite United States and foreign governmental permits and approvals; currency exchange rate fluctuations or restrictions; political instability and civil unrest; transportation delays or higher freight rates; labor problems; trade restrictions or higher tariffs; exchange, currency and tax controls and reallocations; increasing labor and overhead costs; and loss or non renewal of favorable tax treatment under agreements or treaties with foreign tax authorities. Because we manufacture our products abroad, our operating costs are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Further fluctuations in the exchange rate of the Thai Baht and of the Malaysian Ringgit may negatively impact our operating results. 30 The Thai Baht is a free floating currency while the Malaysian Ringgit exchange rate policy recently defined by the Malaysian government is one of a managed float. We have attempted to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes by, among other things, entering into short term, forward contracts. However, these contracts do not cover our full exposure and can be canceled by the issuer if currency controls are put in place. Currently, we hedge the Thai Baht, Euro and British Pound Sterling with forward contracts. There has been a trend toward a weakening U.S. dollar relative to most foreign currencies. If this trend continues, the U.S. dollar equivalents of unhedged manufacturing costs could increase because a significant portion of our production costs are foreign currency denominated. Conversely, there would not be an offsetting impact to revenues since revenues are substantially U.S. dollar denominated. If we fail to qualify our products with our customers, they may not purchase any units of a particular product line, which would have a significant adverse impact on our sales. We regularly engage in new product qualification with our customers. To be considered for qualification, we must be among the leaders in time to market with our new products. Once a product is accepted for qualification testing, failures or delays in the qualification process can result in our losing sales to that customer until the next generation of products is introduced. The effect of missing a product qualification opportunity is magnified by the limited number of high volume computer manufacturers, most of which continue to consolidate their share of the PC market. If product life cycles continue to be extended due to a decrease in the rate of areal density growth, we may have a significantly longer period to wait before we have an opportunity to qualify a new product with a customer, which could harm our competitive position. These risks are increased because we expect cost improvements and competitive pressures to result in declining gross margins on our current generation products. The hard disk drive industry is highly competitive and can be characterized by rapid shifts in market share among the major competitors. The price of hard disk drives has fallen over time due to increases in supply, cost reductions, technological advances and price reductions by competitors seeking to liquidate excess inventories or attempting to gain market share. In addition, rapid technological changes often reduce the volume and profitability of sales of existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence. We also face competition from other companies that produce alternative storage technologies like flash memory. These factors, taken together, may result in significant and rapid shifts in market share among the industrys major participants. In addition, product recalls can lead to a loss of market share, which could adversely affect our operating results. Our current competitors or a future competitor may gain a technology advantage or an advantageous cost structure that we cannot match. It may be possible for our current or future competitors to gain an advantage in product technology, manufacturing technology, or process technology, which may allow them to offer products or services that have a significant advantage over the products and services that we offer. Advantages could be in capacity, performance, reliability, serviceability, or other attributes. If we are unable to match these technology advantages due to the proprietary nature of the technology, limitations on process capability or other factors, we could be at a competitive disadvantage to those competitors. Advances in magnetic, optical, semiconductor or other data storage technologies also could result in competitive products that have better performance or lower cost per unit of capacity than our products. High speed semiconductor memory could compete with the Companys hard disk drive products in the future. Semiconductor memory is much faster than magnetic hard disk drives, but currently is not competitive from a cost standpoint. Flash memory, a non volatile semiconductor memory, is currently much more costly and, while it has higher read performance than hard disk drives, it has lower write performance. Flash memory could become competitive in the near future for applications requiring less storage capacity than that provided by hard disk drives. If these products prove to be superior in performance or cost per unit of capacity, we could be at a competitive disadvantage to the companies offering those products. In addition, if our competitors are able to achieve a lower cost structure for manufacturing hard disk drives by moving manufacturing facilities to advantageous locations or through other restructuring activities, and we are unable to 31 match their cost structure, we could be at a competitive disadvantage to those competitors as they may be able to sell hard disk drives at lower margins while remaining profitable. Some of our competitors with diversified business units outside the hard disk drive industry may be able to sell disk drives at lower margins that we cannot match. Some of our competitors earn a significant portion of their revenue from business units outside the hard disk drive industry. Because they do not depend solely on sales of hard disk drives to achieve profitability, they may be able to sell hard disk drives at lower margins and still remain profitable. In addition, if these competitors can increase sales of non hard disk drive products to the same customers, they may benefit from selling their hard disk drives at low margins. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if we can not successfully compete with these companies. The nature of our business and our reliance on intellectual property and other proprietary information subjects us to the risk of significant litigation. The hard disk drive industry has been characterized by significant litigation. This includes litigation relating to patent and other intellectual property rights, product liability claims and other types of litigation. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of litigation are inherently uncertain and may result in adverse rulings or decisions. We may enter into settlements or be subject to judgments that may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are currently evaluating notices of alleged patent infringement or notices of patents from patent holders. If claims or actions are asserted against us, we may be required to obtain a license or cross license, modify our existing technology or design a new non infringing technology. Such licenses or design modifications can be extremely costly. In addition, we may decide to settle a claim or action against us, which settlement could be costly. We may also be liable for any past infringement. If there is an adverse ruling against us in an infringement lawsuit, an injunction could be issued barring production or sale of any infringing product. It could also result in a damage award equal to a reasonable royalty or lost profits or, if there is a finding of willful infringement, treble damages. Any of these results would likely increase our costs and harm our operating results. Our reliance on intellectual property and other proprietary information subjects us to the risk that these key ingredients of our business could be copied by competitors. Our success depends, in significant part, on the proprietary nature of our technology, including non patentable intellectual property such as our process technology. Despite safeguards, to the extent that a competitor is able to reproduce or otherwise capitalize on our technology, it may be difficult, expensive or impossible for us to obtain necessary legal protection. Also, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In addition to patent protection of intellectual property rights, we consider elements of our product designs and processes to be proprietary and confidential. We rely upon employee, consultant and vendor non disclosure agreements and contractual provisions and a system of internal safeguards to protect our proprietary information. However, any of our registered or unregistered intellectual property rights may be challenged or exploited by others in the industry, which might harm our operating results. We depend on our key personnel and skilled employees. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our key personnel and skilled employees, many of whom would be extremely difficult to replace. Worldwide competition for skilled employees in the hard disk drive industry is intense. Volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key personnel or skilled employees who have been granted stock options. If we are unable to retain our existing key personnel or skilled employees, or hire and integrate new key personnel or skilled employees, our operating results would likely be harmed. 32 Our prices and margins are subject to declines due to unpredictable end user demand and oversupply of hard disk drives. Demand for our hard disk drives depends on the demand for systems manufactured by our customers and on storage upgrades to existing systems. The demand for systems has been volatile in the past and often has had an exaggerated effect on the demand for hard disk drives in any given period. As a result, the hard disk drive market has experienced periods of excess capacity which can lead to liquidation of excess inventories and intense price competition. If intense price competition occurs, we may be forced to lower prices sooner and more than expected, which could result in lower revenue and gross margins. Our failure to accurately forecast market and customer demand for our products could adversely affect our business and financial results. The hard disk drive industry faces difficulties in accurately forecasting market and customer demand for its products. The variety and volume of products we manufacture is based in part on these forecasts. If our forecasts exceed actual market demand, or if market demand decreases significantly from our forecasts, then we could experience periods of product oversupply and price decreases, which could impact our financial performance. If our forecasts do not meet actual market demand, of if market demand increases significantly beyond our forecasts, then we may not be able to satisfy customer product needs, which could result in a loss of market share if our competitors are able to meet customer demands. We also use forecasts in making decisions regarding investment of our resources. For example, as the hard disk drive industry transitions from the PATA interface to the SATA interface, we may invest more resources in the development of products using the SATA interface. If our forecasts regarding the replacement of the PATA interface with the SATA interface are inaccurate, we may not have products available to meet our customers needs. In addition, although we receive forecasts from our customers, they are not obligated to purchase the forecasted amounts. We consider these forecasts in determining our component needs and our inventory requirements. If we fail to accurately forecast our customers product demands, we may have inadequate or excess inventory of our products or components, which could adversely affect our operating results Loss of market share with a key customer could harm our operating results. A majority of our revenue comes from a few customers. For example, during 2005, one customer, Dell, accounted for 16% of our revenue, and sales to our top 10 customers, including Dell, accounted for 46% of revenue. These customers have a variety of suppliers to choose from and therefore can make substantial demands on us, including demands on product pricing and on contractual terms, which often results in the allocation of risk to us as the supplier. Even if we successfully qualify a product with a customer, the customer generally is not obligated to purchase any minimum volume of products from us and is able to terminate its relationship with us at any time. Our ability to maintain strong relationships with our principal customers is essential to our future performance. If we lose a key customer, if any of our key customers reduce their orders of our products or require us to reduce our prices before we are able to reduce costs, or if a key customer suffers financial hardship then our operating results would likely be harmed. In addition, if customer pressures require us to reduce our pricing such that our gross margins are diminished, we could decide not to sell our products to a particular customer, which could result in a decrease in our revenue. Environmental costs could harm our operating results. We may be subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products and making producers of those products financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal of certain products. Such laws and regulations have been passed in several jurisdictions in which we operate, including various European Union member countries. For example, the European Union has enacted the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (RoHS). RoHS prohibits the use of certain substances, including lead, in certain products, including hard disk drives, put on the market after July 1, 2006. Similar legislation may be enacted 33 in other locations where we manufacture or sell our products. We will need to ensure that we comply with such laws and regulations as they are enacted, and that our component suppliers also timely comply with such laws and regulations. If we fail to timely comply with such legislation, our customers may refuse to purchase our products, which would have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could incur substantial costs in connection with our compliance with such environmental laws and regulations, and we could also be subject to governmental fines and liability to our customers if we were found to be in violation of these laws. If we have to make significant capital expenditures to comply with environmental laws, or if we are subject to significant capital expenses in connection with a violation of these laws, our financial condition or operating results could suffer. We are subject to risks related to product defects, which could result in product recalls and could subject us to warranty claims in excess of our warranty provisions or which are greater than anticipated due to the unenforceability of liability limitations. We warrant our products for up to five years. We test our hard disk drives in our manufacturing facilities through a variety of means. However, there can be no assurance that our testing will reveal latent defects in our products, which may not become apparent until after the products have been sold into the market. Accordingly, there is a risk that product defects will occur, which could require a product recall. Product recalls can be expensive to implement and, if a product recall occurs during the products warranty period, we may be required to replace the defective product. In addition, a product recall may damage our relationship with our customers, and we may lose market share with our customers, including our OEM customers. Our standard warranties contain limits on damages and exclusions of liability for consequential damages and for misuse, improper installation, alteration, accident or mishandling while in the possession of someone other than the Company. We record an accrual for estimated warranty costs at the time revenue is recognized. We may incur additional operating expenses if our warranty provision does not reflect the actual cost of resolving issues related to defects in our products. If these additional expenses are significant, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of our customers have adopted a subcontractor model that increases our credit risk and could result in an increase in our operating costs. Some of our OEM customers have adopted a subcontractor model that requires us to contract directly with companies that provide manufacturing services to our OEM customers. Because these subcontractors are generally not as well capitalized as our direct OEM customers, this subcontractor model exposes us to increased credit risks. Our agreements with our OEM customers may not permit us to increase our product prices to alleviate this increased credit risk. Any credit losses we may suffer as a result of this increased risk would increase our operating costs, which may negatively impact our operating results. Terrorist attacks may adversely affect our business and operating results. The continued threat of terrorist activity and other acts of war or hostility, including the war in Iraq, have created uncertainty in the financial and insurance markets and have significantly increased the political, economic and social instability in some of the geographic areas in which we operate. Acts of terrorism, either domestically or abroad, could create further uncertainties and instability. To the extent this results in disruption or delays of our manufacturing capabilities or shipments of our products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our failure to timely and efficiently transition our enterprise resource planning software from the version we currently use to a new version, or our failure to maintain our current software, could adversely affect our business and financial results. We use enterprise resource planning software in the operation of our business and maintenance of business and financial data related to our daily operations. We are in the process of upgrading this software and we anticipate transitioning to new enterprise resource planning software during the next year. We may experience unexpected 34 difficulties in transitioning to the new software, including difficulties related to the failure or inefficient operation of the new software. Such difficulties or failures could result in our inability to access business and financial information stored on the system or the loss of such information. Any inability to access, or loss of, such information as a result of the transition or otherwise could affect our daily operations, including our ability to ship products and invoice our customers, which could have a significant adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Inaccurate projections of demand for our product can cause large fluctuations in our quarterly results. We often ship a high percentage of our total quarterly sales in the third month of the quarter, which makes it difficult for us to forecast our financial results prior to the end of the quarter. In addition, our quarterly projections and results may be subject to significant fluctuations as a result of a number of other factors including: the timing of orders from and shipment of products to major customers; our product mix; changes in the prices of our products; manufacturing delays or interruptions; acceptance by customers of competing products in lieu of our products; variations in the cost of components for our products; limited availability of components that we obtain from a single or a limited number of suppliers; competition and consolidation in the data storage industry; seasonal and other fluctuations in demand for PCs often due to technological advances; and availability and rates of transportation. Rapidly changing market conditions in the hard disk drive industry make it difficult to estimate actual results. We have made and continue to make a number of estimates and assumptions relating to our consolidated financial reporting. The rapidly changing market conditions with which we deal means that actual results may differ significantly from our estimates and assumptions. Key estimates and assumptions for us include: accruals for warranty costs related to product defects; price protection adjustments and other sales promotions and allowances on products sold to retailers, resellers and distributors; inventory adjustments for write down of inventories to lower of cost or market value (net realizable value); reserves for doubtful accounts; accruals for product returns; accruals for litigation and other contingencies; and reserves for deferred tax assets. The market price of our common stock is volatile. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, extremely volatile. Factors such as the following may significantly affect the market price of our common stock: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors which may decrease the volume and profitability of sales of our existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence; 35 new products introduced by us or our competitors; periods of severe pricing pressures due to oversupply or price erosion resulting from competitive pressures; developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights; conditions and trends in the hard disk drive, data and content management, storage and communication industries; and changes in financial estimates by securities analysts relating specifically to us or the hard disk drive industry in general. In addition, general economic conditions may cause the stock market to experience extreme price and volume fluctuations from time to time that particularly affect the stock prices of many high technology companies. These fluctuations often appear to be unrelated to the operating performance of the companies. Securities class action lawsuits are often brought against companies after periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. A number of such suits have been filed against us in the past, and should any new lawsuits be filed, such matters could result in substantial costs and a diversion of resources and managements attention. We may be unable to raise future capital through debt or equity financing. Due to the risks described herein, in the future we may be unable to maintain adequate financial resources for capital expenditures, expansion or acquisition activity, working capital and research and development. We have a credit facility, which matures on September 19, 2008. If we decide to increase or accelerate our capital expenditures or research and development efforts, or if results of operations do not meet our expectations, we could require additional debt or equity financing. However, we cannot ensure that additional financing will be available to us or available on acceptable terms. An equity financing could also be dilutive to our existing stockholders. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Disclosure About Foreign Currency Risk Although the majority of the Companys transactions are in U.S. Dollars, some transactions are based in various foreign currencies. The Company purchases short term, forward exchange contracts to hedge the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain underlying assets, liabilities and commitments for operating expenses and product costs denominated in foreign currencies. The purpose of entering into these hedge transactions is to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on the results of operations. The resulting impact from these hedge contracts is to offset a majority of the currency gains and losses in the Companys local currency expenses. The contract maturity dates do not exceed six months. The Company does not purchase short term forward exchange contracts for trading purposes. Currently, the Company focuses on hedging its foreign currency risk related to the Thai Baht, the Euro and the British Pound Sterling. Thai Baht contracts are designated as cash flow hedges under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. while all other contracts are designated as fair value hedges under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 52 Foreign Currency Translation. 36 As of July 1, 2005, the Company had outstanding the following purchased foreign currency forward exchange contracts (in millions, except weighted average contract rate): Contract Weighted Average Unrealized Amount Contract Rate* Gain (Loss) Foreign currency forward contracts: Thai Baht $ 147.1 40.07 (0.3 ) Euro $ 2.7 0.77 British Pound Sterling $ 1.6 0.54 $ 151.4 * Expressed in units of foreign currency per dollar. In 2005, 2004 and 2003, total realized transaction and forward exchange contract currency gains and losses were not material to the consolidated financial statements. Disclosure About Other Market Risks Variable Interest Rate Risk At the option of the Company, borrowings under the Senior Credit Facility would bear interest at either LIBOR (with option periods of one to three months) or a base rate, plus a margin. If LIBOR or the base rate increases, the Companys interest payments would also increase. At July 1, 2005, the Company had a $38 million term loan outstanding under the Senior Credit Facility. A one percent increase in the variable rate of interest on the Senior Credit Facility would increase interest expense by approximately $0.4 million annually. 37 
 
