Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward Looking Statements The following discussion and analysis contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. You are urged to carefully review our description and examples of forward looking statements included earlier in this Annual Report on Form 10 K immediately prior to Part I, under the heading Forward Looking Statements. Forward looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward looking statements. You are urged to carefully review the disclosures we make concerning risks and other factors that may affect our business and operating results, including those made in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, as well as our other reports filed with the SEC. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this document. We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to publish revised forward looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Our Company We design, develop, manufacture and sell hard drives. A hard drive is a device that uses one or more rotating magnetic disks (media) to store and allow fast access to data. Hard drives are key components of computers, including desktop and notebook computers (PCs), data storage subsystems and many consumer electronic (CE) devices. We sell our products worldwide to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and original design manufacturers (ODMs) for use in computer systems, subsystems or CE devices, and to distributors, resellers and retailers. Our hard drives are used in desktop computers, notebook computers, and enterprise applications such as servers, workstations, network attached storage, storage area networks and video surveillance equipment. Additionally, our hard drives are used in CE applications such as digital video recorders (DVRs), and satellite and cable set top boxes (STBs). We also sell our hard drives as stand alone storage products and integrate them into external casings, embedding application software and presenting them as our own WD branded external storage appliances for purposes such as personal data backup and portable or expanded storage of music, photographs, video and other digital data. 33 Table of Contents Hard drives provide non volatile data storage, which means that the data remains present when power is no longer applied to the device. Our hard drives currently include 3.5 inch and 2.5 inch form factor drives, having capacities ranging from 40 gigabytes (GB) to 1 terabyte (TB), nominal rotation speeds of 5,400, 7,200 and 10,000 revolutions per minute (RPM), and offer interfaces including both Enhanced Integrated Drive Electronics (EIDE) and Serial Advanced Technology Attachment (SATA). We also embed our hard drives into WD branded external storage appliances that utilize interfaces such as USB 2.0, external SATA (eSATA), FireWiretm and Ethernet network connections. In addition, we recently announced a family of hard drives specifically designed to consume substantially less power than standard drives. We manufacture hard drives and head stack assemblies (HSAs) in Malaysia and Thailand. We also design and manufacture most of our required magnetic heads in California and head gimbal assemblies (HGAs) in Thailand, and we design in California and manufacture in Malaysia most of our required media and substrates. On September 5, 2007, we completed our acquisition (the Acquisition) of Komag, Incorporated (Komag) through a cash tender offer by State M Corporation (State M), our indirect wholly owned subsidiary, for all outstanding shares of Komags common stock, which was followed by a merger of State M and Komag (the Merger) whereby Komag became an indirect wholly owned subsidiary and changed its name to WD Media, Inc. The Acquisition has strengthened our production efficiencies and improved our access to and control of technology and competitive position in the worldwide hard drive industry, while enhancing our hard drive manufacturing process by integrating media. The aggregate purchase price for Komag was approximately $1 billion, consisting of cash paid for outstanding shares, transaction fees, severance and other employee related equity payments. Results of Operations In accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, operating results for Komag prior to the date of the Acquisition (September 5, 2007), including the first two months of fiscal 2008 and the fiscal years 2007 and 2006, are not included in our operating results and are therefore not discussed. Accordingly, 2008 revenues and expenses reflect the addition of results from our media operations since the date of the Acquisition while the 2007 and 2006 results do not include operating results for Komag prior to the date of the Acquisition. This affects our discussion of changes in our revenues and expenses comparing these periods. In connection with the Acquisition, we incurred charges for in process research and development and transition costs, which impacted our earnings in 2008. Fiscal 2008 Overview In 2008, our net revenue increased by 48% to $8.1 billion on shipments of 133 million units as compared to $5.5 billion and 97 million units, respectively, in 2007. In 2008, 56% of our hard drive revenue was derived from non desktop sources including CE products, enterprise applications, notebook computers and retail sales as compared to 43% in 2007. Gross margin percentage increased to 21.5% from 16.5% in 2007 and operating income increased by $591 million to $1.0 billion. As a percentage of net revenue, operating income was 12.4% in 2008 compared to 7.6% in 2007. Net income in 2008 was $867 million, or $3.84 per diluted share, compared to $564 million, or $2.50 per diluted share in 2007. We successfully completed our acquisition of Komag, and have completed the integration of the media operation, which is generating technology and cost contributions to the overall business. 34 Table of Contents Summary Comparison of 2008, 2007 and 2006 The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, summary information from our consolidated statements of income by dollars and percentage of revenue (in millions, except percentages): Years Ended June 27, 2008 June 29, 2007 June 30, 2006 Revenue, net $ 8,074 100 % $ 5,468 100 % $ 4,341 100 % Gross margin 1,739 21.5 900 16.5 829 19.1 Operating expenses 684 8.5 485 8.9 463 10.7 Acquired in process research and development 49 0.6 Operating income 1,006 12.4 415 7.6 366 8.4 Non operating income (expense) (25 ) (0.3 ) 28 0.5 16 0.4 Income before income taxes 981 12.1 443 8.1 382 8.8 Income tax expense (benefit) 114 1.4 (121 ) (2.2 ) (13 ) (0.3 ) Net income 867 10.7 564 10.3 395 9.1 The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, summary information regarding volume shipments, average selling prices (ASPs) and revenues by geography, channel and product (in millions, except percentages and ASPs): Years Ended June 27, June 29, June 30, 2008 2007 2006 Net revenue $ 8,074 $ 5,468 $ 4,341 Unit shipments* 133 97 73 ASPs (per unit)* $ 59 $ 57 $ 59 Revenues by Geography(%)* Americas 31 % 37 % 36 % Europe, Middle East and Africa 30 29 28 Asia 39 34 36 Revenues by Channel(%)* OEM 51 % 48 % 54 % Distributors 31 36 39 Branded products 18 16 7 Revenues by Product(%)* Non desktop sources 56 % 43 % 29 % Desktop computers 44 57 71 * Based on sales of hard drives only Fiscal Year 2008 Compared to Fiscal Year 2007 Net Revenue. Net revenue was $8.1 billion for 2008, an increase of 48% from 2007. Total unit shipments increased to 133 million as compared to 97 million for the prior year. This unit increase resulted from an increase in higher overall demand for hard drives and our continuing diversification into non desktop markets, including mobile, consumer electronics, enterprise and branded products. For example, we shipped 37 million 2.5 inch drives to the mobile and branded markets in 2008 as compared to 12 million units in 2007. Additionally, we shipped 15 million units to the DVR market in 2008 as compared to 10 million units in 2007. ASPs increased to $59 due to an improved mix of revenues by market category, improved product mix and more favorable demand/supply conditions. Changes in revenue by geography generally reflect normal fluctuations in market demand and competitive dynamics as well as an increase in mobile drives sold to Asia. Changes in revenue by channel are a result of increases in sales of mobile hard drives to 35 Table of Contents OEMs and an increase in sales of branded products due to the growing worldwide acceptance of our My Passport and My Book external digital storage appliances. Gross Margin. Gross margin for 2008 was $1.7 billion, an increase of $839 million, or 93% over the prior year. Gross margin percentage increased to 21.5% in 2008 from 16.5% in 2007. The factors contributing to this increase were an improved mix of revenues by market category, improved product mix and more favorable demand/supply conditions. Our manufacturing throughput and costs also improved through operational efficiencies, higher utilization and a higher mix of products based on newer, more cost effective technologies and the contribution of media operations. Operating Expenses. Total operating expenses, consisting of research and development (RD) and selling, general and administrative (SGA), decreased to 8.5% of net revenue in 2008 compared to 8.9% in 2007. RD expense was $464 million in 2008, an increase of $158 million, or 52% over the prior year. This increase in RD expense includes $75 million relating to the acquired media operations, $52 million related to product development to support new programs and $31 million in incentive and equity compensation. As a percentage of net revenue, RD expense remained consistent at 5.7% in 2008 compared to 5.6% in 2007. SGA expense was $220 million in 2008, an increase of $41 million, or 23%, as compared to 2007. This increase in SGA expense includes $28 million for the expansion of sales and marketing to support new products and $13 million in higher incentive and equity compensation. As a percentage of net revenue, SGA expense decreased to 2.7% in 2008 from 3.3% in 2007 primarily due to an increase in net revenue in 2008 compared to 2007. During 2008, we recorded a $49 million charge to operating expense related to an in process research and development project acquired from Komag involving technology for higher recording densities on advanced perpendicular recording media. As these advanced products were not ready for commercial production and had no alternative future use, the fair value of the development effort did not qualify for capitalization and was immediately expensed. For additional information regarding acquired in process research and development, see Part II, Item 8, Note 11 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Interest and Other Income (Expense). Net interest and other expense was $25 million in 2008 compared to net interest and other income of $28 million in 2007. This decrease is a result of higher debt balances and realized and recognized losses on investments of $13 million. Income Tax Expense (Benefit). Income tax expense was $114 million in 2008 compared to an income tax benefit of $121 million in 2007. Tax provision as a percentage of income before taxes was 12% in 2008 compared to tax benefit as a percentage of income of 27% for 2007. Differences between the effective tax rates and the U.S. Federal statutory rate are primarily due to tax holidays and incentive programs and the current year generation of income tax credits. We have tax holidays in Malaysia and Thailand that expire at various times through 2022. In 2008, income tax expense also includes net charges of $75 million for taxes related to the license of certain intellectual property to a foreign subsidiary. In 2007, the tax provision was impacted by a favorable adjustment to the companys valuation allowance for deferred tax assets of $126 million. In the fourth quarter of 2007, we reversed the remaining valuation allowance for our deferred tax assets based upon a determination that it was more likely than not that our deferred tax assets will be realized. The realization of the deferred tax assets is primarily dependent on our ability to generate sufficient earnings in certain jurisdictions in future years. The amount of deferred tax assets considered realizable may increase or decrease in subsequent periods based on fluctuating industry or company conditions. We adopted the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN 48), as of June 30, 2007. As a result of the implementation of FIN 48, we recognized no adjustment in the net liability for unrecognized tax benefits. The total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits as of the date of adoption of FIN 48 was $58 million, all of which would affect our effective tax rate if realized. During the year ended June 27, 2008, we recognized a $17 million increase in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits and recorded $32 million of liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits related to Komag. As of June 27, 2008, we had approximately $107 million of unrecognized tax benefits which included the $32 million of gross unrecognized tax benefits related to Komag. 36 Table of Contents Fiscal Year 2007 Compared to Fiscal Year 2006 Net Revenue. Net revenue was $5.5 billion for 2007, an increase of 26% from 2006. Total unit shipments increased to 97 million as compared to 73 million for the prior year. This unit increase resulted from an increase in our desktop PC market share, stronger overall demand for hard drives in the desktop PC market and our increasing focus on the non desktop market, including mobile, CE, enterprise and branded products. For example, we shipped 12 million drives to the mobile market in 2007 as compared to 5 million units in 2006. Additionally, we shipped 10 million units to the DVR market in 2007 as compared to 7 million units in 2006. ASPs declined to $57 due to normal technology price declines and a more competitive pricing environment in the notebook, desktop, and consumer electronics markets. Changes in revenue by geography generally reflect overall market demand fluctuations for hard drives. Changes in revenue by channel are a result of increases in sales of branded products due to the growing worldwide acceptance of our My Passport and My Book external digital storage appliances. Gross Margin. Gross margin for 2007 was $900 million, an increase of $71 million, or 9% over the prior year. Gross margin percentage decreased to 16.5% in 2007 from 19.1% in 2006. The factors contributing to this decrease include normal technology price declines and a more competitive pricing environment in the notebook, desktop, and consumer electronics markets. In addition, gross margin in 2006 benefited from a more favorable supply/demand balance. Operating Expenses. Total operating expenses, consisting of research and development (RD) and selling, general and administrative (SGA) expenses, decreased to 8.9% of net revenue in 2007 compared to 10.7% in 2006. RD expense was $306 million in 2007, an increase of $9 million, or 3% over the prior year. The increase in RD expense was primarily related to the development of new product platforms in support of our entry into new markets and expenditures for advanced head technologies, partially offset by a decrease of $2 million in variable incentive compensation programs. SGA expense was $179 million in 2007, an increase of $13 million, or 8% as compared to 2006. The increase in SGA expense was primarily due to an increase of $19 million in stock based compensation expense and other long term employee incentive programs, offset by a $5 million decrease in software write offs that occurred in 2006. Interest and Other Income. Net interest and other income was $28 million and $16 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. This increase in net interest income was primarily due to higher average invested cash and short term investment balances. Income Tax Benefit. Income tax benefit was $121 million and $13 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. Tax benefit as a percentage of income before taxes was 27% and 3% for 2007 and 2006, respectively. Differences between the effective tax rates and the U.S. Federal statutory rate are primarily due to tax holidays and incentive programs and reductions to our valuation allowance for deferred tax assets. We have tax holidays in Malaysia and Thailand that expire at various times through 2022. In addition to the tax holidays, the tax provision was impacted by favorable adjustments to the companys valuation allowance for deferred tax assets of $126 and $22 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. These adjustments were based upon a determination that it was more likely than not that all or a portion of our deferred tax assets will be realized. In the fourth quarter of 2007, we reversed the remaining valuation allowance for our deferred tax assets based on the weight of available evidence including our history of cumulative pretax income and the increased likelihood of our ability to generate profits in the future. In 2006, we released a portion of the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets due to the difficulty at the time in accurately projecting income for periods of longer than two years given the cyclical nature of our industry. The realization of the deferred tax assets is primarily dependent on our ability to generate sufficient earnings in certain jurisdictions in future years. The amount of deferred tax assets considered realizable may increase or decrease in subsequent periods based on fluctuating industry or company conditions. Liquidity and Capital Resources We ended 2008 with total cash, cash equivalents and short term investments of $1.1 billion, an increase of $200 million from June 29, 2007. Our investment policy is to manage our investment portfolio to preserve principal and 37 Table of Contents liquidity while maximizing return through the full investment of available funds. The following table summarizes the results of our statements of cash flows for the three years ended June 27, 2008: Years Ended June 27, June 29, June 30, 2008 2007 2006 Net cash flow provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 1,399 $ 618 $ 368 Investing activities (1,321 ) (383 ) (303 ) Financing activities 326 (86 ) 1 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 404 $ 149 $ 66 Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities during 2008 was $1.4 billion as compared to $618 million for 2007 and $368 million for 2006. Cash flow from operations consists of net income, adjusted for non cash charges, plus or minus working capital changes. This represents our principal source of cash. Net cash provided by changes in working capital was $22 million for 2008 as compared to $78 million and $207 million used to fund working capital for 2007 and 2006, respectively. Our working capital requirements primarily depend upon the effective management of our cash conversion cycle, which measures how quickly we can convert our products into cash through sales. The following table summarizes the cash conversion cycle for the three years ended 2008: Years Ended June 27, June 29, June 30, 2008 2007 2006 Days sales outstanding 46 45 39 Days in inventory 27 20 19 Days payables outstanding (67 ) (66 ) (64 ) Cash conversion cycle 6 (1 ) (6 ) The decrease in the cash conversion cycle for 2008 was primarily due to our days in inventory (DIOs), which increased by 7 days from 2007. This increase was primarily due to an increase in our inventory on hand as a result of our acquisition of Komag, which requires us to hold precious metals to be used in the production of recording media. The 1 day increase in days sales outstanding (DSOs) is primarily a result of changes in customer mix. From time to time, we modify the timing of payments to our vendors. We make these modifications primarily to manage our vendor relationships and to manage our cash flows, including our cash balances. Generally, we make the payment modifications through negotiations with or by granting to or receiving from our vendors payment term accommodations. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for 2008 was $1.3 billion as compared to $383 million for 2007 and $303 million for 2006. During 2008, cash used in investing activities consisted of $927 million for acquisitions and $615 million for capital expenditures, partially offset by cash provided by investments of $221 million. During 2007, cash used in investing activities consisted of $324 million for capital expenditures and $59 million for investments. The increase in capital expenditures in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily consisted of the on going conversion of our head wafer fabrication facilities to utilizing 8 inch wafers from 6 inch wafers, continued investment in advanced head technologies, increased capacity for our broadening and growing product portfolio and continued investment in media equipment as a result of the Acquisition. The increase in capital expenditures in 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily a result of equipment purchased to support our investments in advanced head technologies, new product platforms and capacity for our broadening and growing product portfolio. 38 Table of Contents For 2009, we expect capital additions to be approximately $800 million. Depreciation and amortization for 2009 is expected to be approximately $475 million. Our cash and cash equivalents of $1.1 billion are invested primarily in readily accessible, AAA rated institutional money market funds, the majority of which are backed by the U.S. government. The carrying value of our investments in auction rate securities was reduced from $203 million as of June 29, 2007 to $28 million as of June 27, 2008. The reduction resulted from the sale of these investments as well as an additional $10 million loss recognized as other than temporary losses on remaining investments. These securities are expected to be held until secondary markets become available and as a result have been reclassified to long term investments as of June 27, 2008. These investments are currently accounted for as available for sale securities and recorded at fair value within other non current assets in the consolidated balance sheet. The estimated fair values of these investments are subject to fluctuation. Unrealized holding gains and losses are generally recorded in other comprehensive income. However, if a decline in fair value is determined to be other than temporary, the cost basis is written down to fair value through earnings. During 2008, we realized $3 million in losses on sales and recognized $10 million in other than temporary losses on these auction rate securities. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities for 2008 was $326 million as compared to net cash used in financing activities for 2007 of $86 million. Net cash provided by financing activities was $1 million for 2006. The net cash provided by financing activities in 2008 consisted of $500 million in net proceeds from acquisition related debt (see Contractual Obligations and Commitments below), $250 million repayment of convertible debentures assumed in the Acquisition, $60 million provided by the issuance of common stock under employee plans, $60 million used to repurchase our common stock, $89 million provided by a tax benefit from employee stock plans and $13 million used to repay other long term debt. The net cash used in financing activities in 2007 consisted of $73 million used for repurchases of our common stock and $43 million used for repayments of long term debt, offset by $30 million provided by the issuance of common stock under employee plans. The net cash provided by financing activities in 2006 consisted of $78 million provided by the issuance of common stock options under employee plans, offset by $54 million used in repurchases of our common stock and $23 million used for repayments of long term debt. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Other than facility and equipment lease commitments incurred in the normal course of business and certain indemnification provisions (see Capital Commitments below), we do not have any off balance sheet financing arrangements or liabilities, guarantee contracts, retained or contingent interests in transferred assets, or any obligation arising out of a material variable interest in an unconsolidated entity. We do not have any majority owned subsidiaries that are not included in the consolidated financial statements. Additionally, we do not have an interest in, or relationships with, any special purpose entities. Contractual Obligations and Commitments The following is a summary of our significant contractual cash obligations and commercial commitments as of June 27, 2008 (in millions): Less than More than Total 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years 5 Years Long term debt, including current portion $ 500 $ 19 $ 187 $ 294 $ Capital lease obligations 9 8 1 Operating leases 56 13 21 13 9 Unrecognized tax benefits 25 25 Purchase obligations 4,100 4,078 8 7 7 Total $ 4,690 $ 4,118 $ 217 $ 339 $ 16 39 Table of Contents Long Term Debt On February 11, 2008, Western Digital Technologies, Inc. (WDTI), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, entered into a five year Credit Agreement (the Credit Facility) with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., as syndication agent, JP Morgan Securities Inc. and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., as arrangers, and Bank of America, N.A., HSBC Bank USA, National Association and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, as co documentation agents, and lenders party thereto. The Credit Facility provides for a $750 million unsecured loan consisting of a $500 million term loan facility and a $250 million revolving credit facility. The revolving credit facility includes borrowing capacity available for letters of credit and for short term borrowings referred to as swingline. In addition, WDTI may elect to expand the Credit Facility by up to $250 million if existing or new lenders provide additional term or revolving commitments. The $750 million available under the Credit Facility was borrowed on February 11, 2008 and was used, together with additional cash from the accounts of WDTI, to repay in full the $760 million previously borrowed under a bridge facility that had been used to fund the Acquisition. As of June 27, 2008, the Company repaid the amounts borrowed under the revolving credit facility leaving $250 million available for future borrowings. Borrowings under the Credit Facility bear interest at a rate equal to, at the option of WDTI, either (a) a LIBOR rate determined by reference to the cost of funds for Eurodollar deposits for the interest period relevant to such borrowing, adjusted for certain additional costs (the Eurocurrency Rate) or (b) a base rate determined by reference to the higher of (i) the federal funds rate plus 0.50% and (ii) the prime rate as announced by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (the Base Rate), in each case plus an applicable margin. The applicable margin for borrowings under the term loan facility ranges from 1.25% to 1.50% with respect to borrowings at the Eurocurrency Rate and 0.0% to 0.125% with respect to borrowings at the Base Rate. The applicable margin for revolving loan borrowings under the revolving credit facility ranges from 0.8% to 1.125% with respect to borrowings at the Eurocurrency Rate and 0.0% to 0.125% with respect to borrowings at the Base Rate. The applicable margins for borrowings under the Credit Facility are determined based upon a leverage ratio of the Company and its subsidiaries calculated on a consolidated basis. The interest rate at June 27, 2008 was 3.75%. In addition to paying interest on outstanding principal under the Credit Facility, WDTI is required to pay a facility fee to the lenders under the revolving credit facility in respect of the aggregate revolving commitments thereunder. The facility fee rate ranges from 0.20% to 0.375% per annum and is determined based upon a leverage ratio of the Company and its subsidiaries calculated on a consolidated basis. WDTI is also required to pay letter of credit fees (a) to the revolving credit facility lenders on the aggregate face amount of all outstanding letters of credit equal to an applicable margin in effect with respect to the Eurocurrency Rate borrowings under the revolving credit facility and (b) to the letter of credit issuer computed at a rate equal to 0.125% per annum on the face amount of the letter of credit, plus such letter of credit issuers customary documentary and processing fees and charges. Beginning on June 30, 2009, WDTI is required under the term loan facility to make regularly scheduled payments of principal in quarterly installments equal to a percentage of the original principal amount of the term loan as follows: 3.75% per quarter for each of the four quarters ended June 30, 2009, September 30, 2009, December 31, 2009 and March 31, 2010, 5% per quarter for each of the four quarters ended June 30, 2010, September 30, 2010, December 31, 2010 and March 31, 2011, 6.25% per quarter for each of the four quarters ended June 30, 2011, September 30, 2011, December 31, 2011 and March 31, 2012, and 10% per quarter for each of the three quarters ended June 30, 2012, September 30, 2012 and December 31, 2012, with the balance due and payable at maturity on February 11, 2013. The Credit Facility requires WDTI to comply with a leverage ratio and an interest coverage ratio calculated on a consolidated basis for the Company and its subsidiaries. In addition, the Credit Facility contains customary covenants, including covenants that limit or restrict WDTIs and its subsidiaries ability to: incur liens, incur indebtedness, make certain restricted payments, merge or consolidate and enter into certain speculative hedging arrangements. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the Credit Facility, the lenders may cease making loans, terminate the Credit Facility and declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable. The Credit Facility specifies a number of events of default (some of which are subject to applicable grace or cure periods), including, among others, non payment defaults, covenant defaults, cross defaults to other material indebtedness, bankruptcy and insolvency defaults and material judgment defaults. As of June 27, 2008, WDTI was in compliance with all covenants. 40 Table of Contents The obligations of WDTI under the Credit Facility are guaranteed by the Company and WDTIs wholly owned subsidiary, WD Media. Purchase Orders In the normal course of business, we enter into purchase orders with suppliers for the purchase of hard drive components used to manufacture our products. These purchase orders generally cover forecasted component supplies needed for production during the next quarter, are recorded as a liability upon receipt of the components, and generally may be changed or canceled at any time prior to shipment of the components. In some cases, we may be obligated to pay for certain costs related to changes to, or cancellation of, a purchase order, such as costs incurred for raw materials or work in process. We have entered into long term purchase agreements with various component suppliers, which contain minimum quantity requirements. However, the dollar amount of the purchases may depend on the specific products ordered, achievement of pre defined quantity or quality specifications or future price negotiations. The estimated related minimum purchase requirements are included in Purchase obligations in the table above. We enter into, from time to time, other long term purchase agreements for components with certain vendors. Generally, future purchases under these agreements are not fixed and determinable as they depend on our overall unit volume requirements and are contingent upon the prices, technology and quality of the suppliers products remaining competitive. These arrangements are not included under Purchase obligations in the table above. Please see Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for a discussion of risks related to these commitments. Forward Exchange Contracts We purchase short term, forward exchange contracts to hedge the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain underlying assets, liabilities and commitments for operating expenses and product costs denominated in foreign currencies. See Part II, Item 7A, under the heading Disclosure About Foreign Currency Risk, for our current forward exchange contract commitments. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we may provide indemnifications of varying scope and terms to customers, vendors, lessors, business partners and other parties with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, losses arising out of our breach of such agreements, products or services to be provided by us, or from intellectual property infringement claims made by third parties. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and certain of our officers that will require us, among other things, to indemnify them against certain liabilities that may arise by reason of their status or service as directors or officers. We maintain director and officer insurance, which may cover certain liabilities arising from our obligation to indemnify our directors and officers in certain circumstances. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Such indemnification agreements may not be subject to maximum loss clauses. Historically, we have not incurred material costs as a result of obligations under these agreements. Stock Repurchase Program As announced on November 21, 2005, our Board of Directors previously authorized us to repurchase $250 million of our common stock in open market transactions. Since the inception of this stock repurchase program through June 27, 2008, we have repurchased 17 million shares for a total cost of $248 million (including commissions). In April 2008, our Board of Directors authorized a $500 million increase to repurchase our common stock in open market transactions through March 31, 2013. We expect stock repurchases to be funded principally by operating cash flows. We may continue to repurchase our stock as we deem appropriate and market conditions allow. We believe our current cash, cash equivalents and other sources of cash will be sufficient to meet our working capital needs through the foreseeable future. Our ability to sustain our working capital position is subject to a number of risks that we discuss in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 41 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We have prepared the accompanying consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of the financial statements requires the use of judgment and estimates that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets, liabilities and shareholders equity. We have adopted accounting policies and practices that are generally accepted in the industry in which we operate. We believe the following are our most critical accounting policies that affect significant areas and involve judgment and estimates made by us. If these estimates differ significantly from actual results, the impact to the consolidated financial statements may be material. Revenue and Accounts Receivable In accordance with standard industry practice, we have agreements with resellers that provide limited price protection for inventories held by resellers at the time of published list price reductions and other incentive programs. In accordance with current accounting standards, we recognize revenue upon delivery to OEMs, ODMs and resellers and record a reduction to revenue for estimated price protection and other programs in effect until the resellers sell such inventory to their customers. We base these adjustments on anticipated price decreases during the reseller holding period, estimated amounts to be reimbursed to qualifying customers, as well as historical pricing information. If end market demand for hard drives declines significantly, we may have to increase sell through incentive payments to resellers, resulting in an increase in our allowances, which could adversely impact operating results. We record an allowance for doubtful accounts by analyzing specific customer accounts and assessing the risk of loss based on insolvency, disputes or other collection issues. In addition, we routinely analyze the different receivable aging categories and establish reserves based on a combination of past due receivables and expected future losses based primarily on our historical levels of bad debt losses. If the financial condition of a significant customer deteriorates resulting in its inability to pay its accounts when due, or if our overall loss history changes significantly, an adjustment in our allowance for doubtful accounts would be required, which could affect operating results. We establish provisions against revenue and cost of revenue for estimated sales returns in the same period that the related revenue is recognized. We base these provisions on existing product return notifications. If actual sales returns exceed expectations, an increase in the sales return accrual would be required, which could negatively affect operating results. Warranty We record an accrual for estimated warranty costs when revenue is recognized. We generally warrant our products for periods of one to five years. Our warranty provision considers estimated product failure rates and trends, estimated repair or replacement costs and estimated costs for customer compensatory claims related to product quality issues, if any. We use a statistical warranty tracking model to help with our estimates and we exercise judgment in determining the underlying estimates. Our statistical tracking model captures specific detail on hard drive reliability, such as factory test data, historical field return rates and costs to repair by product type. If actual product return trends, costs to repair returned products or costs of customer compensatory claims differ significantly from our estimates, our future results of operations could be materially affected. Our judgment is subject to a greater degree of subjectivity with respect to newly introduced products because of limited field experience with those products upon which to base our warranty estimates. We review our warranty accrual quarterly for products shipped in prior periods and which are still under warranty. Any changes in the estimates underlying the accrual may result in adjustments that impact current period gross margin and income. Such changes are generally a result of differences between forecasted and actual return rate experience and costs to repair. For a summary of historical changes in estimates related to pre existing warranty provisions, refer to Part II, Item 8, Note 4 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Inventory We value inventories at the lower of cost (first in, first out and weighted average methods) or net realizable value. Weighted average cost is calculated based upon the cost of precious metals at the time they are received by us. We have determined that it is less practicable to assign specific costs to individual units of precious metal and as such, we relieve our precious metals inventory based on the weighted average cost of the inventory at the time the inventory is used in 42 Table of Contents production. The weighted average method of valuing precious metals does not materially differ from a first in, first out method. We record inventory write downs for the valuation of inventory at the lower of cost or net realizable value by analyzing market conditions and estimates of future sales prices as compared to inventory costs and inventory balances. We evaluate inventory balances for excess quantities and obsolescence on a regular basis by analyzing estimated demand, inventory on hand, sales levels and other information, and reduce inventory balances to net realizable value for excess and obsolete inventory based on this analysis. Unanticipated changes in technology or customer demand could result in a decrease in demand for one or more of our products, which may require a write down of inventory that could negatively affect operating results. Litigation and Other Contingencies We apply SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies, to determine when and how much to accrue for and disclose related to legal and other contingencies. Accordingly, we disclose contingencies deemed to be reasonably possible and accrue loss contingencies when, in consultation with our legal advisors, we conclude that a loss is probable and reasonably estimable (Refer to Part II, Item 8, Note 5 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K). The ability to predict the ultimate outcome of such matters involves judgments, estimates and inherent uncertainties. The actual outcome of such matters could differ materially from managements estimates. Income Taxes We account for income taxes under the asset and liability method, which provides that deferred tax assets and liabilities be recognized for temporary differences between the financial reporting basis and the tax basis of our assets and liabilities and expected benefits of utilizing net operating loss (NOL) and tax credit carryforwards. We record a valuation allowance where it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Each period we evaluate the need for a valuation allowance for our deferred tax assets and we adjust the valuation allowance so that we record net deferred tax assets only to the extent that we conclude it is more likely than not that these deferred tax assets will be realized. We recognize liabilities for uncertain tax positions based on the two step process prescribed in FIN 48. To the extent a tax position does not meet a more likely than not level of certainty, no benefit is recognized in the financial statements. If a position meets the more likely than not level of certainty, it is recognized in the financial statements at the largest amount that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits are recognized on liabilities recorded for uncertain tax positions and are recorded in our provision for income taxes. The actual liability for unrealized tax benefit in any such contingency may be materially different from our estimates, which could result in the need to record additional liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits or potentially adjust previously recorded liabilities for unrealized tax benefits. Stock Based Compensation We account for all stock based compensation in accordance with the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123(R), Share Based Payment (SFAS 123(R)). Under these provisions, stock based compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the value of the award and is recognized as expense over the vesting period. The fair values of all stock options granted are estimated using a binomial model, and the fair values of all Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) shares are estimated using the Black Scholes Merton option pricing model. Both the binomial and the Black Scholes Merton models require the input of highly subjective assumptions. Under SFAS 123(R), we are required to use judgment in estimating the amount of stock based awards that are expected to be forfeited. If actual forfeitures differ significantly from the original estimate, stock based compensation expense and our results of operations could be materially impacted. New Accounting Standards In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS 157). SFAS 157 provides guidance for using fair value to measure assets and liabilities. It also responds to investors requests for expanded information about the extent to which companies measure assets and liabilities at fair value, the information used to measure fair value, and the effect of fair value measurements on earnings. SFAS 157 applies whenever other standards 43 Table of Contents require (or permit) assets or liabilities to be measured at fair value. The standard does not expand the use of fair value in any new circumstances, but provides clarification on acceptable fair valuation methods and applications. SFAS 157 was effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those fiscal years, which is the first quarter of our fiscal year 2009. On November 14, 2007, the FASB provided a one year deferral for the adoption of SFAS 157 for non financial assets and liabilities. We are currently evaluating the impact the adoption of SFAS 157 will have on our consolidated financial statements. In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (SFAS 159). SFAS 159 permits entities to choose to measure many financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected are reported in earnings. SFAS 159 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, which is the first quarter of our fiscal year 2009. We are currently evaluating the impact the adoption of SFAS 159 will have on our consolidated financial statements. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R), Business Combinations (SFAS 141(R)). SFAS 141(R) establishes principles and requirements for how the acquirer of a business recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree. The statement also provides guidance for recognizing and measuring the goodwill acquired in the business combination or a gain from a bargain purchase and determines what information to disclose to enable users of financial statements to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business combination. SFAS 141(R) is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, which is the first quarter of our fiscal year 2010. We are currently evaluating the impact the adoption of SFAS 141(R) will have on our consolidated financial statements. In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 (SFAS 161). SFAS 161 updates guidance regarding disclosure requirements for derivative instruments and hedging activities. It responds to constituents concerns that FASB Statement No. 133 does not provide adequate information about how derivative and hedging activities affect an entitys financial position, financial performance, and cash flows. The disclosure of fair values of derivative instruments and their gains and losses in a tabular format, as required by SFAS 161, should provide a more complete picture of the location in an entitys financial statements of both the derivative positions existing at period end and the effect of using derivatives during the reporting period. SFAS 161 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim period beginning after November 15, 2008, which is the first quarter of our fiscal year 2010. We are currently evaluating the impact the adoption of SFAS 161 will have on our consolidated financial statements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Disclosure About Foreign Currency Risk Although the majority of our transactions are in U.S. dollars, some transactions are based in various foreign currencies. We purchase short term, forward exchange contracts to hedge the impact of foreign currency exchange fluctuations on certain underlying assets, liabilities and commitments for operating expenses and product costs denominated in foreign currencies. The purpose of entering into these hedge transactions is to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations. The contract maturity dates do not exceed 12 months. We do not purchase short term forward exchange contracts for trading purposes. Currently, we focus on hedging our foreign currency risk related to the Thai Baht, Malaysian Ringgit, Euro and the British Pound Sterling. Malaysian Ringgit contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. Euro and British Pound Sterling contracts are designated as fair value hedges. Thai Baht contracts are designated as both cash flow and fair value hedges. See Part II, Item 8, Note 1 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 44 Table of Contents As of June 27, 2008, we had outstanding the following purchased foreign currency forward exchange contracts (in millions, except weighted average contract rate): Contract Weighted Average Unrealized Amount Contract Rate* Loss Foreign currency forward contracts: Thai Baht cash flow hedges $ 733 33.22 $ (9 ) Thai Baht fair value hedges $ 144 33.63 Malaysian Ringgit cash flow hedges $ 359 3.23 $ (3 ) Euro fair value hedges $ 14 0.64 * Expressed in units of foreign currency per dollar. In 2008, 2007 and 2006, total net realized transaction and forward exchange contract currency gains and losses were not material to our consolidated financial statements. Disclosure About Other Market Risks Variable Interest Rate Risk Borrowings under the Credit Facility bear interest at a rate equal to, at the option of WDTI, either (a) a LIBOR rate determined by reference to the cost of funds for Eurodollar deposits for the interest period relevant to such borrowing, adjusted for certain additional costs (the Eurocurrency Rate) or (b) a base rate determined by reference to the higher of (i) the federal funds rate plus 0.50% and (ii) the prime rate as announced by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (the Base Rate), in each case plus an applicable margin. The applicable margin for borrowings under the term loan facility ranges from 1.25% to 1.50% with respect to borrowings at the Eurocurrency Rate and 0.0% to 0.125% with respect to borrowings at the Base Rate. The applicable margin for revolving loan borrowings under the revolving credit facility ranges from 0.8% to 1.125% with respect to borrowings at the Eurocurrency Rate and 0.0% to 0.125% with respect to borrowings at the Base Rate. The applicable margins for borrowings under the Credit Facility are determined based upon a leverage ratio of the Company and its subsidiaries calculated on a consolidated basis. If either the base rate or LIBOR rate increase, our interest payments would also increase. A one percent increase in the variable rate of interest on the Credit Facility would increase interest expense by approximately $5 million annually. Credit Market Risk Our long term investments consist of auction rate securities totaling $28 million as of June 27, 2008. The recent negative conditions in the global credit markets have prevented us from liquidating some of our holdings of auction rate securities because the amount of securities submitted for sale has exceeded the amount of purchase orders for such securities. If the credit market does not improve, auctions for our invested amounts may continue to fail. If this occurs, we may be unable to liquidate some or all of our auction rate securities at par should we need or desire to access the funds invested in those securities prior to maturity of the underlying assets. In the event we need or desire to access these funds, we will not be able to do so until a future auction on these investments is successful or a buyer is found outside the auction process. If a buyer is found but is unwilling to purchase the investments at par, we may incur a loss. The market values of some of the auction rate securities we owned were impacted by the macro economic credit market conditions. Rating downgrades of the security issuer or the third parties insuring such investments may require us to adjust the carrying value of these investments through an impairment charge. Based on our ability to access our cash, cash equivalents and short term investments, our expected operating cash flows and our other sources of cash, we do not anticipate these investments will affect our ability to execute our current business plan. 45 
 
