Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward Looking Statements The following discussion and analysis contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. You are urged to carefully review our description and examples of forward looking statements included earlier in this Annual Report on Form 10 K immediately prior to Part I, under the heading Forward Looking Statements. Forward looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward looking statements. You are urged to carefully review the disclosures we make concerning risks and other factors that may affect our business and operating results, including those made in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, as well as our other reports filed with the SEC. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this document. We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to publish revised forward looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Our Company We design, develop, manufacture and sell hard drives. A hard drive is a device that uses one or more rotating magnetic disks to store and allow fast access to data. Hard drives are key components of computers, including desktop and notebook computers (PCs), data storage subsystems and many consumer electronic (CE) devices. We sell our products worldwide to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and original design manufacturers (ODMs) for use in computer systems, subsystems or CE devices, and to distributors, resellers and retailers. Our hard drives are used in desktop computers, notebook computers, and enterprise applications such as servers, workstations, network attached storage, storage area networks and video surveillance equipment. Additionally, our hard drives are used in CE applications such as digital video recorders (DVRs), and satellite and cable set top boxes (STBs). We also sell our hard drives as stand alone storage products and integrate them into finished enclosures, embedding application software and offering the products as WD branded external storage appliances for personal data backup and portable or expanded storage of digital music, photographs, video and other digital data. 37 Table of Contents Hard drives provide non volatile data storage, which means that the data remains present when power is no longer applied to the device. Our hard drives currently include 3.5 inch and 2.5 inch form factor drives, having capacities ranging from 40 gigabytes (GB) to 2 terabytes (TB), nominal rotation speeds up to 10,000 revolutions per minute (RPM), and offer interfaces including both Enhanced Integrated Drive Electronics (EIDE) and Serial Advanced Technology Attachment (SATA). We also embed our hard drives into WD branded external storage appliances using interfaces such as USB 2.0, external SATA, FireWiretm and Ethernet network connections with capacities of 160 GB up to 8 TB. In addition, we offer a family of hard drives specifically designed to consume substantially less power than standard drives, using our WD GreenPower Technologytm. In the second quarter of 2009, we began to design, develop, manufacture and sell media players. A media player is a device that connects to a users television or home theater system and plays digital movies, music and photos from any of our WD branded external hard drives or other USB mass storage devices. We sell our media players worldwide to resellers and retailers under our WD brand. In the third quarter of 2009, we acquired SiliconSystems, Inc (SiliconSystems) and began to design, develop, manufacture and sell solid state drives. A solid state drive is a storage device that uses semiconductor, non volatile media, rather than magnetic disks and magnetic heads, to store and allow fast access to data. We sell our solid state drives worldwide to OEMs and distributors for use in the embedded systems market which includes network communications, industrial, embedded computing, medical, military, aerospace, media appliance and data streaming applications. Results of Operations On September 5, 2007, we completed our acquisition of Komag, Incorporated (Komag) and on March 27, 2009, we completed our acquisition of SiliconSystems. In accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP), operating results for Komag and SiliconSystems prior to the dates of their acquisitions are not included in our operating results, which therefore affects our discussion of changes in our revenues and expenses for the periods prior to the acquisitions as compared to the periods after the acquisitions. Fiscal 2009 Overview In 2009, our net revenue decreased by 8% to $7.5 billion on hard drive shipments of 146 million units as compared to $8.1 billion and 133 million units, respectively, in 2008. In 2009, 62% of our hard drive revenue was derived from non desktop sources including CE products, enterprise applications, notebook computers and retail sales as compared to 56% in 2008. Hard drive average selling price decreased to $51 in 2009 from $59 in 2008. Gross margin percentage decreased to 17.9% in 2009 from 21.5% in 2008. Operating income decreased by $487 million to $519 million in 2009, which included a $14 million in process research and development charge related to the acquisition of SiliconSystems, $112 million of restructuring charges and an $18 million gain on the sale of assets from our media substrate manufacturing facility in Sarawak, Malaysia. Operating income was $1.0 billion in 2008, which included a $49 million in process research and development charge related to the acquisition of Komag. As a percentage of net revenue, operating income was 7.0% in 2009 compared to 12.4% in 2008. Net income in 2009 was $470 million, or $2.08 per diluted share, compared to $867 million, or $3.84 per diluted share, in 2008. During December 2008, our second fiscal quarter, we announced a restructuring plan to realign our cost structure as a result of a softer demand environment. This plan was completed during our third and fourth fiscal quarters of 2009. This resulted in the closure of one of our hard drive manufacturing facilities in Thailand, the disposal of our media substrate manufacturing facility in Sarawak, Malaysia, and headcount reductions throughout the world of approximately 3,300 people. Restructuring costs totaled $112 million and consisted of $81 million of asset impairment charges, $27 million of employee termination benefits and $4 million of contract termination and other exit costs. Total cash expenditures related to the restructuring activities were approximately $31 million. During our fourth fiscal quarter, we sold our media substrate manufacturing facility, and related assets, in Sarawak, Malaysia for net proceeds of approximately $29 million, resulting in a gain of $18 million. The closure and disposal of our manufacturing facilities was to realign our manufacturing capacity with our expectations regarding demand at that time. During our fourth fiscal quarter, we experienced a much stronger demand than originally anticipated. We expect continuing sequential growth in our first quarter of fiscal 2010. As a result, in our first quarter of fiscal 2010, we reopened the hard drive manufacturing facility in Thailand that we previously closed as part of our restructuring plan. 38 Table of Contents We also completed our acquisition of SiliconSystems resulting in a total acquisition cost of $66 million, consisting of $65 million in cash paid to SiliconSystems shareholders and $1 million of other direct acquisition costs. Summary Comparison of 2009, 2008 and 2007 The following table sets forth, for the periods presented, summary information from our consolidated statements of income by dollars and percentage of revenue (in millions, except percentages): Years Ended July 3, 2009 June 27, 2008 June 29, 2007 Revenue, net $ 7,453 100.0 % $ 8,074 100.0 % $ 5,468 100.0 % Gross margin 1,337 17.9 1,739 21.5 900 16.5 RD and SGA 710 9.5 684 8.5 485 8.9 Acquired in process research and development 14 0.2 49 0.6 Restructuring and other, net 94 1.3 Operating income 519 7.0 1,006 12.4 415 7.6 Other income (expense), net (18 ) (0.2 ) (25 ) (0.3 ) 28 0.5 Income before income taxes 501 6.7 981 12.1 443 8.1 Income tax expense (benefit) 31 0.4 114 1.4 (121 ) (2.2 ) Net income 470 6.3 867 10.7 564 10.3 The following table sets forth, for the periods presented, summary information regarding volume shipments, average selling prices (ASPs) and revenues by geography, channel and product (in millions, except percentages and ASPs): Years Ended July 3, June 27, June 29, 2009 2008 2007 Net revenue $ 7,453 $ 8,074 $ 5,468 Unit shipments* 146 133 97 ASPs (per unit)* $ 51 $ 59 $ 57 Revenues by Geography(%) Americas 24 % 31 % 37 % Europe, Middle East and Africa 27 30 29 Asia 49 39 34 Revenues by Channel(%) OEMs 54 % 51 % 48 % Distributors 26 31 36 Retailers 20 18 16 Revenues by Product(%)* Non desktop sources 62 % 56 % 43 % Desktop hard drives 38 44 57 * Includes hard drive units only. Non hard drive units were not significant. Fiscal Year 2009 Compared to Fiscal Year 2008 Net Revenue. Net revenue was $7.5 billion for 2009, a decrease of 8% from 2008. Total unit shipments of hard drives increased to 146 million as compared to 133 million for the prior year. The decrease in revenue primarily resulted from a decline in our ASPs which reflects a more competitive pricing environment, particularly in the notebook and branded markets. The decline in our ASPs was partially offset by an increase in unit shipments of 2.5 inch drives. We shipped 56 million 2.5 inch drives in 2009 as compared to 37 million units in 2008. The increase in 2.5 inch unit 39 Table of Contents shipments was driven by continued strength in notebook and netbook PC demand, coupled with increased customer preference for our product offerings. Changes in revenue by geography and by channel generally reflect normal fluctuations in market demand and competitive dynamics as well as demand strength in Asia, which continues to be driven by the concentration of global manufacturing in that region. Changes in revenue by channel are a result of increases in sales of mobile hard drives to OEMs. We have sales incentive and marketing programs that provide customers with price protection and other incentives or reimbursements that are recorded as a reduction to gross revenue. For 2009, these programs represented 11% of gross revenues compared to 10% in 2008. These amounts generally vary according to several factors including industry conditions, seasonal demand, competitor actions, channel mix and overall availability of product. Gross Margin. Gross margin for 2009 was $1.3 billion, a decrease of $402 million, or 23% over the prior year. Gross margin percentage decreased to 17.9% in 2009 from 21.5% in 2008. This decrease is due to a more competitive pricing environment primarily resulting from an increase in product offerings in the mobile and branded markets. Operating Expenses. Total research and development (RD) expense and selling, general and administrative (SGA) expense increased to 9.5% of net revenue in 2009 compared to 8.5% in 2008. RD expense was $509 million in 2009, an increase of $45 million, or 10% over the prior year. This increase in RD expense includes $76 million relating to product development to support new programs offset by a $31 million decrease in variable incentive compensation. As a percentage of net revenue, RD expense increased to 6.8% in 2009 compared to 5.7% in 2008 primarily due to continued investment in product development. SGA expense was $201 million in 2009, a decrease of $19 million, or 8.6%, as compared to 2008. This decrease in SGA expense primarily resulted from a $19 million decrease in variable incentive compensation and a $6 million insurance recovery, offset by a $6 million net increase in the expansion of our sales and marketing presence into new regions. SGA expense was 2.7% as a percentage of revenue in both 2009 and 2008. During 2009, we recorded a $14 million in process research and development charge related to the acquisition of SiliconSystems. During 2008, we recorded a $49 million in process research and development charge related to the acquisition of Komag. These charges relate to projects that were not ready for commercial production and had no alternative future use and, therefore, the fair value of the development effort did not quality for capitalization and was immediately expensed. During 2009, we also recorded $112 million in restructuring charges and an $18 million gain on the sale of assets from our media substrate manufacturing facility in Sarawak, Malaysia. Other Income (Expense). Net interest and other expense was $18 million in 2009 compared to $25 million in 2008. This change was primarily due to a decrease in the variable interest rate on our debt and a $3 million decrease in losses on our auction rate securities. Income Tax Provision. Income tax expense was $31 million in 2009 compared to $114 million in 2008. Tax expense as a percentage of income before taxes was 6% in 2009 compared to 12% for 2008. Differences between the effective tax rates and the U.S. Federal statutory rate are primarily due to tax holidays and incentive programs and the current year generation of income tax credits. We have tax holidays in Malaysia and Thailand that expire at various times through 2022. In 2009, income tax expense includes a provision of $42 million offset by $6 million in tax benefits related to the extension of the U.S. Federal research and development tax credit, enacted into law in October 2008, and a favorable adjustment of $5 million to previously recorded tax accruals and credits. In 2008, tax expense included net charges of $60 million for taxes incurred upon the license of certain intellectual property to a foreign subsidiary in our first fiscal quarter. We recognized a $29 million increase in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits during 2009. As of July 3, 2009, we had approximately $136 million of unrecognized tax benefits which, if recognized, would decrease the effective tax rate in subsequent years. Fiscal Year 2008 Compared to Fiscal Year 2007 Net Revenue. Net revenue was $8.1 billion for 2008, an increase of 48% from 2007. Total unit shipments increased to 133 million as compared to 97 million for the prior year. This unit increase resulted from an increase in higher overall 40 Table of Contents demand for hard drives and our continuing diversification into non desktop markets, including mobile, consumer electronics, enterprise and branded products. For example, we shipped 37 million 2.5 inch drives to the mobile and branded markets in 2008 as compared to 12 million units in 2007. Additionally, we shipped 15 million units to the DVR market in 2008 as compared to 10 million units in 2007. ASPs increased to $59 due to an improved mix of revenues by market category, improved product mix and more favorable demand/supply conditions. Changes in revenue by geography generally reflect normal fluctuations in market demand and competitive dynamics as well as an increase in mobile drives sold to Asia. Changes in revenue by channel are a result of increases in sales of mobile hard drives to OEMs and an increase in sales of branded products due to the growing worldwide acceptance of our My Passport and My Book external digital storage appliances. We have sales incentive and marketing programs that provide customers with price protection and other incentives or reimbursements that are recorded as a reduction to gross revenue. For the year ended June 27, 2008, these programs represented 10% in 2008 compared to 7% in 2007. These amounts generally vary according to several factors including industry conditions, seasonal demand, competitor actions, channel mix and overall availability of product. Gross Margin. Gross margin for 2008 was $1.7 billion, an increase of $839 million, or 93% over 2007. Gross margin percentage increased to 21.5% in 2008 from 16.5% in 2007. The factors contributing to this increase were an improved mix of revenues by market category, improved product mix and more favorable demand/supply conditions. Our manufacturing throughput and costs also improved through operational efficiencies, higher utilization and a higher mix of products based on newer, more cost effective technologies and the contribution of media operations. Operating Expenses. Total operating expenses, consisting of research and development (RD) and selling, general and administrative (SGA), decreased to 8.5% of net revenue in 2008 compared to 8.9% in 2007. RD expense was $464 million in 2008, an increase of $158 million, or 52% over the prior year. This increase in RD expense includes $75 million relating to the acquired media operations, $52 million related to product development to support new programs and $31 million in incentive and equity compensation. As a percentage of net revenue, RD expense remained consistent at 5.7% in 2008 compared to 5.6% in 2007. SGA expense was $220 million in 2008, an increase of $41 million, or 23%, as compared to 2007. This increase in SGA expense includes $28 million for the expansion of sales and marketing to support new products and $13 million in higher incentive and equity compensation. As a percentage of net revenue, SGA expense decreased to 2.7% in 2008 from 3.3% in 2007 primarily due to an increase in net revenue in 2008 compared to 2007. During 2008, we recorded a $49 million charge to operating expense related to an in process research and development project acquired from Komag involving technology for higher recording densities on advanced perpendicular recording magnetic media. As these advanced products were not ready for commercial production and had no alternative future use, the fair value of the development effort did not qualify for capitalization and was immediately expensed. Other Income (Expense). Net interest and other expense was $25 million in 2008 compared to net interest and other income of $28 million in 2007. This decrease is a result of higher debt balances and realized and recognized losses on investments of $13 million. Income Tax Provision. Income tax expense was $114 million in 2008 compared to an income tax benefit of $121 million in 2007. Tax provision as a percentage of income before taxes was 12% in 2008 compared to tax benefit as a percentage of income of 27% for 2007. Differences between the effective tax rates and the U.S. Federal statutory rate are primarily due to tax holidays and incentive programs and the current year generation of income tax credits. We have tax holidays in Malaysia and Thailand that expire at various times through 2022. In 2008, income tax expense also includes net charges of $60 million for taxes incurred upon the license of certain intellectual property to a foreign subsidiary in our first fiscal quarter. In 2007, the tax provision was impacted by a favorable adjustment to the companys valuation allowance for deferred tax assets of $126 million. In the fourth quarter of 2007, we reversed the remaining valuation allowance for our deferred tax assets based upon a determination that it was more likely than not that our deferred tax assets will be realized. The realization of the deferred tax assets is primarily dependent on our ability to generate sufficient earnings in certain jurisdictions in future years. The amount of deferred tax assets considered realizable may increase or decrease in subsequent periods based on fluctuating industry or company conditions. 41 Table of Contents We adopted the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN 48), as of June 30, 2007. As a result of the implementation of FIN 48, we recognized no adjustment in the net liability for unrecognized tax benefits. The total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits as of the date of adoption of FIN 48 was $58 million, all of which would affect our effective tax rate if realized. During the year ended June 27, 2008, we recognized a $17 million increase in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits and recorded $32 million of liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits related to Komag. As of June 27, 2008, we had approximately $107 million of unrecognized tax benefits which included the $32 million of gross unrecognized tax benefits related to Komag. Liquidity and Capital Resources We ended 2009 with total cash and cash equivalents of $1.8 billion, an increase of $690 million from June 27, 2008. The following table summarizes the results of our statements of cash flows for the three years ended July 3, 2009: Years Ended July 3, June 27, June 29, 2009 2008 2007 Net cash flow provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 1,305 $ 1,399 $ 618 Investing activities (551 ) (1,321 ) (383 ) Financing activities (64 ) 326 (86 ) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 690 $ 404 $ 149 Our investment policy is to manage our investment portfolio to preserve principal and liquidity while maximizing return through the full investment of available funds. We believe our current cash, cash equivalents and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital needs through the foreseeable future. Our ability to sustain our working capital position is subject to a number of risks that are discussed in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities during 2009 was $1.3 billion as compared to $1.4 billion for 2008 and $618 million for 2007. Cash flow from operating activities consists of net income, adjusted for non cash charges, plus or minus working capital changes. This represents our principal source of cash. Net cash provided by changes in working capital was $198 million for 2009 as compared to $22 million for 2008 and $78 million used to fund working capital for 2007. Our working capital requirements primarily depend upon the effective management of our cash conversion cycle, which measures how quickly we can convert our products into cash through sales. The following table summarizes the cash conversion cycle for the three years ended 2009: Years Ended July 3, June 27, June 29, 2009 2008 2007 Days sales outstanding 47 46 45 Days in inventory 26 27 20 Days payables outstanding (67 ) (67 ) (66 ) Cash conversion cycle 6 6 (1 ) For the year ended July 3, 2009, our days sales outstanding (DSOs) increased by 1 day, days in inventory (DIOs) decreased by 1 day, and days payables outstanding remained consistent with 2008. From time to time, we modify the timing of payments to our vendors. We make these modifications primarily to manage our vendor relationships and to manage our cash flows, including our cash balances. Generally, we make the 42 Table of Contents payment modifications through negotiations with or by granting to or receiving from our vendors payment term accommodations. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for 2009 was $551 million as compared to $1.3 billion for 2008 and $383 million for 2007. During 2009, cash used in investing activities primarily consisted of $519 million for capital expenditures and $63 million for the acquisition of SiliconSystems, net of cash acquired. During 2008, cash used in investing activities consisted of $927 million for the acquisition of Komag, net of cash acquired, and $615 million for capital expenditures, partially offset by net cash provided by investments of $221 million. The decrease in capital expenditures in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily the result of the expected reduction in market demand due to the macroeconomic conditions. Capital expenditures in 2009 primarily consisted of the expansion of our head wafer fabrication facilities, continued investment in advanced head technologies and increased capacity for our broadening and growing product portfolio. For 2010, we expect capital expenditures to be approximately $600 million and depreciation and amortization to be approximately $530 million. Our cash equivalents are invested primarily in readily accessible, AAA rated institutional money market funds which are invested in U.S. Treasury securities, U.S. Treasury bills and U.S. Government agency securities. We also have auction rate securities that are classified as long term investments as they are expected to be held until secondary markets become available. These investments are currently accounted for as available for sale securities and recorded at fair value within other non current assets in the consolidated balance sheet. The estimated market values of these investments are subject to fluctuation. The carrying value of our investments in auction rate securities was reduced from $28 million as of June 27, 2008 to $18 million as of July 3, 2009, as a result of the recognition of $10 million in other than temporary losses that were recorded through earnings. Financing Activities Net cash used by financing activities for 2009 was $64 million as compared to net cash provided by financing activities for 2008 of $326 million. Net cash used in financing activities was $86 million for 2007. The net cash provided by financing activities in 2009 consisted of $28 million provided by the issuance of stock under employee plans, offset by $36 million used to repurchase our common stock, a $24 million decrease in excess tax benefits from employee stock plans, $5 million in tax withholding obligations paid in connection with the vesting of stock awards under employee stock plans, and $27 million used to repay long term debt. The net cash provided by financing activities in 2008 consisted of $500 million in net proceeds from debt, $89 million provided by an increase in excess tax benefits from employee stock plans, $65 million provided by the issuance of stock under employee stock plans, offset by a $250 million repayment of convertible debentures assumed in the acquisition of Komag, $60 million used to repurchase our common stock, $13 million used to repay other long term debt and $5 million in tax withholding obligations paid in connection with the vesting of stock awards under employee stock plans. The net cash used in financing activities in 2007 consisted of $73 million used for repurchases of our common stock, $43 million used for repayments of long term debt, $9 million in tax withholding obligations paid in connection with the vesting of stock awards under employee stock plans, offset by $39 million provided by the issuance of stock under employee plans. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Other than facility and equipment lease commitments incurred in the normal course of business and certain indemnification provisions (see Contractual Obligations and Commitments below), we do not have any off balance sheet financing arrangements or liabilities, guarantee contracts, retained or contingent interests in transferred assets, or any obligation arising out of a material variable interest in an unconsolidated entity. We do not have any majority owned subsidiaries that are not included in the consolidated financial statements. Additionally, we do not have an interest in, or relationships with, any special purpose entities. 43 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Commitments The following is a summary of our significant contractual cash obligations and commercial commitments as of July 3, 2009 (in millions): Less than More than Total 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years 5 Years Long term debt, including current portion $ 481 $ 81 $ 250 $ 150 $ Capital lease obligations 1 1 Operating leases 52 16 19 13 4 Unrecognized tax benefits under FIN 48 45 7 38 Purchase obligations 3,320 3,305 6 6 3 Total $ 3,899 $ 3,403 $ 282 $ 207 $ 7 Long Term Debt In February 2008, Western Digital Technologies, Inc. (WDTI), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, entered into a five year Credit Agreement (Credit Facility) that provides for a $750 million unsecured loan consisting of a $500 million term loan facility and a $250 million revolving credit facility. The revolving credit facility includes borrowing capacity available for letters of credit and for short term borrowings referred to as swingline. In addition, WDTI may elect to expand the Credit Facility by up to $250 million if existing or new lenders provide additional term or revolving commitments. The $500 million term loan had a variable interest rate of 1.63% as of July 3, 2009 and requires sixteen quarterly principal payments, that began in June 2009, of approximately $19 million, $25 million, $31 million and $50 million per quarter for each four quarter increment. The Credit Facility requires WDTI to comply with a leverage ratio and an interest coverage ratio calculated on a consolidated basis for the Company and its subsidiaries. In addition, the Credit Facility contains customary covenants, including covenants that limit or restrict WDTIs and its subsidiaries ability to: incur liens, incur indebtedness, make certain restricted payments, merge or consolidate and enter into certain speculative hedging arrangements. As of July 3, 2009, WDTI had $250 million available for future borrowings on the revolving credit facility and was in compliance with all covenants. Purchase Orders In the normal course of business, we enter into purchase orders with suppliers for the purchase of hard drive components used to manufacture our products. These purchase orders generally cover forecasted component supplies needed for production during the next quarter, are recorded as a liability upon receipt of the components, and generally may be changed or canceled at any time prior to shipment of the components. We also enter into purchase orders with suppliers for capital equipment that are recorded as a liability upon receipt of the equipment. Our ability to change or cancel a capital equipment purchase order without penalty depends on the nature of the equipment being ordered. In some cases, we may be obligated to pay for certain costs related to changes to, or cancellation of, a purchase order, such as costs incurred for raw materials or work in process of components or capital equipment. We have entered into long term purchase agreements with various component suppliers which contain minimum quantity requirements. However, the dollar amount of the purchases may depend on the specific products ordered, achievement of pre defined quantity or quality specifications or future price negotiations. The estimated related minimum purchase requirements are included in Purchase obligations in the table above. We have also entered into long term purchase agreements with various component suppliers that carry fixed volumes and pricing which obligate us to make certain future purchases, contingent on certain conditions of performance, quality and technology of the vendors components. These arrangements are included under Purchase obligations in the table above. We enter into, from time to time, other long term purchase agreements for components with certain vendors. Generally, future purchases under these agreements are not fixed and determinable as they depend on our overall unit volume requirements and are contingent upon the prices, technology and quality of the suppliers products remaining 44 Table of Contents competitive. These arrangements are not included under Purchase obligations in the table above. Please see Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for a discussion of risks related to these commitments. Foreign Exchange Contracts We purchase short term, forward exchange contracts to hedge the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain underlying assets, liabilities and commitments for operating expenses and product costs denominated in foreign currencies. See Part II, Item 7A, under the heading Disclosure About Foreign Currency Risk, for our current forward exchange contract commitments. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we may provide indemnifications of varying scope and terms to customers, vendors, lessors, business partners and other parties with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, losses arising out of our breach of such agreements, products or services to be provided by us, or from intellectual property infringement claims made by third parties. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and certain of our officers that will require us, among other things, to indemnify them against certain liabilities that may arise by reason of their status or service as directors or officers. We maintain director and officer insurance, which may cover certain liabilities arising from our obligation to indemnify our directors and officers in certain circumstances. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Such indemnification agreements may not be subject to maximum loss clauses. Historically, we have not incurred material costs as a result of obligations under these agreements. Stock Repurchase Program Our Board of Directors previously authorized us to repurchase $750 million of our common stock in open market transactions under a program through March 31, 2013. Since the inception of this stock repurchase program in 2005, through July 3, 2009, we have repurchased 18 million shares for a total cost of $284 million (including commissions). We expect stock repurchases to be funded principally by operating cash flows. We may continue to repurchase our stock as we deem appropriate and market conditions allow. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We have prepared the accompanying consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (U.S. GAAP). The preparation of the financial statements requires the use of judgment and estimates that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets, liabilities and shareholders equity. We have adopted accounting policies and practices that are generally accepted in the industry in which we operate. We believe the following are our most critical accounting policies that affect significant areas and involve judgment and estimates made by us. If these estimates differ significantly from actual results, the impact to the consolidated financial statements may be material. Revenue and Accounts Receivable In accordance with standard industry practice, we provide resellers with limited price protection for inventories held by resellers at the time of published list price reductions and other sales incentive programs. In accordance with current accounting standards, we recognize revenue upon delivery to OEMs, ODMs and resellers and record a reduction of revenue for estimated price protection and other programs in effect until the resellers sell such inventory to their customers. We base these adjustments on several factors including anticipated price decreases during the reseller holding period, resellers sell through and inventory levels, estimated amounts to be reimbursed to qualifying customers, historical pricing information and customer claim processing. If customer demand for hard drives or market conditions differ from our expectations, our operating results could be affected. We also have programs under which we reimburse qualified distributors and retailers for certain marketing expenditures which are recorded as a reduction of revenue. We apply the provisions of Emerging Issues Task Force No. 01 9, Accounting for Consideration Given by a Vendor to a Customer (Including a Reseller of the Vendors Products) and such sales incentive and marketing programs are recorded 45 Table of Contents as a reduction of revenue. These amounts generally vary according to several factors including industry conditions, seasonal demand, competitor actions, channel mix and overall availability of product. Since 2007, total sales incentive and marketing programs have ranged from 7% to 12% of gross revenues per quarter. Changes in future customer demand and market conditions may require us to increase our incentive programs as a percentage of gross revenue from the current range. Adjustments to revenues due to changes in accruals for these programs related to revenues reported in prior periods have averaged 0.2% of quarterly gross revenue since 2007. We record an allowance for doubtful accounts by analyzing specific customer accounts and assessing the risk of loss based on insolvency, disputes or other collection issues. In addition, we routinely analyze the different receivable aging categories and establish reserves based on a combination of past due receivables and expected future losses based primarily on our historical levels of bad debt losses. If the financial condition of a significant customer deteriorates resulting in its inability to pay its accounts when due, or if our overall loss history changes significantly, an adjustment in our allowance for doubtful accounts would be required, which could affect operating results. We establish provisions against revenue and cost of revenue for sales returns in the same period that the related revenue is recognized. We base these provisions on existing product return notifications. If actual sales returns exceed expectations, an increase in the sales return accrual would be required, which could negatively affect operating results. Warranty We record an accrual for estimated warranty costs when revenue is recognized. We generally warrant our products for a period of one to five years. Our warranty provision considers estimated product failure rates and trends, estimated repair or replacement costs and estimated costs for customer compensatory claims related to product quality issues, if any. We use a statistical warranty tracking model to help prepare our estimates and we exercise judgment in determining the underlying estimates. Our statistical tracking model captures specific detail on hard drive reliability, such as factory test data, historical field return rates, and costs to repair by product type. If actual product return trends, costs to repair returned products or costs of customer compensatory claims differ significantly from our estimates, our future results of operations could be materially affected. Also, during a period of declining revenue, the percentage of warranty utilization to revenue may increase. Our judgment is subject to a greater degree of subjectivity with respect to newly introduced products because of limited field experience with those products upon which to base our warranty estimates. We review our warranty accrual quarterly for products shipped in prior periods and which are still under warranty. Any changes in the estimates underlying the accrual may result in adjustments that impact current period gross margin and income. Such changes are generally a result of differences between forecasted and actual return rate experience and costs to repair. For a summary of historical changes in estimates related to pre existing warranty provisions, refer to Part II, Item 8, Note 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Inventory We value inventories at the lower of cost (first in, first out and weighted average methods) or net realizable value. We use the first in, first out method to value the cost of the majority of our inventories, while we use the weighted average method to value precious metal inventories. Weighted average cost is calculated based upon the cost of precious metals at the time they are received by us. We have determined that it is not practicable to assign specific costs to individual units of precious metals and, as such, we relieve our precious metals inventory based on the weighted average cost of the inventory at the time the inventory is used in production. The weighted average method of valuing precious metals does not materially differ from a first in, first out method. We record inventory write downs for the valuation of inventory at the lower of cost or net realizable value by analyzing market conditions and estimates of future sales prices as compared to inventory costs and inventory balances. We evaluate inventory balances for excess quantities and obsolescence on a regular basis by analyzing estimated demand, inventory on hand, sales levels and other information, and reduce inventory balances to net realizable value for excess and obsolete inventory based on this analysis. Unanticipated changes in technology or customer demand could result in a decrease in demand for one or more of our products, which may require a write down of inventory that could negatively affect operating results. 46 Table of Contents Litigation and Other Contingencies We apply SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies, to determine when and how much to accrue for and disclose related to legal and other contingencies. Accordingly, we disclose material contingencies deemed to be reasonably possible and accrue loss contingencies when, in consultation with our legal advisors, we conclude that a loss is probable and reasonably estimable (Refer to Part II, Item 8, Note 5 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K). The ability to predict the ultimate outcome of such matters involves judgments, estimates and inherent uncertainties. The actual outcome of such matters could differ materially from managements estimates. Income Taxes We account for income taxes under the asset and liability method, which provides that deferred tax assets and liabilities be recognized for temporary differences between the financial reporting basis and the tax basis of our assets and liabilities and expected benefits of utilizing net operating loss (NOL) and tax credit carryforwards. We record a valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Each quarter we evaluate the need for a valuation allowance for our deferred tax assets and we adjust the valuation allowance so that we record net deferred tax assets only to the extent that we conclude it is more likely than not that these deferred tax assets will be realized. We recognize liabilities for uncertain tax positions based on the two step process prescribed in Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109. To the extent a tax position does not meet a more likely than not level of certainty, no benefit is recognized in the financial statements. If a position meets the more likely than not level of certainty, it is recognized in the financial statements at the largest amount that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits are recognized on liabilities recorded for uncertain tax positions and are recorded in our provision for income taxes. The actual liability for unrealized tax benefit in any such contingency may be materially different from our estimates, which could result in the need to record additional liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits or potentially adjust previously recorded liabilities for unrealized tax benefits. Stock Based Compensation We account for all stock based compensation in accordance with the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123(R), Share Based Payment (SFAS 123(R)). Under these provisions, stock based compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the value of the award and is recognized as expense over the vesting period. The fair values of all stock options granted are estimated using a binomial model, and the fair values of all Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) shares are estimated using the Black Scholes Merton option pricing model. Both the binomial and the Black Scholes Merton models require the input of highly subjective assumptions. Under SFAS 123(R), we are required to use judgment in estimating the amount of stock based awards that are expected to be forfeited. If actual forfeitures differ significantly from the original estimate, stock based compensation expense and our results of operations could be materially impacted. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS 157). SFAS 157 establishes a framework for measuring fair value under U.S. GAAP and expands disclosures about fair value measurement. In February 2008, FASB issued FASB Staff Position 157 2, Effective Date of FASB Statement 157 (FSP 157 2), which delays the effective date of SFAS 157 for all nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities, except those that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis, until fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008 and interim periods within those years, which for us is the first quarter of fiscal 2010. The partial adoption of SFAS 157 for financial assets and financial liabilities in our first quarter of fiscal 2009 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. We are currently evaluating the impact the adoption of SFAS 157 will have on the non financial assets and non financial liabilities in our consolidated financial statements. In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (SFAS 159). SFAS 159 permits entities to choose to measure many financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected are reported in earnings. 47 Table of Contents We chose not to elect the fair value option for eligible items, and accordingly, the adoption of SFAS 159 in the first quarter of fiscal 2009 had no impact on our consolidated financial statements. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R), Business Combinations (SFAS 141(R)). SFAS 141(R) establishes principles and requirements for how the acquirer of a business recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree. SFAS 141(R) also provides guidance for recognizing and measuring the goodwill acquired in the business combination or a gain from a bargain purchase and determines what information to disclose to enable users of financial statements to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business combination. SFAS 141(R) applies prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2008, which for us is the first quarter of fiscal 2010. SFAS 141(R) will impact the Companys consolidated financial statements for business combinations with an acquisition date on or after adoption in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 (SFAS 161). SFAS 161 updates guidance regarding disclosure requirements for derivative instruments and hedging activities. The adoption of SFAS 161 in our third quarter of fiscal 2009 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In April 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 142 3, Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets (FSP FAS 142 3), which amends the factors that should be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized intangible asset under FASB Statement No. 142 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. FSP FAS 142 3 is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008, which for us is the first quarter of fiscal 2010. We are currently evaluating the impact the adoption of FSP FAS 142 3 will have on our consolidated financial statements. In April 2009, the FASB issued FSP FAS 107 1 and ABP 28 1, Interim Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments (FSP FAS 107 1 and ABP 28 1), which amends SFAS No. 107, Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments, and ABP Opinion No. 28, Interim Financial Reporting, to require disclosures about fair value of financial instruments in interim and annual reporting periods. FSP FAS 107 1 and ABP 28 1 is effective for interim reporting periods ending after June 15, 2009, which for us is the first quarter of fiscal 2010. In April 2009, the FASB issued FSP FAS 115 2 and FAS 124 2, Recognition and Presentation of Other Than Temporary Impairments (FSP FAS 115 2 and FAS 124 2), which amends the other than temporary impairment guidance in U.S. GAAP for debt securities to make the guidance more operational and to modify the presentation and disclosure of other than temporary impairments on debt and equity securities in the financial statements. The adoption of FSP FAS 115 2 and FAS 124 2 in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In May 2009, the FASB issued SFAS 165, Subsequent Events (SFAS 165) which establishes accounting and disclosure requirements for events or transactions that occur after the balance sheet date but before financial statements are issued or are available to be issued. SFAS 165 requires disclosure of the date through which the Company has evaluated subsequent events for recognition or disclosure. SFAS 165 also requires events that provide additional evidence about conditions that existed at the date of the balance sheet and the related estimates to be recognized in the financial statements. Events that provide evidence about conditions that did not exist at the date of the balance sheet but arose after the balance sheet date but before the financial statements are issued or available to be issued should not be recognized, but should be disclosed if material. The adoption of SFAS 165 in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Disclosure About Foreign Currency Risk Although the majority of our transactions are in U.S. dollars, some transactions are based in various foreign currencies. We purchase short term, foreign exchange contracts to hedge the impact of foreign currency exchange fluctuations on certain underlying assets, liabilities and commitments for operating expenses and product costs denominated in foreign currencies. The purpose of entering into these hedge transactions is to minimize the impact 48 Table of Contents of foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations. The contract maturity dates do not exceed 12 months. We do not purchase short term foreign exchange contracts for trading purposes. Currently, we focus on hedging our foreign currency risk related to the Thai Baht, Malaysian Ringgit, Euro and the British Pound Sterling. Malaysian Ringgit contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. Euro and British Pound Sterling contracts are designated as fair value hedges. Thai Baht contracts are designated as both cash flow and fair value hedges. See Part II, Item 8, Note 1 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. As of July 3, 2009, we had outstanding the following purchased foreign exchange contracts (in millions, except weighted average contract rate): Contract Weighted Average Unrealized Amount Contract Rate* Gain Foreign exchange contracts: Thai Baht cash flow hedges $ 293 34.57 $ 2 Thai Baht fair value hedges $ 118 34.04 Malaysian Ringgit cash flow hedges $ 152 3.55 Euro fair value hedges $ 14 0.71 British Pound Sterling fair value hedges $ 6 0.61 * Expressed in units of foreign currency per dollar. In 2009, 2008 and 2007, total net realized transaction and forward exchange contract currency gains and losses were not material to our consolidated financial statements. Disclosure About Other Market Risks Variable Interest Rate Risk Borrowings under the Credit Facility bear interest at a rate equal to, at the option of WDTI, either (a) a LIBOR rate determined by reference to the cost of funds for Eurodollar deposits for the interest period relevant to such borrowing, adjusted for certain additional costs (the Eurocurrency Rate); or (b) a base rate determined by reference to the higher of (i) the federal funds rate plus 0.50% and (ii) the prime rate as announced by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (the Base Rate); in each case plus an applicable margin. The applicable margin for borrowings under the term loan facility ranges from 1.25% to 1.50% with respect to borrowings at the Eurocurrency Rate and 0.0% to 0.125% with respect to borrowings at the Base Rate. The applicable margin for revolving loan borrowings under the revolving credit facility ranges from 0.8% to 1.125% with respect to borrowings at the Eurocurrency Rate and 0.0% to 0.125% with respect to borrowings at the Base Rate. The applicable margins for borrowings under the Credit Facility are determined based upon a leverage ratio of the Company and its subsidiaries calculated on a consolidated basis. If the federal funds rate, prime rate or LIBOR rate increases, our interest payments could also increase. A one percent increase in the variable rate of interest on the Credit Facility would increase interest expense by approximately $5 million annually. Credit Market Risk Our long term investments consist of auction rate securities totaling $18 million as of July 3, 2009. The negative conditions in the global credit markets have prevented us from liquidating some of our holdings of auction rate securities because the amount of securities submitted for sale has exceeded the amount of purchase orders for such securities. If the credit markets do not improve, auctions for our invested amounts may continue to fail. If this occurs, we may be unable to liquidate some or all of our auction rate securities at par should we need or desire to access the funds invested in those securities prior to maturity of the underlying assets. In the event we need or desire to access these funds, we will not be able to do so until a future auction on these investments is successful or a buyer is found outside the auction process. If a buyer is found but is unwilling to purchase the investments at par, we may incur a loss. The market values of some of the auction rate securities we owned were impacted by the macroeconomic credit market conditions. Rating downgrades of the security issuer or the third parties insuring such investments may require us to adjust the carrying value of these investments through an impairment charge. Based on our ability to access our cash, cash equivalents and cash generated from operations, we do not anticipate these investments will affect our ability to execute our current business plan. 49 Table of Contents 
 
