Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward Looking Statements The following discussion and analysis contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. You are urged to carefully review our description and examples of forward looking statements included earlier in this Annual Report on Form 10 K immediately prior to Part I, under the heading Forward Looking Statements. Forward looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward looking statements. You are urged to carefully review the disclosures we make concerning risks and other factors that may affect our business and operating results, including those made in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, and any of those made in our other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this document. We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to publish revised forward looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Our Company We are a global provider of solutions for the collection, storage, management, protection and use of digital content, including audio and video. Our principal products are hard drives, which are devices that use one or more rotating magnetic disks (magnetic media) to store and allow fast access to data. Hard drives are currently the primary storage medium for digital content. Our hard drives are used in desktop and notebook computers, corporate and cloud computing data centers, home entertainment equipment and stand alone consumer storage devices. In addition to hard drives, our other products include solid state drives and home entertainment and networking products. Planned Acquisition of Hitachi Global Storage Technologies On March 7, 2011, we entered into a stock purchase agreement (the Purchase Agreement) with Hitachi, Ltd. (Hitachi), Viviti Technologies Ltd., until recently known as Hitachi Global Storage Technologies Holdings Pte. Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of Hitachi (HGST), and Western Digital Ireland, Ltd., our indirect wholly owned subsidiary (WDI). Pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, WDI agreed to acquire all of the issued and outstanding paid up share 32 Table of Contents capital of HGST from Hitachi. The planned acquisition is intended to result in a more efficient and innovative customer focused storage company, with significant operating scale, strong global talent and the industrys broadest product lineup backed by a rich technology portfolio. The aggregate purchase price of the planned acquisition is estimated to be approximately $4.3 billion, due at closing, and will be funded with existing cash, new debt, and 25 million newly issued shares of our common stock. The Purchase Agreement contains certain termination rights for both us and Hitachi, including the right to terminate the Purchase Agreement if the planned acquisition has not closed by March 7, 2012. If the planned acquisition has not closed by March 7, 2012 due to the failure to receive any required antitrust or competition authoritys consent, approval or clearance or any action by any certain governmental entities to prevent the planned acquisition for antitrust or competition reasons, we will, concurrently with such termination, be required to pay Hitachi a fee of $250 million in cash. On March 7, 2011, in connection with the planned acquisition of HGST, WD, Western Digital Technologies, Inc. (WDTI), our wholly owned subsidiary, and WDI entered into a commitment letter with Bank of America, N.A. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner Smith Incorporated regarding a new credit facility for an amount of $2.5 billion, consisting of a $500 million revolving credit facility and $2.0 billion in term loans, to be entered into in connection with the closing of the planned acquisition (the Senior Facility). Since entering into the commitment letter, Bank of America N.A. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner Smith Incorporated led the effort to syndicate the Senior Facility for an amount of up to $3.0 billion, consisting of a $500 million revolving credit facility and up to $2.5 billion in term loans. As a result of such effort, WD, WDTI and WDI have fully negotiated definitive loan documents for the Senior Facility with the syndicate members and, subject to customary closing conditions including completion of the acquisition in accordance with the terms, WD, WDTI and WDI fully expect all of these syndicate members to be part of the final lender group. We are required to pay a commitment fee at the rate of 0.35%, per annum, of the aggregate unfunded amount committed to be borrowed under the Senior Facility. The planned acquisition of HGST is subject to several closing conditions, including the receipt of antitrust approvals or the expiration of applicable waiting periods in certain jurisdictions. We have received requests for additional information and are engaged in more in depth reviews of the pending acquisition initiated by regulatory authorities in the United States, the European Union, the Peoples Republic of China, Japan and Korea. We are cooperating fully with each of the regulatory authorities reviewing the proposed transaction. Subject to obtaining the required regulatory approvals or expiration of applicable waiting periods, we expect the transaction to close in our second quarter of fiscal 2012. Results of Operations Fiscal 2011 Overview In 2011, our net revenue decreased by 3% to $9.5 billion on hard drive shipments of 207 million units as compared to $9.8 billion and 194 million units in 2010. In 2011, 64% of our hard drive net revenue was derived from compute markets, including notebook and desktop computers, as compared to 67% in 2010. Hard drive ASP decreased to $45 in 2011 from $50 in 2010. Gross margin percentage decreased to 18.8% in 2011 from 24.4% in 2010. In 2011, operating income decreased from $1.5 billion to $781 million, which included a $25 million accrual for litigation contingencies and $17 million of expenses related to the planned acquisition of HGST. As a percentage of net revenue, operating income was 8.2% in 2011 compared to 15.5% in 2010. Net income in 2011 was $726 million, or $3.09 per diluted share, compared to $1.4 billion, or $5.93 per diluted share, in 2010. For the September quarter, we expect our revenue to increase slightly from the June quarter primarily as a result of seasonality. 33 Table of Contents Summary Comparison of 2011, 2010 and 2009 The following table sets forth, for the periods presented, selected summary information from our consolidated statements of income by dollars and percentage of net revenue (in millions, except percentages): Years Ended July 1, 2011 July 2, 2010 July 3, 2009 Net revenue $ 9,526 100.0 % $ 9,850 100.0 % $ 7,453 100.0 % Gross margin 1,791 18.8 2,401 24.4 1,337 17.9 RD and SGA 1,010 10.6 876 8.9 710 9.5 Acquired in process research and development 14 0.2 Restructuring and other, net 94 1.3 Operating income 781 8.2 1,525 15.5 519 7.0 Other expense, net (1 ) (5 ) (0.1 ) (18 ) (0.2 ) Income before income taxes 780 8.2 1,520 15.4 501 6.7 Income tax provision 54 0.6 138 1.4 31 0.4 Net income 726 7.6 1,382 14.0 470 6.3 The following table sets forth, for the periods presented, summary information regarding unit shipments, ASPs and revenues by geography and channel (in millions, except percentages and ASPs): Years Ended July 1, July 2, July 3, 2011 2010 2009 Net revenue $ 9,526 $ 9,850 $ 7,453 ASPs (per unit)* $ 45 $ 50 $ 51 Revenues by Geography(%) Americas 22 % 24 % 24 % Europe, Middle East and Africa 23 23 27 Asia 55 53 49 Revenues by Channel(%) OEM 49 % 51 % 54 % Distributors 32 31 26 Retailers 19 18 20 Unit shipments* Compute 151 147 109 Non compute 46 38 33 Enterprise 10 9 4 Total units shipped 207 194 146 * Based on sales of hard drive units only. In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP), operating results for the magnetic media sputtering operations of Hoya Corporation and Hoya Magnetics Singapore Pte. Ltd. (together, Hoya) and SiliconSystems Inc. (SiliconSystems), which were acquired on June 30, 2010 and March 27, 2009, respectively, are included in our operating results only after the dates of their acquisitions. Fiscal Year 2011 Compared to Fiscal Year 2010 Net Revenue. Net revenue was $9.5 billion for 2011, a decrease of 3% from 2010. Total hard drive shipments increased to 207 million units as compared to 194 million units for the prior year. The decrease in net revenue resulted primarily from a $5 decrease in ASP from $50 to $45, partially offset by the increase in unit shipments. 34 Table of Contents Changes in revenue by geography and channel generally reflect normal fluctuations in market demand and competitive dynamics. In accordance with standard industry practice, we have sales incentive and marketing programs that provide customers with price protection and other incentives or reimbursements that are recorded as a reduction to gross revenue. For 2011 and 2009, these programs represented 11% of gross revenues compared to 8% in 2010. These amounts generally vary according to several factors including industry conditions, seasonal demand, competitor actions, channel mix and overall availability of product. Gross Margin. Gross margin for 2011 was $1.8 billion, a decrease of $610 million, or 25% from the prior year. Gross margin as a percentage of net revenue decreased to 18.8% in 2011 from 24.4% in 2010. This decrease was primarily due to an aggressive pricing environment, resulting in a lower ASP. Operating Expenses. Total research and development (RD) expense and selling, general and administrative (SGA) expense increased to 10.6% of net revenue in 2011 compared to 8.9% in 2010. RD expense was $703 million in 2011, an increase of $92 million, or 15% over the prior year. As a percentage of net revenue, RD expense increased to 7.4% in 2011 compared to 6.2% in 2010. This increase in RD expense was primarily due to the continued investment in product development to support new programs. SGA expense was $307 million in 2011, an increase of $42 million, or 16%, as compared to 2010. SGA expense as a percentage of net revenue increased to 3.2% in 2011 compared to 2.7% in 2010. This increase in SGA expense was primarily due to the expansion of sales and marketing to support new products and growing markets as well as $17 million of expenses related to the planned acquisition of HGST. Other Income (Expense). Other expense, net was $1 million in 2011 compared to $5 million in 2010. This decrease was primarily due to an increase in interest income of $5 million due to higher average daily invested cash balances and a $1 million decrease in our term loan interest expense due to a lower principal balance, partially offset by acquisition related debt commitment fees of $2 million. Income Tax Provision. Income tax expense was $54 million in 2011 as compared to $138 million in 2010. Tax expense as a percentage of income before taxes was 7% in 2011 compared to 9% for 2010. Income tax expense for 2011 reflects the extension of the RD tax credit that was signed into law in December 2010. The differences between the effective tax rate and the U.S. Federal statutory rate are primarily due to tax holidays in Malaysia, Singapore and Thailand that expire at various dates through 2023 and the current year generation of income tax credits. We recognized a net increase of $15 million in our liability for unrecognized tax benefits during 2011. As of July 1, 2011, we had a recorded liability for unrecognized tax benefits of approximately $245 million. Interest and penalties recognized on such amounts were not material. The United States Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is currently examining our fiscal years 2006 and 2007 and calendar years 2005 and 2006 for Komag, Incorporated (Komag), which was acquired by us on September 5, 2007. The IRS has completed its field work and proposed certain adjustments. Certain issues have been agreed upon by us and the IRS and certain issues remain unresolved. We have received Revenue Agent Reports (RARs) for the agreed issues. We have also received RARs from the IRS for the unresolved issues that seek adjustments to our income before income taxes of approximately $970 million and $380 million for Komag. The issues in dispute relate primarily to transfer pricing and certain other intercompany transactions. We disagree with the proposed adjustments. In May 2011, we filed a protest with the IRS Appeals Office regarding the proposed adjustments for Western Digital. We are continuing discussions with the IRS to resolve the Komag issues. We believe that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome of tax audits cannot be predicted with certainty. If any issues addressed in our tax audits are resolved in a manner not consistent with managements expectations, we could be required to adjust our provision for income taxes in the period such resolution occurs. As of July 1, 2011, it is not possible to estimate the amount of change, if any, in the unrecognized tax benefits that is reasonably possible within the next twelve months. Fiscal Year 2010 Compared to Fiscal Year 2009 Net Revenue. Net revenue was $9.8 billion for 2010, an increase of 32% from 2009. Total hard drive shipments increased to 194 million units as compared to 146 million units for the prior year. The increase in net revenue resulted 35 Table of Contents primarily from an increase in unit shipments due to the strong demand for hard drives, particularly in the mobile PC market. We shipped 80 million mobile drives in 2010 as compared to 55 million units in 2009. The increase in mobile unit shipments was driven by continued strength in notebook and netbook PC demand, coupled with increased customer preference for our product offerings. Changes in revenue by geography generally reflect normal fluctuations in market demand and competitive dynamics, as well as demand strength in Asia, which continues to be driven by the concentration of global manufacturing in that region. Changes in revenue by channel are a result of normal fluctuations in market demand and competitive dynamics. In accordance with standard industry practice, we have sales incentive and marketing programs that provide customers with price protection and other incentives or reimbursements that are recorded as a reduction to gross revenue. For 2010, these programs represented 8% of gross revenues compared to 11% in 2009 and 10% in 2008, respectively. These amounts generally vary according to several factors including industry conditions, seasonal demand, competitor actions, channel mix and overall availability of product. Gross Margin. Gross margin for 2010 was $2.4 billion, an increase of $1.1 billion, or 80% over the prior year. Gross margin as a percentage of net revenue increased to 24.4% in 2010 from 17.9% in 2009. This increase was primarily due to higher volume, lower costs, a favorable product mix and a moderate pricing environment. Operating Expenses. Total RD expense and SGA expense decreased to 8.9% of net revenue in 2010 compared to 9.5% in 2009. RD expense was $611 million in 2010, an increase of $102 million, or 20% over the prior year. This increase in RD expense was primarily due to a $68 million increase relating to product development to support new programs and a $34 million increase in variable incentive compensation. As a percentage of net revenue, RD expense decreased to 6.2% in 2010 compared to 6.8% in 2009 primarily due to an increase in net revenue in 2010 compared to 2009. SGA expense was $265 million in 2010, an increase of $64 million, or 32%, as compared to 2009. This increase in SGA expense was primarily due to $27 million of expense related to litigation settlements, a $19 million increase in variable incentive compensation and an $18 million increase in the expansion of our sales and marketing presence into new regions. SGA expense as a percentage of net revenue remained consistent at 2.7% in 2010 and 2009. During 2009, we recorded a $14 million in process research and development charge related to the acquisition of SiliconSystems. This charge relates to projects that were not ready for commercial production and had no alternative future use and, therefore, the fair value of the development effort did not qualify for capitalization and was immediately expensed. During 2009, we also recorded $112 million in restructuring charges and an $18 million gain on the sale of our substrate manufacturing facility, and related assets, in Sarawak, Malaysia. Other Income (Expense). Other expense, net was $5 million in 2010 compared to $18 million in 2009. This decrease was primarily due to no impairment charges related to our auction rate securities in 2010, compared to $10 million in other than temporary losses in 2009, as well as decreases in the variable interest rate on a lower amount of debt. Income Tax Provision. Income tax expense was $138 million in 2010 as compared to $31 million in 2009. Tax expense as a percentage of income before taxes was 9% in 2010 compared to 6% for 2009. In 2009, income tax expense included a provision of $42 million offset by $6 million in tax benefits related to the extension of the U.S. Federal research and development tax credit enacted into law in October 2008, and a favorable adjustment of $5 million to previously recorded tax accruals and credits. Differences between the effective tax rate and the U.S. Federal statutory rate were primarily due to tax holidays in Malaysia and Thailand that expire at various dates through 2022 and the current year generation of income tax credits. We recognized a net $94 million increase in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits during 2010. As of July 2, 2010, we had approximately $230 million of unrecognized tax benefits which, if recognized, would decrease the effective tax rate in subsequent years. 36 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources We ended 2011 with total cash and cash equivalents of $3.5 billion, an increase of $756 million from July 2, 2010. The following table summarizes our statements of cash flows for the three years ended July 1, 2011 (in millions): Years Ended July 1, July 2, July 3, 2011 2010 2009 Net cash flow provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 1,655 $ 1,942 $ 1,305 Investing activities (793 ) (986 ) (551 ) Financing activities (106 ) (16 ) (64 ) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 756 $ 940 $ 690 Our investment policy is to manage our investment portfolio to preserve principal and liquidity while maximizing return through the full investment of available funds. We believe our current cash, cash equivalents and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs through the foreseeable future. Our ability to sustain our working capital position is subject to a number of risks that we discuss in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities during 2011 was $1.7 billion as compared to $1.9 billion for 2010 and $1.3 billion for 2009. Cash flow from operating activities consists of net income, adjusted for non cash charges, plus or minus working capital changes. This represents our principal source of cash. Net cash provided by working capital changes was $238 million for 2011 as compared to net cash used to fund working capital of $37 million for 2010 and net cash provided by working capital changes of $198 million for 2009. Our working capital requirements primarily depend on the effective management of our cash conversion cycle, which measures how quickly we can convert our products into cash through sales. The average quarterly cash conversion cycles for the three years ended 2011 were as follows: Years Ended July 1, July 2, July 3, 2011 2010 2009 Days sales outstanding 47 46 47 Days in inventory 27 23 26 Days payables outstanding (75 ) (72 ) (67 ) Cash conversion cycle (1 ) (3 ) 6 For 2011, our average days sales outstanding (DSOs) increased by one day, days in inventory (DIOs) increased by four days, and days payables outstanding (DPOs) increased by three days. Changes in average DSOs and DIOs are generally related to linearity of shipments and the timing of inventory builds, respectively. Changes in DPOs are generally related to production volume and the timing of purchases during the period. From time to time, we modify the timing of payments to our vendors. We make modifications primarily to manage our vendor relationships and to manage our cash flows, including our cash balances. Generally, we make the payment modifications through negotiations with our vendors or by granting to, or receiving from, our vendors payment term accommodations. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for 2011 was $793 million as compared to $986 million for 2010 and $551 million for 2009. During 2011, cash used in investing activities consisted of capital expenditures of $778 million and $15 million for equipment related to the acquisition of a semiconductor wafer fabrication facility. During 2010, cash used in investing activities consisted primarily of $737 million for capital expenditures, $233 million used for the acquisition of the magnetic media sputtering operations of Hoya and $20 million used for the acquisition of the land and 37 Table of Contents building associated with the acquisition of a semiconductor wafer fabrication facility, offset by $3 million of sales related to our auction rate securities. During 2009, cash used in investing activities consisted primarily of $519 million for capital expenditures and $63 million for the acquisition of SiliconSystems, net of cash acquired, partially offset by $29 million in proceeds from the sale of property and equipment. Capital expenditures in 2011 primarily consisted of the expansion of our head wafer fabrication facilities, continued investment in advanced head technologies and increased capacity for our broadening and growing product portfolio. For fiscal 2012, we expect capital expenditures will be at the upper end of our business model range of between 7 and 8 percent of revenue as we continue the conversion of our head wafer fabrication facilities to utilize 8 inch wafers from 6 inch wafers. We expect depreciation and amortization to be approximately $650 million for fiscal 2012. Our cash equivalents are invested in highly liquid money market funds that are invested in U.S. Treasury securities, U.S. Treasury bills and U.S. Government agency securities. We also have $15 million of auction rate securities, which are classified as available for sale securities. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities for 2011 was $106 million as compared to $16 million for 2010 and $64 million for 2009. Net cash used in financing activities for 2011 consisted of $106 million used to repay long term debt and $50 million used to repurchase shares of our common stock, offset by a net $50 million related to employee stock plans. Net cash used in financing activities for 2010 consisted of $82 million used to repay long term debt, partially offset by a net $66 million provided by employee stock plans. Net cash used in financing activities for 2009 consisted of $36 million used to repurchase shares of our common stock, $27 million used to repay long term debt and a net $1 million used by employee stock plans. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Other than facility lease commitments incurred in the normal course of business and certain indemnification provisions (see Contractual Obligations and Commitments below), we do not have any off balance sheet financing arrangements or liabilities, guarantee contracts, retained or contingent interests in transferred assets, or any obligation arising out of a material variable interest in an unconsolidated entity. We do not have any majority owned subsidiaries that are not included in the consolidated financial statements. Additionally, we do not have an interest in, or relationships with, any special purpose entities. Contractual Obligations and Commitments The following is a summary of our significant contractual cash obligations and commercial commitments as of July 1, 2011 (in millions): Less than More than Total 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years 5 Years Long term debt, including current portion $ 294 $ 144 $ 150 $ $ Operating leases 115 18 31 20 46 Unrecognized tax benefits 147 15 132 Purchase obligations 3,893 3,876 11 6 Total $ 4,449 $ 4,038 $ 207 $ 158 $ 46 Long Term Debt In February 2008, WDTI, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, entered into a five year credit agreement that provided for a $500 million term loan facility. As of July 1, 2011, the remaining balance of the term loan facility was $294 million, which requires principal payments totaling $144 million in 2012 and $150 million in 2013. See Part II, Item 8, Note 3 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 38 Table of Contents On March 7, 2011, in connection with the planned acquisition of HGST, WD, WDTI and WDI entered into a commitment letter for the Senior Facility. Since entering into the commitment letter, Bank of America N.A. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner Smith Incorporated led the effort to syndicate the Senior Facility for an amount of up to $3.0 billion, consisting of a $500 million revolving credit facility and up to $2.5 billion in term loans. As a result of such effort, WD, WDTI and WDI have fully negotiated definitive loan documents for the Senior Facility with the syndicate members and, subject to customary closing conditions, including completion of the acquisition in accordance with the terms, WD, WDTI and WDI fully expect all of these syndicate members to be part of the final lender group. We are required to pay a commitment fee at the rate of 0.35%, per annum, of the aggregate unfunded amount committed to be borrowed under the Senior Facility. Purchase Orders In the normal course of business, we enter into purchase orders with suppliers for the purchase of hard drive components used to manufacture our products. These purchase orders generally cover forecasted component supplies needed for production during the next quarter, are recorded as a liability upon receipt of the components, and generally may be changed or canceled at any time prior to shipment of the components. We also enter into purchase orders with suppliers for capital equipment that are recorded as a liability upon receipt of the equipment. Our ability to change or cancel a capital equipment purchase order without penalty depends on the nature of the equipment being ordered. In some cases, we may be obligated to pay for certain costs related to changes to, or cancellation of, a purchase order, such as costs incurred for raw materials or work in process of components or capital equipment. We have entered into long term purchase agreements with various component suppliers, which contain minimum quantity requirements. However, the dollar amount of the purchases may depend on the specific products ordered, achievement of pre defined quantity or quality specifications or future price negotiations. The estimated related minimum purchase requirements are included in Purchase obligations in the table above. We have also entered into long term purchase agreements with various component suppliers that carry fixed volumes and pricing which obligate us to make certain future purchases, contingent on certain conditions of performance, quality and technology of the vendors components. These arrangements are included under Purchase obligations in the table above. We enter into, from time to time, other long term purchase agreements for components with certain vendors. Generally, future purchases under these agreements are not fixed and determinable as they depend on our overall unit volume requirements and are contingent upon the prices, technology and quality of the suppliers products remaining competitive. These arrangements are not included under Purchase obligations in the table above. Please see Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for a discussion of risks related to these commitments. Foreign Exchange Contracts We purchase short term, foreign exchange contracts to hedge the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain underlying assets, revenue, liabilities and commitments for operating expenses and product costs denominated in foreign currencies. See Part II, Item 7A, under the heading Disclosure About Foreign Currency Risk, for a description of our current foreign exchange contract commitments and Part II, Item 8, Notes 1 and 11 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we may provide indemnifications of varying scope and terms to customers, vendors, lessors, business partners and other parties with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, losses arising out of our breach of such agreements, products or services to be provided by us, or from intellectual property infringement claims made by third parties. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and certain of our officers that will require us, among other things, to indemnify them against certain liabilities that may arise by reason of their status or service as directors or officers. We maintain director and officer insurance, which may cover certain liabilities arising from our obligation to indemnify our directors and officers in certain circumstances. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular 39 Table of Contents agreement. Such indemnification agreements may not be subject to maximum loss clauses. Historically, we have not incurred material costs as a result of obligations under these agreements. Unrecognized Tax Benefits As of July 1, 2011, the cash portion of our total recorded liability for unrecognized tax benefits was $147 million. We estimate the timing of the future payments of these liabilities to be within the next one to five years. See Part II, Item 8, Note 9 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for information regarding our total tax liability for unrecognized tax benefits. Stock Repurchase Program Our Board of Directors previously authorized us to repurchase $750 million of our common stock in open market transactions under a stock repurchase program through March 31, 2013. Since the inception of this program in 2005, through July 1, 2011, we have repurchased 20 million shares of our common stock for a total cost of $334 million. We repurchased 1.8 million shares for a total cost of $50 million during 2011. We may continue to repurchase our stock as we deem appropriate and market conditions allow. We expect stock repurchases to be funded principally by operating cash flows. Planned Acquisition Termination Fee If the planned acquisition of HGST has not closed by March 7, 2012 due to the failure to receive any required antitrust or competition authoritys consent, approval or clearance or any action by any certain governmental entities to prevent the planned acquisition for antitrust or competition reasons, we will, concurrently with such termination, be required to pay Hitachi a fee of $250 million in cash. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We have prepared the accompanying consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of the financial statements requires the use of judgments and estimates that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets, liabilities and shareholders equity. We have adopted accounting policies and practices that are generally accepted in the industry in which we operate. We believe the following are our most critical accounting policies that affect significant areas and involve judgment and estimates made by us. If these estimates differ significantly from actual results, the impact to the consolidated financial statements may be material. Revenue and Accounts Receivable In accordance with standard industry practice, we provide distributors and retailers (collectively referred to as resellers) with limited price protection for inventories held by resellers at the time of published list price reductions, and we provide resellers and OEMs with other sales incentive programs. At the time we recognize revenue to resellers and OEMs, we record a reduction of revenue for estimated price protection until the resellers sell such inventory to their customers and we also record a reduction of revenue for the other programs in effect. We base these adjustments on several factors including anticipated price decreases during the reseller holding period, resellers sell through and inventory levels, estimated amounts to be reimbursed to qualifying customers, historical pricing information and customer claim processing. If customer demand for hard drives or market conditions differs from our expectations, our operating results could be materially affected. We also have programs under which we reimburse qualified distributors and retailers for certain marketing expenditures, which are recorded as a reduction of revenue. These amounts generally vary according to several factors including industry conditions, seasonal demand, competitor actions, channel mix and overall availability of product. Since 2009, total sales incentive and marketing programs have ranged from 7% to 12% of gross revenues per quarter. Changes in future customer demand and market conditions may require us to adjust our incentive programs as a percentage of gross revenue from the current range. Adjustments to revenues due to changes in accruals for these programs related to revenues reported in prior periods have averaged 0.3% of quarterly gross revenue since the first quarter of fiscal 2009. Customer sales incentive and marketing programs are recorded as a reduction of revenue. We record an allowance for doubtful accounts by analyzing specific customer accounts and assessing the risk of loss based on insolvency, disputes or other collection issues. In addition, we routinely analyze the different receivable aging 40 Table of Contents categories and establish reserves based on a combination of past due receivables and expected future losses based primarily on our historical levels of bad debt losses. If the financial condition of a significant customer deteriorates resulting in its inability to pay its accounts when due, or if our overall loss history changes significantly, an adjustment in our allowance for doubtful accounts would be required, which could materially affect operating results. We establish provisions against revenue and cost of revenue for sales returns in the same period that the related revenue is recognized. We base these provisions on existing product return notifications. If actual sales returns exceed expectations, an increase in the sales return accrual would be required, which could materially affect operating results. Warranty We record an accrual for estimated warranty costs when revenue is recognized. We generally warrant our products for a period of one to five years. Our warranty provision considers estimated product failure rates and trends, estimated repair or replacement costs and estimated costs for customer compensatory claims related to product quality issues, if any. We use a statistical warranty tracking model to help prepare our estimates and assist us in exercising judgment in determining the underlying estimates. Our statistical tracking model captures specific detail on hard drive reliability, such as factory test data, historical field return rates, and costs to repair by product type. Our judgment is subject to a greater degree of subjectivity with respect to newly introduced products because of limited field experience with those products upon which to base our warranty estimates. We review our warranty accrual quarterly for products shipped in prior periods and which are still under warranty. Any changes in the estimates underlying the accrual may result in adjustments that impact current period gross margin and income. Such changes are generally a result of differences between forecasted and actual return rate experience and costs to repair. If actual product return trends, costs to repair returned products or costs of customer compensatory claims differ significantly from our estimates, our future results of operations could be materially affected. For a summary of historical changes in estimates related to pre existing warranty provisions, refer to Part II, Item 8, Note 4 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Inventory We value inventories at the lower of cost (first in, first out and weighted average methods) or net realizable value. We use the first in, first out (FIFO) method to value the cost of the majority of our inventories, while we use the weighted average method to value precious metal inventories. Weighted average cost is calculated based upon the cost of precious metals at the time they are received by us. We have determined that it is not practicable to assign specific costs to individual units of precious metals and, as such, we relieve our precious metals inventory based on the weighted average cost of the inventory at the time the inventory is used in production. The weighted average method of valuing precious metals does not materially differ from a FIFO method. We record inventory write downs for the valuation of inventory at the lower of cost or net realizable value by analyzing market conditions and estimates of future sales prices as compared to inventory costs and inventory balances. We evaluate inventory balances for excess quantities and obsolescence on a regular basis by analyzing estimated demand, inventory on hand, sales levels and other information, and reduce inventory balances to net realizable value for excess and obsolete inventory based on this analysis. Unanticipated changes in technology or customer demand could result in a decrease in demand for one or more of our products, which may require a write down of inventory that could materially affect operating results. Litigation and Other Contingencies When we become aware of a claim or potential claim, we assess the likelihood of any loss or exposure. We disclose information regarding each material claim where the likelihood of a loss contingency is probable or reasonably possible. If a loss contingency is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated, we record an accrual for the loss. In such cases, there may be an exposure to potential loss in excess of the amount accrued. Where a loss is not probable but is reasonably possible, and where a loss in excess of the amount accrued is reasonably possible, we disclose an estimate of the amount of the loss or range of possible losses for the claim if a reasonable estimate can be made, unless the amount of such reasonably possible losses is not material to our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The ability to predict the ultimate outcome of such matters involves judgments, estimates and inherent uncertainties. The actual 41 Table of Contents outcome of such matters could differ materially from managements estimates. Refer to Part II, Item 8, Note 5 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Income Taxes We account for income taxes under the asset and liability method, which provides that deferred tax assets and liabilities be recognized for temporary differences between the financial reporting basis and the tax basis of our assets and liabilities and expected benefits of utilizing net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. We record a valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Each period we evaluate the need for a valuation allowance for our deferred tax assets and we adjust the valuation allowance so that we record net deferred tax assets only to the extent that we conclude it is more likely than not that these deferred tax assets will be realized. We recognize liabilities for uncertain tax positions based on a two step process. To the extent a tax position does not meet a more likely than not level of certainty, no benefit is recognized in the financial statements. If a position meets the more likely than not level of certainty, it is recognized in the financial statements at the largest amount that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits are recognized on liabilities recorded for uncertain tax positions and are recorded in our provision for income taxes. The actual liability for unrealized tax benefits in any such contingency may be materially different from our estimates, which could result in the need to record additional liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits or potentially adjust previously recorded liabilities for unrealized tax benefits and materially affect our operating results. Stock based Compensation We account for all stock based compensation at fair value. Stock based compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the value of the award and is recognized as expense over the vesting period. The fair values of all stock options granted are estimated using a binomial model, and the fair values of all Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) purchase rights are estimated using the Black Scholes Merton option pricing model. Both the binomial and the Black Scholes Merton models require the input of highly subjective assumptions. We are required to use judgment in estimating the amount of stock based awards that are expected to be forfeited. If actual forfeitures differ significantly from the original estimate, stock based compensation expense and our results of operations could be materially affected. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For a description of recently issued and adopted accounting pronouncements, including the respective dates of adoption and expected effects on our results of operations and financial condition, refer to Part II, Item 8, Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K, which is incorporated by reference in response to this item. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Disclosure About Foreign Currency Risk Although the majority of our transactions are in U.S. dollars, some transactions are based in various foreign currencies. We purchase short term, foreign exchange contracts to hedge the impact of foreign currency exchange fluctuations on certain underlying assets, revenue, liabilities and commitments for operating expenses and product costs denominated in foreign currencies. The purpose of entering into these hedge transactions is to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations. The contract maturity dates do not exceed 12 months. We do not purchase foreign exchange contracts for trading purposes. Currently, we focus on hedging our foreign currency risk related to the Thai Baht, Malaysian Ringgit, Euro and British Pound Sterling. Thai Baht contracts are designated as either cash flow or fair value hedges. Malaysian Ringgit contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. Euro and British Pound Sterling contracts are designated as fair value hedges. See Part II, Item 8, Notes 1 and 11 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 42 Table of Contents As of July 1, 2011, we had outstanding the following purchased foreign exchange contracts (in millions, except weighted average contract rate): Contract Weighted Average Unrealized Amount Contract Rate* Gain (Loss) Foreign exchange contracts: Thai Baht cash flow hedges $ 1,013 30.70 $ (9 ) Thai Baht fair value hedges $ 103 30.70 Malaysian Ringgit cash flow hedges $ 331 3.09 4 Euro fair value hedges $ 10 0.69 British Pound Sterling fair value hedges $ 4 0.62 * Expressed in units of foreign currency per U.S. dollar. In 2011, 2010 and 2009, total net realized transaction and foreign exchange contract currency gains and losses were not material to our consolidated financial statements. Disclosure About Other Market Risks Variable Interest Rate Risk Borrowings under the term loan facility bear interest at a rate equal to, at the option of WDTI, either (a) a LIBOR rate determined by reference to the cost of funds for Eurodollar deposits for the interest period relevant to such borrowing, adjusted for certain additional costs (the Eurocurrency Rate) or (b) a base rate determined by reference to the higher of (i) the federal funds rate plus 0.50% and (ii) the prime rate as announced by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (the Base Rate); in each case plus an applicable margin. The applicable margin for borrowings under the term loan facility ranges from 1.25% to 1.50% with respect to borrowings at the Eurocurrency Rate and 0.0% to 0.125% with respect to borrowings at the Base Rate. The applicable margins for borrowings under the term loan facility are determined based upon a leverage ratio of the Company and its subsidiaries calculated on a consolidated basis. If the federal funds rate, prime rate or LIBOR rate increase, our interest payments could also increase. A one percent increase in the variable rate of interest on the term loan facility would increase interest expense by approximately $3 million annually. 43 Table of Contents 
 
