Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward Looking Statements The following discussion and analysis contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. You are urged to carefully review our description and examples of forward looking statements included earlier in this Annual Report on Form 10 K immediately prior to Part I, under the heading Forward Looking Statements. Forward looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward looking statements. You are urged to carefully review the disclosures we make concerning risks and other factors that may affect our business and operating results, including those made in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, and any of those made in our other reports filed with the SEC. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this document. We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to publish revised forward looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Our Company We are an industry leading developer and manufacturer of storage products that enable people to create, manage, experience and preserve digital content. We design and make storage devices, networking equipment and home entertainment products under the WD, HGST and G Technology brands. We serve each of the primary markets addressing storage opportunities enterprise and cloud data centers, client, consumer electronics, backup, the internet and other emerging markets such as automotive and home and small office networking. 35 Table of Contents We operate our global business through two independent subsidiaries due to regulatory requirements WD and HGST, both long time innovators in the storage industry. Our principal products today are hard drives that use one or more rotating magnetic disks (magnetic media) to store and allow fast access to data. Hard drives are todays primary storage medium for digital content. Our hard drives are used in desktop and notebook computers, corporate and multiple types of data centers, home entertainment equipment and stand alone consumer storage devices. Our other products include solid state drives, home entertainment and networking products and software applications for smart phones and tablets. Acquisition Hitachi Global Storage Technologies Holdings Pte. Ltd. (HGST) Acquisition On March 8, 2012 (the Closing Date), we, through Western Digital Ireland (WDI), our indirect wholly owned subsidiary, completed the acquisition (the Acquisition) of all the issued and outstanding paid up share capital of Viviti Technologies Ltd., until recently known as HGST, from Hitachi, pursuant to a Stock Purchase Agreement, dated March 7, 2011, among us, WDI, Hitachi and HGST (the SPA). The Acquisition is intended over time, and subject to compliance with applicable regulatory conditions imposed on the Acquisition, to result in a more efficient and innovative customer focused storage company, with significant operating scale, strong global talent and a broad product lineup backed by a rich technology portfolio. We do not expect to achieve significant operating expense synergies while the regulatory conditions remain in effect. The preliminary, aggregate purchase price of the Acquisition amounted to approximately $4.7 billion, which was paid on the Closing Date and funded with existing cash, new debt, and 25 million newly issued shares of our common stock. The cash portion of the purchase price is subject to a post closing adjustment (an increase or a decrease) that has not been determined for changes in the working capital of HGST and certain other payments and expenses. Following the issuance of the 25 million shares of our common stock to Hitachi in accordance with the SPA, Hitachi owns approximately ten percent of our outstanding shares of common stock. The shares issued to Hitachi are subject to a restriction that limits their trade or transfer for one year from the Closing Date. Pursuant to the terms of a separate Investor Rights Agreement we entered into with Hitachi in connection with the Acquisition, Hitachi has the right to designate, and has designated, two individuals (the Hitachi Designees) to serve as directors on our Board of Directors. This right will terminate (i) with respect to one of the Hitachi Designees, at the end of the second full calendar year following the Closing Date, (ii) in the event Hitachi ceases to beneficially own at least 50% of the shares of our common stock it received in connection with the Acquisition, (iii) if Hitachi has sold at least 10% of the shares of our common stock it received in connection with the Acquisition, in the event that Hitachi ceases to beneficially own at least 5% of our outstanding common stock, (iv) upon Hitachis breach of certain standstill or transfer restriction obligations of the Investor Rights Agreement, or (v) upon Hitachis material breach of a separate Agreement Not to Compete that we entered into with Hitachi on the Closing Date. On the Closing Date, Western Digital Corporation, WDI and Western Digital Technologies, Inc. (WDT) entered into a five year credit agreement (the Credit Facility) with Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, swing line lender and letter of credit issuer, and the lenders party thereto. The Credit Facility provided for $2.8 billion of unsecured loan facilities consisting of a $2.3 billion term loan facility and a $500 million revolving credit facility. The only borrower under the term loan facility is WDI and the revolving credit facility is available to both WDI and WDT. The $2.3 billion term loans and $500 million revolving loans were used, together with additional cash and the 25 million newly issued shares of our common stock, to fund the Acquisition. See Liquidity and Capital Resources Contractual Obligations and Commitments for a further description of the Credit Facility. Toshiba Transactions In connection with the regulatory approval process of the Acquisition, we announced on May 15, 2012 that we had closed a transaction with Toshiba Corporation (Toshiba) to divest certain 3.5 inch hard drive assets and to purchase Toshiba Storage Device (Thailand) Company Limited (TSDT), a wholly owned subsidiary of Toshiba that manufactured hard drives prior to the recent Thailand flooding. The net impact of these two transactions was immaterial to our consolidated financial statements. 36 Table of Contents Maintenance of Competitive Requirement In addition, in connection with the regulatory approval process of the Acquisition, we agreed to certain conditions required by the Chinese Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM), including adopting measures to maintain HGST as an independent competitor until MOFCOM agrees otherwise (with the minimum period being two years). We are working closely with MOFCOM to finalize an operations plan that is expected to outline in more detail the conditions of the competitive requirement. Thailand Flooding We suspended production in all of our Thailand manufacturing facilities during the week of October 10, 2011 due to severe flooding in Thailand, where flood waters inundated our facilities and submerged certain equipment located there. The flooded facilities in Thailand included our magnetic head slider fabrication facilities, which supplied a substantial majority of our magnetic head requirements prior to the flooding. The flooded facilities in Thailand also included our hard drive, head gimbal assembly (HGA) and head stack assembly (HSA) facilities. In the March quarter of 2012, we restarted hard drive production and recommenced slider production in Thailand. We also extended slider production capacity into Malaysia and began shipping hard drives with sliders produced in Malaysia in the June quarter. We believe we now have the capability to adequately meet anticipated customer demand. In 2012, we recorded $214 million of charges related to the flooding. Total charges included $119 million of fixed asset impairments, $61 million of recovery charges, $28 million of write downs of damaged inventory and $27 million in wage continuation during the shutdown period of our facilities, offset by $21 million of insurance recoveries and other cost reimbursements. We maintain insurance coverage that provides property and business interruption coverage in the event of losses arising from flooding. We have submitted claims to our insurers and are awaiting a determination of how much of our total losses will be covered by insurance. It is reasonably possible that the final losses that we incur in connection with the flood damage and our business interruption will exceed the limits of our insurance policies. Results of Operations Fiscal 2012 Overview In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP), operating results for HGST and the magnetic media sputtering operations of Hoya Corporation and Hoya Magnetics Singapore Pte. Ltd. (together, Hoya), which were acquired on March 8, 2012 and June 30, 2010, respectively, are included in our operating results only after the dates of their acquisition. In 2012, our net revenue increased by 31% to $12.5 billion on hard drive shipments of 202 million units as compared to $9.5 billion and 207 million units in 2011. Operations from HGST contributed $3.1 billion in net revenue. In 2012, 19% of our hard drive revenue was derived from non compute and enterprise markets, which include CE products, enterprise applications, and branded products, as compared to 27% in the prior year period. Hard drive ASP increased to $62 in 2012 from $45 in 2011. Gross margin percentage increased to 29.2% in 2012 from 18.8% in 2011. Operating income increased from $781 million in 2011 to $1.8 billion in 2012, which included a net $214 million of charges related to the flooding, $80 million of impairments and other charges and $54 million of expenses related to the acquisition of HGST. As a percentage of net revenue, operating income was 14.2% in 2012 compared to 8.2% in 2011. Net income in 2012 was $1.6 billion, or $6.58 per diluted share, compared to $726 million, or $3.09 per diluted share, in 2011. For the September quarter, we expect overall hard drive industry shipments to remain flat with the June quarter and pricing to reflect competitive market conditions. As such, we expect our revenue in the September quarter to decrease slightly from the June quarter. For fiscal 2013, we expect overall hard drive industry shipments to increase 5% from fiscal 2012. 37 Table of Contents Summary Comparison of 2012, 2011 and 2010 The following table sets forth, for the periods presented, selected summary information from our consolidated statements of income by dollars and percentage of net revenue (in millions, except percentages): Years Ended June 29, 2012 July 1, 2011 July 2, 2010 Net revenue $ 12,478 100.0 % $ 9,526 100.0 % $ 9,850 100.0 % Gross margin 3,638 29.2 1,791 18.8 2,401 24.4 R&D and SG&A* 1,573 12.6 1,010 10.6 876 8.9 Charges related to flooding, net 214 1.7 Impairment and other charges 80 0.6 Operating income 1,771 14.2 781 8.2 1,525 15.5 Other expense, net (14 ) (0.1 ) (1 ) (5 ) (0.1 ) Income before income taxes 1,757 14.1 780 8.2 1,520 15.4 Income tax provision 145 1.2 54 0.6 138 1.4 Net income 1,612 12.9 726 7.6 1,382 14.0 * SG&A includes $54 million and $17 million of expenses related to the acquisition of HGST in 2012 and 2011, respectively. In addition, SG&A includes $7 million, $25 million and $27 million of litigation accruals in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The following table sets forth, for the periods presented, summary information regarding unit shipments, ASPs and revenues by geography and channel (in millions, except percentages and ASPs): Years Ended June 29,2012 July 1,2011 July 2,2010 Net revenue $ 12,478 $ 9,526 $ 9,850 ASPs (per unit)* $ 62 $ 45 $ 50 Revenues by Geography(%) Americas 23 % 22 % 24 % Europe, Middle East and Africa 19 23 23 Asia 58 55 53 Revenues by Channel(%) OEM 63 % 49 % 51 % Distributors 25 32 31 Retailers 12 19 18 Unit Shipments* Compute 150 151 147 Non compute 36 46 38 Enterprise 16 10 9 Total units shipped 202 207 194 * Based on sales of hard drive units only. Fiscal Year 2012 Compared to Fiscal Year 2011 Net Revenue. Net revenue was $12.5 billion for 2012, an increase of 31% from 2011. Operations from HGST contributed $3.1 billion in net revenue. Total hard drive shipments in 2012 decreased to 202 million units as compared to 207 million units for the prior year. The increase in net revenue resulted primarily from a $17 increase in ASP from $45 to $62, partially offset by lower shipments. These changes were as a result of the severe supply constraints across the hard drive industry brought about by the Thailand floods. 38 Table of Contents Changes in revenue by geography and channel generally reflect normal fluctuations in market demand and competitive dynamics. However, during 2012, changes in revenue by geography and channel reflected our efforts to allocate products to our customers as a result of the flooding in Thailand by balancing their immediate needs with their prevailing inventory positions in order to maximize the availability of hard drive products to the end customer within the shortest time horizon. In addition, as a result of our acquisition of HGST, our revenue by channel mix has become more heavily weighted toward OEM. In accordance with standard industry practice, we have sales incentive and marketing programs that provide customers with price protection and other incentives or reimbursements that are recorded as a reduction to gross revenue. For 2012, these programs represented 6% of gross revenues compared to 11% in 2011. This decrease was mainly driven by the severe supply constraints brought about by the Thailand floods. These amounts generally vary according to several factors including industry conditions, seasonal demand, competitor actions, channel mix and overall availability of product. Gross Margin. Gross margin for 2012 was $3.6 billion, an increase of $1.8 billion, or 103%, from the prior year. Gross margin as a percentage of net revenue increased to 29.2% in 2012 from 18.8% in 2011. This percentage increase was primarily due to an increase in ASP brought about by the impact of the Thailand flooding, offset by $91 million for costs recognized upon the sale of inventory that was written up to fair value and $48 million for amortization of intangibles related to the Acquisition. Operating Expenses. Total research and development (R&D) expense and selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expense increased to 12.6% of net revenue in 2012 compared to 10.6% in 2011. R&D expense was $1.1 billion in 2012, an increase of $352 million, or 50%, over the prior year. This increase in R&D expense was primarily due to increased expense related to the business of HGST and the continued investment in product development to support new programs. As a percentage of net revenue, R&D expense increased to 8.5% in 2012 compared to 7.4% in 2011. SG&A expense was $518 million in 2012, an increase of $211 million, or 69%, as compared to 2011. This increase in SG&A expense was primarily due to increased expense related to the business of HGST, the expansion of sales and marketing to support new products and growing markets, $37 million of incremental expenses related to the acquisition of HGST and $15 million for amortization of intangibles related to the Acquisition. SG&A expense as a percentage of net revenue increased to 4.2% in 2012 compared to 3.2% in 2011. During 2012, we recorded $214 million of net charges related to the flooding in Thailand, including $119 million of fixed asset impairments, $61 million of recovery charges, $28 million of write downs of damaged inventory and $27 million in wage continuation during the shutdown period of our facilities, offset by $21 million of insurance recoveries and other cost reimbursements. In addition, during the fourth quarter of 2012, we recorded $56 million of asset impairment charges, $16 million of contract termination and other exit costs and $8 million of employee termination benefits. Other Income (Expense). Other expense, net was $14 million in 2012 compared to $1 million in 2011. Interest expense increased from $10 million in 2011 to $26 million in 2012, primarily due to interest on a higher debt balance and a $5 million increase in debt commitment fees incurred prior to the closing of the Acquisition, offset by $4 million of gains on sales of our investments. Interest income increased from $9 million in 2011 to $12 million in 2012 due to higher average daily invested cash balances. Income Tax Provision. Income tax expense was $145 million in 2012 as compared to $54 million in 2011. Tax expense as a percentage of income before taxes was 8.3% in 2012 compared to 6.9% for 2011. The differences between the effective tax rate and the U.S. Federal statutory rate are primarily due to tax holidays in Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore and Thailand that expire at various dates through 2025 and the current year generation of income tax credits. As of June 29, 2012, we had a recorded liability for unrecognized tax benefits of approximately $280 million, which includes $39 million assumed in the Acquisition. Aside from the increase in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits related to liabilities assumed in the Acquisition, we recognized a net decrease of $4 million in our liability for unrecognized tax benefits during 2012. Interest and penalties recognized on such amounts were not material. 39 Table of Contents The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has completed its field examination of the federal income tax returns for fiscal years 2006 and 2007 for us and calendar years 2005 and 2006 for Komag, Incorporated (Komag), which was acquired by us on September 5, 2007. In September 2011, we received a final Revenue Agent Report (RAR) and Closing Agreement with respect to the years under examination for Komag. This agreement resulted in an immaterial benefit to our income tax provision. We have also received RARs from the IRS that seek adjustments to income before income taxes of approximately $970 million in connection with unresolved issues related primarily to transfer pricing and certain other intercompany transactions. We disagree with the proposed adjustments. In May 2011, we filed a protest with the IRS Appeals Office regarding the proposed adjustments. Meetings with the Appeals Office began in February 2012. In January 2012, the IRS commenced an examination of our fiscal years 2008 and 2009 and Komags period ended September 5, 2007. We believe that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome of tax audits cannot be predicted with certainty. If any issues addressed in our tax audits are resolved in a manner not consistent with managements expectations, we could be required to adjust our provision for income taxes in the period such resolution occurs. As of June 29, 2012, it is not possible to estimate the amount of change, if any, in the unrecognized tax benefits that is reasonably possible within the next twelve months. Any significant change in the amount of our unrecognized tax benefits would most likely result from additional information or settlements relating to the examination of our tax returns. Arbitration Award As disclosed below in Part II, Item 8, Note 5 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K, on November 18, 2011, a sole arbitrator ruled against us in an arbitration in Minnesota. The arbitration involves claims brought by Seagate Technology LLC against us and a now former employee, alleging misappropriation of confidential information and trade secrets. The arbitrator issued an interim award against us in the amount of $525 million plus pre award interest. On January 23, 2012, the arbitrator issued a final award adding pre award interest in the amount of $105.4 million, for a total award of $630.4 million. On January 23, 2012, we filed a petition in the District Court of Hennepin County, Minnesota to have the final arbitration award vacated. A hearing on the petition to vacate was held on March 1, 2012. Interest (as simple interest, not compounding) on the final award ($630.4 million) also accrues at the Minnesota statutory rate of 10% per year while we pursue our motion to vacate the award, and if necessary, an appeal if the motion to vacate the award is unsuccessful. We intend to pursue vigorously our motion to vacate the award and, if necessary, to appeal the award if it is confirmed by the District Court of Hennepin County Minnesota. We do not believe it is probable that the arbitrators award will be sustained and accordingly has not recorded any cost or liability for the arbitrators award in excess of the amount previously accrued by us ($25 million). We cannot make any assurances that we will be successful in our efforts to vacate the award or to overturn the award on appeal. If we are unsuccessful in these efforts, payment of the award, including interest, would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We will also be required to record a liability for the award if we should determine it is probable we will be required to pay the award. Fiscal Year 2011 Compared to Fiscal Year 2010 Net Revenue. Net revenue was $9.5 billion for 2011, a decrease of 3% from 2010. Total hard drive shipments increased to 207 million units as compared to 194 million units for the prior year. The decrease in net revenue resulted primarily from a $5 decrease in ASP from $50 to $45, partially offset by the increase in unit shipments. Changes in revenue by geography and channel generally reflected normal fluctuations in market demand and competitive dynamics. In accordance with standard industry practice, we have sales incentive and marketing programs that provide customers with price protection and other incentives or reimbursements that are recorded as a reduction to gross revenue. For 2011, these programs represented 11% of gross revenues compared to 8% in 2010. These amounts generally vary according to several factors including industry conditions, seasonal demand, competitor actions, channel mix and overall availability of product. 40 Table of Contents Gross Margin. Gross margin for 2011 was $1.8 billion, a decrease of $610 million, or 25% from the prior year. Gross margin as a percentage of net revenue decreased to 18.8% in 2011 from 24.4% in 2010. This decrease was primarily due to an aggressive pricing environment, resulting in a lower ASP. Operating Expenses. Total R&D expense and SG&A expense increased to 10.6% of net revenue in 2011 compared to 8.9% in 2010. R&D expense was $703 million in 2011, an increase of $92 million, or 15% over the prior year. As a percentage of net revenue, R&D expense increased to 7.4% in 2011 compared to 6.2% in 2010. This increase in R&D expense was primarily due to the continued investment in product development to support new programs. SG&A expense was $307 million in 2011, an increase of $42 million, or 16%, as compared to 2010. SG&A expense as a percentage of net revenue increased to 3.2% in 2011 compared to 2.7% in 2010. This increase in SG&A expense was primarily due to the expansion of sales and marketing to support new products and growing markets as well as $17 million of expenses related to the acquisition of HGST. Other Income (Expense). Other expense, net was $1 million in 2011 compared to $5 million in 2010. This decrease was primarily due to an increase in interest income of $5 million due to higher average daily invested cash balances and a $1 million decrease in our term loan interest expense due to a lower principal balance, partially offset by acquisition related debt commitment fees of $2 million. Income Tax Provision. Income tax expense was $54 million in 2011 as compared to $138 million in 2010. Tax expense as a percentage of income before taxes was 7% in 2011 compared to 9% for 2010. Income tax expense for 2011 reflects the extension of the R&D tax credit that was signed into law in December 2010. The differences between the effective tax rate and the U.S. Federal statutory rate are primarily due to tax holidays in Malaysia, Singapore and Thailand that expire at various dates through 2023 and the current year generation of income tax credits. We recognized a net increase of $15 million in our liability for unrecognized tax benefits during 2011. As of July 1, 2011, we had a recorded liability for unrecognized tax benefits of approximately $245 million. Interest and penalties recognized on such amounts were not material. Liquidity and Capital Resources We ended 2012 with total cash and cash equivalents of $3.2 billion, a decrease of $282 million from July 1, 2011. The following table summarizes our statements of cash flows for the three years ended June 29, 2012 (in millions): Years Ended June 29,2012 July 1,2011 July 2,2010 Net cash flow provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 3,067 $ 1,655 $ 1,942 Investing activities (4,167 ) (793 ) (986 ) Financing activities 819 (106 ) (16 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash (1 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (282 ) $ 756 $ 940 Our investment policy is to manage our investment portfolio to preserve principal and liquidity while maximizing return through the full investment of available funds. We believe our cash, cash equivalents and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital, debt and capital expenditure needs for the next twelve months. Our ability to sustain our working capital position is subject to a number of risks that we discuss in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. A total of $1.7 billion and $3.0 billion of our cash and cash equivalents was held outside of the United States at June 29, 2012 and July 1, 2011, respectively. Substantially all of the amounts held outside of the United States are intended to be indefinitely reinvested in foreign operations. Our current plans do not anticipate that we will need funds generated from foreign operations to fund our domestic operations. In the event funds from foreign operations are needed in the United States, any repatriation could result in the accrual and payment of additional U.S. income tax. 41 Table of Contents Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities during 2012 was $3.1 billion as compared to $1.7 billion for 2011 and $1.9 billion for 2010. Cash flow from operating activities consists of net income, adjusted for non cash charges, plus or minus working capital changes. This represents our principal source of cash. Net cash provided by working capital changes was $324 million for 2012 as compared to $238 million for 2011 and net cash used to fund working capital changes was $37 million for 2010. Our working capital requirements primarily depend on the effective management of our cash conversion cycle, which measures how quickly we can convert our products into cash through sales. The average quarterly cash conversion cycles for the three years ended 2012 were as follows: Years Ended June 29,2012 July 1,2011 July 2,2010 Days sales outstanding 49 47 46 Days in inventory 37 27 23 Days payables outstanding (83 ) (75 ) (72 ) Cash conversion cycle 3 (1 ) (3 ) For 2012, our average days sales outstanding (DSOs) increased by 2 days, days in inventory (DIOs) increased by 10 days, and days payables outstanding (DPOs) increased by 8 days. These increases were primarily due to the impact of including HGSTs accounts receivable, inventory and accounts payable balances as of June 29, 2012, but only including HGSTs revenue and cost of sales from the date of Acquisition. Changes in average DSOs and DIOs are generally related to linearity of shipments and the timing of inventory builds, respectively. Changes in DPOs are generally related to production volume and the timing of purchases during the period. From time to time, we modify the timing of payments to our vendors. We make modifications primarily to manage our vendor relationships and to manage our cash flows, including our cash balances. Generally, we make the payment modifications through negotiations with our vendors or by granting to, or receiving from, our vendors payment term accommodations. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for 2012 was $4.2 billion as compared to $793 million for 2011 and $986 million for 2010. During 2012, cash used in investing activities consisted of $3.5 billion, net of cash acquired, used for the acquisitions, $76 million of proceeds related to the sale of equipment, and capital expenditures of $717 million. During 2011, cash used in investing activities consisted of capital expenditures of $778 million and $15 million for equipment related to the acquisition of a semiconductor wafer fabrication facility. During 2010, cash used in investing activities consisted primarily of $737 million for capital expenditures, $233 million used for the acquisition of the magnetic media sputtering operations of Hoya and $20 million used for the acquisition of the land and building associated with the acquisition of a semiconductor wafer fabrication facility, offset by $3 million of sales related to our auction rate securities. Capital expenditures in 2012 primarily consisted of flood recovery, the extension of slider production capacity into Malaysia and increased capacity for our broadening and growing product portfolio. Our cash equivalents are invested in highly liquid money market funds that are invested in U.S. Treasury securities, U.S. Treasury bills and U.S. Government agency securities. During 2012, we settled $1 million of auction rate securities, which are classified as available for sale securities, reducing the carrying value of these investments to $14 million. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities for 2012 was $819 million as compared to $106 million and $16 million used in financing activities for 2011 and 2010, respectively. Net cash provided by financing activities for 2012 consisted of the $2.8 billion of proceeds borrowed under the Credit Facility in connection with the Acquisition, net of issuance costs, and a net $141 million provided by employee stock plans, offset by $604 million used to repurchase stock and $1.5 billion used to repay outstanding debt of the Company as well as debt assumed in the Acquisition. Net cash used in financing activities for 2011 consisted of $106 million used to repay long term debt and $50 million used to repurchase shares of our common stock, offset by a net $50 million related to employee stock plans. Net cash used in financing activities for 2010 consisted of $82 million used to repay long term debt, partially offset by a net $66 million provided by employee stock plans. 42 Table of Contents Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Other than facility lease commitments incurred in the normal course of business and certain indemnification provisions (see Contractual Obligations and Commitments below), we do not have any off balance sheet financing arrangements or liabilities, guarantee contracts, retained or contingent interests in transferred assets, or any obligation arising out of a material variable interest in an unconsolidated entity. We do not have any majority owned subsidiaries that are not included in the consolidated financial statements. Additionally, we do not have an interest in, or relationships with, any special purpose entities. Contractual Obligations and Commitments The following is a summary of our known contractual cash obligations and commercial commitments as of June 29, 2012 (in millions): Total Less than1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years More than5 Years Long term debt, including current portion $ 2,185 $ 230 $ 460 $ 1,495 $ Operating leases 192 48 60 29 55 Unrecognized tax benefits 245 104 141 Purchase obligations 6,468 6,448 16 3 1 Total $ 9,090 $ 6,726 $ 640 $ 1,668 $ 56 Long Term Debt On March 8, 2012, in connection with the Acquisition, WDI and WDT entered into the Credit Facility that provided for $2.8 billion of unsecured loan facilities, consisting of a $2.3 billion term loan facility and a $500 million revolving credit facility. The $2.3 billion term loan facility and $500 million available under the revolving credit facility were borrowed on the Closing Date and used to partially fund the Acquisition and repay our existing debt and debt assumed in the Acquisition. The $500 million revolving credit facility was repaid in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012. As of June 29, 2012, the outstanding balance of the term loan facility was $2.2 billion. We are required to make principal payments on the term loan facility totaling $230 million a year for 2013 through 2016 and the remaining $1.3 billion balance (subject to adjustment to reflect prepayments or an increase to its term loan facility) in 2017, with the term loan facility balance due and payable in full on March 8, 2017. See Part II, Item 8, Note 3 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The Credit Facility requires us to comply with a leverage ratio and an interest coverage ratio calculated on a consolidated basis for us and our subsidiaries. In addition, the Credit Facility contains customary covenants, including covenants that limit or restrict, subject to certain exceptions, our ability to incur liens, incur indebtedness, make certain restricted payments, merge, consolidate or dispose of substantially all of our assets, enter into certain speculative hedging arrangements and make any material change in the nature of our business. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the Credit Facility, the administrative agent at the request, or with the consent, of the Required Lenders (as defined in the Credit Facility) may cease making loans, terminate the Credit Facility and declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable, require the cash collateralization of letters of credit and or exercise all other rights and remedies available to it, the lenders and the letter of credit issuer. The Credit Facility specifies a number of events of default (some of which are subject to applicable grace or cure periods), including, among other things, non payment defaults, covenant defaults, cross defaults to other material indebtedness, bankruptcy and insolvency defaults, material judgment defaults and a change of control default. As of June 29, 2012, we were in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Facility. On March 8, 2012, the Company repaid the entire outstanding principal amount of $231 million on its previous term loan facility originally scheduled to mature on February 11, 2013, plus accrued and unpaid interest, as well as $585 million of assumed debt from the acquisition of HGST. 43 Table of Contents Purchase Orders In the normal course of business, we enter into purchase orders with suppliers for the purchase of hard drive components used to manufacture our products. These purchase orders generally cover forecasted component supplies needed for production during the next quarter, are recorded as a liability upon receipt of the components, and generally may be changed or canceled at any time prior to shipment of the components. We also enter into purchase orders with suppliers for capital equipment that are recorded as a liability upon receipt of the equipment. Our ability to change or cancel a capital equipment purchase order without penalty depends on the nature of the equipment being ordered. In some cases, we may be obligated to pay for certain costs related to changes to, or cancellation of, a purchase order, such as costs incurred for raw materials or work in process of components or capital equipment. We have entered into long term purchase agreements with various component suppliers, which contain minimum quantity requirements. However, the dollar amount of the purchases may depend on the specific products ordered, achievement of pre defined quantity or quality specifications or future price negotiations. The estimated related minimum purchase requirements are included in Purchase obligations in the table above. We have also entered into long term purchase agreements with various component suppliers that carry fixed volumes and pricing which obligate us to make certain future purchases, contingent on certain conditions of performance, quality and technology of the vendors components. These arrangements are included under Purchase obligations in the table above. We enter into, from time to time, other long term purchase agreements for components with certain vendors. Generally, future purchases under these agreements are not fixed and determinable as they depend on our overall unit volume requirements and are contingent upon the prices, technology and quality of the suppliers products remaining competitive. These arrangements are not included under Purchase obligations in the table above. Please see Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for a discussion of risks related to these commitments. As a result of the Thailand floods and the impact on our ability to manufacture sufficient recording heads, we entered into an agreement on November 15, 2011 with SAE Magnetics (H.K.) Ltd., a subsidiary of TDK (SAE), to supply incremental heads. The agreement commenced in the third quarter of fiscal 2012 and includes quarterly minimum volumes through fiscal 2013. We have had an ongoing supply relationship for heads with SAE over periods spanning several years prior to this agreement. Foreign Exchange Contracts We purchase short term, foreign exchange contracts to hedge the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain underlying assets, revenue, liabilities and commitments for operating expenses and product costs denominated in foreign currencies. See Part II, Item 7A, under the heading Disclosure About Foreign Currency Risk, for a description of our current foreign exchange contract commitments and Part II, Item 8, Notes 1 and 11 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we may provide indemnifications of varying scope and terms to customers, vendors, lessors, business partners and other parties with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, losses arising out of our breach of such agreements, products or services to be provided by us, or from intellectual property infringement claims made by third parties. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and certain of our officers that will require us, among other things, to indemnify them against certain liabilities that may arise by reason of their status or service as directors or officers. We maintain director and officer insurance, which may cover certain liabilities arising from our obligation to indemnify our directors and officers in certain circumstances. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Such indemnification agreements may not be subject to maximum loss clauses. Historically, we have not incurred material costs as a result of obligations under these agreements. 44 Table of Contents Unrecognized Tax Benefits As of June 29, 2012, the cash portion of our total recorded liability for unrecognized tax benefits was $245 million, which included $29 million related to the Acquisition. We estimate the timing of the future payments of these liabilities to be within the next one to five years. See Part II, Item 8, Note 9 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for information regarding our total tax liability for unrecognized tax benefits. Stock Repurchase Program Our Board of Directors previously authorized us to repurchase $750 million of our common stock in open market transactions under a stock repurchase program through March 31, 2013. On May 21, 2012, the Company announced that the Board of Directors authorized an additional $1.5 billion for the repurchase of our common stock and the extension of our stock repurchase program until May 18, 2017. As of June 29, 2012 the entire $750 million previously authorized for repurchase had been utilized. In addition, as of June 29, 2012 $188 million of the $1.5 billion authorized on May 21, 2012 had been utilized. Since the inception of this program in 2005, through June 29, 2012, we have repurchased 36 million shares of our common stock for a total cost of $938 million. We repurchased 16.4 million shares for a total cost of $604 million during 2012. Subsequent to June 29, 2012 through August 16, 2012, we repurchased an additional 2.1 million shares for a total cost of $91 million. We may continue to repurchase our stock as we deem appropriate and market conditions allow. Repurchases under our stock repurchase program may be made in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions and may be made under a Rule 10b5 1 plan. We expect stock repurchases to be funded principally by operating cash flows. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We have prepared the accompanying consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of the financial statements requires the use of judgments and estimates that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets, liabilities and shareholders equity. We have adopted accounting policies and practices that are generally accepted in the industry in which we operate. We believe the following are our most critical accounting policies that affect significant areas and involve judgment and estimates made by us. If these estimates differ significantly from actual results, the impact to the consolidated financial statements may be material. Revenue and Accounts Receivable In accordance with standard industry practice, we provide distributors and retailers (collectively referred to as resellers) with limited price protection for inventories held by resellers at the time of published list price reductions, and we provide resellers and OEMs with other sales incentive programs. At the time we recognize revenue to resellers and OEMs, we record a reduction of revenue for estimated price protection until the resellers sell such inventory to their customers and we also record a reduction of revenue for the other programs in effect. We base these adjustments on several factors including anticipated price decreases during the reseller holding period, resellers sell through and inventory levels, estimated amounts to be reimbursed to qualifying customers, historical pricing information and customer claim processing. If customer demand for hard drives or market conditions differs from our expectations, our operating results could be materially affected. We also have programs under which we reimburse qualified distributors and retailers for certain marketing expenditures, which are recorded as a reduction of revenue. These amounts generally vary according to several factors including industry conditions, seasonal demand, competitor actions, channel mix and overall availability of product. Generally, total sales incentive and marketing programs range from 9% to 12% of gross revenues per quarter. However, for 2012, sales incentive and marketing programs were 6% of gross revenues due to the severe supply constraints across the hard drive industry brought about by the Thailand floods. Changes in future customer demand and market conditions may require us to adjust our incentive programs as a percentage of gross revenue from the current range. Adjustments to revenues due to changes in accruals for these programs related to revenues reported in prior periods have averaged 0.3% of quarterly gross revenue since the first quarter of fiscal 2010. Customer sales incentive and marketing programs are recorded as a reduction of revenue. 45 Table of Contents We record an allowance for doubtful accounts by analyzing specific customer accounts and assessing the risk of loss based on insolvency, disputes or other collection issues. In addition, we routinely analyze the different receivable aging categories and establish reserves based on a combination of past due receivables and expected future losses based primarily on our historical levels of bad debt losses. If the financial condition of a significant customer deteriorates resulting in its inability to pay its accounts when due, or if our overall loss history changes significantly, an adjustment in our allowance for doubtful accounts would be required, which could materially affect operating results. We establish provisions against revenue and cost of revenue for sales returns in the same period that the related revenue is recognized. We base these provisions on existing product return notifications. If actual sales returns exceed expectations, an increase in the sales return accrual would be required, which could materially affect operating results. Warranty We record an accrual for estimated warranty costs when revenue is recognized. We generally warrant our products for a period of one to five years. Our warranty provision considers estimated product failure rates and trends, estimated repair or replacement costs and estimated costs for customer compensatory claims related to product quality issues, if any. We use a statistical warranty tracking model to help prepare our estimates and assist us in exercising judgment in determining the underlying estimates. Our statistical tracking model captures specific detail on hard drive reliability, such as factory test data, historical field return rates, and costs to repair by product type. Our judgment is subject to a greater degree of subjectivity with respect to newly introduced products because of limited field experience with those products upon which to base our warranty estimates. We review our warranty accrual quarterly for products shipped in prior periods and which are still under warranty. Any changes in the estimates underlying the accrual may result in adjustments that impact current period gross margin and income. Such changes are generally a result of differences between forecasted and actual return rate experience and costs to repair. If actual product return trends, costs to repair returned products or costs of customer compensatory claims differ significantly from our estimates, our future results of operations could be materially affected. For a summary of historical changes in estimates related to pre existing warranty provisions, refer to Part II, Item 8, Note 4 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Inventories We value inventories at the lower of cost (first in, first out and weighted average methods) or net realizable value. We use the first in, first out (FIFO) method to value the cost of the majority of our inventories, while we use the weighted average method to value precious metal inventories. Weighted average cost is calculated based upon the cost of precious metals at the time they are received by us. We have determined that it is not practicable to assign specific costs to individual units of precious metals and, as such, we relieve our precious metals inventory based on the weighted average cost of the inventory at the time the inventory is used in production. The weighted average method of valuing precious metals does not materially differ from a FIFO method. We record inventory write downs for the valuation of inventory at the lower of cost or net realizable value by analyzing market conditions and estimates of future sales prices as compared to inventory costs and inventory balances. We evaluate inventory balances for excess quantities and obsolescence on a regular basis by analyzing estimated demand, inventory on hand, sales levels and other information, and reduce inventory balances to net realizable value for excess and obsolete inventory based on this analysis. Unanticipated changes in technology or customer demand could result in a decrease in demand for one or more of our products, which may require a write down of inventory that could materially affect operating results. Litigation and Other Contingencies When we become aware of a claim or potential claim, we assess the likelihood of any loss or exposure. We disclose information regarding each material claim where the likelihood of a loss contingency is probable or reasonably possible. If a loss contingency is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated, we record an accrual for the loss. In such cases, there may be an exposure to potential loss in excess of the amount accrued. Where a loss is not probable but is reasonably possible, or where a loss in excess of the amount accrued is reasonably possible, we disclose an estimate of the amount of the loss or range of possible losses for the claim if a reasonable estimate can be made, unless the amount of such reasonably possible losses is not material to our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The ability to predict the ultimate outcome of such matters involves judgments, estimates and inherent uncertainties. The actual outcome of such matters could differ materially from managements estimates. Refer to Part II, Item 8, Note 5 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 46 Table of Contents Income Taxes We account for income taxes under the asset and liability method, which provides that deferred tax assets and liabilities be recognized for temporary differences between the financial reporting basis and the tax basis of our assets and liabilities and expected benefits of utilizing net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. We record a valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Each period, we evaluate the need for a valuation allowance for our deferred tax assets and we adjust the valuation allowance so that we record net deferred tax assets only to the extent that we conclude it is more likely than not that these deferred tax assets will be realized. We recognize liabilities for uncertain tax positions based on a two step process. To the extent a tax position does not meet a more likely than not level of certainty, no benefit is recognized in the financial statements. If a position meets the more likely than not level of certainty, it is recognized in the financial statements at the largest amount that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits are recognized on liabilities recorded for uncertain tax positions and are recorded in our provision for income taxes. The actual liability for unrealized tax benefits in any such contingency may be materially different from our estimates, which could result in the need to record additional liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits or potentially adjust previously recorded liabilities for unrealized tax benefits and materially affect our operating results. Stock based Compensation We account for all stock based compensation at fair value. Stock based compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the value of the award and is recognized as expense over the vesting period. The fair values of all stock options and stock appreciation rights granted are estimated using a binomial model, and the fair values of all Employee Stock Purchase Plan purchase rights are estimated using the Black Scholes Merton option pricing model. We account for SARs as liability awards based upon our intention to settle such awards in cash. The SARs liability is recognized for that portion of fair value for the service period rendered at the reporting date. The share based liability is remeasured at each reporting date through the requisite service period. Both the binomial and the Black Scholes Merton models require the input of highly subjective assumptions. We are required to use judgment in estimating the amount of stock based awards that are expected to be forfeited. If actual forfeitures differ significantly from the original estimate, stock based compensation expense and our results of operations could be materially affected. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For a description of recently issued and adopted accounting pronouncements, including the respective dates of adoption and expected effects on our results of operations and financial condition, refer to Part II, Item 8, Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K, which is incorporated by reference in response to this item. 47 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Disclosure About Foreign Currency Risk Although the majority of our transactions are in U.S. dollars, some transactions are based in various foreign currencies. We purchase short term, foreign exchange contracts to hedge the impact of foreign currency exchange fluctuations on certain underlying assets, revenue, liabilities and commitments for operating expenses and product costs denominated in foreign currencies. The purpose of entering into these hedge transactions is to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations. The contract maturity dates do not exceed 12 months. We do not purchase foreign exchange contracts for trading purposes. Currently, we focus on hedging our foreign currency risk related to the British Pound Sterling, Euro, Japanese Yen, Malaysian Ringgit, Philippine Peso, Singapore Dollar and Thai Baht. Singapore Dollar and Thai Baht contracts are designated as either cash flow or fair value hedges. Malaysian Ringgit contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. British Pound Sterling, Euro, Japanese Yen and Philippine Peso contracts are designated as fair value hedges. See Part II, Item 8, Notes 1 and 11 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. As of June 29, 2012, we had outstanding the following purchased foreign exchange contracts (in millions, except weighted average contract rate): ContractAmount Weighted AverageContract Rate* UnrealizedLoss Foreign exchange contracts: Cash flow hedges: Malaysian Ringgit $ 323 3.13 $ 5 Singapore Dollar $ 21 1.26 Thai Baht $ 896 31.52 $ 11 Fair value hedges: British Pound Sterling $ 2 0.64 Euro $ 15 0.79 Japanese Yen $ 70 81.32 Philippine Peso $ 4 42.87 Singapore Dollar $ 3 1.26 Thai Baht $ 292 31.45 * Expressed in units of foreign currency per U.S. dollar. In 2012, 2011 and 2010, total net realized transaction and foreign exchange contract currency gains and losses were not material to our consolidated financial statements. Disclosure About Other Market Risks Variable Interest Rate Risk Borrowings under the Credit Facility bear interest at a rate equal to, at the option of the applicable Borrower, either (a) a LIBOR rate determined by reference to the British Bankers Association LIBOR Rate for the interest period relevant to such borrowing, subject to certain exceptions (the Eurodollar Rate) or (b) a base rate determined by reference to the higher of (i) the federal funds rate plus 0.50%, (ii) the prime rate as announced by Bank of America, N.A. and (iii) the Eurodollar Rate plus 1.00% (the Base Rate), in each case plus an applicable margin. The applicable margin for borrowings under the Credit Facility ranges from 1.50% to 2.50% with respect to borrowings at the Eurodollar Rate and 0.50% to 1.50% with respect to borrowings at the Base Rate. The applicable margins for borrowings under the Credit Facility are determined based upon a leverage ratio of the Company and its subsidiaries calculated on a consolidated basis. If the federal funds rate, prime rate or LIBOR rate increase, our interest payments could also increase. A one percent increase in the variable rate of interest on the term loan facility would increase interest expense by approximately $22 million annually. 48 Table of Contents 
 
