FILE:AMT/AMT-8K-20041021181709.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On October 19, 2004, American Tower Corporation (the "Company") announced the signing of a definitive agreement to sell the Company's tower construction services unit. ATC Tower Services, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, entered into an asset purchase agreement (the "Purchase Agreement"), dated October 18, 2004, with Andrew Corporation ("Andrew"), pursuant to which the Company will sell its tower construction services unit to Andrew. Under the terms of the Purchase Agreement, the total purchase consideration is expected to be approximately $10 million, consisting of cash and the assumption of certain capital lease obligations. The Company also expects to retain approximately $17 million in net working capital relating to this business upon completion of the sale. As a result of the pending sale, the Company recorded an impairment charge of approximately $3 million during the third quarter of 2004 and will designate its tower construction services unit as a discontinued operation, commencing with the fourth quarter, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
 
The Company had previously announced that it was exploring strategic alternatives for its tower construction services unit. Tower construction services is currently included in the Company's network development services segment and, for the six months ended June 30, 2004, had revenues of $39.2 million and segment operating profit of approximately $0.3 million. After the sale, the Company's network development services segment will continue to provide complementary non-construction services to the rental and management segment including site acquisition, zoning and permitting, and structural analysis.
 
The sale is expected to close during the fourth quarter of 2004, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions. Other than the anticipated assumption by Andrew of certain office locations and the hiring of employees pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, there are no material relationships between the Company or its affiliates and Andrew.
 
The press release announcing the signing of the Purchase Agreement is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
ATC Contact: Brad Singer
Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer
Telephone: (617) 375-7500
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
- American Tower Corporation (NYSE: AMT) announced today the signing of a definitive agreement to sell the Company's tower construction services unit. The sale is expected to close during the fourth quarter of 2004, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions. The Company expects the total purchase consideration to be approximately $10 million (consisting of cash and the assumption of certain capital lease obligations) and anticipates recording a related impairment charge of approximately $3 million in the fourth quarter of 2004. The Company also expects to retain approximately $17 million in net working capital relating to this business. As a result of the sale, the Company has designated its tower construction services unit as discontinued operations, commencing with the fourth quarter, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Boston, Massachusetts  October 19, 2004
 
American Tower is the leading independent owner, operator and developer of broadcast and wireless communications sites in North America. American Tower operates approximately 15,000 sites in the United States, Mexico, and Brazil, including approximately 300 broadcast tower sites. For more information about American Tower Corporation, please visit our website .
www.americantower.com
 
 
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" concerning the Company's expectations regarding the sale of its tower construction services unit. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in such forward-looking statements include uncertainties regarding the timing and terms of the sale of the Company's tower construction services unit. More information about potential risk factors that could affect the Company's results is included in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


