FILE:AMT/AMT-8K-20041005171052.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 5, 2004, American Tower Corporation (the "Company") completed an institutional private placement of $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of its 7.125% senior notes due 2012 priced at par (the "Senior Notes"), which resulted in net proceeds to the Company of approximately $292.8 million. On that date, the Company announced that it intends to use all of the proceeds from the Senior Notes offering to redeem a portion ($276.0 million principal amount) of its 9 3/8% senior notes due 2009. The redemption date has been set for November 4, 2004 at a redemption price equal to the principal amount of the notes plus an applicable premium. In addition, the Company will pay accrued and unpaid interest on the redeemed notes up to the redemption date.
 
On October 5, 2004, the Company entered into an Indenture (the "Indenture") with The Bank of New York, as trustee, relating to the Senior Notes. The Senior Notes were sold within the United States only to qualified institutional buyers in reliance on Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and outside the United States only to non-U.S. persons in reliance on Regulation S under the Securities Act. A copy of the Indenture (including the Form of 7.125% Senior Note) is filed herewith as Exhibit 4.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
The Senior Notes mature on October 15, 2012 and bear interest at a rate of 7.125% per annum, which is payable semi-annually on April 15 and October 15 of each year, beginning April 15, 2005. Interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months. The terms of the Indenture will, among other things, limit the Company's ability to (i) incur more debt, guarantee indebtedness and issue preferred stock; (ii) create liens; (iii) pay dividends or make distributions or other restricted payments; (iv) make certain investments; (v) merge, consolidate or sell assets; (vi) enter into transactions with affiliates; and (vii) enter into sale-leaseback transactions. These covenants are subject to a number of exceptions.
 
Prior to October 15, 2007, the Company may redeem up to 35% of the original principal amount of the Senior Notes at a price equal to 107.125% of the principal amount of the notes plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon and additional interest, if any, with the net cash proceeds of certain public equity offerings within 60 days, as applicable, after the closing of any such offering. Prior to October 15, 2008, the Company may redeem the Senior Notes, in whole or in part, in cash at 100% of the principal amount plus an applicable premium. On or after October 15, 2008, the Company may redeem the Senior Notes, in whole or in part, in cash at redemption prices specified in the Indenture. In addition, if the Company undergoes a change of control, the Company may be required to make an offer to purchase each holder's Senior Notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the Senior Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest (including additional interest, if any), up to but not including the repurchase date.
 
The Indenture provides that each of the following is an event of default ("Event of Default"): (i) default for 30 days in payment of any interest or additional interest due with respect to the Senior Notes; (ii) default in payment of principal or premium, if any, on the Senior Notes; (iii) failure by the Company or any of its subsidiaries to comply with certain covenants (in the case of certain covenants, for 30 days or 60 days after receiving notice); (iv) a payment default or default causing acceleration under any mortgage, indenture or instrument relating to indebtedness for money borrowed or guaranteed by the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries (as defined in the Indenture) that in aggregate exceed $20.0 million; (v) failure by the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries to pay final judgments against any of them that are not covered by adequate insurance that in aggregate exceed $20.0 million; and (vi) certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency with respect to the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries. If any Event of Default arising under clause (vi) above occurs, the principal amount and premium, if any, and accrued and unpaid interest on all the outstanding Senior Notes will become due and payable immediately without further action or notice. If any other Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the trustee or the holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then outstanding Senior Notes may declare the principal amount and premium, if any, and accrued and unpaid interest on all the outstanding Senior Notes to be due and payable immediately.
 
On October 5, 2004, in connection with the issuance of the Senior Notes, the Company entered into a Registration Rights Agreement (the "Registration Rights Agreement") with Credit Suisse First Boston LLC (as representative of the Purchasers named therein). Pursuant to the terms of the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company agreed to file a registration statement with respect to an offer to exchange the Senior Notes for a new issue of identical exchange notes registered under the Securities Act on or prior to 90 days after October 5, 2004. The
 
Company also agreed to use its reasonable best efforts to cause the registration statement to be declared effective on or prior to 210 days after October 5, 2004. Under certain circumstances, the Company may be required to provide a shelf registration statement to cover resales of the Senior Notes. If the Company fails to satisfy certain filing and other obligations with respect to the exchange (each such failure a "Registration Default"), including the failure to consummate the exchange offer within 30 business days of the effectiveness target date, the Company will be obligated to pay additional interest on the Senior Notes following a Registration Default in an amount starting at $.05 per week per $1,000 principal amount of Senior Notes, potentially increasing to up to $.25 per week per $1,000 principal amount of Senior Notes, until all Registration Defaults have been cured. A copy of the Registration Rights Agreement is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
The description above is qualified in its entirety by the Indenture and Registration Rights Agreement filed herewith as exhibits.
 
 
The information set forth in Item 1.01 above is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
 
 
On October 5, 2004, the Company issued a press release announcing the completion of its 7.125% senior notes offering and its call for the partial redemption of its outstanding 9 3/8% senior notes due 2009. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as an exhibit.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBITS
 
 
INDENTURE dated as of October 5, 2004 between American Tower Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and The Bank of New York, a New York banking corporation, as trustee (the "Trustee").
 
The Company and the Trustee agree as follows for the benefit of each other and for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the 7.125% Senior Notes due 2012 (each, a "Note", and, collectively, the "Notes"):
 
 
 
Section 1.01.
Definitions.
 
"" means, with respect to any Person:
Acquired Debt
 
 
 
"" means, at any time, all additional interest then owing under the Registration Rights Agreement or any registration rights agreement applicable to Additional Notes.
Additional Interest
 
"" means resolutions duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company and delivered to the Trustee in an Officers' Certificate providing for issuance of Additional Notes.
Additional Note Board Resolution
 
"" means a supplement to this Indenture duly executed and delivered by the Company and the Trustee pursuant to Article 9.
Additional Note Supplemental Indenture
 
"" means the Company's Notes originally issued after the Issue Date pursuant to Section 2.14, except for Notes authenticated and delivered upon registration of, transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of other Notes pursuant to Section 2.06, 2.07, 9.05, 3.06, or 4.14 hereof, as specified in the relevant Additional Note Board Resolutions or Additional Note Supplemental Indenture issued therefor in accordance with this Indenture.
Additional Notes
 
"" means, with respect to any Person as of any date of determination, the sum of:
Adjusted Consolidated Cash Flow
 
 
 
For purposes of making the computation referred to above:
 
 
 
 
"" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For purposes of this definition, "control" (including, with correlative meanings, the terms "controlling," "controlled by" and "under common control with"), as used with respect to any Person, means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction
Affiliate
 
of the management or policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by agreement or otherwise; beneficial ownership of 10% or more of the Voting Stock of a Person shall be deemed to be control. No natural person who is an executive officer or director of a Person shall, solely by virtue of such position, be deemed to control such Person.
provided that
 
"" means any Registrar, Paying Agent or co-registrar.
Agent
 
"" means, with respect to any Note on any redemption date, the greater of:
Applicable Premium
 
 
 
 
 
"" means, with respect to any transfer or exchange of or for beneficial interests in any Global Note, the rules and procedures of the Depositary, Euroclear and Clearstream that apply to such transfer or exchange.
Applicable Procedures
 
"" means:
Asset Sale
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the preceding, none of the following items will be Asset Sales:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" in respect of a sale and leaseback transaction means, at the time of determination, the present value of the obligation of the lessee for net rental payments during the remaining term of the lease included in such sale and leaseback transaction (including any period for which such lease has been extended or may, at the option of the lessor, be extended). Such present value shall be calculated using a discount rate equal to the rate of interest implicit in such transaction, determined in accordance with GAAP.
Attributable Debt
 
"" means Title 11, U.S. Code or any similar federal or state law for the relief of debtors.
Bankruptcy Law
 
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Rule 13d-3 and Rule 13d-5 under the Exchange Act, except that in calculating the beneficial ownership of any particular "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), such "person" will be deemed to have beneficial ownership of all securities that such "person" has the right to acquire by conversion or exercise of other securities, whether such right is currently exercisable or is
Beneficial Owner
 
exercisable only upon the occurrence of a subsequent condition. The terms "Beneficially Owns" and "Beneficially Owned" have a corresponding meaning.
 
"" means:
Board of Directors
 
 
 
 
"" means, with respect to any Person, a resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors of such Person and in full force and effect.
Board Resolution
 
"" means any day other than a Legal Holiday.
Business Day
 
"" means, at the time any determination is to be made, the amount of the liability in respect of a capital lease that would at that time be required to be capitalized on a balance sheet in accordance with GAAP.
Capital Lease Obligation
 
"" means:
Capital Stock
 
 
 
 
 
"" means:
Cash Equivalents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" means the occurrence of any of the following:
Change of Control
 
 
 
 
 
"" means Clearstream Banking S.A. (or any successor securities clearing agency).
Clearstream
 
"" means American Tower Corporation or any and all successors thereto pursuant to Section 5.02.
Company
 
"" means, with respect to any Person for any period, the Consolidated Net Income of such Person for such period; plus
Consolidated Cash Flow
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in each case on a consolidated basis and determined in accordance with GAAP.
 
"" means, with respect to any Person as of any date of determination, the sum, without duplication, of
Consolidated Indebtedness
 
 
 
 
in each case, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
 
"" means, with respect to any Person for any period:
Consolidated Interest Expense
 
 
 
"" means, with respect to any Person for any period, the aggregate of the Net Income of such Person and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period, on a consolidated basis, determined in accordance with GAAP; that:
Consolidated Net Income
provided
 
 
 
"" means, with respect to the Company, the total consolidated assets of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries, less the total intangible assets of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries, as shown on the most recent internal consolidated balance sheet of the Company and such Restricted Subsidiaries calculated on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Tangible Assets
 
"" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Board of Directors of the Company who:
Continuing Directors
 
 
 
"" means, collectively, (a) the 2.25% Convertible Notes Due 2009 issued pursuant to that certain indenture dated October 4, 1999 of the Company with The Bank of New York as trustee, (b) the 5.00% Convertible Notes Due 2010 issued pursuant to that certain indenture dated February 15, 2000 of the Company with The Bank of New York as trustee, (c) the 3.25% Convertible Notes due 2010 issued pursuant to that certain indenture dated August 4, 2003 of the Company with The Bank of New York as trustee and (d) the 3.00% Convertible Notes Due 2012 issued pursuant to that certain indenture dated August 17, 2004 of the Company with The Bank of New York as trustee.
Convertible Notes
 
"" shall be at the address of the Trustee specified in Section 12.02 hereof or such other address as to which the Trustee may give notice to the Company.
Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee
 
"" means one or more debt, commercial paper or securitization facilities or financings (including, without limitation, the Senior Credit Facility), in each case, as amended, supplemented, restated, modified, renewed, refunded, replaced or refinanced in whole or in part from time to time, including to permit an increase in borrowings thereunder.
Credit Facilities
 
"" means the Trustee, as custodian with respect to the Notes in global form, or any successor entity thereto.
Custodian
 
"" means, with respect to any Person, as of any date of determination, the ratio of:
Debt to Adjusted Consolidated Cash Flow Ratio
 
 
 
"" means any event that is, or with the passage of time or the giving of notice or both would be, an Event of Default.
Default
 
"" means a certificated Note registered in the name of the Holder thereof and issued in accordance with Section 2.06 hereof, substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto except that such Note shall not bear the Global Note Legend and shall not have the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Note" attached thereto.
Definitive Note
 
"" means, with respect to the Notes issuable or issued in whole or in part in global form, the Person specified in Section 2.03 hereof as the Depositary with respect to the Notes, and any and all successors thereto appointed as depositary hereunder and having become such pursuant to the applicable provision of this Indenture.
Depositary
 
"" means any Capital Stock that, by its terms (or by the terms of any security into which it is convertible, or for which it is exchangeable, in each case at the option of the holder of the Capital Stock), or upon the happening of any event, matures or is mandatorily redeemable, pursuant to a sinking fund obligation or otherwise, or redeemable at the option of the holder of the Capital Stock, in whole or in part, on or prior to the date that is 91 days after the date on which the Notes mature. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, any Capital Stock that would constitute Disqualified Stock solely because the holders of the Capital Stock have the right to require the Company to repurchase such Capital Stock upon the occurrence of a Change of Control or an Asset Sale shall not constitute Disqualified Stock if the terms of such Capital Stock provide that the Company may not repurchase or redeem any such Capital Stock pursuant to such provisions unless such repurchase or redemption complies with Section 4.07 hereof.
Disqualified Stock
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(a)(ii) of the Registration Rights Agreement.
Effectiveness Target Date
 
"" means Capital Stock and all warrants, options or other rights to acquire Capital Stock (but excluding any debt security that is convertible into, or exchangeable for, Capital Stock).
Equity Interests
 
"" means Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V., as operator of the Euroclear system (or any successor securities clearing agency).
Euroclear
 
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
 
"" means any Note issued in exchange for an Original Note or Original Notes or an Additional Note or Additional Notes pursuant to the Exchange Offer or otherwise registered under the Securities Act and any Note with respect to which the next preceding Predecessor Note of such Note was an Exchange Note.
Exchange Note
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the form of Note attached as Exhibit A.
Exchange Offer
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the form of Note attached as Exhibit A.
Exchange Registration Statement
 
"" means an issue, sale or other disposition of Capital Stock of a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company the principal operations of which are conducted, and the principal assets of which are located, outside the United States, so long as after giving effect thereto such Restricted Subsidiary would remain a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company.
Excluded International Sale
 
"" means Indebtedness of the Company and its Subsidiaries (other than Indebtedness under the Senior Credit Facility) in existence on the Issue Date (and accretion thereof after the Issue Date permitted by clause (3) of the second to last paragraph of Section 4.09 hereof), until such amounts are repaid.
Existing Indebtedness
 
"" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or in such other statements by such other entity as have been approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession.
GAAP
 
"" means the legend set forth in Section 2.06(f)(i), which is required to be placed on all Global Notes issued under this Indenture.
Global Note Legend
 
"" means the global Notes, substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto.
Global Notes
 
"" means direct obligations of, or obligations guaranteed by, the United States of America, and the payment for which the United States pledges its full faith and credit.
Government Securities
 
"" means a guarantee (other than by endorsement of negotiable instruments for collection in the ordinary course of business), direct or indirect, in any manner (including, without limitation, by way of a pledge of assets or through letters of credit or reimbursement agreements in respect thereof), of all or any part of any Indebtedness.
Guarantee
 
"" means a Person in whose name a Note is registered.
Holder
 
"" means, with respect to any specified Person, any indebtedness of such Person, whether or not contingent:
Indebtedness
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
if and to the extent any of the preceding items (other than letters of credit and Interest and Currency Agreements) would appear as a liability upon a balance sheet of the specified Person prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, the term "Indebtedness" includes all Indebtedness of others secured by a Lien on any asset of the specified Person whether or not such Indebtedness is assumed by the specified Person (the amount of such Indebtedness as of any date being deemed to be the lesser of the value of such property or assets as of such date or the principal amount of such Indebtedness of such other Person so secured) and, to the extent not otherwise included, the Guarantee by the specified Person of any Indebtedness of any other Person.
 
The amount of any Indebtedness outstanding as of any date shall be:
 
 
 
"" means this Indenture, as amended or supplemented from time to time.
Indenture
 
"" means a Person who holds a beneficial interest in a Global Note through a Participant.
Indirect Participant
 
"" means, with respect to any specified Person, the obligations of such Person under:
Interest and Currency Agreements
 
 
 
"" means April 15 and October 15 of each year, beginning April 15, 2005.
Interest Payment Date
 
"" means, with respect to any Person, any direct or indirect investment by such Person in other Persons (including Affiliates) in the forms of loans (including Guarantees of Indebtedness or other obligations), advances or capital contributions (excluding commission, travel and similar advances to officers and employees made in the ordinary course of business), purchases or other acquisitions for consideration of Indebtedness, Equity Interests or other securities, together with all items that are or would be classified as investments on a balance sheet prepared in accordance with GAAP. If such Person or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries sells or otherwise disposes of any Equity Interests of any direct or indirect Restricted Subsidiary of such Person or a Restricted Subsidiary of such Person issues any of its Equity Interests such that, in each case, after giving effect to any such sale, disposition or issuance, it is no longer a Restricted Subsidiary of such Person, such Person will be deemed to have made an Investment on the date of any such sale, disposition or issuance equal to the fair market value of such Person's Investments in such Subsidiary that were not sold or disposed of in an amount determined as provided in the final paragraph of Section 4.07 hereof.
Investment
 
"" means a rating equal to or higher than Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's and BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P (or, if either such entity ceases to rate the Notes for reasons outside of the control of the Company, the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any other "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act selected by the Company as a replacement agency, if any such agency exists at such time).
Investment Grade Rating
 
"" means the date on which the Original Notes are first authenticated and delivered under this Indenture.
Issue Date
 
"" means a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banking institutions in The City of New York or at a place of payment are authorized by law, regulation or executive order to remain closed. If a payment date is a Legal Holiday at a place of payment, payment may be made at that place on the next succeeding day that is not a Legal Holiday, and no interest shall accrue on such payment for the intervening period.
Legal Holiday
 
"" means, collectively, any telephone, microwave, radio transmissions, personal communications or other license, authorization, certificate of compliance, franchise, approval or permit, whether for the construction, the ownership or the operation of any communications tower facilities, granted or issued by the Federal Communications Commission (or other similar
Licenses
 
or successor agency of the federal government administering the Communications Act of 1934 or any similar or successor federal statute) and held by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries.
 
"" means, with respect to any asset, any mortgage, lien, pledge, charge, security interest or encumbrance of any kind in respect of such asset, whether or not filed, recorded or otherwise perfected under applicable law (including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, any lease in the nature thereof, any option or other agreement to sell or give a security interest in and any filing of or agreement to give any financing statement under the Uniform Commercial Code (or equivalent statutes) of any jurisdiction).
Lien
 
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. or any successor to the rating agency business thereof.
Moody's
 
"" means, with respect to any Person, the net income (loss) of such Person, determined in accordance with GAAP and before any reduction in respect of preferred stock dividends, excluding, however:
Net Income
 
 
 
 
 
"" means the aggregate cash proceeds received by the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries in respect of any Asset Sale (including, without limitation, any cash received upon the sale or other disposition of any non-cash consideration received in any Asset Sale), net of:
Net Proceeds
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
that in the case of any reversal of any reserve referred to in clause (5) or (6) above, the amount so reversed shall be deemed to be Net Proceeds from an Asset Sale as of the date of such reversal.
provided
 
"" means Indebtedness:
Non-Recourse Debt
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" means, with respect to any Person and as of any date of determination, the Consolidated Cash Flow of such Person and its Restricted Subsidiaries for the four most recent full fiscal quarters ending immediately prior to such date for which internal financial statements are available that is not included in Tower Cash Flow of such Person, all determined on a consolidated basis and in accordance with GAAP. Non-Tower Cash Flow of such Person will not include revenues derived from asset sales other than sales or other dispositions of inventory in the ordinary course of business.
Non-Tower Cash Flow
 
"" has the meaning assigned to it in the preamble to this Indenture and includes the Exchange Notes and the Original Notes and any Additional Notes.
Notes
 
"" means any principal, interest, penalties, fees, indemnifications, reimbursements, damages and other liabilities payable under the documentation governing any Indebtedness.
Obligations
 
"" means the private offering of the Notes by the Company.
Offering
 
"" means the Confidential Offering Circular, dated September 28, 2004, including the documents incorporated by reference therein, relating to the private offering of the Original Notes.
Offering Circular
 
"" means, with respect to any Person, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, the Controller, the Secretary or any Vice-President of such Person.
Officer
 
"" means a certificate signed on behalf of the Company by two Officers of the Company, one of whom must be the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer, the treasurer or the principal accounting officer of the Company, that meets the requirements of Section 12.04 hereof.
Officers' Certificate
 
"" means an opinion from legal counsel that meets the requirements of Section 12.04 hereof. The counsel may be an employee of or counsel to the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company.
Opinion of Counsel
 
"" means, with respect to the Depositary, Euroclear or Clearstream, a Person who has an account with the Depositary, Euroclear or Clearstream, respectively (and, with respect to DTC, shall include Euroclear and Clearstream).
Participant
 
"" means any business of the type conducted by the Company or its Restricted Subsidiaries on the Issue Date and any other business related, ancillary or complementary to any such business.
Permitted Business
 
"" means:
Permitted Investment
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" means:
Permitted Liens
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" means any Indebtedness of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries issued in exchange for, or the net proceeds of which are used to extend, refinance, renew, replace, defease or refund, other Indebtedness of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (other than intercompany Indebtedness); that:
Permitted Refinancing Indebtedness
provided
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" means any individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, government or political subdivision thereof or other entity.
Person
 
"" of any particular Note means every previous Note issued before, and evidencing all or a portion of the same debt as that evidenced by, such particular Note; and, for the purposes of this definition, any Note authenticated and delivered under Section 2.07 in exchange for or in lieu of a mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Note shall be deemed to evidence the same debt as the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Note.
Predecessor Note
 
"" means an underwritten primary public offering of Qualified Capital Stock of the Company pursuant to an effective registration statement (other than a registration statement filed on Form S-4 or S-8) under the Securities Act.
Public Equity Offering
 
"" means the Purchase Agreement, dated September 28, 2004, among the Company and the Purchasers, as such agreement may be amended from time to time.
Purchase Agreement
 
"" means the several initial purchasers named in Schedule A of the Purchase Agreement.
Purchasers
 
"" of any Person means any and all Capital Stock of such Person other than Disqualified Stock.
Qualified Capital Stock
 
"" means assets that are used or useful in, or Capital Stock of any Person engaged in, a Permitted Business.
Qualified Proceeds
 
"" mean Moody's and S&P.
Rating Agencies
 
"" means the Exchange Notes and all other Notes sold or otherwise disposed of pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, together with their respective Successor Notes.
Registered Notes
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the form of Note attached as Exhibit A.
Registration Default
 
"" means the Registration Rights Agreement among the Company and the Purchasers, dated the Issue Date, as the same may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance with its terms.
Registration Rights Agreement
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the form of Note attached as Exhibit A.
Regular Record Date
 
"" means Regulation S under the Securities Act (or any successor provision), as it may be amended from time to time.
Regulation S
 
"" means a certificate substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit D.
Regulation S Certificate
 
"" means a legend substantially in the form of the legend required in the form of Note attached as Exhibit A to be placed upon each Regulation S Note.
Regulation S Legend
 
"" means all Notes required pursuant to Section 2.06(f)(ii) to bear a Regulation S Legend. Such term includes the Regulation S Global Note.
Regulation S Notes
 
"" with respect to the Trustee, means any officer within the Corporate Trust Administration of the Trustee (or any successor group of the Trustee) or any other officer of the Trustee customarily performing functions similar to those performed by any of the above designated officers and also means, with respect to a particular corporate trust matter, any other officer to whom such matter is referred because of his knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject and who shall have direct responsibility for the administration of its Indenture.
Responsible Officer
 
"" means an Investment other than a Permitted Investment.
Restricted Investment
 
"" means all Notes or any Additional Notes (or beneficial interest therein) not originally issued and sold pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act required pursuant to Section 2.06(f)(ii) to bear any Restricted Notes Legend. Such term includes the Rule 144A Global Note.
Restricted Notes
 
"" means a certificate substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit E.
Restricted Notes Certificate
 
" Legend" means, collectively, the legends substantially in the forms of the legends required in the form of Note attached as Exhibit A to be placed upon each Restricted Note.
Restricted Notes
 
"" means, in the case of any Regulation S Notes, the period of 40 consecutive days beginning on and including the later of (i) the day on which Notes are first offered to persons other than distributors (as defined in Regulation S) in reliance on Regulation S and (ii) the issue date for such Regulation S Notes.
Restricted Period
 
"" means, with respect to any Person, any Subsidiary of such Person that is not an Unrestricted Subsidiary.
Restricted Subsidiary
 
"" means Rule 144A under the Securities Act (or any successor provision), as such Rule 144A may be amended from time to time.
Rule 144A
 
" Notes" means the Notes purchased by the Purchasers from the Company pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, other than the Regulation S Notes. Such term includes the Rule 144A Global Note.
Rule 144A
 
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Service or any successor to the rating agency business thereof.
S&P
 
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
 
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
 
"" means a Restricted Notes Legend or a Regulation S Legend.
Securities Act Legend
 
"" means that certain Loan Agreement, dated May 24, 2004, by and among The Toronto Dominion Bank, New York Branch, as Issuing Bank, Toronto Dominion (Texas), Inc., as Administrative Agent, the several lenders and other agents party thereto and American Tower, L.P., American Towers, Inc., American Tower International, Inc. and American Tower LLC, as borrowers, including any related notes, guarantees, collateral documents, instruments and agreements executed in connection therewith, in each case, as amended, supplemented, restated, modified, renewed, refunded, replaced or refinanced in whole or in part from time to time, including to permit an increase in borrowings thereunder.
Senior Credit Facility
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the form of Note attached as Exhibit A.
Shelf Registration Statement
 
"" means, with respect to any Person, any Restricted Subsidiary of such Person that would be a "significant subsidiary" of such Person as defined in Article 1, Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X promulgated pursuant to the Act, as such Regulation is in effect on the Issue Date.
Significant Subsidiary
 
"" means, with respect to any installment of interest or principal on any series of Indebtedness, the date on which the payment of interest or principal was scheduled to be paid in the original documentation governing such Indebtedness, and will not include any contingent obligations to repay, redeem or repurchase any such interest or principal prior to the date originally scheduled for the payment thereof.
Stated Maturity
 
"" means, with respect to any Person:
Subsidiary
 
 
 
 
 
"" of any particular Note means every Note issued after, and evidencing all or a portion of the same debt as that evidenced by, such particular Note; and, for purposes of this definition, any Note authenticated and delivered under Section 2.07 in exchange for or in lieu of a mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Note shall be deemed to evidence the same debt as the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Note.
Successor Note
 
"" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 U.S.C.  77aaa-77bbbb) as in effect on the date on which this Indenture is qualified under the TIA.
TIA
 
"" means any transaction in which the Company or one or more of its Restricted Subsidiaries exchanges assets for, or issues its Capital Stock in exchange for, Tower Assets and/or cash or Cash Equivalents where the fair market value (evidenced by a resolution of the Board of Directors of the Company set forth in an Officers' Certificate delivered to the Trustee) of the Tower Assets and cash or Cash Equivalents received by the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries in such exchange is at least equal to the fair market value of the assets disposed of, or the Capital Stock issued, in such exchange.
Tower Asset Exchange
 
"" means wireless transmission or broadcast towers and related assets that are located on the site of a wireless transmission or broadcast tower.
Tower Assets
 
"" means, with respect to any Person and for any period, the Consolidated Cash Flow of such Person and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period, in each case that is directly attributable (including related expenses) to (i) site rental revenue or license fees (including space reservation payments) paid to lease, sublease or retain space on communications sites owned or leased by such Person, or its Restricted Subsidiaries, (ii) fees paid to such Person or its Restricted Subsidiaries for management of communications sites and (iii) real estate lease and similar payments (whether or not related to communications sites) paid to such Person or its Restricted Subsidiaries to the extent included in the same operating segment for GAAP reporting purposes as site rental revenue, all determined on a consolidated basis and in accordance with GAAP. Tower Cash Flow will not include revenue or expenses attributable to non-site rental services provided by such Person or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to lessees of communication sites or revenues derived from the sale of assets.
Tower Cash Flow
 
"" means, as of any redemption date in respect of the Notes, the yield to maturity as of such redemption date of United States Treasury securities with a constant maturity (as compiled and published in the most recent Federal Reserve Statistical Release H.15(519) that has become publicly available at least two Business Days prior to the redemption date (or, if such Statistical Release is no longer published, any publicly available source of similar market data)) most nearly equal to the period from the redemption date to October 15, 2008, that if the period from such redemption date to October 15, 2008 is not equal to the constant maturity of the United States Treasury security for which a weekly average yield is given, the Treasury Rate will be obtained by linear interpolation (calculated to the nearest one-twelfth of a year) from the weekly average yields of United States Treasury securities for which such yields are given, except that if the period from such redemption date to October 15, 2008 is less than one year, the weekly average yield on actually traded United States Treasury securities adjusted to a constant maturity of one year will be used.
Treasury Rate
provided
 
"" means the party named as such above until a successor replaces it in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Indenture and thereafter means the successor serving hereunder.
Trustee
 
"" means a certificate substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit F.
Unrestricted Notes Certificate
 
"" means, as long as each such Person is a Subsidiary of the Company, (a)(i) Verestar and all of its Subsidiaries and (ii) each of ATS-Needham LLC, Haysville Towers, LLC, ATC Presidential Way, Inc., 10 Presidential Way Associates, LLC, Unisite/OmniPoint FL Tower Venture, LLC, Unisite/OmniPoint NE Tower Venture, LLC and Unisite/OmniPoint PA Tower Venture, LLC and (b) any other Subsidiary of the Company that is designated by the Board of Directors of the Company as an Unrestricted Subsidiary until, in the case of (a)(ii) or (b), such time as it becomes a Restricted Subsidiary in accordance with this Indenture.
Unrestricted Subsidiary
 
"" means Verestar, Inc. (formerly ATC Teleports Inc.), a Delaware corporation.
Verestar
 
"" means a U.S. person as defined in Rule 902(o) under the Securities Act.
U.S. Person
 
"" of any Person as of any date means the Capital Stock of such Person that is at the time entitled to vote in the election of the Board of Directors of such Person.
Voting Stock
 
"" means, when applied to any Indebtedness at any date, the number of years obtained by dividing:
Weighted Average Life to Maturity
 
 
 
 
 
"" means, in respect of any Person, a Restricted Subsidiary of such Person all of the outstanding Capital Stock or other ownership interests of which (other than directors' qualifying shares) is at the time be owned by such Person or by one or more Wholly Owned Restricted Subsidiaries of such Person or by such Person and one or more Wholly Owned Restricted Subsidiaries of such Person.
Wholly Owned Restricted Subsidiary
 
Section 1.02. .
Other Definitions
 
 
Section 1.03. .
Incorporation by Reference of Trust Indenture Act
 
Whenever this Indenture refers to a provision of the TIA, the provision is incorporated by reference in and made a part of this Indenture.
 
The following TIA terms used in this Indenture have the following meanings:
 
"indenture securities" means the Notes;
"indenture security Holder" means a Holder of a Note;
"indenture to be qualified" means this Indenture;
"indenture trustee" or "institutional trustee" means the Trustee; and
"obligor" on the Notes means the Company and any successor obligor upon the Notes.
 
All other terms used in this Indenture that are defined by the TIA, defined by the TIA's reference to another statute or defined by SEC rule under the TIA have the meanings so assigned to them.
 
Section 1.04. .
Rules of Construction
 
Unless the context otherwise requires:
 
(a) a term has the meaning assigned to it;
 
(b) an accounting term not otherwise defined has the meaning assigned to it in accordance with GAAP;
 
(c) "or" is not exclusive;
 
(d) words in the singular include the plural, and in the plural include the singular;
 
(e) provisions apply to successive events and transactions;
 
(f) references to sections of or rules under the Securities Act shall be deemed to include substitute, replacement or successor sections or rules adopted by the SEC from time to time;
 
(g) references to "interest" on the Notes shall include Additional Interest; and
 
(h) references to the payment of "principal" on the Notes shall include applicable premium, if any.
 
 
 
Section 2.01. .
Form and Dating
 
(a) . The Notes and the Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto. The Notes may have notations, legends or endorsements required by law, stock exchange rule or usage. Each Note shall be dated the date of its authentication. The Notes shall be in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples thereof.
General
 
The Notes may consist of Original Notes, Additional Notes and/or Exchange Notes, which shall rank in right of payment with each other and with all other existing and future senior unsecured obligations of the Company. Unless the context otherwise requires, Original Notes and Exchange Notes and any Additional Notes shall be considered collectively to be a single class for all purposes of this Indenture, including without limitation waivers, amendments, redemptions, Change of Control Offers and Asset Sale Offers.
pari passu
 
The terms and provisions contained in the Notes shall constitute, and are hereby expressly made, a part of this Indenture and the Company and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of this Indenture, expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby. However, to the extent any provision of any Note conflicts with the express provisions of this Indenture, the provisions of this Indenture shall govern and be controlling.
 
(b) . Notes issued in global form shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto (including the Global Note Legend thereon and the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Note" attached thereto). Notes issued in definitive form shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto (but without the Global Note Legend thereon and without the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Note" attached thereto).
Global Notes
 
Each Global Note shall represent such of the outstanding Notes as shall be specified therein and each shall provide that it shall represent the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes represented thereby may from time to time be reduced or increased, as appropriate, to reflect exchanges, redemptions, repurchases and transfers of interests. Any endorsement of a Global Note to reflect the amount of any increase or decrease in the aggregate
 
principal amount of outstanding Notes represented thereby shall be made by the Trustee or the Custodian, at the direction of the Trustee, in accordance with instructions given by the Holder thereof as required by Section 2.06 hereof.
 
(c) . The provisions of the "Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System" and "Terms and Conditions Governing Use of Euroclear" and the "General Terms and Conditions of Clearstream" and "Customer Handbook" of Clearstream shall be applicable to transfers of beneficial interests in Global Notes that are held by Participants through Euroclear or Clearstream.
Euroclear and Clearstream Procedures Applicable
 
(d) . Upon their original issuance, Rule 144A Notes shall be issued in the form of one or more Global Notes registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee and deposited with the Trustee, as Custodian for the Depositary, for credit by the Depositary to the respective accounts of beneficial owners of the Notes represented thereby (or such other accounts as they may direct). Such Global Notes, together with their Successor Notes which are Global Notes other than the Regulation S Global Notes, are collectively herein called the "Rule 144A Global Note."
Rule 144A and Regulation S Global Notes
 
Upon their original issuance, Regulation S Notes shall be issued in the form of one or more Global Notes registered in the name of the Depositary, or its nominee and deposited with the Trustee, as Custodian for the Depositary, for credit to the respective accounts of the beneficial owners of the Notes represented thereby (or such other accounts as they may direct). Such Global Notes, together with their Successor Notes which are Global Notes other than the Rule 144A Global Note, are collectively herein called the "Regulation S Global Note."
 
Section 2.02.
Execution and Authentication.
 
Two Officers shall sign the Notes for the Company by manual or facsimile signature.
 
If an Officer whose signature is on a Note no longer holds that office at the time a Note is authenticated, the Note shall nevertheless be valid.
 
A Note shall not be valid until authenticated by the manual signature of the Trustee. The signature shall be conclusive evidence that the Note has been authenticated under this Indenture.
 
The Trustee shall, upon a written order of the Company signed by an Officer (an "Authentication Order"), authenticate Notes for original issue on the Issue Date in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $300 million (the "Original Notes"). Notes shall be dated the date of their authentication.
 
At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture and after the effectiveness of a Registration Statement under the Securities Act with respect thereto, the Company may deliver Exchange Notes executed by the Company to the Trustee for authentication, together with an Authentication Order for the authentication and delivery of such Exchange Notes and a like principal amount of Original Notes for cancellation in accordance
 
with Section 2.11 of this Indenture, and the Trustee in accordance with an Authentication Order shall authenticate and deliver such Notes. In authenticating such Exchange Notes, and accepting the additional responsibilities under this Indenture in relation to such Notes, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to Section 7.01) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating,
 
 
 
The Trustee may appoint an authenticating agent acceptable to the Company to authenticate Notes. An authenticating agent may authenticate Notes whenever the Trustee may do so. Each reference in this Indenture to authentication by the Trustee includes authentication by such agent. An authenticating agent has the same rights as an Agent to deal with Holders or an Affiliate of the Company.
 
Section 2.03. .
Registrar and Paying Agent
 
The Company shall maintain an office or agency where Notes may be presented for registration of transfer or for exchange ("Registrar") and an office or agency where Notes may be presented for payment ("Paying Agent"). The Registrar shall keep a register of the Notes and of their transfer and exchange. The Company may appoint one or more co-registrars and one or more additional paying agents. The term "Registrar" includes any co-registrar and the term "Paying Agent" includes any additional paying agent. The Company may change any Paying Agent or Registrar without notice to any Holder. The Company shall promptly notify the Trustee in writing of the name and address of any Agent not a party to this Indenture. If the Company fails to appoint or maintain another entity as Registrar or Paying Agent, the Trustee shall act as such. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries may act as Paying Agent or Registrar.
 
The Company initially appoints The Depository Trust Company ("DTC") to act as Depositary with respect to the Global Notes.
 
The Company initially appoints the Trustee to act as the Registrar and Paying Agent and to act as Custodian with respect to the Global Notes.
 
Section 2.04. .
Paying Agent to Hold Money in Trust
 
The Company shall require each Paying Agent other than the Trustee to agree in writing that the Paying Agent will hold in trust for the benefit of the Holders or the Trustee all money held by the Paying Agent for the payment of principal of, or premium, if any, or interest on the Notes, and will notify the Trustee of any default by the Company in making any such payment. While any such default continues, the Trustee may require a Paying Agent to pay all money held
 
by it to the Trustee. The Company at any time may require a Paying Agent to pay all money held by it to the Trustee. Upon payment over to the Trustee, the Paying Agent (if other than the Company or a Subsidiary) shall have no further liability for the money. If the Company or a Subsidiary acts as Paying Agent, it shall segregate and hold in a separate trust fund for the benefit of the Holders all money held by it as Paying Agent. Upon any bankruptcy or reorganization proceedings relating to the Company, the Trustee shall serve as Paying Agent for the Notes.
 
Section 2.05. .
Holder Lists
 
The Trustee shall preserve in as current a form as is reasonably practicable the most recent list available to it of the names and addresses of all Holders and shall otherwise comply with TIA  312(a). If the Trustee is not the Registrar, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee at least seven Business Days before April 15 and October 15 of any given year and at such other times as the Trustee may reasonably request in writing, a list in such form and as of such date as the Trustee may reasonably require of the names and addresses of the Holders of Notes, and the Company shall otherwise comply with TIA  312(a).
 
Section 2.06. .
Transfer and Exchange
 
(a) Transfer and Exchange of Global Notes. A Global Note may not be transferred as a whole except by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary, by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or to another nominee of the Depositary, or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary. All Global Notes will be exchanged by the Company for Definitive Notes if (i) the Company delivers to the Trustee notice from the Depositary that it is unwilling or unable to continue to act as Depositary or that it is no longer a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act and, in either case, a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 120 days after the date of such notice from the Depositary, (ii) the Company in its sole discretion determines that the Global Notes (in whole but not in part) should be exchanged for Definitive Notes and delivers a written notice to such effect to the Trustee, or (iii) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and the Registrar has received a request from the Depositary. Upon the occurrence of any of the preceding events in (i), (ii) or (iii) above, Definitive Notes shall be issued in such names as the Depositary shall instruct the Trustee. The owner of a beneficial interest in a Global Note will be entitled to receive a Definitive Note in exchange for such interest if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing. Global Notes also may be exchanged or replaced, in whole or in part, as provided in Sections 2.07 and 2.10 hereof. Every Note authenticated and delivered in exchange for, or in lieu of, a Global Note or any portion thereof, pursuant to this Section 2.06, or Section 2.07 or 2.10 hereof, shall be authenticated and delivered in the form of, and shall be, a Global Note. A Global Note may not be exchanged for another Note other than as in this Section 2.06(a); however, beneficial interests in a Global Note may be transferred and exchanged as in Section 2.06(b), (c) or (f) hereof.
provided
provided
 
In the event that Definitive Notes are not issued to each holder of a beneficial interest in a Global Note promptly after the Registrar has received a request from the Holder of a Global Note to issue such Definitive Notes, the Company expressly acknowledges, with respect to the right of any Holder to pursue a remedy pursuant to Section 6.06 or 6.07 hereof, the right of any beneficial holder of Notes to pursue such remedy with respect to the portion of the Global Note that represents such beneficial holder's Notes as if such Definitive Notes had been issued.
 
(b) Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in the Global Notes. The transfer and exchange of beneficial interests in the Global Notes shall be effected through the Depositary, in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture and the Applicable Procedures. Transfers of beneficial interests in the Global Notes also shall require compliance with either subparagraph (i) or (ii) below, as applicable, as well as one or more of the other following subparagraphs, as applicable:
 
 
 
 
 
(c) If any Holder of a beneficial interest in a Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Definitive Note or to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Definitive Note, then, upon satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Sections 2.06(a) and 2.06(b)(ii) hereof, the Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Global Note to be reduced accordingly pursuant to Section 2.06(g) hereof, and the
Transfer or Exchange of Beneficial Interests for Definitive Notes.
 
Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Person designated in the instructions a Definitive Note in the appropriate principal amount. Any Definitive Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest pursuant to this Section 2.06(c) shall bear the legend restricting transfers that is borne by such Global Note and shall be registered in such name or names and in such authorized denomination or denominations as the holder of such beneficial interest shall instruct the Registrar through instructions from the Depositary and the Participant or Indirect Participant.
 
(d) Upon request by a Holder of Definitive Notes to exchange such Definitive Notes for a beneficial interest in a Global Note and such requesting Holder's presenting or surrendering to the Registrar the Definitive Notes duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instruction of transfer in form satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by such Holder or by its attorney, duly authorized in writing, the Registrar shall register the transfer or exchange of Definitive Notes and effect the transfer or exchange through the Depositary, in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture and the Applicable Procedures. The Trustee shall cancel the Definitive Note and cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Global Note to be increased accordingly pursuant to the terms of this Indenture and the Applicable Procedures. If the Definitive Note to be transferred in whole or in part is a Restricted Note, or is a Regulation S Note and the transfer is to occur during the Restricted Period therefor, then the Trustee shall have received (A) a Restricted Notes Certificate, satisfactory to the Trustee and duly executed by the transferor Holder or his attorney duly authorized in writing, in which case the transferee Holder shall take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in the Restricted Global Note, or (B) a Regulation S Certificate, satisfactory to the Trustee and duly executed by the transferor Holder or his attorney duly authorized in writing, in which case the transferee Holder shall take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in the Regulation S Global Note (subject in every case to Section 2.06(f)).
Transfer or Exchange of Definitive Notes for Beneficial Interests.
 
(e) Upon request by a Holder of Definitive Notes and such requesting Holder's presenting or surrendering to the Registrar the Definitive Notes duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instruction of transfer in form satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by such Holder or by its attorney, duly authorized in writing, the Registrar shall register the transfer or exchange of Definitive Notes; provided that, if the Note to be transferred in whole or in part is a Restricted Note, or is a Regulation S Note and the transfer is to occur during the Restricted Period therefor, then the Trustee shall have received (A) a Restricted Notes Certificate, satisfactory to the Trustee and duly executed by the transferor Holder or his attorney duly authorized in writing, in which case the transferee Holder shall take delivery in the form of a Restricted Note, or (B) a Regulation S Certificate, satisfactory to the Trustee and duly executed by the transferor Holder or his attorney duly authorized in writing, in which case the transferee Holder shall take delivery in the form of a Regulation S Note (subject in every case to Section 2.06(f)).
Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Notes for Definitive Notes.
 
(f)
Legends.
 
 
"THIS GLOBAL NOTE IS HELD BY THE DEPOSITARY (AS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE GOVERNING THIS NOTE) OR ITS NOMINEE IN CUSTODY FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE BENEFICIAL OWNERS HEREOF, AND IS NOT TRANSFERABLE TO ANY PERSON UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES EXCEPT THAT (I) THE TRUSTEE MAY MAKE SUCH NOTATIONS HEREON AS MAY BE REQUIRED PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.06 OF THE INDENTURE, (II) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE BUT NOT IN PART PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.06(a) OF THE INDENTURE, (III) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE DELIVERED TO THE TRUSTEE FOR CANCELLATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.11 OF THE INDENTURE AND (IV) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE TRANSFERRED TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY WITH THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF AMERICAN TOWER CORPORATION."
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(g) At such time as all beneficial interests in a particular Global Note have been exchanged for Definitive Notes or a particular Global Note has been redeemed, repurchased or canceled in whole and not in part, each such Global Note shall be returned to or retained and canceled by the Trustee in accordance with Section 2.11 hereof. At any time prior to such cancellation, if any beneficial interest in a Global Note is exchanged for or transferred to a Person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Note or for Definitive Notes, the principal amount of Notes represented by such Global Note shall be reduced accordingly and an endorsement shall be made on such Global Note by the Trustee or by the Depositary at the direction of the Trustee to reflect
Cancellation and/or Adjustment of Global Notes.
 
such reduction; and if the beneficial interest is being exchanged for or transferred to a Person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Note, such other Global Note shall be increased accordingly and an endorsement shall be made on such Global Note by the Trustee or by the Depositary at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such increase.
 
(h)
General Provisions Relating to Transfers and Exchanges.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2.07.
Replacement Notes.
 
If any mutilated Note is surrendered to the Trustee or the Company and the Trustee receives evidence to its satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Note, the Company shall issue and the Trustee, upon receipt of an Authentication Order, shall authenticate a replacement Note if the Trustee's requirements are met. If required by the Trustee or the Company, an indemnity bond must be supplied by the Holder that is sufficient in the judgment of the Trustee and the Company to protect the Company, the Trustee, any Agent and any authenticating agent from any loss that any of them may suffer if a Note is replaced. The Company may charge for its expenses in replacing a Note.
 
Every replacement Note is an additional obligation of the Company and shall be entitled to all of the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with all other Notes duly issued hereunder.
 
Section 2.08.
Outstanding Notes.
 
The Notes outstanding at any time are all the Notes authenticated by the Trustee except for those canceled by it, those delivered to it for cancellation, those reductions in the interest in a Global Note effected by the Trustee in accordance with the provisions hereof, and those described in this Section as not outstanding. Except as set forth in Section 2.09 hereof, a Note does not cease to be outstanding because the Company or an Affiliate of the Company holds the Note; however, Notes held by the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company shall not be deemed to be outstanding for purposes of Section 3.07(b) hereof.
 
If a Note is replaced pursuant to Section 2.07 hereof, it ceases to be outstanding unless the Trustee receives proof satisfactory to it that the replaced Note is held by a bona fide purchaser.
 
If the principal amount of any Note is considered paid under Section 4.01 hereof, it ceases to be outstanding and interest on it ceases to accrue.
 
If the Paying Agent (other than the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate of any thereof) holds, on a redemption date or maturity date, money sufficient to pay Notes payable on that date, then on and after that date such Notes shall be deemed to be no longer outstanding and shall cease to accrue interest.
 
Section 2.09.
Treasury Notes.
 
In determining whether the Holders of the required principal amount of Notes have concurred in any direction, waiver or consent, Notes owned by the Company, or by any Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with the Company, shall be considered as though not outstanding, except that for the purposes of determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying on any such direction, waiver or consent, only Notes that the Trustee knows are so owned shall be so disregarded.
 
Section 2.10.
Temporary Notes.
 
Until certificates representing Notes are ready for delivery, the Company may prepare and the Trustee, upon receipt of an Authentication Order, shall authenticate temporary Notes. Temporary Notes shall be substantially in the form of certificated Notes but may have variations that the Company considers appropriate for temporary Notes and as shall be reasonably acceptable to the Trustee. Without unreasonable delay, the Company shall prepare and the Trustee shall authenticate definitive Notes in exchange for temporary Notes.
 
Holders of temporary Notes shall be entitled to all of the benefits of this Indenture.
 
Section 2.11.
Cancellation.
 
The Company at any time may deliver Notes to the Trustee for cancellation. The Registrar and Paying Agent shall forward to the Trustee any Notes surrendered to them for registration of transfer, exchange or payment. The Trustee and no one else shall cancel all Notes surrendered for registration of transfer, exchange, payment, replacement or cancellation and shall dispose of such cancelled Notes in its customary manner in accordance with prudent business practices. The Company may not issue new Notes to replace Notes that it has paid or that have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation except as expressly permitted pursuant to this Indenture.
 
Section 2.12.
Defaulted Interest.
 
If the Company defaults in a payment of interest on the Notes, it shall pay the defaulted interest in any lawful manner, plus, to the extent lawful, interest payable on the defaulted interest, to the Persons who are Holders on a subsequent special record date, in each case at the rate provided in the Notes and in Section 4.01 hereof. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of defaulted interest proposed to be paid on each Note and the date of the proposed payment. The Company shall fix or cause to be fixed each such special record date and payment date, provided that no such special record date shall be less than 10 days prior to the
 
related payment date for such defaulted interest. At least 15 days before the special record date, the Company (or, upon the written request of the Company, the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Company) shall mail or cause to be mailed to Holders a notice that states the special record date, the related payment date and the amount of such interest to be paid.
 
Section 2.13.
CUSIP Numbers.
 
The Trustee shall use "CUSIP" numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders if the Company uses "CUSIP" numbers in issuing the Notes; provided that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Notes or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Notes, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Company will promptly notify the Trustee of any change in the "CUSIP" numbers.
 
Section 2.14.
Additional Notes.
 
The Company may, from time to time, subject to compliance with any other applicable provisions of this Indenture, without the consent of the Holders, create and issue pursuant to this Indenture additional notes ("Additional Notes") having terms and conditions identical to those of the Notes, except that Additional Notes:
 
(i) may have a different issue date from the Notes;
 
(ii) may have a different amount of interest payable on the first Interest Payment Date after issuance than is payable on other Notes; and
 
(iii) may have terms specified in the Additional Note Board Resolution or Additional Note Supplemental Indenture for such Additional Notes making appropriate adjustments to this Article II and Exhibit A (and related definitions) applicable to such Additional Notes in order to conform to and ensure compliance with the Securities Act (or other applicable securities laws) and any registration rights or similar agreement applicable to such Additional Notes, which are not adverse in any material respect to the Holder of any Notes (other than such Additional Notes);
 
, that no adjustment pursuant to this Section 2.14 shall cause such Additional Notes to constitute, as determined pursuant to an Opinion of Counsel, a different class of securities than the Original Notes for U.S. federal income tax purposes except for Additional Notes that have a separate CUSIP number from the Notes pending performance by the Company of its obligations under the Registration Rights Agreement.
provided
 
 
 
Section 3.01.
Notices to Trustee.
 
If the Company elects to redeem Notes pursuant to the optional redemption provisions of Section 3.07 hereof, it shall furnish to the Trustee, at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before a redemption date, an Officers' Certificate setting forth (1) the redemption date, (2) the principal amount of Notes to be redeemed and (3) the redemption price (expressed as a percentage of the principal amount).
 
Section 3.02.
Selection of Notes to Be Redeemed.
 
If less than all of the Notes are to be redeemed or purchased in an offer to purchase at any time, the Trustee shall select the Notes to be redeemed as follows:
 
 
 
No Notes of $1,000 of principal amount or less will be redeemed in part. Except as provided in the preceding sentence, provisions of this Indenture that apply to Notes called for redemption also apply to portions of Notes called for redemption.
 
Notes called for redemption become due on the date fixed for redemption.
 
Section 3.03.
Notice of Redemption.
 
Subject to the provisions of Section 3.09 hereof, at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before a redemption date, the Company shall mail or cause to be mailed, by first class mail, a notice of redemption to each Holder whose Notes are to be redeemed at its registered address, except that redemption notices may be mailed more than 60 days prior to a redemption date if the notice is issued in connection with a defeasance of the Notes or a satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture. Notices of redemption may not be conditional.
 
The notice shall identify the Notes to be redeemed and shall state:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At the Company's request, the Trustee shall give the notice of redemption in the Company's name and at its expense; , , that the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee, at least 45 days (or such shorter time as may be agreed to by the Trustee) prior to the redemption date, an Officers' Certificate requesting that the Trustee give such notice and setting forth the information to be stated in such notice as provided in the preceding paragraph.
provided
however
 
Section 3.04.
Effect of Notice of Redemption.
 
Once notice of redemption is mailed in accordance with Section 3.03 hereof, Notes called for redemption become irrevocably due and payable on the redemption date at the redemption price.
 
Section 3.05.
Deposit of Redemption Price.
 
Prior to 10:00 a.m., Eastern Time, on a redemption date, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with the Paying Agent money sufficient to pay the redemption price of and accrued interest and Additional Interest, if any, on all Notes to be redeemed on that date. The Trustee or the Paying Agent shall promptly return to the Company any money deposited with the Trustee or the Paying Agent by the Company in excess of the amounts necessary to pay the
 
redemption price of and accrued interest and Additional Interest, if any, on all Notes to be redeemed.
 
If the Company complies with the provisions of the preceding paragraph, on and after the redemption date, interest and Additional Interest, if any, on the Notes or the portions of the Notes called for redemption shall cease to accrue for as long as the Company has deposited with the Trustee or Paying Agent funds in satisfaction of the applicable redemption price. If a Note is redeemed on or after a Regular Record Date but on or prior to the related Interest Payment Date, then any accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Interest, if any, shall be paid to the Person in whose name such Note was registered at the close of business on such Regular Record Date.
 
Section 3.06.
Notes Redeemed in Part.
 
Upon surrender of a Note that is redeemed in part, the Company shall issue and, upon the Company's written request, the Trustee shall authenticate for the Holder at the expense of the Company a new Note equal in principal amount to the unredeemed portion of the Note surrendered. If a Global Note is so surrendered, such new Note shall also be a Global Note.
 
Section 3.07.
Optional Redemption.
 
(a) Except as provided in clause (b) of this Section 3.07, at any time prior to October 15, 2008, the Company may redeem all or part of the Notes, upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount plus the Applicable Premium as of, and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, the date of redemption. On or after October 15, 2008, the Company may redeem all or a part of the Notes, upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice, at the redemption prices (expressed as percentages of the principal amount) set forth below plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes redeemed to but excluding the applicable redemption date, if redeemed during the twelve-month period beginning on October 15 of the years indicated below:
 
 
(b) Prior to October 15, 2007, the Company may use the net cash proceeds of one or more Public Equity Offerings to redeem in the aggregate up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes originally issued at a redemption price equal to 107.125% of the principal amount thereof; provided that:
 
 
 
(c) Any redemption pursuant to this Section 3.07 shall be made pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01 through 3.06 hereof.
 
Section 3.08.
Mandatory Redemption.
 
The Company shall not be required to make mandatory redemption or sinking fund payments with respect to the Notes.
 
Section 3.09.
Offer to Purchase by Application of Excess Proceeds.
 
In the event that, pursuant to Section 4.10 hereof, the Company shall be required to commence an offer to all Holders to purchase Notes (an "Asset Sale Offer"), it shall follow the procedures specified below.
 
The Asset Sale Offer shall remain open for a period of 20 Business Days following its commencement and no longer, except to the extent that a longer period is required by applicable law (the "Offer Period"). No later than five Business Days after the termination of the Offer Period (the "Purchase Date"), the Company shall purchase the aggregate principal amount (or accreted value, as applicable) of Notes and other Indebtedness of the Company that is with the Notes required to be purchased pursuant to Section 4.10 hereof (on a pro rata basis if Notes and such other Indebtedness of the Company tendered are in excess of the Excess Proceeds) (which maximum amount shall be the "Offer Amount") or, if less than the Offer Amount has been tendered, all Notes and other Indebtedness tendered in response to the Asset Sale Offer. Payment for any such Notes so purchased shall be made in the same manner as interest payments are made.
pari passu
pari passu
pari passu
 
If the Purchase Date is on or after an interest record date and on or before the related Interest Payment Date, any accrued and unpaid interest shall be paid to the Person in whose name a Note is registered at the close of business on such record date, and no additional interest shall be payable to Holders who tender Notes pursuant to the Asset Sale Offer.
 
Upon the commencement of an Asset Sale Offer, the Company shall send, by first class mail, a notice to the Trustee and each of the Holders, with a copy to the Trustee. The notice shall contain all instructions and materials necessary to enable such Holders to tender Notes pursuant to the Asset Sale Offer. The Asset Sale Offer shall be made to all Holders. The notice, which shall govern the terms of the Asset Sale Offer, shall state:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On or before the Purchase Date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful, accept for payment, on a basis to the extent necessary, the Offer Amount of Notes or portions thereof tendered pursuant to the Asset Sale Offer, or if less than the Offer Amount has been tendered, all Notes and other Indebtedness tendered, and shall deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that the Notes or portions thereof were accepted for payment by the Company in accordance with the terms of this Section 3.09. The Company, the Depositary or the Paying Agent, as the case may be, shall promptly (but in any case not later than five days after the Purchase Date) mail or deliver to each tendering Holder an amount equal to the
pro rata
pari passu
 
purchase price of the Notes tendered by such Holder and accepted by the Company for purchase, and the Company shall promptly issue a new Note, and the Trustee, upon written request from the Company shall authenticate and mail or deliver such new Note to such Holder, in a principal amount equal to any unpurchased portion of the Note surrendered. Any Note not so accepted shall be promptly mailed or delivered by the Company to the Holder thereof. The Company shall publicly announce the results of the Asset Sale Offer on the Purchase Date.
 
The Company shall comply with the requirements of Section 14(e) of the Exchange Act and any other securities laws or regulations to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable to any Asset Sale Offer. If the provisions of any of the applicable securities laws or securities regulations conflict with the provisions of this Section 3.09, the Company shall comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under this Section 3.09 by virtue of the compliance.
 
Other than as specifically provided in this Section 3.09, any purchase pursuant to this Section 3.09 shall be made pursuant to the provisions of Sections 3.01 through 3.06 hereof.
 
 
 
Section 4.01.
Payment of Notes.
 
The Company shall pay or cause to be paid the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Notes on the dates and in the manner provided in the Notes. Principal, premium, if any, and interest shall be considered paid on the date due if the Paying Agent, if other than the Company or a Subsidiary thereof, holds as of 10:00 a.m., Eastern Time, on the due date money deposited by the Company in immediately available funds and designated for and sufficient to pay all principal, premium, if any, and interest then due.
 
The Company shall, in accordance with Section 2.12 hereof, pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue principal at the rate equal to 1% per annum in excess of the then applicable interest rate on the Notes to the extent lawful; it shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue installments of interest (without regard to any applicable grace period) at the same rate to the extent lawful.
 
Section 4.02.
Maintenance of Office or Agency.
 
The Company shall maintain in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, an office or agency (which may be an office of the Trustee or an affiliate of the Trustee, Registrar or co-registrar) where Notes may be surrendered for registration of transfer or for exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Notes and this Indenture may be served. The Company shall give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and any change in the location, of such office or agency. If at any time the Company shall fail to
 
maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee.
 
The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Notes may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations; , , that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, for such purposes. The Company shall give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency.
provided
however
 
The Company hereby designates the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee as one such office or agency of the Company in accordance with Section 2.03 hereof.
 
Section 4.03.
Reports.
 
Whether or not required by the SEC, so long as any Notes are outstanding, the Company will furnish to the Holders of Notes within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and regulations for such reports:
 
 
 
Whether or not required by the SEC, the Company will file a copy of information and reports referred to in (1) and (2) above with the SEC for public availability within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and regulations, (unless the SEC will not accept such a filing), and make such information available to securities analysts and prospective investors upon request. In addition, for any time when any Notes (other than Exchange Notes) are outstanding and the Company is not subject to or is not current in its reporting obligations under clauses (1) and (2) above, the Company agrees that it will furnish to the Holders and to securities analysts and prospective investors, upon their request, the information required to be delivered pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act.
 
Section 4.04.
Compliance Certificate.
 
 
 
Section 4.05.
Taxes.
 
The Company shall pay or discharge or cause to be paid or discharged, and shall cause each of its Subsidiaries to pay or discharge, prior to delinquency, all material taxes, assessments, and governmental levies except such as are contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings or where the failure to effect such payment is not adverse in any material respect to the Holders of the Notes.
 
Section 4.06.
Stay, Extension and Usury Laws.
 
The Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it shall not at any time insist upon, plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay, extension or usury law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, that may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law, and covenants that it shall not, by resort to any such law, hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but shall suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law has been enacted.
 
Section 4.07.
Restricted Payments.
 
The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly:
 
 
 
 
 
(all such payments and other actions set forth in these clauses (1) through (4), being collectively referred to as "Restricted Payments"),
 
unless, at the time of and after giving effect to such Restricted Payment:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The preceding provisions shall not prohibit:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The amount of all Restricted Payments (other than cash) will be the fair market value on the date of the Restricted Payment of the assets or securities proposed to be transferred or issued by the Company or the applicable Restricted Subsidiary, as the case may be, pursuant to the Restricted Payment. The fair market value of any property, assets or Investments required to be
 
valued by this Section 4.07 will be determined by the Board of Directors of the Company whose resolution with respect thereto will be delivered to the Trustee. Not later than the date of making any Restricted Payment, the Company will deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that such Restricted Payment is permitted and setting forth the basis upon which the calculations required by this covenant were computed, together with a copy of any fairness opinion or appraisal required by this Indenture.
 
Section 4.08.
Dividend and Other Payment Restrictions Affecting Subsidiaries.
 
The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly, create or otherwise permit to exist or become effective any encumbrance or restriction on the ability of any Restricted Subsidiary to:
 
 
 
 
 
The preceding restrictions shall not apply to encumbrances or restrictions existing under or by reason of:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 4.09.
Incurrence of Indebtedness and Issuance of Preferred Stock.
 
The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly, create, incur, issue, assume, guarantee or otherwise become directly or indirectly liable, contingently or otherwise, with respect to (collectively, "incur") any Indebtedness (including Acquired Debt) and the Company will not issue any Disqualified Stock and will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to issue any shares of preferred stock; that the Company may incur Indebtedness (including Acquired Debt) or issue shares of Disqualified Stock and the Company's Restricted Subsidiaries may incur Indebtedness (including Acquired Debt) or issue preferred stock if, in each case, the Company's Debt to Adjusted Consolidated Cash Flow Ratio at the time of incurrence of the Indebtedness or the issuance of the preferred stock, after giving pro forma effect to such incurrence or issuance as of such date and to the use of proceeds from such incurrence or issuance as if the same had occurred at the beginning of the most recently ended four full fiscal quarter period of the Company for which internal financial statements are available, would have been no greater than 7.5 to 1.
provided
 
The provisions of the first paragraph of this Section 4.09 shall not prohibit the incurrence of any of the following items of Indebtedness or to the issuance of any of the following items of Disqualified Stock or preferred stock (collectively, "Permitted Debt"):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) any subsequent issuance or transfer of Equity Interests that results in any such Indebtedness or preferred stock being held by a Person other than the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary, and
 
(b) any sale or other transfer of any such Indebtedness or preferred stock to a Person that is not either the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary
 
will be deemed, in each case, to constitute an incurrence of the Indebtedness by the Company or the Restricted Subsidiary or issuance of the shares of preferred stock by the Restricted Subsidiary, as the case may be, that was not permitted by this clause (6);
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition:
 
 
 
 
 
For purposes of determining compliance with this Section 4.09, in the event that an item of proposed Indebtedness meets the criteria of more than one of the categories of Permitted Debt described in clauses (1) through (12) above the Company will be permitted to classify, or later reclassify, all or a portion of such item of Indebtedness in any manner that complies with this Section 4.09. Indebtedness outstanding under the Senior Credit Facility on the Issue Date will be deemed to have been incurred on such date under clause (1) of the second paragraph of this Section 4.09.
 
Section 4.10.
Asset Sales.
 
The Company will not, and will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, consummate an Asset Sale unless:
 
 
 
 
 
For purposes of this provision, each of the following shall be deemed to be cash:
 
 
 
Within 365 days after the receipt of any Net Proceeds from an Asset Sale by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company, the Company or the Restricted Subsidiary may apply an amount equal to such Net Proceeds at its option to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pending the final application of any Net Proceeds, they can be used to temporarily reduce revolving credit borrowings of the Company or its Restricted Subsidiaries or otherwise be invested in any manner that is not prohibited by this Indenture. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Company or one of its Restricted Subsidiaries enters into a legally binding obligation to invest any Net Proceeds and such obligation is terminated prior to 365 days after the relevant Asset Sale, such Net Proceeds may be applied as provided in clauses (1) through (5) above on or prior to the later of such 365
th
day and 60 days after such termination.
 
Any Net Proceeds from Asset Sales that are not applied or invested as provided in the preceding paragraph will be deemed to constitute "Excess Proceeds." When the aggregate amount of Excess Proceeds exceeds $15.0 million, the Company will be required to make an offer to all Holders of Notes and all holders of other Indebtedness of the Company that is with the Notes containing provisions similar to those set forth in this Indenture relating to the Notes with respect to offers to purchase or redeem with the proceeds of sales of assets (an "Asset Sale Offer"), to purchase the maximum principal amount of Notes and such other Indebtedness of the Company that may be purchased out of the Excess Proceeds. The offer price in any Asset Sale Offer for Notes will be equal to 100% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon up to but excluding the date of purchase, and will be payable in cash. If any Excess Proceeds remain after consummation of an Asset Sale Offer, those Excess Proceeds may be used by the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries for any purpose not otherwise prohibited by this Indenture. If the principal amount plus premium, if any, and accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes and the other Indebtedness tendered into such Asset Sale Offer exceeds the amount of Excess Proceeds, the Trustee will select the Notes and such other Indebtedness to be purchased on a pro rata basis. Upon completion of each Asset Sale Offer, the amount of Excess Proceeds will be reset at zero.
pari passu
pari passu
pari passu
pari passu
 
The Company will comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable to any Asset Sale Offer. If the provisions of any of the applicable securities laws or securities regulations conflict with the provisions of this covenant, the Company will comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under this covenant by virtue of the compliance.
 
Section 4.11.
Transactions with Affiliates.
 
The Company will not, and will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, make any payment to, or sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its properties or assets to, or purchase any property or assets from, or enter into or make or amend any transaction, contract, agreement, understanding, loan, advance or Guarantee with, or for the benefit of, any Affiliate (each of the foregoing, an "Affiliate Transaction"), unless:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following items shall not be deemed Affiliate Transactions, and therefore, will not be subject to the provisions of the prior paragraph:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 4.12.
Liens.
 
The Company will not, and will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly, create, incur, assume or otherwise cause or suffer to exist or become effective any Lien (other than Permitted Liens) of any kind securing Indebtedness, Attributable Debt or trade payables upon any of their property or assets now owned or hereafter acquired unless all payments due under this Indenture and the Notes are secured on an equal and ratable basis with the obligations so secured until such time as such obligations are no longer secured by a Lien of any kind.
 
Section 4.13.
Corporate Existence.
 
Subject to Article 5 hereof, the Company shall do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect:
 
 
 
, that the Company shall not be required to preserve any such right, license or franchise, or the corporate, partnership or other existence of any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, if the Board of Directors of the Company shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, and that the loss thereof is not adverse in any material respect to the Holders of the Notes.
provided, however
 
Section 4.14.
Offer to Repurchase Upon Change of Control.
 
If a Change of Control occurs, the Company shall make an offer (a "Change of Control Offer") to each Holder to repurchase all or any part (equal to $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof) of each Holder's Notes at a purchase price, in cash, equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid thereto, if any, up to but excluding the date of purchase (the "Change of Control Payment"). Within 15 days following any Change of Control, the Company shall mail a notice to each Holder describing the transaction or transactions that constitute a Change of Control and stating:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful,
 
 
 
 
The Paying Agent shall promptly mail to each Holder of Notes properly tendered the Change of Control Payment for such Notes, and the Trustee shall promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book entry) to each Holder a new Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of the Notes surrendered, if any; that each new Note shall be in a principal amount of $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000.
provided
 
The Change of Control provisions described above will be applicable whether or not any other covenants or similar provisions of this Indenture are applicable. The Company shall comply with the requirements of Section 14(e) of the Exchange Act and any other securities laws or regulations to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable to any Change of Control Offer. If the provisions of any of the applicable securities laws or securities regulations conflict with the provisions of this Section 4.14, the Company shall comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under this Section 4.14 by virtue of the compliance.
 
The Company shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon a Change of Control if a third party makes the Change of Control Offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements set forth in this Section 4.14 and purchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under such Change of Control Offer.
 
Section 4.15.
Sale and Leaseback Transactions.
 
The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, enter into any sale and leaseback transaction; d that the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries may enter into a sale and leaseback transaction if:
provide
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 4.16.
[Reserved].
 
Section 4.17.
Limitation on Issuances of Guarantees of Indebtedness.
 
The Company will not permit any Restricted Subsidiary, directly or indirectly, to Guarantee or pledge any assets to secure the payment of any other Indebtedness of the Company unless such Subsidiary simultaneously executes and delivers a supplemental indenture to this Indenture governing the Notes providing for the Guarantee of the payment of the Notes by such Subsidiary (a "Note Guarantee"), which Note Guarantee shall be senior to or with such Subsidiary's Guarantee of or pledge to secure such other Indebtedness; that this covenant will not apply to a Credit Facility of any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company for which the Company is a guarantor. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Note Guarantee by a Subsidiary shall provide by its terms that it shall be automatically and unconditionally released and discharged upon any sale, exchange or transfer, to any Person other than a Subsidiary of the Company, of all of the Company's stock in, or all or substantially all the assets of, such Subsidiary, which sale, exchange or transfer is made in compliance with the applicable provisions of this Indenture. The form of such Note Guarantee is attached as Exhibit C hereto.
pari passu
provided
 
Section 4.18.
Covenant Suspension.
 
If on any date following the Issue Date:
 
 
 
then, beginning on that day, the Company and the Restricted Subsidiaries will not be subject to the following Sections of this Indenture: Section 3.09, Section 4.07, Section 4.08, Section 4.09, Section 4.10, Section 4.11, Section 4.17, Section 4.19, clauses (1)(a) and (3) of Section 4.15, and clause (2)(c)(x) of Section 5.01 (collectively, the "Suspended Covenants"). In the event that the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries are not subject to the Suspended Covenants for any period of time as a result of the preceding sentence and, subsequently, one or both of the Rating Agencies withdraws its rating or downgrades the rating assigned to the Notes below the required Investment Grade Ratings or a Default or Event of Default occurs and is continuing, then the
 
Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries will thereafter again be subject to the Suspended Covenants for all periods during the continuance of that withdrawal, downgrade, Default or Event of Default and, furthermore, compliance with the provisions of Section 4.07 with respect to Restricted Payments made after the time of the withdrawal, downgrade, Default or Event of Default will be calculated in accordance with the terms of that covenant as though that covenant had been in effect during the entire period of time from the Issue Date, , , that there will not be deemed to have occurred a Default or Event of Default with respect to the Suspended Covenants during the time that the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries were not subject to the Suspended Covenants (or after that time based solely on events that occurred during that time).
provided
however
 
Section 4.19.
Designation of Restricted and Unrestricted Subsidiaries.
 
The Board of Directors of the Company may designate any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company to be an Unrestricted Subsidiary if that designation would not cause a Default or Event of Default and to the extent that such Subsidiary:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If a Restricted Subsidiary is designated as an Unrestricted Subsidiary, the aggregate fair market value of all outstanding Investments owned by the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries in the Subsidiary properly designated shall be deemed to be an Investment made as of the time of the designation. This designation will only be permitted if the Investment would be permitted at that time under this Indenture and if the Restricted Subsidiary otherwise meets the definition of an Unrestricted Subsidiary. Any designation of a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company as an Unrestricted Subsidiary shall be evidenced to the Trustee by filing with the Trustee a certified copy of the Board Resolution giving effect to such designation and an Officers' Certificate certifying that such designation complied with the preceding conditions and was permitted by Section 4.07 hereof. If, at any time, any Unrestricted Subsidiary would fail to meet the foregoing requirements as an Unrestricted Subsidiary, it shall thereafter cease to be an Unrestricted Subsidiary for purposes of this Indenture and any Indebtedness of that Subsidiary shall be deemed to be incurred by a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company as of such date (and, if such Indebtedness is not permitted to be incurred as of such date under Section 4.09 hereof, the Company shall be in default of such covenant).
 
The Board of Directors of the Company may at any time designate any Unrestricted Subsidiary (other than Verestar and its Subsidiaries) to be a Restricted Subsidiary; provided that the designation shall be deemed to be an incurrence of Indebtedness by a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company of any outstanding Indebtedness of such Unrestricted Subsidiary and the designation shall only be permitted if:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5.01.
Merger, Consolidation or Sale of Assets.
 
The Company shall not, directly or indirectly:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(ii) in the case of any other such transaction, the entity or Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger (if other than the Company), or to which the sale, assignment, transfer, lease, conveyance or other disposition shall have been made, at the time of the transaction, after
 
giving pro forma effect to the transaction as of such date for balance sheet purposes and as if such transaction had occurred at the beginning of the most recently ended four full fiscal quarter period of such entity or Person for which internal financial statements are available for income statement purposes, (i) would have been permitted to incur at least $1.00 of additional Indebtedness pursuant to the first paragraph of Section 4.09 hereof or (ii) would have had a Debt to Adjusted Consolidated Cash Flow Ratio that was not greater than the Company's Debt to Adjusted Consolidated Cash Flow Ratio for the same period without giving pro forma effect to such transaction; , , that for purposes of determining the amount of Indebtedness permitted to be incurred or the Debt to Adjusted Consolidated Cash Flow Ratio of any entity or Person for purposes of this clause (ii) the entity or Person will be substituted for the Company in Section 4.09 hereof and in the definition of Debt to Adjusted Consolidated Cash Flow Ratio and the defined terms included therein under Section 1.01 hereof; and
provided
however
 
 
In addition, the Company will not, directly or indirectly, lease all or substantially all of its properties or assets, in one or more related transactions, to any other Person.
 
Section 5.02.
Successor Corporation Substituted.
 
Upon any consolidation or merger, or any sale, assignment, transfer, lease, conveyance or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company in accordance with Section 5.01 hereof, the successor corporation formed by such consolidation or into or with which the Company is merged or to which such sale, assignment, transfer, lease, conveyance or other disposition is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for (so that from and after the date of such consolidation, merger, sale, lease, conveyance or other disposition, the provisions of this Indenture referring to the "Company" shall refer instead to the successor corporation and not to the Company), and may exercise every right and power of the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor Person had been named as the Company herein; , , that the predecessor Company shall not be relieved from the obligation to pay the principal of and interest on the Notes except in the case of a sale of all of the Company's assets that meets the requirements of Section 5.01 hereof.
provided
however
 
 
 
Section 6.01.
Events of Default.
 
Each of the following is an Event of Default:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and the order or decree remains unstayed and in effect for 60 consecutive days.
 
Section 6.02.
Acceleration.
 
In the case of an Event of Default specified in clause (7) or (8) of Section 6.01 hereof, the principal amount of, premium, if any, and any accrued and unpaid interest on all outstanding Notes shall become due and payable immediately without further action or notice. If any other Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may declare the principal amount of, premium, if any, and any accrued and unpaid interest on all outstanding Notes to be due and payable immediately. Upon any such declaration, the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Interest, if any, outstanding on the date of acceleration shall become immediately due and payable.
 
Section 6.03.
Other Remedies.
 
If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may pursue any available remedy to collect the payment of principal amount of, premium, if any, and interest on the Notes or to enforce the performance of any provision of the Notes or this Indenture.
 
The Trustee may maintain a proceeding even if it does not possess any of the Notes or does not produce any of them in the proceeding. A delay or omission by the Trustee or any Holder of a Note in exercising any right or remedy accruing upon an Event of Default shall not impair the right or remedy or constitute a waiver of or acquiescence in the Event of Default. All remedies are cumulative to the extent permitted by law.
 
Section 6.04.
Waiver of Past Defaults.
 
Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes by notice to the Trustee may on behalf of the Holders of all of the Notes waive an existing Default or Event of Default and its consequences hereunder, except a continuing Default or Event of Default in the payment of the principal amount, premium, if any, and any accrued and unpaid interest on, the Notes (including in connection with an offer to purchase) , , that the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may rescind an acceleration and its consequences, including any related payment default that resulted from such acceleration. Upon any such waiver, such Default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured for every purpose of this Indenture; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other Default or impair any right consequent thereon.
provided
however
 
Section 6.05.
Control by Majority.
 
Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for exercising any remedy available to the Trustee or exercising any trust or power conferred on it. However, the Trustee may refuse to follow any direction that conflicts with law or this Indenture, that the Trustee determines may be
 
unduly prejudicial to the rights of other Holders of Notes or that may involve the Trustee in personal liability.
 
Section 6.06.
Limitation on Suits.
 
A Holder of a Note may pursue a remedy with respect to this Indenture or the Notes only if:
 
 
 
 
 
A Holder of a Note may not use this Indenture to prejudice the rights of another Holder of a Note or to obtain a preference or priority over another Holder of a Note.
 
Section 6.07.
Rights of Holders of Notes to Receive Payment.
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture, the right of any Holder of a Note to receive payment of principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Note, on or after the respective due dates expressed in the Note (including in connection with an offer to purchase), or to bring suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such respective dates, shall not be impaired or affected without the consent of such Holder.
 
Section 6.08.
Collection Suit by Trustee.
 
If an Event of Default specified in clauses (1) or (2) of Section 6.01 occurs and is continuing, the Trustee is authorized to recover judgment in its own name and as trustee of an express trust against the Company for the whole amount of principal of, premium, if any, and interest remaining unpaid on the Notes and interest on overdue principal and, to the extent lawful, interest and such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel.
 
Section 6.09.
Trustee May File Proofs of Claim.
 
The Trustee is authorized to file such proofs of claim and other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel) and the Holders of the Notes allowed in any judicial proceedings relative to the Company (or any other obligor upon the Notes), its creditors or its property and shall be entitled and empowered to collect, receive and distribute any money or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and any custodian in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee, and in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due to it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 7.07 hereof. To the extent that the payment of any such compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 7.07 hereof out of the estate in any such proceeding, shall be denied for any reason, payment of the same shall be secured by a Lien on, and shall be paid out of, any and all distributions, dividends, money, securities and other properties that the Holders may be entitled to receive in such proceeding whether in liquidation or under any plan of reorganization or arrangement or otherwise. Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Notes or the rights of any Holder, or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding.
 
Section 6.10.
Priorities.
 
If the Trustee collects any money pursuant to this Article, it shall pay out the money in the following order:
 
First: to the Trustee, its agents and attorneys for amounts due under Section 7.07 hereof, including payment of all compensation, expense and liabilities incurred, and all advances made, by the Trustee and the costs and expenses of collection;
 
Second: to Holders of Notes for amounts due and unpaid on the Notes for principal, premium, if any, and interest, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on the Notes for principal, premium, if any and interest, respectively; and
 
Third: to the Company or to such party as a court of competent jurisdiction shall direct.
 
The Trustee may fix a record date and payment date for any payment to Holders of Notes pursuant to this Section 6.10.
 
Section 6.11.
Undertaking for Costs.
 
In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as a Trustee, a court in its discretion may require the filing by any party litigant in the suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of the suit, and the court in its discretion may assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses, against any party litigant in the suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by the party litigant. This Section does not apply to a suit by the Trustee, a suit by a Holder of a Note pursuant to Section 6.07 hereof, or a suit by Holders of more than 10% in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes.
 
 
 
Section 7.01.
Duties of Trustee.
 
(a) If an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee shall exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture, and use the same degree of care and skill in its exercise, as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of such person's own affairs.
 
(b) Except during the continuance of an Event of Default:
 
 
 
(c) The Trustee may not be relieved from liabilities for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act, or its own bad faith or willful misconduct, except that:
 
 
 
 
(d) Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Indenture that in any way relates to the Trustee is subject to paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this Section 7.01.
 
(e) No provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or incur any liability. The Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of its rights and powers under this Indenture at the request of any Holders, unless such Holder shall have offered to the Trustee security and indemnity satisfactory to it against any loss, liability or expense.
 
(f) The Trustee shall not be liable for interest on any money received by it except as the Trustee may agree in writing with the Company. Money held in trust by the Trustee need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
 
Section 7.02.
Rights of Trustee.
 
(a) The Trustee may conclusively rely upon any document (whether in its original or facsimile form) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper Person. The Trustee need not investigate any fact or matter stated in the document.
 
(b) Before the Trustee acts or refrains from acting, it may require an Officers' Certificate or an Opinion of Counsel or both. The Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in reliance on such Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel. The Trustee may consult with counsel of its own selection and the written and oral advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection from liability in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon.
 
(c) The Trustee may act through its attorneys and agents and shall not be responsible for the misconduct or negligence of any agent appointed with due care.
 
(d) The Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith that it believes to be authorized or within the rights or powers conferred upon it by this Indenture.
 
(e) Unless otherwise specifically provided in this Indenture, any demand, request, direction or notice from the Company shall be sufficient if signed by an Officer of the Company.
 
(f) The Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders unless such Holders shall have offered to the Trustee reasonable security or indemnity satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities that might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction.
 
(g) The Trustee shall not be deemed to have notice of any Default or Event of Default unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has actual knowledge thereof or unless written notice of any event which is in fact such a default is received by the Trustee at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and such notice references the Securities and this Indenture.
 
(h) The rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including, without limitation, its rights to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder, and each agent, custodian and other Person employed to act hereunder.
 
Section 7.03.
Individual Rights of Trustee.
 
The Trustee in its individual or any other capacity may become the owner or pledgee of Notes and may otherwise deal with the Company or any Affiliate of the Company with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee. However, in the event that the Trustee acquires any conflicting interest it must eliminate such conflict within 90 days, apply to the SEC for permission to continue as trustee or resign. Any Agent may do the same with like rights and duties. The Trustee is also subject to Sections 7.10 and 7.11 hereof.
 
Section 7.04.
Trustee's Disclaimer.
 
The Trustee shall not be responsible for and makes no representation as to the validity or adequacy of this Indenture or the Notes, it shall not be accountable for the Company's use of the proceeds from the Notes or any money paid to the Company or upon the Company's direction under any provision of this Indenture, it shall not be responsible for the use or application of any money received by any Paying Agent other than the Trustee, and it shall not be responsible for any statement or recital herein or any statement in the Notes or any other document in connection with the sale of the Notes or pursuant to this Indenture other than its certificate of authentication.
 
Section 7.05.
Notice of Defaults.
 
If a Default or Event of Default occurs and is continuing and if it is actually known to a Responsible Officer of the Trustee, the Trustee shall mail to Holders of Notes a notice of the Default or Event of Default within 90 days after it occurs. Except with respect to a Default or Event of Default relating to the payment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on the Notes, the Trustee may withhold the notice if and so long as a committee of its Responsible Officers in good faith determines that withholding the notice is in the interests of the Holders of the Notes.
 
Section 7.06.
Reports by Trustee to Holders of the Notes.
 
Within 60 days after each May 15 beginning with the May 15 following the Issue Date, and for so long as Notes remain outstanding, the Trustee shall mail to the Holders of the Notes a brief report dated as of such reporting date that complies with TIA  313(a) (but if no event described in TIA  313(a) has occurred within the twelve months preceding the reporting date, no report need be transmitted). The Trustee also shall comply with TIA  313(b). The Trustee shall also transmit by mail all reports as required by TIA  313(c).
 
A copy of each report at the time of its mailing to the Holders of Notes shall be mailed to the Company and filed with the SEC and each stock exchange on which the Notes are listed in accordance with TIA  313(d). The Company shall promptly notify the Trustee when the Notes are listed on any stock exchange or delisted therefrom.
 
Section 7.07.
Compensation and Indemnity.
 
The Company shall pay to the Trustee from time to time reasonable compensation for its acceptance of this Indenture and services hereunder. The Trustee's compensation shall not be limited by any law on compensation of a trustee of an express trust. The Company shall reimburse the Trustee promptly upon request for all reasonable disbursements, advances and expenses incurred or made by it in addition to the compensation for its services. Such expenses shall include the reasonable compensation, disbursements and expenses of the Trustee's agents and counsel.
 
The Company shall fully indemnify the Trustee against any and all losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses (including legal fees and expenses) incurred by it arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of its duties under this Indenture, including the costs and expenses of enforcing this Indenture against the Company (including this Section 7.07) and defending itself against any claim (whether asserted by the Company or any Holder or any other person) or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder, except to the extent any such loss, liability or expense is caused by its own negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct. The Trustee shall notify the Company promptly of any claim for which it may seek indemnity. Failure by the Trustee to so notify the Company shall not relieve the Company of its obligations hereunder. The Company shall defend the claim and the Trustee shall cooperate in the defense. The Trustee may have separate counsel and the Company shall pay the reasonable fees and expenses of such counsel. The Company need not pay for any settlement made without its consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
 
The obligations of the Company under this Section 7.07 shall survive the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture and the resignation or removal of the Trustee.
 
To secure the Company's payment obligations in this Section 7.07, the Trustee shall have a Lien prior to the Notes on all money or property held or collected by the Trustee, except that
 
held in trust to pay principal and interest on particular Notes. Such Lien shall survive the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture.
 
When the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services after an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(7) or (8) hereof occurs, the expenses and the compensation for the services (including the fees and expenses of its agents and counsel) are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any Bankruptcy Law.
 
The Trustee shall comply with the provisions of TIA  313(b)(2) to the extent applicable.
 
Section 7.08.
Replacement of Trustee.
 
A resignation or removal of the Trustee and appointment of a successor Trustee shall become effective only upon the successor Trustee's acceptance of appointment as provided in this Section.
 
The Trustee may resign in writing at any time and be discharged from the trust hereby created by so notifying the Company. The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may remove the Trustee by so notifying the Trustee and the Company in writing. The Company may remove the Trustee if:
 
 
 
 
 
If the Trustee resigns or is removed or if a vacancy exists in the office of Trustee for any reason, the Company shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee. Within one year after the successor Trustee takes office, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may appoint a successor Trustee to replace the successor Trustee appointed by the Company.
 
If a successor Trustee does not take office within 60 days after the retiring Trustee resigns or is removed, the retiring Trustee, the Company, or the Holders of at least 10% in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may petition at the expense of the Company any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee.
 
If the Trustee, after written request by any Holder who has been a Holder for at least six months, fails to comply with Section 7.10, such Holder may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor Trustee.
 
A successor Trustee shall deliver a written acceptance of its appointment to the retiring Trustee and to the Company. Thereupon, the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective, and the successor Trustee shall have all the rights, powers and duties of the Trustee under this Indenture. The successor Trustee shall mail a notice of its succession to Holders. The retiring Trustee shall promptly transfer all property held by it as Trustee to the successor Trustee, provided all sums owing to the Trustee hereunder have been paid and subject to the Lien provided for in Section 7.07 hereof.
 
Section 7.09.
Successor Trustee by Merger, etc.
 
If the Trustee consolidates, merges or converts into, or transfers all or substantially all of its corporate trust business to, another corporation, the successor corporation without any further act shall be the successor Trustee.
 
Section 7.10.
Eligibility; Disqualification.
 
There shall at all times be a Trustee hereunder that is a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States of America or of any state thereof that is authorized under such laws to exercise corporate trustee power, that is subject to supervision or examination by federal or state authorities and that has a combined capital and surplus of at least $75.0 million as set forth in its most recent published annual report of condition.
 
This Indenture shall always have a Trustee who satisfies the requirements of TIA  310(a)(1), (2) and (5). The Trustee is subject to TIA  310(b). For purposes of TIA 310(b)(1)(C)(i), the indentures relating to the Convertible Notes are hereby specifically described.
 
Section 7.11.
Preferential Collection of Claims Against Company.
 
The Trustee is subject to TIA  311(a), excluding any creditor relationship listed in TIA  311(b). A Trustee who has resigned or been removed shall be subject to TIA  311(a) to the extent indicated therein.
 
Section 7.12.
Trustee's Application for Instructions from the Company.
 
Any application by the Trustee for written instructions from the Company may, at the option of the Trustee, set forth in writing any action proposed to be taken or omitted by the Trustee under this Indenture and the date on and/or after which such action shall be taken or such omission shall be effective. The Trustee shall not be liable for any action taken by, or omission of, the Trustee in accordance with a proposal included in such application on or after the date specified in such application (which date shall not be less than three Business Days after the date any Officer of the Company actually receives such application, unless any such Officer shall have consented in writing to any earlier date) unless prior to taking any such action (or the effective date in the case of an omission), the Trustee shall have received written instructions in response to such application specifying the action to be taken or omitted.
 
 
 
Section 8.01.
Option to Effect Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance.
 
The Company may, at the option of its Board of Directors evidenced by a resolution set forth in an Officers' Certificate, at any time, elect to have either Section 8.02 or 8.03 hereof be applied to all outstanding Notes upon compliance with the conditions set forth below in this Article 8.
 
Section 8.02.
Legal Defeasance and Discharge.
 
Upon the Company's exercise under Section 8.01 hereof of the option applicable to this Section 8.02, the Company shall, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 8.04 hereof, be deemed to have been discharged from its obligations with respect to all outstanding Notes on the date the conditions set forth below are satisfied (hereinafter, "Legal Defeasance"). For this purpose, Legal Defeasance means that the Company shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire Indebtedness represented by the outstanding Notes, which shall thereafter be deemed to be "outstanding" only for the purposes of Section 8.05 hereof and the other Sections of this Indenture referred to in (1) and (2) below, and to have satisfied all its other obligations under such Notes and this Indenture (and the Trustee, on demand of and at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments provided to it acknowledging the same), except for the following provisions which shall survive until otherwise terminated or discharged hereunder:
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to compliance with this Article 8, the Company may exercise its option under this Section 8.02 notwithstanding the prior exercise of its option under Section 8.03 hereof.
 
Section 8.03.
Covenant Defeasance.
 
Upon the Company's exercise under Section 8.01 hereof of the option applicable to this Section 8.03, the Company shall, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 8.04 hereof, be released from its obligations under the covenants contained in Sections 3.09, 4.07, 4.08, 4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.14, 4.15, 4.17 and 4.19 hereof and clause 2(c)(x) of Section 5.01 hereof with respect to the outstanding Notes on and after the date the conditions set forth in Section 8.04 are satisfied (hereinafter, "Covenant Defeasance"), and the Notes shall thereafter be deemed not "outstanding" for the purposes of any direction, waiver, consent or declaration or act of Holders (and the consequences of any thereof) in connection with such covenants, but shall continue to be deemed "outstanding" for all other purposes hereunder (it being understood that such Notes shall not be deemed outstanding for accounting purposes). For this purpose, Covenant Defeasance means that, with respect to the outstanding Notes, the Company may omit to comply with and shall have no liability in respect of any term, condition or limitation set forth in any such covenant, whether directly or indirectly, by reason of any reference elsewhere herein to any such covenant or by reason of any reference in any such covenant to any other provision herein or in any other document and such omission to comply shall not constitute a Default or an Event of Default under Section 6.01 hereof, but, except as specified above, the remainder of this Indenture and such Notes shall be unaffected thereby. In addition, upon the Company's exercise under Section 8.01 hereof of the option applicable to this Section 8.03 hereof, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 8.04 hereof, Sections 6.01(3) through 6.01(6) hereof shall not constitute Events of Default.
 
Section 8.04.
Conditions to Legal or Covenant Defeasance.
 
The following shall be the conditions to the application of either Section 8.02 or 8.03 hereof to the outstanding Notes:
 
In order to exercise either Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 8.05.
Deposited Money and Government Securities to be Held in Trust; Other Miscellaneous Provisions.
 
Subject to Section 8.06 hereof, all money and non-callable Government Securities (including the proceeds thereof) deposited with the Trustee (or other qualifying trustee, collectively for purposes of this Section 8.05, the "Trustee") pursuant to Section 8.04 hereof in respect of the outstanding Notes shall be held in trust and applied by the Trustee, in accordance with the provisions of such Notes and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Holders of such Notes of all sums due and to become due thereon in respect of principal, premium, if any, and interest, but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
 
The Company shall pay and indemnify the Trustee against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against the cash or non-callable Government Securities deposited pursuant to Section 8.04 hereof or the principal and interest received in respect thereof other than any such tax, fee or other charge which by law is for the account of the Holders of the outstanding Notes.
 
Anything in this Article 8 to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee shall deliver or pay to the Company from time to time upon the request of the Company any money or non-callable Government Securities held by it as provided in Section 8.04 hereof which, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee (which may be the opinion delivered under Section 8.04(a) hereof), are in excess of the amount thereof that would then be required to be deposited to effect an equivalent Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance.
 
Section 8.06.
Repayment to Company.
 
Any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any Note and remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal, and premium, if any, or interest has become due and payable shall be paid to the Company on its request or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and the Holder of such Note shall thereafter look only to the Company for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company as trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease; that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such repayment, may at the expense of the Company cause to be published once, in and (national edition), notice that such money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such notification or publication, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining will be repaid to the Company.
provided, however,
The New York Times
The Wall Street Journal
 
Section 8.07.
Reinstatement.
 
If the Trustee or Paying Agent is unable to apply any United States dollars or non-callable Government Securities in accordance with Section 8.02 or 8.03 hereof, as the case may be, by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, then the Company's obligations under this Indenture and the Notes shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to Section 8.02 or 8.03 hereof until such time as the Trustee or Paying Agent is permitted to apply all such money in accordance with Section 8.02 or 8.03 hereof, as the case may be; that, if the Company makes any payment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any Note following the reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such Notes to receive such payment from the money held by the Trustee or Paying Agent.
provided, however,
 
 
 
Section 9.01.
Without Consent of Holders of Notes.
 
Notwithstanding Section 9.02 of this Indenture, the Company and the Trustee may amend or supplement this Indenture or the Notes without the consent of any Holder of Notes:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Upon the request of the Company accompanied by a resolution of its Board of Directors authorizing the execution of any such amended or supplemental Indenture, and upon receipt by the Trustee of the documents described in Section 7.02 hereof, the Trustee shall join with the Company in the execution of any amended or supplemental Indenture authorized or permitted by the terms of this Indenture and to make any further appropriate agreements and stipulations that may be therein contained, but the Trustee shall not be obligated to enter into such amended or supplemental Indenture that affects its own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise.
 
Section 9.02.
With Consent of Holders of Notes.
 
Except as provided below in this Section 9.02, the Company and the Trustee may amend or supplement this Indenture (including Section 3.09, 4.10 and 4.14 hereof) and the Notes with the consent of the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the Notes then outstanding, voting as a single class, (including, without limitation, consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for, or purchase of, the Notes), and, subject to Sections 6.04 and 6.07 hereof, any existing Default or Event of Default (other than an uncured Default or Event of Default in the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on the Notes, except a payment default resulting from an acceleration that has been rescinded) or compliance with any provision of this Indenture or the Notes may be waived with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes, voting as a single class, (including consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for, or purchase of, the Notes). Section 2.08 hereof shall determine which Notes are considered to be "outstanding" for purposes of this Section 9.02.
 
Upon the request of the Company accompanied by a resolution of its Board of Directors authorizing the execution of any such amended or supplemental Indenture, and upon the filing with the Trustee of evidence satisfactory to the Trustee of the consent of the Holders of Notes as aforesaid, and upon receipt by the Trustee of the documents described in Section 7.02 hereof, the Trustee shall join with the Company in the execution of such amended or supplemental Indenture unless such amended or supplemental Indenture directly affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise, in which case the Trustee may in its discretion, but shall not be obligated to, enter into such amended or supplemental Indenture.
 
It shall not be necessary for the consent of the Holders of Notes under this Section 9.02 to approve the particular form of any proposed amendment or waiver, but it shall be sufficient if such consent approves the substance thereof.
 
After an amendment, supplement or waiver under this Section becomes effective, the Company shall mail to the Holders of Notes affected thereby a notice briefly describing the amendment, supplement or waiver. Any failure of the Company to mail such notice, or any defect therein, shall not, however, in any way impair or affect the validity of any such amended or supplemental Indenture or waiver. Subject to Sections 6.04 and 6.07 hereof, the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding, voting as a single class, may waive compliance in a particular instance by the Company with any provision of this Indenture or the Notes. However, without the consent of each Holder affected, an amendment or waiver under this Section 9.02 may not (with respect to any Notes held by a non-consenting Holder):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 9.03.
Compliance with Trust Indenture Act.
 
Every amendment or supplement to this Indenture or the Notes shall be set forth in a amended or supplemental indenture that complies with the TIA as then in effect.
 
Section 9.04.
Revocation and Effect of Consents.
 
Until an amendment, supplement or waiver becomes effective, a consent to it by a Holder of a Note is a continuing consent by the Holder of a Note and every subsequent Holder of a Note or portion of a Note that evidences the same debt as the consenting Holder's Note, even if notation of the consent is not made on any Note. However, any such Holder of a Note or subsequent Holder of a Note may revoke the consent as to its Note if the Trustee receives written notice of revocation before the date the waiver, supplement or amendment becomes effective. An amendment, supplement or waiver becomes effective in accordance with its terms and thereafter binds every Holder.
 
Section 9.05.
Notation on or Exchange of Notes.
 
The Trustee may place an appropriate notation about an amendment, supplement or waiver on any Note thereafter authenticated. The Company in exchange for all Notes may issue and the Trustee shall, upon receipt of an Authentication Order, authenticate new Notes that reflect the amendment, supplement or waiver.
 
Failure to make the appropriate notation or issue a new Note shall not affect the validity and effect of such amendment, supplement or waiver.
 
Section 9.06.
Trustee to Sign Amendments, etc.
 
The Trustee shall sign any amended or supplemental indenture authorized pursuant to this Article 9 if the amendment or supplement does not adversely affect the rights, duties, liabilities or immunities of the Trustee. The Company may not sign an amendment or supplemental indenture until the Board of Directors approves it. In executing any amended or supplemental indenture, the Trustee shall be provided with and (subject to Section 7.01 hereof) shall be fully protected in relying upon, in addition to the documents required by Section 12.04 hereof, an Officer's Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such amended or supplemental indenture is authorized or permitted by this Indenture.
 
 
 
Section 10.01.
Guarantee.
 
The provisions of this Article 10 shall apply only to those Subsidiaries ("Guarantors") of the Company, if any, that execute one or more supplemental indentures to this Indenture in the
 
form of Exhibit B to this Indenture in compliance with the requirements of Section 4.17 of this Indenture.
 
Subject to this Article 10, each of the Guarantors hereby, jointly and severally, unconditionally guarantees to each Holder of a Note authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and to the Trustee and its successors and assigns, irrespective of the validity and enforceability of this Indenture, the Notes or the Obligations of the Company hereunder or thereunder, that: (a) the principal of and interest and Additional Interest, if any, on the Notes will be promptly paid in full when due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, redemption or otherwise, and interest on the overdue principal of and interest on the Notes, if any, if lawful, and all other Obligations of the Company to the Holders or the Trustee hereunder or thereunder will be promptly paid in full or performed, all in accordance with the terms hereof and thereof; and (b) in case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any Notes or any of such other Obligations, that same will be promptly paid in full when due or performed in accordance with the terms of the extension or renewal, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise. Failing payment when due of any amount so guaranteed or any performance so guaranteed for whatever reason, the Guarantors shall be jointly and severally obligated to pay the same immediately. Each Guarantor agrees that this is a guarantee of payment and not a guarantee of collection.
 
The Guarantors hereby agree that their obligations hereunder shall be unconditional, irrespective of the validity, regularity or enforceability of the Notes or this Indenture, the absence of any action to enforce the same, any waiver or consent by any Holder of the Notes with respect to any provisions hereof or thereof, the recovery of any judgment against the Company, any action to enforce the same or any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a guarantor. Each Guarantor hereby waives diligence, presentment, demand of payment, filing of claims with a court in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Company, any right to require a proceeding first against the Company, protest, notice and all demands whatsoever and covenant that this Note Guarantee shall not be discharged except by complete performance of the obligations contained in the Notes and this Indenture.
 
If any Holder or the Trustee is required by any court or otherwise to return to the Company, the Guarantors or any custodian, trustee, liquidator or other similar official acting in relation to either the Company or the Guarantors, any amount paid by either to the Trustee or such Holder, this Note Guarantee, to the extent theretofore discharged, shall be reinstated in full force and effect.
 
Each Guarantor agrees that it shall not be entitled to any right of subrogation in relation to the Holders in respect of any obligations guaranteed hereby until payment in full of all obligations guaranteed hereby. Each Guarantor further agrees that, as between the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Holders and the Trustee, on the other hand, (x) the maturity of the obligations guaranteed hereby may be accelerated as provided in Article 6 hereof for the purposes of this Note Guarantee, notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition preventing such acceleration in respect of the obligations guaranteed hereby, and (y) in the event of any declaration of acceleration of such obligations as provided in Article 6 hereof, such
 
obligations (whether or not due and payable) shall forthwith become due and payable by the Guarantors for the purpose of this Note Guarantee. The Guarantors shall have the right to seek contribution from any non-paying Guarantor so long as the exercise of such right does not impair the rights of the Holders under the Guarantee.
 
Section 10.02.
Limitation on Guarantor Liability.
 
Each Guarantor, and by its acceptance of Notes, each Holder, hereby confirms that it is the intention of all such parties that the Note Guarantee of such Guarantor not constitute a fraudulent transfer or conveyance for purposes of Bankruptcy Law, the Uniform Fraudulent Conveyance Act, the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act or any similar federal or state law to the extent applicable to any Note Guarantee. To effectuate the foregoing intention, the Trustee, the Holders and the Guarantors hereby irrevocably agree that the obligations of such Guarantor will not exceed an amount that, after giving effect to such maximum amount and all other contingent and fixed liabilities of such Guarantor that are relevant under such laws, and after giving effect to any collections from, rights to receive contribution from or payments made by or on behalf of any other Guarantor in respect of the obligations of such other Guarantor under this Article 10, would result in the obligations of such Guarantor under its Note Guarantee constituting a fraudulent transfer or conveyance.
 
Section 10.03.
Execution and Delivery of Note Guarantee.
 
To evidence its Note Guarantee set forth in Section 10.01, each Guarantor hereby agrees that a notation of such Note Guarantee substantially in the form included in Exhibit C shall be endorsed by an Officer of such Guarantor on each Note authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and that this Indenture shall be executed on behalf of such Guarantor by its President or one of its Vice Presidents.
 
Each Guarantor hereby agrees that its Note Guarantee set forth in Section 10.01 shall remain in full force and effect notwithstanding any failure to endorse on each Note a notation of such Note Guarantee.
 
If an Officer whose signature is on this Indenture or on the Note Guarantee no longer holds that office at the time the Trustee authenticates the Note on which a Note Guarantee is endorsed, the Note Guarantee shall be valid nevertheless.
 
The delivery of any Note by the Trustee, after the authentication thereof hereunder, shall constitute due delivery of the Note Guarantee set forth in this Indenture on behalf of the Guarantors.
 
In the event that the Company creates or acquires any new Subsidiaries subsequent to the date of this Indenture, if required by Section 4.17 hereof, the Company shall cause such Subsidiaries to execute supplemental indentures to this Indenture and Note Guarantees in accordance with Section 4.17 hereof and this Article 10, to the extent applicable.
 
Section 10.04. .
Guarantors May Consolidate, etc., on Certain Terms
 
Except as otherwise provided in Section 10.05, no Guarantor may consolidate with or merge with or into (whether or not such Guarantor is the surviving Person) another Person whether or not affiliated with such Guarantor unless:
 
 
 
In case of any such consolidation or merger and upon the assumption by the successor Person, by supplemental indenture, executed and delivered to the Trustee and satisfactory in form to the Trustee, of the Note Guarantee endorsed upon the Notes and the due and punctual performance of all of the covenants and conditions of this Indenture to be performed by the Guarantor, such successor Person shall succeed to and be substituted for the Guarantor with the same effect as if it had been named herein as a Guarantor. Such successor Person thereupon may cause to be signed any or all of the Note Guarantees to be endorsed upon all of the Notes issuable hereunder which theretofore shall not have been signed by the Company and delivered to the Trustee. All the Note Guarantees so issued shall in all respects have the same legal rank and benefit under this Indenture as the Note Guarantees theretofore and thereafter issued in accordance with the terms of this Indenture as though all of such Note Guarantees had been issued at the date of the execution hereof.
 
Except as set forth in Articles 4 and 5 hereof, and notwithstanding clauses (a) and (b) above, nothing contained in this Indenture or in any of the Notes shall prevent any consolidation or merger of a Guarantor with or into the Company or another Guarantor, or shall prevent any sale or conveyance of the property of a Guarantor as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to the Company or another Guarantor.
 
Section 10.05. .
Releases Following Sale of Assets
 
In the event of a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of any Guarantor, by way of merger, consolidation or otherwise, or a sale or other disposition of all of the Capital Stock of any Guarantor, in each case to a Person that is not (either before or after giving effect to such transactions) a Subsidiary of the Company, then such Guarantor (in the event of a sale or other disposition, by way of merger, consolidation or otherwise, of all of the Capital Stock of such Guarantor) or the Person acquiring the property (in the event of a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of such Guarantor) will be released and
 
relieved of any Obligations under its Note Guarantee; , that the Net Proceeds of such sale or other disposition are applied in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Indenture, including without limitation Section 4.10 hereof. Upon delivery by the Company to the Trustee of an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that such sale or other disposition was made by the Company in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture, including without limitation Section 4.10 hereof, the Trustee shall execute any documents reasonably required in order to evidence the release of any Guarantor from its obligations under its Note Guarantee.
provided, however
 
Any Guarantor not released from its obligations under its Note Guarantee shall remain liable for the full amount of principal of and interest on the Notes and for the other obligations of any Guarantor under this Indenture as provided in this Article 10.
 
 
 
Section 11.01. .
Satisfaction and Discharge
 
This Indenture shall be discharged and shall cease to be of further effect as to all Notes issued hereunder, when:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, the Company must deliver an Officers' Certificate to the Trustee stating that all conditions precedent to satisfaction and discharge have been satisfied.
 
Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, if money has been deposited with the Trustee pursuant to subclause (b) of clause (1) of this Section, the provisions of Section 11.02 and Section 8.06 shall survive. In addition, nothing in this Section 11.01 shall be deemed to discharge those provisions of Section 7.07 hereof, that, by their terms, survive the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture.
 
Section 11.02. .
Notices
 
Subject to the provisions of Section 8.06, all money deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 11.01 shall be held in trust and applied by it, in accordance with the provisions of the Notes and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Persons entitled thereto, of the principal and premium, if any, and interest and Additional Interest, if any, for whose payment such money has been deposited with the Trustee; but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
 
If the Trustee or Paying Agent is unable to apply any money or Government Securities in accordance with Section 11.01 by reason of any legal proceeding or by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, the Company's obligations under this Indenture and the Notes shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to Section 11.01; that if the Company has made any payment of principal of and premium, if any, and interest and Additional Interest, if any, on any Notes because of the reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such Notes to receive such payment from the money or Government Securities held by the Trustee or Paying Agent.
provided
 
 
 
Section 12.01. .
Trust Indenture Act Controls
 
If any provision of this Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with the duties imposed by TIA  318(c), the imposed duties shall control.
 
Section 12.02. .
Notices
 
Any notice or communication by the Company or the Trustee to the others is duly given if in writing and delivered in Person or mailed by first class mail (registered or certified, return receipt requested), telex, telecopier or overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery, to the others' address:
 
If to the Company:
 
American Tower Corporation
116 Huntington Avenue
Boston, MA 02116
Telecopier No.: (617) 375-7575
Attention: Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer
 
If to the Trustee:
 
The Bank of New York
101 Barclay Street, 8W
New York, New York 10286
Telecopier No.: (212) 815-5707
Attention: Corporate Trust Administration
 
The Company or the Trustee, by notice to the others, may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications.
 
All notices and communications (other than those sent to Holders) shall be deemed to have been duly given: at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; five Business Days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when receipt acknowledged, if telecopied; and the next Business Day after timely delivery to the courier, if sent by overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery.
 
Any notice or communication to a Holder shall be mailed by first class mail, certified or registered, return receipt requested, or by overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery to
 
its address shown on the register kept by the Registrar. Any notice or communication shall also be so mailed to any Person described in TIA  313(c), to the extent required by the TIA. Failure to mail a notice or communication to a Holder or any defect in it shall not affect its sufficiency with respect to other Holders.
 
If a notice or communication is mailed in the manner provided above within the time prescribed, it is duly given, whether or not the addressee receives it.
 
If the Company mails a notice or communication to Holders, it shall mail a copy to the Trustee and each Agent at the same time.
 
Section 12.03. .
Communication by Holders of Notes with Other Holders of Notes
 
Holders may communicate pursuant to TIA  312(b) with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or the Notes. The Company, the Trustee, the Registrar and anyone else shall have the protection of TIA  312(c).
 
Section 12.04. .
Certificate and Opinion as to Conditions Precedent
 
Upon any request or application by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee:
 
(a) an Officers' Certificate in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee (which shall include the statements set forth in Section 12.05 hereof) stating that, in the opinion of the signers, all conditions precedent and covenants, if any, provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been satisfied; and
 
(b) an Opinion of Counsel in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee (which shall include the statements set forth in Section 12.05 hereof) stating that, in the opinion of such counsel, all such conditions precedent and covenants have been satisfied.
 
Section 12.05. .
Statements Required in Certificate or Opinion
 
Each certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture (other than a certificate provided pursuant to TIA  314(a)(4)) shall comply with the provisions of TIA  314(e) and shall include:
 
(a) a statement that the Person making such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition;
 
(b) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based;
 
(c) a statement that, in the opinion of such Person, he, she or it has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable such Person to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been satisfied; and
 
(d) a statement as to whether or not, in the opinion of such Person, such condition or covenant has been satisfied.
 
Section 12.06. .
Rules by Trustee and Agents
 
The Trustee may make reasonable rules for action by or at a meeting of Holders. The Registrar or Paying Agent may make reasonable rules and set reasonable requirements for its functions; provided that no such rule shall conflict with the terms of this Indenture or the TIA.
 
Section 12.07. .
No Personal Liability of Directors, Officers, Employees and Stockholders
 
No past, present or future director, officer, employee, incorporator, stockholder or agent of the Company, as such, shall have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Notes, this Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder by accepting a Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for issuance of the Notes.
 
Section 12.08. .
Governing Law
 
THE INTERNAL LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SHALL GOVERN AND BE USED TO CONSTRUE THIS INDENTURE AND THE NOTES WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW TO THE EXTENT THAT THE APPLICATION OF THE LAWS OF ANOTHER JURISDICTION WOULD BE REQUIRED THEREBY.
 
Section 12.09. .
No Adverse Interpretation of Other Agreements
 
This Indenture may not be used to interpret any other indenture, loan or debt agreement of the Company or its Subsidiaries or of any other Person. Any such indenture, loan or debt agreement may not be used to interpret this Indenture.
 
Section 12.10. .
Successors
 
All agreements of the Company in this Indenture and the Notes shall bind its successors. All agreements of the Trustee in this Indenture shall bind its successors.
 
Section 12.11. .
Severability
 
In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Notes shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
 
Section 12.12. .
Counterpart Originals
 
The parties may sign any number of copies of this Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement.
 
Section 12.13. .
Table of Contents, Headings, etc
 
The Table of Contents, Cross-Reference Table and Headings of the Articles and Sections of this Indenture have been inserted for convenience of reference only, are not to be considered a part of this Indenture and shall in no way modify or restrict any of the terms or provisions hereof.
 
 
 
Dated as of October 5, 2004
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A
 
 
[Insert the Global Note Legend, if applicable, pursuant to Section 2.06(f)(i) of the Indenture
THIS GLOBAL NOTE IS HELD BY THE DEPOSITARY (AS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE GOVERNING THIS NOTE) OR ITS NOMINEE IN CUSTODY FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE BENEFICIAL OWNERS HEREOF, AND IS NOT TRANSFERABLE TO ANY PERSON UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES EXCEPT THAT (I) THE TRUSTEE MAY MAKE SUCH NOTATIONS HEREON AS MAY BE REQUIRED PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.06 OF THE INDENTURE, (II) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE BUT NOT IN PART PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.06(a) OF THE INDENTURE, (III) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE DELIVERED TO THE TRUSTEE FOR CANCELLATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.11 OF THE INDENTURE AND (IV) THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE TRANSFERRED TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY WITH THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF AMERICAN TOWER CORPORATION.]
 
the following legend (the "") 
[
If Rule 144A Notes or Regulation S Note issued during the Restricted Period therefor, then insert
Restricted Notes Legend
THIS NOTE HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE U.S. SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), AND ACCORDINGLY, MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER, OR AN EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF, THE SECURITIES ACT, IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANY APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OF THE UNITED STATES OR ANY OTHER JURISDICTION AND IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE TRANSFER RESTRICTIONS CONTAINED IN THE INDENTURE UNDER WHICH THIS NOTE WAS ISSUED.]
 
 
 
 
 
promises to pay to or registered assigns, the principal sum of DOLLARS on October 15, 2012 (which principal sum may from time to time be reduced or increased as appropriate to reflect exchanges, redemptions, repurchases and transfers of interest, but which, when taken together with the aggregate principal sum of all other Notes (excluding Additional Notes, if any), shall not exceed $300,000,000 at any time).
                    
                                                         
        
 
Interest Payment Dates: April 15 and October 15
 
Regular Record Dates: April 1 and October 1
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Issuer has caused this instrument to be duly executed as of the date below.
 
Dated: October 5, 2004
 
 
 
This is one of the Notes referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
 
 
Capitalized terms used herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture referred to below unless otherwise indicated.
 
1. . American Tower Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Note at 7.1250% per annum from October 5, 2004 until maturity [If Original Notes then insert  If (i) on or prior to the 90th day following the Issue Date, neither a registration statement (the "Exchange Registration Statement") under the Securities Act, registering a note substantially identical to this Note (except that such Note will not contain terms with respect to the Additional Interest payments described below or transfer restrictions) pursuant to an exchange offer (the "Exchange Offer") nor a registration statement registering this Note for resale (a "Shelf Registration Statement") has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, (ii) on or prior to the 210th day following the Issue Date, neither the Exchange Registration Statement nor the Shelf Registration Statement has become or been declared effective, (iii) on or prior to 30 business days following the Effectiveness Target Date, the Exchange Offer has not been consummated, or (iv) either the Exchange Registration Statement or, if applicable, the Shelf Registration Statement is declared effective but (A) thereafter ceases to be effective or (B) ceases to be usable in connection with certain resales, in each case (i) through (iv) upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement (each such event referred to in clauses (i) through (iv), a "Registration Default"), then additional interest will accrue at an amount of $0.05 per week per $1,000 of principal amount of this Note ("Additional Interest") for the 90-day period immediately following the occurrence of the Registration Default, which amount shall be increased by $0.05 per week per $1,000 of principal amount of this Note at the beginning of each subsequent 90-day period (provided that such amount shall not exceed $0.25 per week per $1,000 of principal amount of this Note in the aggregate) and such amount shall be payable until such time as no Registration Default is in effect (after which such interest rate will be restored to its initial rate). In no event shall the Company be required to pay Additional Interest (which shall be computed on the basis of a 365-day year) for more than one Registration Default at any given time. Accrued Additional Interest, if any, shall be paid semi-annually on April 15 and October 15 in each year; and the amount of accrued Additional Interest shall be determined on the basis of the number of days actually elapsed. Any accrued and unpaid interest (including Additional Interest) on this Note upon the issuance of an Exchange Note (as defined in the Indenture) in exchange for this Note shall cease to be payable to the Holder hereof but such accrued and unpaid interest (including Additional Interest) shall be payable on the next Interest Payment Date for such Exchange Note to the Holder thereof on the related Regular Record Date.] The Company will pay interest semi-annually in arrears on April 15 and October 15 of each year commencing on April 15, 2005, or if any such day is not a Business Day, on the next succeeding Business Day (each, an "Interest Payment Date"). Interest on the Notes will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from the date of issuance; provided that if there is no existing Default in the payment of interest, the Company
Interest
 
shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue principal and premium [If Original Notes then insert  and Additional Interest], if any, from time to time on demand at a rate that is 1% per annum in excess of the rate then in effect; it shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue installments of interest (without regard to any applicable grace periods) from time to time on demand at the same rate to the extent lawful. Interest [If Original Notes then insert  (other than Additional Interest)] will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
 
2. . The Company will pay interest on the Notes (except defaulted interest) to the Persons who are registered Holders of Notes at the close of business on the April 15 or October 15 next preceding the Interest Payment Date (each, a "Regular Record Date"), even if such Notes are canceled after such record date and on or before such Interest Payment Date, except as provided in Section 2.12 of the Indenture with respect to defaulted interest. The Notes will be payable as to principal, premium, if any, and interest [If Original Notes then insert  and Additional Interest, if any], at the office or agency of the Paying Agent and Registrar maintained for such purpose within the City and State of New York, or, at the option of the Company, payment of interest and [If Original Notes then insert  Additional Interest, if any,] may be made by check mailed to the Holders at their addresses set forth in the register of Holders, and provided that payment by wire transfer of immediately available funds will be required with respect to principal of, premium, if any, and interest and [If Original Notes then insert  Additional Interest, if any,] on, all Global Notes and all other Notes the Holders of which shall have provided wire transfer instructions to the Company or the Paying Agent. Such payment shall be in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.
Method of Payment
 
3. . Initially, The Bank of New York, the Trustee under the Indenture, will act as Paying Agent and Registrar. The Company may change any Paying Agent or Registrar without notice to any Holder. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries may act in any such capacity.
Paying Agent and Registrar
 
4. . The Company issued the Notes under an Indenture dated as of October 5, 2004 ("Indenture") between the Company and the Trustee. The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (15 U.S. Code  77aaa-77bbbb) (the "Trust Indenture Act"). The Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and such Act for a statement of such terms. To the extent any provision of this Note conflicts with the express provisions of the Indenture, the provisions of the Indenture shall govern and be controlling. The Notes are obligations of the Company. The Original Notes are limited to $300 million in aggregate principal amount. Unless the context otherwise requires, the Original Notes and the Exchange Notes shall constitute one series for all purposes under the Indenture, including without limitation, amendments, waivers, redemptions, Change of Control Offers and Asset Sale Offers. Subject to the conditions set forth in the Indenture and without the consent of the
Indenture
 
Holders, the Company may issue Additional Notes. All Notes, including any Additional Notes, will be treated as a single class of securities under the Indenture.
 
5. . (a) Except as provided in clause (b) of this Paragraph 5, at any time prior to October 15, 2008, the Company may redeem all or part of the Notes, upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount plus the Applicable Premium as of, and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, the date of redemption. On or after October 15, 2008, the Company may redeem all or a part of the Notes, upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice, at the redemption prices (expressed as percentages of the principal amount) set forth below plus accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Interest, if any, on the Notes redeemed to but excluding the applicable redemption date (subject to the right of Holders of record on the relevant record date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date), if redeemed during the twelve-month period beginning on October 15 of the years indicated below:
Optional Redemption
 
 
(b) Prior to October 15, 2007, the Company may use the net cash proceeds of one or more Public Equity Offerings to redeem in the aggregate up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes originally issued at a redemption price equal to 107.125% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Interest, if any, on the Notes redeemed to but excluding the applicable redemption date (subject to the right of Holders of record on the relevant record date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date); provided that:
 
 
 
6. . The Company shall not be required to make mandatory redemption payments with respect to the Notes.
No
Mandatory Redemption
 
7. . (a) If a Change of Control occurs, the Company shall be required to make an offer (a "Change of Control Offer") to each Holder to repurchase all or any part (equal to $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof) of each Holder's Notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest
Repurchase at Option of Holder
 
and Additional Interest, if any, up to but not including the date of purchase (the "Change of Control Payment"). Within 15 days following any Change of Control, the Company shall mail a notice to each Holder setting forth the procedures governing the Change of Control Offer as required by the Indenture.
 
(b) When the aggregate amount of Excess Proceeds from Asset Sales exceeds $15.0 million, the Company shall commence an offer to all Holders of Notes and all holders of other Indebtedness that is with the Notes containing provisions similar to those set forth in the Indenture with respect to offers to purchase or redeem with the proceeds of sales of assets (an "Asset Sale Offer") pursuant to Section 3.09 of the Indenture to purchase the maximum principal amount of Notes and other such Indebtedness that may be purchased out of the Excess Proceeds at an offer price in cash in an amount equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Interest, if any, thereon, to the date of purchase, in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Indenture. To the extent that the aggregate amount of Notes tendered pursuant to an Asset Sale Offer is less than the Excess Proceeds, the remaining Excess Proceeds may be used for any purpose not otherwise prohibited by the Indenture. If the aggregate principal amount plus premium, if any, accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Interest, if any, on the Notes surrendered by Holders thereof, and the amounts due to any holders of any other debt of the Company entitled to receive a comparable asset sales offer, exceeds the amount of Excess Proceeds, the Trustee shall select the Notes and such other Indebtedness to be purchased on a pro rata basis. Holders of Notes that are the subject of an offer to purchase shall receive an Asset Sale Offer from the Company prior to any related purchase date and may elect to have such Notes purchased by completing the form entitled "Option of Holder to Elect Purchase" on the reverse of the Notes. [If not a Global Note, insert  In the event of redemption or purchase pursuant to an Asset Sale Offer of this Note in part only, a new Note or Notes of like tenor for the unredeemed or unpurchased portion hereof shall be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.]
pari passu
pari passu
pari passu
 
8. . Notice of redemption shall be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each Holder whose Notes are to be redeemed at its registered address. Notes in denominations larger than $1,000 may be redeemed in part but only in whole multiples of $1,000, unless all of the Notes held by a Holder are to be redeemed. On and after the redemption date interest ceases to accrue on Notes or portions thereof called for redemption.
Notice of Redemption
 
9. . The Notes are in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples of $1,000. The transfer of Notes may be registered and Notes may be exchanged as provided in the Indenture. The Registrar and the Trustee may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and the Company may require a Holder to pay any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture. The Company need not exchange or register the transfer of any Note or portion of a Note selected for redemption, except for the unredeemed portion of any Note being redeemed in part. Also, the Company need not exchange or register the transfer of
Denominations, Transfer, Exchange
 
any Notes for a period of 15 days before a selection of Notes to be redeemed or during the period between a record date and the corresponding Interest Payment Date.
 
10. . The registered Holder of a Note may be treated as its owner for all purposes, except as provided in Section 2.06(a) of the Indenture.
Persons Deemed Owners
 
11. . Subject to certain exceptions, the Indenture, and the Notes may be amended or supplemented with the consent of the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes and any existing default or non-compliance with any provision of the Indenture or the Notes may be waived with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes, voting as a single class. Without the consent of any Holder of Notes, the Indenture or the Notes may be amended or supplemented to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency, to provide for uncertificated Notes in addition to or in place of certificated Notes or to alter the provisions of Article 2 of the Indenture (including the related definitions) in a manner that does not materially adversely affect any Holder or any holder of a beneficial interest in the Notes, to provide for the assumption of the Company's obligations to Holders of the Notes in case of a merger or consolidation, to make any change that would provide any additional rights or benefits to the Holders of the Notes or that does not adversely affect the legal rights under the Indenture of any such Holder, to comply with the requirements of the SEC in order to effect or maintain the qualification of the Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act, or to evidence and provide for the acceptance of the appointment of a successor Trustee pursuant to Section 7.08 of the Indenture.
Amendment, Supplement and Waiver
 
12. . Events of Default include: (i) default for 30 days in the payment when due of interest or Additional Interest on the Notes; (ii) default in payment when due of the principal of, or premium, if any, on the Notes; (iii) failure by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries to comply with the provisions of Article 5 of the Indenture or failure by the Company to consummate a Change of Control Offer or Asset Sale Offer in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture; (iv) failure by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries for 30 days after notice by the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding, to comply with any of the provisions of Section 4.03, 4.07, 4.08, 4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.14, 4.15, 4.17 or 4.19 of the Indenture or failure by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries for 60 days after notice by the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding to comply with any of the other agreements in the Indenture or the Notes; (v) default under any mortgage, indenture or instrument under which there may be issued or by which there may be secured or evidenced any Indebtedness for money borrowed by the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries (or the payment of which is Guaranteed by the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries) whether such Indebtedness or Guarantee now exists, or is created after the Issue Date, if that default (a) is caused by a failure to pay principal of, or interest or premium, if any, on such Indebtedness prior to the expiration of the grace period provided in such Indebtedness on the date of such default (a ) or (b) results in the acceleration of such Indebtedness prior to its express maturity; and, in each case, the principal amount of any such Indebtedness, together with the principal amount of any other such Indebtedness under which there has been a Payment Default or the maturity of
Defaults and Remedies
"Payment Default"
 
which has been so accelerated, aggregates $20.0 million or more; (vi) failure by the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries to pay final judgments against any of them which are not covered by adequate insurance by a solvent insurer of national or international reputation which has acknowledged its obligation in writing, aggregating in excess of $20.0 million, which judgments are not paid, bonded, discharged or stayed for a period of 60 days; and (vii) certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency with respect to the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries. In the case of an Event of Default arising under clause (vii) above, the principal amount of, premium, if any, and any accrued and unpaid interest, including Additional Interest, if any, on all outstanding notes will become due and payable immediately, without further action or notice. If any other Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may declare the principal amount of, premium, if any, and any accrued and unpaid interest, including Additional Interest, if any, on all outstanding notes to be due and payable. Holders of the Notes may not enforce the Indenture or the Notes except as provided in the Indenture. Subject to certain limitations, Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power. The Trustee may withhold from Holders of the Notes notice of any continuing Default or Event of Default (except a Default or Event of Default relating to the payment on the Notes) if it determines that withholding notice is in their interest. The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding by notice to the Trustee may on behalf of the Holders of all of the Notes waive any existing Default or Event of Default and its consequences under the Indenture except a continuing Default or Event of Default in the payment of principal amount of, premium, if any, and any accrued and unpaid interest, including Additional Interest, if any, on the Notes. The Company is required to deliver to the Trustee annually a statement regarding compliance with the Indenture, and the Company is required upon becoming aware of any Default or Event of Default, to deliver to the Trustee a statement specifying such Default or Event of Default.
 
13. . The Trustee, in its individual or any other capacity, may make loans to, accept deposits from, and perform services for the Company or its Affiliates, and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates, as if it were not the Trustee.
Trustee Dealings with Company
 
14. . A director, officer, employee, incorporator or stockholder, of the Company, as such, shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Notes or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder by accepting a Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issuance of the Notes.
No Recourse Against Others
 
15. . This Note shall not be valid until authenticated by the manual signature of the Trustee or an authenticating agent.
Authentication
 
16. . Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties),
Abbreviations
 
JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
 
17. . In addition to the rights provided to the Holders of Notes under the Indenture, Holders shall have all the rights set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement dated as of October 5, 2004, among the Company and the other parties named on the signature pages thereof.
Registration Rights Agreement
 
18. . Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, the Company has caused CUSIP numbers to be printed on the Notes and the Trustee may use CUSIP numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders. No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers either as printed on the Notes or as contained in any notice of redemption and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers placed thereon.
CUSIP Numbers
 
The Company shall furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Indenture. Requests may be made to: American Tower Corporation, 116 Huntington Avenue, Boston, MA 02116, Attention: Investor Relations.
 
 
To assign this Note, fill in the form below:
 
 
 
 
and irrevocably appoint to transfer this Note on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
                                                                                 
 
Date:
                    
 
 
 
Signature Guarantee*:
                                                 
 
 
 
If you want to elect to have this Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 4.10 or 4.14 of the Indenture, check the appropriate box below:
 
 
If you want to elect to have only part of the Note purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 4.10 or Section 4.14 of the Indenture, state the amount you elect to have purchased:
 
 
Date:
                    
 
 
 
Signature Guarantee*:
                                             
 
 
 
The following exchanges of a part of this Global Note for an interest in another Global Note or for a Definitive Note, or exchanges of a part of another Global Note or Definitive Note for an interest in this Global Note, have been made:
 
 
 
EXHIBIT B
 
 
 
Supplemental Indenture (this "Supplemental Indenture"), dated as of , among (the "Guaranteeing Subsidiary"), a subsidiary of AMERICAN TOWER CORPORATION (or its permitted successor), a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), [the Company, the other Guarantors (as defined in the Indenture referred to herein)] and THE BANK OF NEW YORK, as trustee under the Indenture referred to below (the "Trustee").
                    
                    
 
 
WHEREAS, the Company has heretofore executed and delivered to the Trustee an indenture (the "Indenture"), dated as of October 5, 2004 providing for the issuance of 7.1250% Senior Notes due 2012 (the "Notes");
 
WHEREAS, the Indenture provides that under certain circumstances the Guaranteeing Subsidiary shall execute and deliver to the Trustee a supplemental indenture pursuant to which the Guaranteeing Subsidiary shall unconditionally guarantee all of the Company's Obligations under the Notes and the Indenture on the terms and conditions set forth herein (the "Note Guarantee"); and
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 9.01 of the Indenture, the Trustee is authorized to execute and deliver this Supplemental Indenture.
 
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the Guaranteeing Subsidiary and the Trustee mutually covenant and agree for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the Notes as follows:
 
1. . Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
Capitalized Terms
 
2. . The Guaranteeing Subsidiary hereby agrees as follows:
Agreement to Guarantee
 
(a) Along with all Guarantors named in the Indenture, to jointly and severally Guarantee to each Holder of a Note authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and to the Trustee and its successors and assigns, irrespective of the validity and enforceability of the Indenture, the Notes or the obligations of the Company hereunder or thereunder, that:
 
(i) the principal of and interest on the Notes will be promptly paid in full when due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, redemption or otherwise, and interest on the overdue principal of and interest on the Notes, if any, if lawful, and all other
 
obligations of the Company to the Holders or the Trustee hereunder or thereunder will be promptly paid in full or performed, all in accordance with the terms hereof and thereof; and
 
(ii) in case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any Notes or any of such other obligations, that same will be promptly paid in full when due or performed in accordance with the terms of the extension or renewal, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise. Failing payment when due of any amount so guaranteed or any performance so guaranteed for whatever reason, the Guarantors shall be jointly and severally obligated to pay the same immediately.
 
(b) The obligations hereunder shall be unconditional, irrespective of the validity, regularity or enforceability of the Notes or the Indenture, the absence of any action to enforce the same, any waiver or consent by any Holder of the Notes with respect to any provisions hereof or thereof, the recovery of any judgment against the Company, any action to enforce the same or any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a guarantor.
 
(c) The following is hereby waived to the extent permitted by applicable law: diligence, presentment, demand of payment, filing of claims with a court in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Company, any right to require a proceeding first against the Company, protest, notice and all demands whatsoever.
 
(d) This Note Guarantee shall not be discharged except by complete performance of the obligations contained in the Notes and the Indenture.
 
(e) If any Holder or the Trustee is required by any court or otherwise to return to the Company, the Guarantors, or any custodian, Trustee, liquidator or other similar official acting in relation to either the Company or the Guarantors, any amount paid by either to the Trustee or such Holder, this Note Guarantee, to the extent theretofore discharged, shall be reinstated in full force and effect.
 
(f) The Guaranteeing Subsidiary shall not be entitled to any right of subrogation in relation to the Holders in respect of any obligations guaranteed hereby until payment in full of all obligations guaranteed hereby.
 
(g) As between the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Holders and the Trustee, on the other hand, (x) the maturity of the obligations guaranteed hereby may be accelerated as provided in Article 6 of the Indenture for the purposes of this Note Guarantee, notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition preventing such acceleration in respect of the obligations guaranteed hereby, and (y) in the event of any declaration of acceleration of such obligations as provided in Article 6 of the Indenture, such obligations (whether or not due and payable) shall forthwith become due and payable by the Guarantors for the purpose of this Note Guarantee.
 
(h) The Guarantors shall have the right to seek contribution from any non-paying Guarantor so long as the exercise of such right does not impair the rights of the Holders under the Guarantee.
 
(i) Pursuant to Section 10.02 of the Indenture, after giving effect to any maximum amount and all other contingent and fixed liabilities of such Guarantor that are relevant under any applicable Bankruptcy or fraudulent conveyance laws, and after giving effect to any collections from, rights to receive contribution from or payments made by or on behalf of any other Guarantor in respect of the obligations of such other Guarantor under Article 10 of the Indenture would result in the obligations of such Guarantor under its Note Guarantee not constituting a fraudulent transfer or conveyance.
 
3. . Each Guaranteeing Subsidiary agrees that the Note Guarantees shall remain in full force and effect notwithstanding any failure to endorse on each Note a notation of such Note Guarantee.
Execution and Delivery
 
4. .
Guaranteeing Subsidiary May Consolidate, Etc. on Certain Terms
 
(a) The Guaranteeing Subsidiary may not consolidate with or merge with or into (whether or not such Guarantor is the surviving Person) another corporation, Person or entity whether or not affiliated with such Guarantor unless:
 
(i) subject to Section 10.05 of the Indenture, the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger (if other than a Guarantor or the Company) unconditionally assumes all the obligations of such Guarantor, pursuant to a supplemental indenture in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, under the Notes, the Indenture and the Note Guarantee on the terms set forth herein or therein; and
 
(ii) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Default or Event of Default exists.
 
(b) In case of any such consolidation or merger upon the assumption by the successor Person, by supplemental indenture, executed and delivered to the Trustee and satisfactory in form to the Trustee, of the Note Guarantee endorsed upon the Notes and the due and punctual performance of all of the covenants and conditions of the Indenture to be performed by the Guarantor, such successor Person shall succeed to and be substituted for the Guarantor with the same effect as if it had been named herein as a Guarantor. Such successor Person thereupon may cause to be signed any or all of the Note Guarantees to be endorsed upon all of the Notes issuable hereunder which theretofore shall not have been signed by the Company and delivered to the Trustee. All the Note Guarantees so issued shall in all respects have the same legal rank and benefit under the Indenture as the Note Guarantees theretofore and thereafter issued in accordance with the terms of the Indenture as though all of such Note Guarantees had been issued at the date of the execution hereof.
 
(c) Except as set forth in Articles 4 and 5 of the Indenture, and notwithstanding clauses (a) and (b) above, nothing contained in the Indenture or in any of the Notes shall prevent any consolidation or merger of a Guarantor with or into the Company or another Guarantor, or shall prevent any sale or conveyance of the property of a Guarantor as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to the Company or another Guarantor.
 
5. .
Releases
 
(a) In the event of a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of any Guarantor, by way of merger, consolidation or otherwise, or a sale or other disposition of all of the Capital Stock of any Guarantor, in each case to a Person that is not (either before or after giving effect to such transactions) a Subsidiary of the Company, then such Guarantor (in the event of a sale or other disposition, by way of merger, consolidation or otherwise, of all of the capital stock of such Guarantor) or the Person acquiring the property (in the event of a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of such Guarantor) will be released and relieved of any obligations under its Note Guarantee; provided, however, that the Net Proceeds of such sale or other disposition are applied in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Indenture, including without limitation Section 4.10 of the Indenture. Upon delivery by the Company to the Trustee of an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that such sale or other disposition was made by the Company in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture, including without limitation Section 4.10 of the Indenture, the Trustee shall execute any documents reasonably required in order to evidence the release of any Guarantor from its obligations under its Note Guarantee.
 
(b) Any Guarantor not released from its obligations under its Note Guarantee shall remain liable for the full amount of principal of and interest on the Notes and for the other obligations of any Guarantor under the Indenture as provided in Article 10 of the Indenture.
 
6. . No past, present or future director, officer, employee, incorporator, stockholder or agent of the Guaranteeing Subsidiary, as such, shall have any liability for any obligations of the Company or any Guaranteeing Subsidiary under the Notes, any Note Guarantees, the Indenture or this Supplemental Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder of the Notes by accepting a Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for issuance of the Notes.
No Recourse Against Others
 
7.
NEW YORK LAW TO GOVERN
. THE INTERNAL LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SHALL GOVERN AND BE USED TO CONSTRUE THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE BUT WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW TO THE EXTENT THAT THE
 
APPLICATION OF THE LAWS OF ANOTHER JURISDICTION WOULD BE REQUIRED THEREBY.
 
8. . The parties may sign any number of copies of this Supplemental Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement.
Counterparts
 
9. . The Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Effect of Headings
 
10. . The Trustee shall not be responsible in any manner whatsoever for or in respect of the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture or for or in respect of the recitals contained herein, all of which recitals are made solely by the Guaranteeing Subsidiary and the Company.
The Trustee
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed and attested, all as of the date first above written.
 
Dated:
                    
 
 
EXHIBIT C
 
 
For value received, each Guarantor (which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture) has, jointly and severally, unconditionally guaranteed, to the extent set forth in the Indenture and subject to the provisions in the Indenture dated as of October 5, 2004 (the "Indenture") between AMERICAN TOWER CORPORATION and THE BANK OF NEW YORK, as trustee (the "Trustee"), (a) the due and punctual payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Notes (as defined in the Indenture), whether at maturity, by acceleration, redemption or otherwise, the due and punctual payment of interest on overdue principal and premium, and, to the extent permitted by law, interest, and the due and punctual performance of all other obligations of the Company to the Holders or the Trustee all in accordance with the terms of the Indenture and (b) in case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any Notes or any of such other obligations, that the same will be promptly paid in full when due or performed in accordance with the terms of the extension or renewal, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise. The obligations of the Guarantors to the Holders of Notes and to the Trustee pursuant to the Note Guarantee and the Indenture are expressly set forth in Article 10 of the Indenture and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for the precise terms of the Note Guarantee. Each Holder of a Note, by accepting the same, agrees to and shall be bound by such provisions.
 
 
EXHIBIT D
 
 
 
The Bank of New York,
as Trustee
101 Barclay St., 8W
New York, NY 10286
Attention: Corporate Trust Administration
 
 
Reference is made to the Indenture, dated as of October 5, 2004 (the "Indenture"), between American Tower Corporation (the "Company") and The Bank of New York, as Trustee. Terms used herein and defined in the Indenture or in Regulation S or Rule 144 under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act") are used herein as so defined.
 
This certificate relates to U.S. $ principal amount of Notes, which are evidenced by the following certificate(s) (the "Specified Notes"):
                    
 
CUSIP No(s).
                                                 
 
CERTIFICATE No(s).
                                    
 
The person in whose name this certificate is executed below (the "Undersigned") hereby certifies that either (i) it is the sole beneficial owner of the Specified Notes or (ii) it is acting on behalf of all the beneficial owners of the Specified Notes and is duly authorized by them to do so. Such beneficial owner or owners are referred to herein collectively as the "Owner". If the Specified Notes are represented by a Global Notes, they are held through the Depositary or a Participant in the name of the Undersigned, as or on behalf of the Owner. If the Specified Notes are not represented by a Global Note, they are registered in the name of the Undersigned, as or on behalf of the Owner.
 
The Owner has requested that the Specified Notes be transferred to a person (the "Transferee") who will take delivery in the form of a Regulation S Note. In connection with such transfer, the Owner hereby certifies that, unless such transfer is being effected pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, it is being effected in accordance with Rule 904 or Rule 144 under the Securities Act and with all applicable securities laws of the states of the United States and other jurisdictions. Accordingly, the Owner hereby further certifies as follows:
 
(a) . If the transfer is being effected in accordance with Rule 904:
Rule 904 Transfers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) . If the transfer is being effected pursuant to Rule 144:
Rule 144 Transfers
 
 
 
 
This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company and the Purchasers.
 
Dated:
                    
 
 
 
EXHIBIT E
 
 
 
The Bank of New York,
as Trustee
101 Barclay St., 8W
New York, NY 10286
Attention: Corporate Trust Administration
 
 
Reference is made to the Indenture, dated as of October 5, 2004 (the "Indenture"), between American Tower Corporation (the "Company") and The Bank of New York, as Trustee. Terms used herein and defined in the Indenture or in Regulation S or Rule 144 under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act") are used herein as so defined.
 
This certificate relates to U.S. $ principal amount of Notes, which are evidenced by the following certificate(s) (the "Specified Notes"):
                    
 
CUSIP No(s).
                                
 
CERTIFICATE No(s).
                                
 
The person in whose name this certificate is executed below (the "Undersigned") hereby certifies that either (i) it is the sole beneficial owner of the Specified Notes or (ii) it is acting on behalf of all the beneficial owners of the Specified Notes and is duly authorized by them to do so. Such beneficial owner or owners are referred to herein collectively as the "Owner". If the Specified Notes are represented by a Global Note, they are held through the Depositary or a Participant in the name of the Undersigned, as or on behalf of the Owner. If the Specified Notes are not represented by a Global Note, they are registered in the name of the Undersigned, as or on behalf of the Owner.
 
The Owner has requested that the Specified Notes be transferred to a person (the "Transferee") who will take delivery in the form of a Restricted Note. In connection with such transfer, the Owner hereby certifies that, unless such transfer is being effected pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, it is being effected in accordance with Rule 144A or Rule 144 under the Securities Act and all applicable securities laws of the states of the United States and other jurisdictions. Accordingly, the Owner hereby further certifies as follows:
 
(a) . If the transfer is being effected in accordance with Rule 144A:
Rule 144A Transfers
 
 
 
(b) . If the transfer is being effected pursuant to Rule 144:
Rule 144 Transfers
 
 
 
This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company and the Purchasers.
 
Dated:
                    
 
 
 
EXHIBIT F
 
 
 
The Bank of New York,
as Trustee
101 Barclay St., 8W
New York, NY 10286
Attention: Corporate Trust Administration
 
 
Reference is made to the Indenture, dated as of October 5, 2004 (the "Indenture"), between American Tower Corporation (the "Company") and The Bank of New York, as Trustee. Terms used herein and defined in the Indenture or in Regulation S or Rule 144 under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act") are used herein as so defined.
 
This certificate relates to U.S. $ principal amount of Notes, which are evidenced by the following certificate(s) (the "Specified Notes"):
                    
 
CUSIP No(s).
                                
 
CERTIFICATE No(s).
                                
 
The person in whose name this certificate is executed below (the "Undersigned") hereby certifies that either (i) it is the sole beneficial owner of the Specified Notes or (ii) it is acting on behalf of all the beneficial owners of the Specified Notes and is duly authorized by them to do so. Such beneficial owner or owners are referred to herein collectively as the "Owner". If the Specified Notes are represented by a Global Note, they are held through the Depositary or a Participant in the name of the Undersigned, as or on behalf of the Owner. If the Specified Notes are not represented by a Global Note, they are registered in the name of the Undersigned, as or on behalf of the Owner.
 
The Owner has requested that the Specified Notes be exchanged for Notes bearing no Securities Act Legend pursuant to Section 305(c) of the Indenture. In connection with such exchange, the Owner hereby certifies that the exchange is occurring after a holding period of at least two years (computed in accordance with paragraph (d) of Rule 144) has elapsed since the Specified Notes were last acquired from the Company or from an affiliate of the Company, whichever is later, and the Owner is not, and during the preceding three months has not been, an affiliate of the Company. The Owner also acknowledges that any future transfers of the
 
Specified Notes must comply with all applicable securities laws of the states of the United States and other jurisdictions.
 
This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company and the Purchasers.
 
Dated:
                    
 
 
 

EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
New York, New York
October 5, 2004
 
C S F B LLC
REDIT
UISSE
IRST
OSTON
As Representative of the several Purchasers
 
c/o Credit Suisse First Boston LLC
      11 Madison Avenue
      New York, New York 10010
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
American Tower Corporation, a corporation organized under the laws of Delaware (the "Company"), proposes to issue and sell to the purchasers named in Schedule A to the Purchase Agreement referenced below (the "Purchasers"), for whom Credit Suisse First Boston LLC is acting as Representative (the "Representative"), its 7.125% Senior Notes due 2012 (the "Securities"), upon the terms set forth in a purchase agreement dated September 28, 2004 (the "Purchase Agreement") relating to the initial placement (the "Initial Placement") of the Securities. To induce the Purchasers to enter into the Purchase Agreement, the Company agrees with you for your benefit and the benefit of the holders from time to time of the Securities (including the Purchasers) (each a "Holder" and, together, the "Holders"), as follows:
 
1. . Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have their respective meanings set forth in the Purchase Agreement. As used in this Agreement, the following capitalized defined terms shall have the following meanings:
Definitions
 
"Act" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
 
"Additional Interest" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(a) hereof.
 
"Additional Interest Amount" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(a) hereof.
 
"Advice" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(c).
 
"Affiliate" of any specified Person shall mean any other Person that, directly or indirectly, is in control of, is controlled by, or is under common control with, such specified Person. For purposes of this definition, control of a Person shall mean the power, direct or indirect, to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person whether by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" shall have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
 
"Broker-Dealer" shall mean any broker or dealer registered as such under the Exchange Act.
 
"Business Day" shall mean any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a legal holiday or a day on which banking institutions or trust companies are authorized or obligated by law to close in New York City or Washington, D.C.
 
"Commission" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
"Effective Time," (i) in the case of an Exchange Offer Registration Statement, shall mean the time and date as of which the Commission declares the Exchange Offer Registration Statement effective or as of which the Exchange Offer Registration Statement otherwise becomes effective and (ii) in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, shall mean the time and date as of which the Commission declares the Shelf Registration Statement effective or as of which the Shelf Registration Statement otherwise becomes effective.
 
"Effectiveness Target Date" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(a)(ii) hereof.
 
"Exchange Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
 
"Exchange Offer Registration Period" shall mean the 180-day period following the consummation of the Registered Exchange Offer (exclusive of any period during which any stop order shall be in effect suspending the effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement).
 
"Exchange Offer Registration Statement" shall mean a registration statement on an appropriate form under the Act with respect to the Registered Exchange Offer, all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments thereto, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein.
 
"Exchanging Dealer" shall mean any Holder (which may include any Purchaser) that is a Broker-Dealer and elects to exchange for New Securities any Securities that it acquired for its own account as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities (but not directly from the Company or any Affiliate of the Company) for New Securities.
 
"Final Memorandum" shall mean the offering circular related to the Securities, as amended or supplemented as of the date hereof, including any and all exhibits thereto and any information incorporated by reference therein.
 
"Holder" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
 
"Indenture" shall mean the Indenture relating to the Securities, dated as of October 5, 2004, between the Company and The Bank of New York, as trustee, as the same may be amended from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof.
 
"Initial Placement" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
 
"Issue Date" shall mean the date of the original issuance of the Securities.
 
"Losses" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(d) hereof.
 
"Majority Holders" shall mean, when no Registration Statement is filed under this Agreement, the Holders of a majority of the aggregate principal amount of Securities outstanding and shall mean, when a Registration Statement is filed under this Agreement, the Holders of a majority of the aggregate principal amount of Securities registered under the Registration Statement.
 
"Managing Underwriters" shall mean the investment banker or investment bankers and manager or managers that shall administer an underwritten offering.
 
"New Securities" shall mean debt securities of the Company identical in all material respects to the Securities (except that the additional interest provisions and the transfer restriction provisions shall be modified or eliminated, as appropriate) and to be issued under the Indenture.
 
"Notice and Questionnaire" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(c) hereof.
 
"Prospectus" shall mean the prospectus included in any Registration Statement (including, without limitation, a prospectus that discloses information previously omitted from a prospectus filed as part of an effective registration statement in reliance upon Rule 430A under the Act), as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement, with respect to the terms of the offering of any portion of the Securities or the New Securities covered by such Registration Statement, and all amendments and supplements thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein.
 
"Purchase Agreement" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
 
"Purchaser" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
 
"Registered Exchange Offer" shall mean the proposed offer of the Company to issue and deliver to the Holders of the Securities that are not prohibited by any law or policy of
 
the Commission from participating in such offer, in exchange for the Securities, a like aggregate principal amount of New Securities.
 
"Registration Default" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(a) hereof.
 
"Registration Statement" shall mean any Exchange Offer Registration Statement or Shelf Registration Statement that covers any of the Securities or the New Securities pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, any amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments (in each case including the Prospectus contained therein), all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein.
 
"Securities" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
 
"Shelf Registration" shall mean a registration effected pursuant to Section 3 hereof.
 
"Shelf Registration Period" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(b) hereof.
 
"Shelf Registration Statement" shall mean a "shelf" registration statement of the Company pursuant to the provisions of Section 3 hereof which covers some or all of the Securities or New Securities, as applicable, on an appropriate form under Rule 415 under the Act, or any similar rule that may be adopted by the Commission, amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein.
 
"Transfer Restricted Securities" shall mean each Security and New Security until, (i) in the case of any Security exchanged by a person other than a Broker-Dealer for a freely transferable New Security in the Registered Exchange Offer, the date on which such Security is exchanged, (ii) in the case of any New Security held by a Broker-Dealer, following the exchange by such Broker-Dealer in the Registered Exchange Offer of a Security for such New Security, the date on which such New Security is sold to a purchaser who receives from such Broker-Dealer on or prior to the date of such sale a copy of the prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, (iii) in the case of any Security or New Security that has been effectively registered under the Act and disposed of in accordance with the Shelf Registration Statement, the date of such disposition, or (iv) in the case of any Security or New Security that is distributed to the public pursuant to Rule 144 under the Act or is saleable pursuant to Rule 144(k) under the Act, the date on which such Security or New Security is distributed or is saleable, as the case may be.
 
"Trustee" shall mean the trustee with respect to the Securities under the Indenture.
 
"underwriter" shall mean any underwriter of Securities in connection with an offering thereof under a Shelf Registration Statement.
 
2. . The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to prepare and, not later than 90 days following the Issue Date (or if such 90
Registered Exchange Offer
th
day is not a
 
Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day), shall file with the Commission the Exchange Offer Registration Statement with respect to the Registered Exchange Offer. The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause the Exchange Offer Registration Statement to become effective under the Act within 210 days of the Issue Date (or if such 210
th
day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day).
 
(a) Upon the effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, the Company shall promptly commence the Registered Exchange Offer, it being the objective of such Registered Exchange Offer to enable each Holder electing to exchange Securities for New Securities (assuming that such Holder is not an Affiliate of the Company, acquires the New Securities in the ordinary course of such Holder's business, has no arrangements with any Person to participate in the distribution of the New Securities and is not prohibited by any law or policy of the Commission from participating in the Registered Exchange Offer) to trade such New Securities from and after their receipt without any limitations or restrictions under the Act and without material restrictions under the securities laws of a substantial proportion of the several states of the United States. The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to issue, on or prior to 30 Business Days (or longer, if required by the Federal Securities laws) after the date on which the Exchange Offer Registration Statement was declared effective, such New Securities in exchange for all Securities tendered in accordance with section (b) below prior thereto in the Registered Exchange Offer.
 
(b) In connection with the Registered Exchange Offer, the Company shall:
 
(i) mail to each Holder a copy of the Prospectus forming part of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, together with an appropriate letter of transmittal and related documents;
 
(ii) keep the Registered Exchange Offer open for not less than 20 Business Days and not more than 30 Business Days after the date notice thereof is mailed to the Holders (or, in each case, longer if required by applicable law);
 
(iii) use its reasonable best efforts to keep the Exchange Offer Registration Statement continuously effective under the Act, supplemented and amended as required, under the Act to ensure that it is available for sales of New Securities by Exchanging Dealers during the Exchange Offer Registration Period;
 
(iv) utilize the services of a depositary for the Registered Exchange Offer with an address in the Borough of Manhattan in New York City, which may be the Trustee or an Affiliate of the Trustee;
 
(v) permit Holders to withdraw tendered Securities at any time prior to the close of business, New York time, on the last Business Day on which the Registered Exchange Offer is open;
 
(vi) prior to effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, provide a supplemental letter to the Commission (A) stating that the Company is conducting the Registered Exchange Offer in reliance on the position of the
 
Commission in (pub. avail. May 13, 1988), . (pub. avail. June 5, 1991) and (pub. avail. July 2, 1993); and (B) including a representation that the Company has not entered into any arrangement or understanding with any Person to distribute the New Securities to be received in the Registered Exchange Offer and that, to the best of the Company's information and belief, each Holder participating in the Registered Exchange Offer is acquiring the New Securities in the ordinary course of business and has no arrangement or understanding with any Person to participate in the distribution of the New Securities; and
Exxon Capital Holdings Corporation
Morgan Stanley and Co., Inc
Shearman & Sterling
 
(vii) comply in all material respects with all applicable laws.
 
(c) As soon as practicable after the close of the Registered Exchange Offer, the Company shall:
 
(i) accept for exchange all Securities tendered and not validly withdrawn pursuant to the Registered Exchange Offer;
 
(ii) deliver to the Trustee for cancellation in accordance with Section 4(s) all Securities so accepted for exchange; and
 
(iii) cause the Trustee promptly to authenticate and deliver to each Holder of Securities, New Securities in an amount equal to the principal amount of the Securities of such Holder so accepted for exchange.
 
(d) Each Holder hereby acknowledges and agrees that any Broker-Dealer and any such Holder using the Registered Exchange Offer to participate in a distribution of the New Securities (x) could not under Commission policy as in effect on the date of this Agreement rely on the position of the Commission in (pub. avail. June 5, 1991) and (pub. avail. May 13, 1988) and (July 2, 1993) and similar no-action letters; and (y) must comply with the registration and prospectus delivery requirements of the Act in connection with any secondary resale transaction which must be covered by an effective registration statement containing the selling security holder information required by Item 507 or 508, as applicable, of Regulation S-K under the Act if the resales are of New Securities obtained by such Holder in exchange for Securities acquired by such Holder directly from the Company or one of its Affiliates. Accordingly, as a condition to its participation in the Registered Exchange Offer, each Holder participating in the Registered Exchange Offer shall be required to represent to the Company in the letter of transmittal relating to the Registered Exchange Offer or by other means that, at the time of the consummation of the Registered Exchange Offer:
Morgan Stanley and Co., Inc.
Exxon Capital Holdings Corporation
Shearman & Sterling
 
(i) any New Securities received by such Holder will be acquired in the ordinary course of business;
 
(ii) such Holder will have no arrangement or understanding with any Person to participate in the distribution of the Securities or the New Securities within the meaning of the Act; and
 
(iii) such Holder is not an Affiliate of the Company.
 
(e) If any Purchaser determines that it is not eligible to participate in the Registered Exchange Offer with respect to the exchange of Securities constituting any portion of an unsold allotment, at the request of such Purchaser, the Company shall issue and deliver to such Purchaser or the Person purchasing New Securities registered under a Shelf Registration Statement as contemplated by Section 3 hereof from such Purchaser, in exchange for such Securities, a like principal amount of New Securities. The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause the CUSIP Service Bureau to issue the same CUSIP number for such New Securities as for New Securities issued pursuant to the Registered Exchange Offer.
 
3. . If (A): (i) due to any change in law or applicable interpretations thereof by the Commission's staff, the Company determines upon advice of its outside counsel that it is not permitted to effect the Registered Exchange Offer as contemplated by Section 2 hereof, or (ii) for any other reason the Registered Exchange Offer is not consummated within 30 Business Days (or such longer period as required by applicable law) of the Effectiveness Target Date (or, if such 30th Business Day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day) or the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is not declared effective within 210 days of the Issue Date (or if such 210
Shelf Registration
th
day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day); or (B) any Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities notifies the Company prior to the 20
th
day following the consummation of the Registered Exchange Offer that: (i) it is prohibited by law or policy of the Commission from participating in the Registered Exchange Offer; (ii) it may not resell the New Securities acquired by it in the Registered Exchange Offer to the public without delivering a prospectus and the prospectus contained in the Registered Exchange Offer is not appropriate or available for such resales or (iii) that it is a Broker-Dealer and owns Securities acquired directly from the Company or an affiliate of the Company, the Company shall effect a Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with subsection (b) below.
 
(a) (i) The Company shall as promptly as practicable (but in no event more than 30 days after so required or requested pursuant to this Section 3 (or, if such 30
th
day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day)), use its reasonable best efforts to file with the Commission and thereafter (but in no event more than 90 days after the date the Company was required or requested to make such filing pursuant to this Section 3 (or, if such 90
th
day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day)) use its reasonable best efforts to cause to be declared effective under the Act a Shelf Registration Statement relating to the offer and sale of the Securities or the New Securities, as applicable, by the Holders thereof from time to time in accordance with the methods of distribution elected by such Holders and set forth in such Shelf Registration Statement; , , that no Holder (other than a Purchaser) shall be entitled to have the Securities held by it covered by such Shelf Registration Statement unless such Holder agrees in writing to be bound by all of the provisions of this Agreement applicable to such Holder; and , that with respect to New Securities received by a Purchaser in exchange for Securities constituting any portion of an unsold allotment, the Company may, if permitted by current interpretations by the Commission's staff, file a post-effective amendment to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement containing the information required by Item 507 or 508 of Regulation S-K, as applicable, in satisfaction of its obligations under this subsection with respect thereto, and any such Exchange Offer Registration Statement, as so amended, shall be
provided
however
provided
further
 
referred to herein as, and governed by the provisions herein applicable to, a Shelf Registration Statement. Notwithstanding anything in this Section 3, Additional Interest shall accrue only in accordance with the provisions of Section 6 hereof.
 
(ii) The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective, supplemented and amended as required by the Act, in order to permit the Prospectus forming part thereof to be usable by Holders from the date the Shelf Registration Statement is declared effective by the Commission until the earlier of: (i) such date as all the Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement have been sold, or (ii) the date on which all of the Securities held by persons that are not Affiliates of the Company may be resold without registration pursuant to Rule 144(k) under the Act (such period being called the "Shelf Registration Period"). The Company shall be deemed not to have used its reasonable best efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement effective during the requisite period if it voluntarily takes any action that would result in Holders of Securities covered thereby not being able to offer and sell such Securities during that period, unless (A) such action is required by applicable law; or (B) such action is taken by the Company in good faith and for valid business reasons (not including avoidance of the Company's obligations hereunder), including the acquisition or divestiture of assets, a merger or financing so long as the Company promptly thereafter complies with the requirements of Section 4(k) hereof, if applicable.
 
(b) Not less than 30 days prior to the Effective Time of any Shelf Registration Statement required under this Agreement, the Company shall mail the Notice and Questionnaire (the "Notice and Questionnaire") substantially in the form attached as Annex E hereto to the Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities; no Holder shall be entitled to be named as a selling securityholder in the Shelf Registration Statement as of the Effective Time, and no Holder shall be entitled to use the prospectus forming a part thereof for resales of Securities at any time, unless such Holder has returned a completed and signed Notice and Questionnaire to the Company by the deadline for response set forth therein; , , that holders of Transfer Restricted Securities shall have at least 28 days from the date on which the Notice and Questionnaire is first mailed to such Holders to return a completed and signed Notice and Questionnaire to the Company.
provided
however
 
(c) After the Effective Time of any Shelf Registration Statement required to be filed under this Agreement, Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities who did not timely return a Notice and Questionnaire to the Company may return a Notice and Questionnaire at any time and may request to be included in such Shelf Registration Statement. If:
 
(i) the Company can include such Holder with respect to its Transfer Restricted Securities by means of a prospectus supplement filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) of the Act or by means of a registration statement filed pursuant to Rule 462(b) of the Act, then the Company shall file such Rule 424(b) supplement or Rule 462(b) registration statement with the Commission within 10 Business Days of its receipt of the Notice and Questionnaire;
 
(ii) the Company, in the opinion of its counsel, cannot include such Holder with respect to its Transfer Restricted Securities by means of a prospectus
 
supplement to the prospectus contained as part of such effective Shelf Registration Statement or by means of a related registration statement filed pursuant to Rule 462(b) of the Act, the Company shall promptly take any action reasonably necessary to enable such a Holder to use a registration statement for resale of Transfer Restricted Securities, including, without limitation, any action necessary to identify such Holders or selling securityholder in a post-effective amendment to the Shelf Registration Statement or new Shelf Registration Statement which the Company shall promptly file and cause to be declared effective to cover the resale of the Transfer Restricted Securities that are the subject of such request. If the Company is required to file such post-effective amendment to the Shelf Registration Statement or a new Shelf Registration Statement for the sole purpose of adding Holders to the Shelf Registration Statement, the Company shall not be required to file such post-effective amendment or new Shelf Registration Statement more frequently than once every calendar quarter.
 
(d) In the event of a Shelf Registration Statement, in addition to the information required to be provided in the Notice and Questionnaire, the Company may require Holders to furnish to the Company additional information regarding such Holder and such Holder's intended method of distribution of Securities as may be required in order to comply with the Securities Act. Each Holder agrees to notify the Company as promptly as practicable of any inaccuracy or change in information previously furnished by such Holder to the Company or of the occurrence of any event in either case as a result of which any prospectus relating to the Shelf Registration Statement contains or would contain an untrue statement of a material fact regarding such Holder or such Holder's intended method of disposition of such Securities or omits to state any material fact regarding such Holder or such Holder's intended method of disposition of such Securities required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading in light of the circumstances then existing, and promptly to furnish to the Company any such required additional information so that such prospectus shall not contain, with respect to such Holder or the disposition of such Securities, an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading in light of the circumstances then existing.
 
4. . In connection with any Shelf Registration Statement and, to the extent applicable, any Exchange Offer Registration Statement, the following provisions shall apply.
Additional Registration Procedures
 
(a) The Company shall:
 
(i) furnish to the Representative and to counsel for the Holders (if any), not less than five Business Days prior to the filing thereof with the Commission, a copy of any Exchange Offer Registration Statement and any Shelf Registration Statement, and each amendment thereof and each amendment or supplement, if any, to the Prospectus included therein (including all documents incorporated by reference therein after the initial filing) and shall use its reasonable best efforts to reflect in each such document, when so filed with the Commission, such comments as the Representative or such counsel for the Holders (if any) reasonably proposes;
 
(ii) include the information in substantially the form set forth in Annex A hereto on the facing page of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, in Annex B hereto in the forepart of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in a section setting forth details of the Registered Exchange Offer, in Annex C hereto in the underwriting or plan of distribution section of the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, and in Annex D hereto in the letter of transmittal delivered pursuant to the Registered Exchange Offer;
 
(iii) if requested by a Purchaser, include the information required by Item 507 or 508 of Regulation S-K, as applicable, in the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement; and
 
(iv) in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, include the names of the Holders that propose to sell Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement as selling security holders.
 
(b) The Company shall ensure that:
 
(i) any Registration Statement and any amendment thereto and any Prospectus forming part thereof and any amendment or supplement thereto complies in all material respects with the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder; and
 
(ii) any Registration Statement and any amendment thereto does not, when it becomes effective, contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; it being understood that, with respect to the information about Holders in any Shelf Registration Statement, the Company will be relying solely on responses provided by Holders to the Notice and Questionnaire.
 
(c) The Company shall advise the Representative, and, to the extent the Company has been provided a telephone or facsimile number and address for notices (and their respective designated counsel, if any), the Holders of Securities covered by any Shelf Registration Statement and any Exchanging Dealer under any Exchange Offer Registration Statement and, if requested by you or any such Holder or Exchanging Dealer, shall confirm such advice in writing (which notice pursuant to clauses (ii)-(v) hereof shall be accompanied by an instruction to suspend the use of the Prospectus until the Company shall have remedied the basis for such suspension):
 
(i) when a Registration Statement and any amendment thereto has been filed with the Commission and when the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto has become effective;
 
(ii) of any request by the Commission for any amendment or supplement to the Registration Statement or the Prospectus or for additional information;
 
(iii) of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or the initiation of any proceedings for that purpose;
 
(iv) of the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the securities included therein for sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation of any proceeding for such purpose; and
 
(v) of the happening of any event that requires any change in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus so that, as of such date, the statements therein are not misleading and do not omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein (in the case of the Prospectus, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made) not misleading.
 
Each Holder of Securities agrees by acquisition of such Securities that, upon actual receipt of any notice from the Company of the happening of any event of the kind described in Section 4(c)(ii), (iii), (iv), and (v) hereof, such Holder will forthwith discontinue any and all dispositions of such Securities by means of the Registration Statement or Prospectus until such Holder's receipt of the copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus contemplated by Section 4(b), or until it is advised in writing (the "Advice") by the Company that the use of the applicable Prospectus may be resumed, and has received copies of any amendments or supplements thereto provided, however, that this paragraph shall not prohibit any Holder from engaging in dispositions of the Securities through means other than pursuant to the Registration Statement or Prospectus, as long as such dispositions comply with applicable laws.
 
(d) The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to obtain the withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness of any Registration Statement or the qualification of the securities therein for sale in any jurisdiction at the earliest possible time.
 
(e) The Company shall furnish, upon written request, to each Holder of Securities covered by any Shelf Registration Statement, without charge, at least one copy of such Shelf Registration Statement and any post-effective amendment thereto, including all material incorporated therein by reference and, if requested, all exhibits thereto (including exhibits incorporated by reference therein).
 
(f) The Company shall, during the Shelf Registration Period, deliver to each Holder of Securities covered by any Shelf Registration Statement and its respective counsel, without charge, as many copies of the Prospectus (including each preliminary Prospectus) included in such Shelf Registration Statement and any amendment or supplement thereto as such Holder may reasonably request. The Company consents to the use of the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto by each of the selling Holders of securities in connection with the offering and sale of the securities covered by the Prospectus, or any amendment or supplement thereto, included in the Shelf Registration Statement.
 
(g) The Company shall furnish to each Exchanging Dealer which so requests, without charge, at least one copy of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement and any
 
post-effective amendment thereto, including all material incorporated by reference therein, and, if the Exchanging Dealer so requests in writing, all exhibits thereto (including exhibits incorporated by reference therein).
 
(h) The Company shall promptly deliver to each Purchaser, each Exchanging Dealer and each other Person required to deliver a Prospectus during the Exchange Offer Registration Period, without charge, as many copies of the Prospectus included in such Exchange Offer Registration Statement and any amendment or supplement thereto as any such Person may reasonably request. The Company consents to the use of the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto by any Purchaser, any Exchanging Dealer and any such other Person that may be required to deliver a Prospectus following the Registered Exchange Offer in connection with the offering and sale of the New Securities covered by the Prospectus, or any amendment or supplement thereto, included in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement.
 
(i) Prior to the Registered Exchange Offer or any other offering of Securities pursuant to any Registration Statement, the Company shall arrange, if necessary, for the qualification of the Securities or the New Securities for sale under the laws of such jurisdictions as any Holder shall reasonably request and will maintain such qualification in effect so long as required; provided that in no event shall the Company be obligated to qualify to do business in any jurisdiction where it is not then so qualified or to take any action that would subject it to service of process in suits, other than those arising out of the Initial Placement, the Registered Exchange Offer or any offering pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement, in any such jurisdiction where it is not then so subject or otherwise subject itself to taxation in any such jurisdiction.
 
(j) The Company shall cooperate with the Holders of Securities to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing New Securities or Securities to be issued or sold pursuant to any Registration Statement free of any restrictive legends and in such denominations and registered in such names as Holders may request.
 
(k) Upon the occurrence of any event contemplated by subsections (c)(ii) through (v) above, the Company shall promptly prepare a post-effective amendment to the applicable Registration Statement or an amendment or supplement to the related Prospectus or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered to Purchasers of the securities included therein, the Prospectus will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; , , that the Company may delay preparing, filing and distributing any such supplements or amendments (and continue the suspension of the use of the prospectus) if the Company determines in good faith that such supplement or amendment would, in the reasonable judgment of the Company, (i) interfere with or affect the negotiation or completion of a transaction that is being contemplated by the Company (whether or not a final decision has been made to undertake such transaction) or (ii) involve initial or continuing disclosure obligations that are not in the best interests of the Company's shareholders at such time; , , that neither such delay nor such suspension with respect to all matters in clause (i) or (ii) shall extend for a period of more than 30 days in any three-month period or more than 90 days for all such periods in any twelve-month
provided
however
provided
further
 
period and shall not affect the Company's obligations to pay Additional Interest as contemplated by Section 6 hereof.
 
(l) In such circumstances, the period of effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement provided for in Section 2 and the Shelf Registration Statement provided for in Section 3(b) shall each be extended by the number of days from and including the date of the giving of a notice of suspension pursuant to Section 4(c) to and including the date when the Purchasers, the Holders of the Securities and any known Exchanging Dealer shall have received such amended or supplemented Prospectus pursuant to this Section.
 
(m) Not later than the effective date of any Registration Statement, the Company shall provide CUSIP numbers for the Securities or the New Securities, as the case may be, registered under such Registration Statement and provide the Trustee with printed certificates for such Securities or New Securities, in a form eligible for deposit with The Depository Trust Company.
 
(n) The Company shall comply with all applicable rules and regulations of the Commission and shall make generally available to its security holders no later than 45 days after the end of any 12-month period (or 90 days after the end of any 12-month period if such period is a fiscal year), an earnings statement satisfying the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Act and Rule 158 thereunder (or any similar rule under the Act) for a period of at least 12 months beginning on the first day of the first fiscal quarter after the effective date of the applicable Registration Statement.
 
(o) The Company shall cause the Indenture to be qualified under the Trust Indenture Act in a timely manner;
 
(p) The Company may require each Holder of securities to be sold pursuant to any Shelf Registration Statement to furnish to the Company such information regarding the Holder and the distribution of such securities as the Company may from time to time reasonably require for inclusion in such Registration Statement. The Company may exclude from such Shelf Registration Statement the Securities of any Holder that fails to furnish such information within a reasonable time after receiving such request.
 
(q) In the case of any Shelf Registration Statement, the Company shall enter into such agreement and take all other appropriate actions (including if requested an underwriting agreement in customary form) in order to expedite or facilitate the registration or the disposition of the Securities, and in connection therewith, if an underwriting agreement is entered into, cause the same to contain indemnification provisions and procedures no less favorable than those set forth in Section 7 (or such other provisions and procedures acceptable to the Majority Holders and the Managing Underwriters, if any, with respect to all parties to be indemnified pursuant to Section 7).
 
(r) In the case of any Shelf Registration Statement, the Company shall:
 
(i) make reasonably available for inspection by the representatives or agents of the Holders of Securities designated by the Majority Holders to be registered
 
thereunder, any underwriter participating in any disposition pursuant to such Registration Statement, and any attorney, accountant or other agent retained by the Holders or any such underwriter all relevant and reasonably requested financial and other records, pertinent corporate documents and properties of the Company and its subsidiaries;
 
(ii) cause the Company's officers, directors and employees to supply all relevant information reasonably requested by the representatives or agents of the Holders of Securities designated by the Majority Holders or any such underwriter, attorney, accountant or agent in connection with any such Registration Statement as is customary for similar due diligence examinations; , , that any information that is designated in writing by the Company, in good faith, as confidential at the time of delivery of such information shall be kept confidential by such representatives or agents or any such underwriter, attorney, accountant or agent, unless such disclosure is made in connection with a court proceeding or required by law, or such information becomes available to the public generally or through a third party without an accompanying obligation of confidentiality;
provided
however
 
(iii) make such representations and warranties to the Holders of Securities registered thereunder and the underwriters, if any, in form, substance and scope as are customarily made by issuers to underwriters in primary underwritten offerings and covering matters including, but not limited to, those set forth in the Purchase Agreement;
 
(iv) obtain opinions of counsel to the Company and updates thereof (which counsel and opinions (in form, scope and substance) shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Managing Underwriters, if any) addressed to each selling Holder and the underwriters, if any, covering such matters as are customarily covered in opinions requested in underwritten offerings and such other matters as may be reasonably requested by such Holders and underwriters;
 
(v) obtain "cold comfort" letters and updates thereof from the independent certified public accountants of the Company (and, if necessary, any other independent certified public accountants of any subsidiary of the Company or of any business acquired by the Company for which financial statements and financial data are, or are required to be, included in the Registration Statement), addressed to each selling Holder of Securities registered thereunder and the underwriters, if any, who have provided such accountants with a representation letter if required to do so under Statement on Auditing Standards No. 72 in customary form and covering matters of the type customarily covered in "cold comfort" letters in connection with primary underwritten offerings;
 
(vi) deliver such documents and certificates as may be reasonably requested by the Majority Holders and the Managing Underwriters, if any, including those to evidence compliance with Section 4(k) and with any customary conditions contained in the underwriting agreement or other agreement entered into by the Company; and
 
(vii) after the Effective Time of the Shelf Registration Statement, upon the request of any Holder, promptly send a Notice and Questionnaire to such Holder; provided that the Company shall not be required to take any action to name such Holder as a selling securityholder in the Shelf Registration Statement or to enable such holder to use the prospectus forming a part thereof for resales of Securities except in accordance with Section 3(c) hereof.
 
The actions set forth in clauses (iii), (iv), (v) and (vi) of this Section shall be performed at (A) the effectiveness of such Registration Statement and each post-effective amendment thereto; and (B) each closing under any underwriting or similar agreement as and to the extent required thereunder.
 
(s) In the case of any Exchange Offer Registration Statement, the Company shall:
 
(i) make reasonably available for inspection by each Purchaser, and any attorney, accountant or other agent retained by such Purchaser, all relevant financial and other records, pertinent corporate documents and properties of the Company and its subsidiaries;
 
(ii) cause the Company's officers, directors and employees to supply all relevant information reasonably requested by such Purchaser or any such attorney, accountant or agent in connection with any such Registration Statement as is customary for similar due diligence examinations; , , that any information that is designated in writing by the Company, in good faith, as confidential at the time of delivery of such information shall be kept confidential by such Purchaser or any such attorney, accountant or agent, unless such disclosure is made in connection with a court proceeding or required by law, or such information becomes available to the public generally or through a third party without an accompanying obligation of confidentiality;
provided
however
 
(iii) make such representations and warranties to such Purchaser, in form, substance and scope as are customarily made by issuers to underwriters in primary underwritten offerings and covering matters including, but not limited to, those set forth in the Purchase Agreement;
 
(iv) obtain opinions of counsel to the Company and updates thereof (which counsel and opinions (in form, scope and substance) shall be reasonably satisfactory to such Purchaser and its counsel) addressed to such Purchaser, covering such matters as are customarily covered in opinions requested in underwritten offerings and such other matters as may be reasonably requested by such Purchaser or its counsel;
 
(v) obtain "cold comfort" letters and updates thereof from the independent certified public accountants of the Company (and, if necessary, any other independent certified public accountants of any subsidiary of the Company or of any business acquired by the Company for which financial statements and financial data are, or are required to be, included in the Registration Statement), addressed to such
 
Purchaser, in customary form and covering matters of the type customarily covered in "cold comfort" letters in connection with primary underwritten offerings as permitted by Statement on Auditing Standards No. 72, or if requested by such Purchaser or its counsel in lieu of a "cold comfort" letter, an agreed-upon procedures letter under Statement on Auditing Standards No. 35, covering matters requested by such Purchaser or its counsel; and
 
(vi) deliver such documents and certificates as may be reasonably requested by such Purchaser or its counsel, including those to evidence compliance with Section 4(k) and with conditions customarily contained in underwriting agreements.
 
The foregoing actions set forth in clauses (iii), (iv), (v) and (vi) of this Section shall be performed at the close of the Registered Exchange Offer and the effective date of any post-effective amendment to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement.
 
(t) If a Registered Exchange Offer is to be consummated, upon delivery of the Securities by Holders to the Company (or to such other Person as directed by the Company) in exchange for the New Securities, the Company shall mark, or caused to be marked, on the Securities so exchanged that such Securities are being canceled in exchange for the New Securities. In no event shall the Securities be marked as paid or otherwise satisfied.
 
(u) The Company will use its reasonable best efforts (i) if the Securities have been rated prior to the initial sale of such Securities, to confirm such ratings will apply to the Securities or the New Securities, as the case may be, covered by a Registration Statement; or (ii) if the Securities were not previously rated, to cause the Securities covered by a Registration Statement to be rated with at least one nationally recognized statistical rating agency, if so requested by Majority Holders with respect to the related Registration Statement or by any Managing Underwriters.
 
(v) In the event that any Broker-Dealer shall underwrite any Securities or participate as a member of an underwriting syndicate or selling group or "assist in the distribution" (within the meaning of the Rules of Fair Practice and the By-Laws of the NASD, Inc.) thereof, whether as a Holder of such Securities or as an underwriter, a placement or sales agent or a broker or dealer in respect thereof, or otherwise, assist such Broker-Dealer in complying with the requirements of such Rules and By-Laws, including, without limitation, by:
 
(i) if such Rules or By-Laws shall so require, engaging a "qualified independent underwriter" (as defined in such Rules) to participate in the preparation of the Registration Statement, to exercise usual standards of due diligence with respect thereto and, if any portion of the offering contemplated by such Registration Statement is an underwritten offering or is made through a placement or sales agent, to recommend the yield of such Securities;
 
(ii) indemnifying any such qualified independent underwriter to the extent of the indemnification of underwriters provided in Section 7 hereof; and
 
(iii) providing such information to such Broker-Dealer as may be required in order for such Broker-Dealer to comply with the requirements of such Rules.
 
(w) Prior to any public offering of the Securities or New Securities, pursuant to any Registration Statement, the Company shall register or qualify or cooperate with the Holders of the Securities included therein and their respective counsel in connection with the registration or qualification of the Securities for offer and sale under the securities or "blue sky" laws of such states of the United States as any Holder of the Securities reasonably requests in writing and do any and all other acts or things necessary or advisable to enable the offer and sale in such jurisdictions of the Securities covered by such Registration Statement; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to (i) qualify generally to do business in any jurisdiction where it is not then so qualified or (ii) take any action which would subject it to general service of process or to taxation in any jurisdiction where it is not then so subject.
 
(x) The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to take all other steps necessary to effect the registration of the Securities or the New Securities, as the case may be, covered by a Registration Statement.
 
5. . The Company shall bear all expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations under Sections 2, 3 and 4 hereof and, in the event of any Shelf Registration Statement, will reimburse the Holders for the reasonable fees and disbursements of one firm or counsel designated by the Majority Holders to act as counsel for the Holders in connection therewith, and, in the case of any Exchange Offer Registration Statement, will reimburse the Purchasers for the reasonable fees and disbursements of one firm or counsel acting in connection therewith. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Holders shall pay all agency fees and commissions and underwriting discounts and commissions and the fees and disbursements of any counsel or other advisors or experts retained by such Holders (severally or jointly), other than the counsel specifically referred to above.
Registration Expenses
 
6. . The Company, the Purchasers and each Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities agree by acquisition of such Securities that the Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities will suffer damages if a Registration Default (as defined below) occurs and that it would not be feasible to ascertain the extent of such damages with precision. Accordingly, the Company, the Purchasers and each Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities agree that the following additional interest provisions shall constitute liquidated damages in the event of a "Registration Default" (as defined below) and shall constitute the sole remedy of the Purchasers and each Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities for any Registration Defaults.
Additional Interest Under Certain Circumstances
 
(a) In accordance with the terms of the Securities, additional interest ("Additional Interest") with respect to the Securities and New Securities shall be assessed as follows if any of the following events occur (each such event in clauses (i) through (iv) below being herein called a "Registration Default"):
 
(i) on or prior to the 90
th
day following the Issue Date neither the Exchange Offer Registration Statement nor the Shelf Registration Statement has been filed with the Commission;
 
(ii) on or prior to the 210
th
day following the Issue Date ( the "Effectiveness Target Date"), neither the Exchange Offer Registration Statement nor the Shelf Registration Statement has been declared effective;
 
(iii) on or prior to 30 Business Days following the Effectiveness Target Date, the Registered Exchange Offer has not been consummated; or
 
(iv) any Registration Statement required by this Agreement has been declared effective by the Commission but (A) such Registration Statement thereafter ceases to be effective or (B) such Registration Statement or the related prospectus ceases to be usable in connection with resales of Transfer Restricted Securities during the periods specified herein.
 
Each of the foregoing shall constitute a Registration Default whatever the reason for any such event and whether it is voluntary or involuntary or is beyond the control of the Company or pursuant to operation of law or as a result of any action or inaction by the Commission; , , that the Company shall in no event be required to pay Additional Interest for more than one Registration Default at any given time.
provided
however
 
Additional Interest shall be assessed on the Securities or New Securities, from and including the date on which any such Registration Default shall occur to but excluding the date on which all such Registration Defaults shall have been cured, at a rate of $.05 per week per $1,000 of principal amount of notes held (the "Additional Interest Amount") for the first 90-day period immediately following the occurrence of such Registration Default. The Additional Interest Amount will increase by an additional $.05 per week per $1,000 of principal amount of notes with respect to each subsequent 90-day period until all Registration Defaults have been cured, up to a maximum amount of Additional Interest for all Registration Defaults of $.25 per week per $1,000 of principal amount of notes.
 
(b) Any amounts of Additional Interest due pursuant to Section 6(a) shall be paid to the Holders entitled thereto on June 1 and December 1 of any given year as more fully set forth in the Indenture and the Notes.
 
7. . (a) The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Holder of Securities or New Securities, as the case may be, covered by any Registration Statement (including each Purchaser and, with respect to any Prospectus delivery as contemplated in Section 4(h) hereof, each Exchanging Dealer), the directors, officers, employees and agents of each such Holder, Purchaser or Exchanging Dealer and each Person who controls any such Holder, Purchaser or Exchanging Dealer within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act against any and all losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, to which they or any of them may become subject under the Act, the Exchange Act or other Federal or state statutory law or regulation, at common law or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims,
Indemnification and Contribution
 
damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement as originally filed or in any amendment thereof, or in any preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, or in any amendment thereof or supplement thereto, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, and agrees to reimburse each such indemnified party, as incurred, for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by them in connection with investigating or defending any such loss, claim, damage, liability or action; , , that the Company will not be liable in any case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage or liability arises out of or is based upon any such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made therein in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by or on behalf of the party claiming indemnification specifically for inclusion therein and , , that the Company shall not be liable for any loss, claim, damage or expense (1) arising from any offer or sale of Securities or New Securities, as the case may be, covered by any Registration Statement, during a 30-day or 90 day period referenced in Section 5(k) hereof, of which the Holder has received written notice, or (2) if the Holder fails to deliver, within the time required by the Securities Act, a Prospectus that is amended or supplemented, and such Prospectus, as amended or supplemented, would have corrected the untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission of a material fact contained in the Prospectus delivered by the Holder, so long as the Prospectus, as amended or supplemented, has been delivered to such Holder prior to such time. This indemnity agreement will be in addition to any liability which the Company may otherwise have.
provided
however
provided
further
 
The Company also agrees to indemnify or contribute as provided in Section 7(d) to Losses of any underwriter of Securities or New Securities, as the case may be, registered under a Shelf Registration Statement, their directors, officers, employees or agents and each Person who controls such underwriter on substantially the same basis as that of the indemnification of the Purchasers and the selling Holders provided in this Section 7(a) and shall, if requested by any Holder, enter into an underwriting agreement reflecting such agreement, as provided in Section 4(p) hereof.
 
(b) Each Holder of securities covered by a Registration Statement (including each Purchaser and, with respect to any Prospectus delivery as contemplated in Section 4(h) hereof, each Exchanging Dealer) severally, but not jointly, agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each of its directors, each of its officers who signs such Registration Statement and each Person who controls the Company within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act, to the same extent as the foregoing indemnity from the Company to each such Holder, but only with reference to written information relating to such Holder furnished to the Company by or on behalf of such Holder specifically for inclusion in the documents referred to in the foregoing indemnity. This indemnity agreement will be in addition to any liability which any such Holder may otherwise have.
 
(c) Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section 7 of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the indemnifying party under this Section, notify the indemnifying
 
party in writing of the commencement thereof; but the failure so to notify the indemnifying party (i) will not relieve it from liability under paragraph (a) or (b) above unless and to the extent it did not otherwise learn of such action and is prejudiced thereby; and (ii) will not, in any event, relieve the indemnifying party from any obligations to any indemnified party other than the indemnification obligation provided in paragraph (a) or (b) above. The indemnifying party shall be entitled to appoint counsel of the indemnifying party's choice at the indemnifying party's expense to represent the indemnified party in any action for which indemnification is sought (in which case the indemnifying party shall not thereafter be responsible for the fees and expenses of any separate counsel retained by the indemnified party or parties except as set forth below); , that such counsel shall be reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party. Notwithstanding the indemnifying party's election to appoint counsel to represent the indemnified party in an action, the indemnified party shall have the right to employ separate counsel (including local counsel), and the indemnifying party shall bear the reasonable fees, costs and expenses of such separate counsel if (i) the use of counsel chosen by the indemnifying party to represent the indemnified party would present such counsel with a conflict of interest; (ii) the actual or potential defendants in, or targets of, any such action include both the indemnified party and the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that there may be legal defenses available to it and/or other indemnified parties which are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party; (iii) the indemnifying party shall not have employed counsel satisfactory to the indemnified party to represent the indemnified party within a reasonable time after notice of the institution of such action; or (iv) the indemnifying party shall authorize the indemnified party to employ separate counsel at the expense of the indemnifying party. An indemnifying party will not, without the prior written consent of the indemnified parties, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any pending or threatened claim, action, suit or proceeding in respect of which indemnification or contribution may be sought hereunder (whether or not the indemnified parties are actual or potential parties to such claim or action) unless such settlement, compromise or consent includes (i) an unconditional release of each indemnified party from all liability arising out of such claim, action, suit or proceeding and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault or failure to act by or on behalf of any indemnified party. No indemnifying party shall be liable under subsections (a), (b) or (c) of this Section for any settlement of any claim or action effected without its consent, which consent will not be unreasonably withheld; , , that such indemnifying party has notified in writing the indemnified party of its refusal to accept such settlement within 30 days of its receipt of a notice from the indemnified party outlining the terms of such settlement.
provided, however
provided
however
 
(d) In the event that the indemnity provided in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section is unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party for any reason, then each applicable indemnifying party shall have a joint and several obligation to contribute to the aggregate losses, claims, damages and liabilities (including legal or other expenses reasonably incurred in connection with investigating or defending same) (collectively "Losses") to which such indemnified party may be subject in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by such indemnifying party, on the one hand, and such indemnified party, on the other hand, from the Initial Placement and the Registration Statement which resulted in such Losses; , , that in no case shall any Purchaser of any Security or New Security be responsible, in the aggregate, for any amount in excess of the purchase discount
provided
however
 
or commission applicable to such Security, or in the case of a New Security, applicable to the Security that was exchangeable into such New Security, as set forth in the Final Memorandum, nor shall any underwriter be responsible for any amount in excess of the underwriting discount or commission applicable to the securities purchased by such underwriter under the Registration Statement which resulted in such Losses, nor shall any subsequent Holder of any Security or New Security be responsible, in the aggregate, for any amount in excess of the net proceeds received by such Holder from the resale of such securities under the Registration Statement which resulted in such Losses. If the allocation provided by the immediately preceding sentence is unavailable for any reason, the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall contribute in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only such relative benefits but also the relative fault of such indemnifying party, on the one hand, and such indemnified party, on the other hand, in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such Losses as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. Relative fault shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any alleged untrue statement or omission relates to information provided by the indemnifying party, on the one hand, or by the indemnified party, on the other hand, the intent of the parties and their relative knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such untrue statement or omission. The parties agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Holders were treated as one entity for such purpose) or any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above. Notwithstanding the provisions of this paragraph (d), no Person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any Person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. For purposes of this Section, each Person who controls a Holder within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act and each director, officer, employee and agent of such Holder shall have the same rights to contribution as such Holder, and each Person who controls the Company within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act, each officer of the Company who shall have signed the Registration Statement and each director of the Company shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company, subject in each case to the applicable terms and conditions of this paragraph (d).
 
(e) The provisions of this Section will remain in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of any Holder or the Company or any of the officers, directors or controlling Persons referred to in this Section hereof, and will survive the sale by a Holder of securities covered by a Registration Statement.
 
8. . In connection with any Shelf Registration Statement required under this Agreement, the Company may enter into one or more underwriting agreements, engagement letters, agency agreements, "best efforts" underwriting agreements or similar agreements, as appropriate, including customary provisions relating to indemnification and contribution, and take such other actions in connection therewith as the Majority Holders shall request in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of such Securities.
Underwritten Registrations
 
(a) If any of the Securities or New Securities, as the case may be, covered by any Shelf Registration Statement are to be sold in an underwritten offering, the Managing Underwriters shall be selected by the Majority Holders provided that such Managing Underwriters shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Company.
 
(b) No Person may participate in any underwritten offering pursuant to any Shelf Registration Statement, unless such Person (i) agrees to sell such Person's Securities or New Securities, as the case may be, on the basis reasonably provided in any underwriting arrangements approved by the Persons entitled hereunder to approve such arrangements; and (ii) completes and executes all questionnaires, powers of attorney, indemnities, underwriting agreements and other documents reasonably required under the terms of such underwriting arrangements.
 
9. . The Company has not, as of the date hereof, entered into, nor shall it, on or after the date hereof, enter into, any agreement with respect to its securities that is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Holders herein or otherwise conflicts with the provisions hereof.
No Inconsistent Agreements
 
10. . The provisions of this Agreement, including the provisions of this sentence, may not be amended, qualified, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given, unless the Company has obtained the written consent of the Majority Holders (or, after the consummation of any Registered Exchange Offer in accordance with Section 2 hereof, of New Securities); that, with respect to any matter that directly or indirectly affects the rights of any Purchaser hereunder, the Company shall obtain the written consent of each such Purchaser against which such amendment, qualification, supplement, waiver or consent is to be effective. Notwithstanding the foregoing (except the foregoing proviso), a waiver or consent to departure from the provisions hereof with respect to a matter that relates exclusively to the rights of Holders whose Securities or New Securities, as the case may be, are being sold pursuant to a Registration Statement and that does not directly or indirectly affect the rights of other Holders may be given by the Majority Holders, determined on the basis of Securities or New Securities, as the case may be, being sold rather than registered under such Registration Statement.
Amendments and Waivers
provided
 
11. . All notices and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand-delivery, first-class mail, telex, telecopier or air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery:
Notices
 
(a) if to a Holder, at the most current address given by such holder to the Company in accordance with the provisions of this Section, which address initially is, with respect to each Holder, the address of such Holder maintained by the Registrar under the Indenture, with copies in like manner to the Representative.
 
(b) if to the Representative (for itself or on behalf of any or all of the Purchasers), initially at the address set forth in the Purchase Agreement; and
 
(c) if to the Company, initially at the address set forth in the Purchase Agreement with a copy to Company counsel at the following address:
 
Palmer & Dodge LLP
111 Huntington Avenue
Boston, MA 02199
Attn: Matthew J. Gardella
Tel: (617) 239-0100
Facsimile: (617) 227-4420
 
All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given when received.
 
The Representative and the Company by notice to the other parties may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications.
 
12. . This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors and assigns of each of the parties, including, without the need for an express assignment or any consent by the Company thereto, subsequent Holders of Securities and the New Securities. The Company hereby agrees to extend the benefits of this Agreement to any Holder of Securities and the New Securities, and any such Holder may specifically enforce the provisions of this Agreement as if an original party hereto.
Successors
 
13. . This agreement may be in signed counterparts, each of which shall an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
 
14. . The headings used herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Headings
 
15. . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed in the State of New York.
Applicable Law
 
16. . In the event that any one of more of the provisions contained herein, or the application thereof in any circumstances, is held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect for any reason, the validity, legality and enforceability of any such provision in every other respect and of the remaining provisions hereof shall not be in any way impaired or affected thereby, it being intended that all of the rights and privileges of the parties shall be enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.
Severability
 
17. Whenever the consent or approval of Holders of a specified percentage of the principal amount of Securities or New Securities is required hereunder, Securities or New Securities, as applicable, held by the Company or its Affiliates (other than subsequent Holders of Securities or New Securities if such subsequent Holders are deemed to be Affiliates solely by reason of their holdings of such Securities or New Securities) shall not be counted in determining whether such consent or approval was given by the Holders of such required percentage.
Securities Held by the Company,
Etc.
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, please sign and return to us the enclosed duplicate hereof, whereupon this letter and your acceptance shall represent a binding agreement among the Company and the several Purchasers.
 
 
The foregoing Agreement is hereby confirmed and accepted as of the date first above written.
 
 
ANNEX A
 
Each Broker-Dealer that receives New Securities for its own account pursuant to the Registered Exchange Offer must acknowledge that it will deliver a prospectus in connection with any resale of such New Securities. The Letter of Transmittal states that by so acknowledging and by delivering a prospectus, a Broker-Dealer will not be deemed to admit that it is an "underwriter" within the meaning of the Act. This Prospectus, as it may be amended or supplemented from time to time, may be used by a Broker-Dealer in connection with resales of New Securities received in exchange for Securities where such Securities were acquired by such Broker-Dealer as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities. The Company has agreed that, starting on the Expiration Date (as defined herein) and ending on the close of business 180 days after the Expiration Date, it will make this Prospectus available to any Broker-Dealer for use in connection with any such resale. See "Plan of Distribution".
 
ANNEX B
 
Each Broker-Dealer that receives New Securities for its own account in exchange for Securities, where such Securities were acquired by such Broker-Dealer as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities, must acknowledge that it will deliver a prospectus in connection with any resale of such New Securities. See "Plan of Distribution".
 
ANNEX C
 
 
Each Broker-Dealer that receives New Securities for its own account pursuant to the Registered Exchange Offer must acknowledge that it will deliver a prospectus in connection with any resale of such New Securities. This Prospectus, as it may be amended or supplemented from time to time, may be used by a Broker-Dealer in connection with resales of New Securities received in exchange for Securities where such Securities were acquired as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities. The Company has agreed that, starting on the Expiration Date and ending on the close of business 180 days after the Expiration Date, it will make this Prospectus, as amended or supplemented, available to any Broker-Dealer for use in connection with any such resale. In addition, until the date that is 180 days from Issue Date, all dealers effecting transactions in the New Securities may be required to deliver a prospectus.
 
The Company will not receive any proceeds from any sale of New Securities by brokers-dealers. New Securities received by Broker-Dealers for their own account pursuant to the Registered Exchange Offer may be sold from time to time in one or more transactions in the over-the-counter market, in negotiated transactions, through the writing of options on the New Securities or a combination of such methods of resale, at market prices prevailing at the time of resale, at prices related to such prevailing market prices or negotiated prices. Any such resale may be made directly to purchasers or to or through brokers or dealers who may receive compensation in the form of commissions or concessions from any such Broker-Dealer and/or the purchasers of any such New Securities. Any Broker-Dealer that resells New Securities that were received by it for its own account pursuant to the Registered Exchange Offer and any broker or dealer that participates in a distribution of such New Securities may be deemed to be an "underwriter" within the meaning of the Act and any profit of any such resale of New Securities and any commissions or concessions received by any such Persons may be deemed to be underwriting compensation under the Act. The Letter of Transmittal states that by acknowledging that it will deliver and by delivering a prospectus, a Broker-Dealer will not be deemed to admit that it is an "underwriter" within the meaning of the Act.
 
For a period of 180 days after the Expiration Date, the Company will promptly send additional copies of this Prospectus and any amendment or supplement to this Prospectus to any Broker-Dealer that requests such documents in the Letter of Transmittal. The Company has agreed to pay all expenses incident to the Registered Exchange Offer (including the expenses of one counsel for the holder of the Securities) other than commissions or concessions of any brokers or dealers and will indemnify the holders of the Securities (including any Broker-Dealers) against certain liabilities, including liabilities under the Act.
 
ANNEX D
 
Rider A
 
CHECK HERE IF YOU ARE A BROKER-DEALER AND WISH TO RECEIVE
10 ADDITIONAL COPIES OF THE PROSPECTUS AND 10 COPIES OF ANY
AMENDMENTS OR SUPPLEMENTS THERETO.
 
 
Rider B
 
If the undersigned is not a Broker-Dealer, the undersigned represents that it acquired the New Securities in the ordinary course of its business, it is not engaged in, and does not intend to engage in, a distribution of New Securities and it has not made arrangements or understandings with any Person to participate in a distribution of the New Securities. If the undersigned is a Broker-Dealer that will receive New Securities for its own account in exchange for Securities, it represents that the Securities to be exchanged for New Securities were acquired by it as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities and acknowledges that it will deliver a prospectus in connection with any resale of such New Securities; however, by so acknowledging and by delivering a prospectus, the undersigned will not be deemed to admit that it is an "underwriter" within the meaning of the Act.
 
ANNEX E
 
 
 
 
The Depositary Trust Company ("DTC") has identified you as a DTC Participant through which beneficial interests in the American Tower Corporation (the "Company") 7.125% Senior Notes due 2012 (the "Securities") are held.
 
The Company is in the process of registering the Securities under the Securities Act of 1933 for resale by the beneficial owners thereof. In order to have their Securities included in the registration statement, beneficial owners must complete and return the enclosed Notice of Registration Statement and Selling Securityholder Questionnaire.
 
It is important that beneficial owners of the Securities receive a copy of the enclosed materials as soon as possible as their rights to have the Securities included in the registration statement depend upon their returning the Notice and Questionnaire by [DEADLINE FOR RESPONSE]. Please forward a copy of the enclosed documents to each beneficial owner that holds interest in the Securities through you. If you require more copies of the enclosed materials or have any questions pertaining to this matter, please contact American Tower Corporation, 116 Huntington Avenue, 11
th
Floor, Boston, MA 02116, Attention: General Counsel.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the American Tower Corporation Registration Rights Agreement, the Company has filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") a registration statement on Form (the "Shelf Registration Statement") for the registration and resale under Rule 415 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), of the Company's 7.125% Senior Notes due 2012 (the "Securities"). A copy of the Registration Rights Agreement is attached hereto. All capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Registration Rights Agreement.
                
 
Each beneficial owner of Transfer Restricted Securities (as defined below) is entitled to have the Transfer Restricted Securities beneficially owned by it included in the Shelf Registration Statement. In order to have Transfer Restricted Securities included in the Shelf Registration Statement, this Notice of Registration Statement and Selling Securityholder Questionnaire ("Notice and Questionnaire") must be completed, executed and delivered to the Company's counsel of the address set forth herein for receipt ON OR BEFORE [DEADLINE FOR RESPONSE]. Beneficial owners of Transfer Restricted Securities who do not complete, execute and return this Notice and Questionnaire by such date (i) will not be named as selling securityholders in the Shelf and Registration Statement and (ii) may not use the Prospectus forming a part thereof for resales of Transfer Securities.
 
Certain legal consequences arise from being named as a selling securityholder in the Shelf Registration Statement and related Prospectus. Accordingly, holders and beneficial owners of Transfer Restricted Securities are advised to consult their own securities law counsel regarding the consequence of being name or not being named as a selling securityholder in the Shelf Registration Statement and related Prospectus.
 
The term "TRANSFER RESTRICTED SECURITIES" is defined in the Registration Rights Agreement.
 
 
The undersigned holder (the "Selling Securityholder") of Transfer Restricted Securities hereby elects to include in the Shelf Registration Statement the Transfer Restricted Securities beneficially owned by it and listed below in Item (3). The undersigned, by signing and returning this Notice and Questionnaire, agrees to be bound with respect to such Transfer Restricted Securities by the terms and conditions of this Notice and Questionnaire and the Registration Rights Agreement, as if the undersigned Selling Securityholder were an original party thereto.
 
Upon any sale of Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement, the Selling Securityholder will be required to deliver to the Company and Trustee the Notice of Transfer set forth as Annex F to the Registration Rights Agreement. The Selling Securityholder hereby provides the following information to the Company and represents and warrants that such information is accurate and complete:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Telephone:
Fax:
Contact Person:
 
 
Except as set forth below in this Item (3), the undersigned does not beneficially own any Securities.
 
 
 
 
 
Except as set forth below in this Item (4), the undersigned Selling Securityholder is not the beneficial or registered owner of any other securities of the Company, other than the Securities listed above in Item (3).
 
State any exceptions here:
 
 
Except as set forth below, neither the Selling Securityholder nor any of its affiliates, officers, directors or principal equity holders (5% or more) has held any position or office or has had any other material relationship with the Company (or its predecessors or affiliates) during the past three years.
 
 
 
If the entity is a majority owned subsidiary of a reporting company, identify the majority stockholder that is a reporting company.
 
If the entity is not any of the above, identify the natural person or persons having voting and investment control over the Company's securities that the entity owns.
 
 
State whether the Selling Securityholder received the Registrable Securities as compensation for underwriting activities and, if so, provide a brief description of the transaction(s) involved.
 
State whether the Selling Securityholder is an affiliate of a broker-dealer and if so, list the name(s) of the broker-dealer affiliate(s).
 
Yes
    No
 
If the answer is "Yes," you must answer the following:
 
If the Selling Securityholder is an affiliate of a registered broker-dealer, the Selling Securityholder purchased, the Registrable Securities (i) in the ordinary course of business and (ii) at the time of the purchase of the Registrable Securities, had no agreements or understandings, directly or indirectly, with any person to distribute the Registrable Securities
.
 
Yes
    No
 
If the answer is "No", state any exceptions here:
 
If the answer is "No," this may affect your ability to be included in the registration statement.
 
 
State any exceptions here:
 
Except as set forth below, the undersigned Selling Securityholder intends to distribute the Transfer Restricted Securities listed above in Item (3) only as follows (if at all): Such Transfer Restricted Securities may be sold from time to time directly by the undersigned Selling Securityholder or, alternatively, through underwriters, broker-dealers or agents. Such Transfer Restricted Securities may be sold in one or more transactions at fixed prices, at prevailing market prices at the time of sale, at varying prices determined at the time of sale, or at negotiated prices. Such sales may be effected in transactions (which may involve crosses or block transactions) (i) on any national securities exchange or quotation service on which the Registered Securities may be listed or quoted at the time of sale, (ii) in the over-the-counter market, (iii) in transactions otherwise than on such exchanges or services or in the over-the-counter market, or (iv) through the writing of options. In connection with sales of the Transfer Restricted Securities or otherwise, the Selling Securityholder may enter into hedging transactions with broker-dealers, which may in turn engage in short sales of the Transfer Restricted Securities in the course of hedging the positions they assume. The Selling Securityholder may also sell Transfer Restricted Securities short and deliver Transfer Restricted Securities to close out such short positions, or loan or pledge Transfer Restricted Securities to broker-dealers that in turn may sell such securities
 
State any exceptions here:
 
By signing below, the Selling Securityholder acknowledges that it understands its obligation to comply, and agrees that it will comply, with the provisions of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder, particularly Regulation M.
 
In the event that the Selling Securityholder transfers all or any portion of the Transfer Restricted Securities listed in Item (3) above after the date on which such information is provided to the Company, the Selling Securityholder agrees to notify the transferee(s) at the time of the transfer of its rights and obligations under this Notice and Questionnaire and the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement.
 
By signing below, the Selling Securityholder consents to the disclosure of the information contained herein in its answers to Items (1) through (6) above and the inclusion of such information in the Shelf Registration Statement and related Prospectus. The Selling Securityholder understands that such information will be relied upon by the Company in connection with the preparation of the Shelf Registration Statement and related Prospectus. In accordance with the Selling Securityholder's obligation under Section 3(e) of the Exchange and
 
Registration Rights Agreement to provide such information as may be required by law for inclusion in the Shelf Registration Statement, the Selling Securityholder agrees to promptly notify the Company of any inaccuracies or changes in the information provided herein which may occur subsequent to the date hereof at any time while the Shelf Registration Statement remains in effect. All notices hereunder and pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement shall be made in writing, by hand-delivery, or air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery as follows:
 
 
American Tower Corporation
116 Huntington Avenue
Boston, Massachusetts 02116
Attention: Vice President of Finance, Investor Relations
 
 
Matthew Gardella, Esq.
Palmer & Dodge LLP
111 Huntington Avenue
Boston, MA 02199
 
Once this Notice and Questionnaire is executed by the Selling Securityholder and received by the Company's counsel, the terms of this Notice and Questionnaire, and the representations and warranties contained herein, shall be binding on, shall inure to the benefit of and shall be enforceable by the respective successors, heirs, personal representatives, and assigns of the Company and the Selling Securityholder (with respect to the Transfer Restricted Securities beneficially owned by such Selling Securityholder and listed in Item (3) above. This Agreement shall be governed in all respects by the laws of the State of New York.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, by authority duly given, has caused this Notice and Questionnaire to be executed and delivered either in person or by its duly authorized agent.
 
Dated:
 
Selling Securityholder
(Print/type full legal name of beneficial owner of Transfer Restricted Securities)
 
 
PLEASE RETURN THE COMPLETED AND EXECUTED NOTICE AND QUESTIONNAIRE FOR RECEIPT ON OR BEFORE [DEADLINE FOR RESPONSE] TO THE COMPANY'S COUNSEL AT:
 
 
ANNEX F
 
Notice of Transfer Pursuant to Registration Statement
 
America Tower Corporation
The Bank of New York
Trustee Services
5 Penn Plaza, 13
th
Floor
New York, NY 10001
 
Attention: Trust Officer
 
 
Dear Sirs:
 
Please be advised that has transferred $ aggregate principal amount of the abovereferenced Notes pursuant to an effective Registration Statement on Form [] (File No. 333- ) filed by the Company.
                                
                
        
            
 
We hereby certify that the prospectus delivery requirements, if any, of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, have been satisfied and that the above-named beneficial owner of the Notes is named as a "Selling Holder" in the Prospectus dated [DATE] or in supplements thereto, and that the aggregate principal amount of the Notes transferred are the Notes listed in such Prospectus opposite such owner's name.
 
Dated:
                    
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
ATC Contact:     Brad Singer
Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer
Telephone: (617) 375-7500
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
- American Tower Corporation (NYSE: AMT) announced today that it closed its previously announced sale of 7.125% senior notes due 2012. The Company sold a total of $300.0 million principal amount of notes, which resulted in net proceeds to the Company of approximately $292.8 million. The Company intends to use all of the net proceeds of the offering to redeem a portion of its outstanding 9 3/8% senior notes due 2009.
Boston, Massachusetts  October 5, 2004
 
The Company also announced today the call for redemption of $276.0 million principal amount of its 9 3/8% senior notes. The redemption date has been set for November 4, 2004 at a redemption price equal to the principal amount of the notes plus an applicable premium. In addition, the Company will pay accrued and unpaid interest on the redeemed notes up to the redemption date.
 
As a result of this redemption of its 9 3/8% senior notes, the Company expects to record in the fourth quarter of 2004 a pre-tax loss on retirement of long-term obligations of approximately $22 million, consisting of approximately $17 million paid in excess of carrying value and approximately $5 million in the write-off of related deferred financing fees. The Company expects the issuance of the 7.125% senior notes and this redemption of its outstanding 9 3/8% senior notes will result in savings of approximately $5 million in annualized net interest expense.
 
This announcement is neither an offer to sell nor a solicitation of an offer to buy any of the senior notes. The senior notes were offered only to qualified institutional buyers in reliance on Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and outside the United States only to non-U.S. persons in reliance on Regulation S under the Securities Act. The senior notes have not been registered under the Securities Act or any state securities laws, and unless so registered, the senior notes may not be offered or sold in the United States except pursuant to an exemption from registration requirements of the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws.
 
 
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" regarding the redemption of the Company's senior notes and the resulting expected cost savings. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in such forward-looking statements include uncertainties relating to the amount of senior notes actually redeemed and the timing of the redemption of the senior notes.


