FILE:AMT/AMT-8K-20041028083708.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 28, 2004, American Tower Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2004. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.2.
 
Exhibit 99.2 is furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing made by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
UNAUDITED CONDENSED
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(In thousands)
 
 
UNAUDITED CONDENSED
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(In thousands, except per share data)
 
 
UNAUDITED CONDENSED
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(In thousands)
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
ATC Contact: Brad Singer
Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer
Telephone: (617) 375-7500
 
 
 
 
 
 
 American Tower Corporation (NYSE: AMT) today reported financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2004, delivering solid growth in Rental and Management segment revenues and operating profit. For the three months ended September 30, 2004, total revenues increased to $199.2 million and income from operations increased to $24.6 million, as compared to $186.9 million and $12.0 million, respectively, for the same period in 2003. Net loss for the third quarter was $55.9 million, or $(0.25) per share, and includes a $48.0 million pre-tax loss on retirement of long-term obligations related to the refinancing of the Company's 9.375% senior notes and the repurchases of other debt securities described below.
Boston, Massachusetts  October 28, 2004
 
Rental and Management segment revenues increased 11% to $174.9 million and operating profit increased 16% to $121.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2004, as compared to the same period in 2003. Rental and Management segment revenues and operating profit include approximately $2 million of net non-recurring positive items.
 
Adjusted EBITDA ("income from operations before depreciation, amortization and accretion and impairments, net loss on sale of long-lived assets and restructuring expense, plus interest income, TV Azteca, net") increased 15% to $115.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2004, as compared to the same period in 2003.
 
Net cash provided by operating activities increased 49% to $43.8 million, and payments for purchase of property and equipment and construction activities decreased 25% to $9.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2004, as compared to the same period in 2003.
 
Free cash flow ("Adjusted EBITDA less interest expense and payments for purchase of property and equipment and construction activities") increased 114% to $40.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2004, as compared to the same period in 2003.
 
Jim Taiclet, American Tower's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, stated "Our third quarter results reflect the continued strength of our tower rental business. As wireless subscribers and minutes of use continue to grow and new services and applications are deployed, we remain focused on delivering faster, more efficient and higher quality operational execution, which will continue to drive significant revenue and free cash flow growth.
 
 
We have also made substantial progress strengthening our financial position during the third quarter with two refinancings that reduce our interest costs and extend maturities. Since the beginning of the year we have refinanced or repurchased over $1 billion of debt, reducing our annual interest expense by approximately $50 million and further accelerating our free cash flow growth.
 
"The consistency of our operating performance and the strong fundamentals of our customers and the wireless communications industry, combined with the continued improvement in our financial position, give us confidence in our future performance as we look forward to 2005 and beyond."
 
Sale of Construction Services
 
As previously announced in October 2004, the Company signed a definitive agreement to sell its tower construction services unit. As a result of the pending sale, the Company recorded an impairment charge of approximately $2 million during the three months ended September 30, 2004 and will report its tower construction services unit as a discontinued operation, commencing in the fourth quarter of 2004. The sale is expected to close during the fourth quarter of 2004, subject to satisfaction of customary closing conditions. The Company's network development services segment will continue to provide complementary non-construction services including site acquisition, zoning and permitting, and structural analysis.
 
Financing Highlights
 
The Company continued to strengthen its financial position through a combination of strong operational execution and its capital market activities.
 
As previously announced, in the third quarter of 2004 the Company sold $345 million principal amount of its 3.00% convertible notes due 2012 through an institutional private placement. The Company used the net proceeds of the offering and $47 million of cash on hand to redeem and repurchase a total of $357 million principal amount of the Company's 9.375% senior notes due 2009 during the third quarter. In addition, the Company completed the sale of $300 million principal amount of 7.125% senior notes due 2012 in October 2004. The Company will use the net proceeds of this financing to fund the redemption in November 2004 of $276 million of its 9.375% senior notes.
 
In addition, the Company continued to use its free cash flow to repurchase its 12.25% senior subordinated discount notes due 2008, repurchasing a total of $147 million face amount ($85 million of accreted value, net of $7 million fair value discount allocated to warrants) for an aggregate purchase price of $110 million in cash, including $84 million face amount in the third quarter of 2004 and $63 million face amount subsequent to the end of the third quarter. The Company has repurchased a total of $247 million face amount of its 12.25% senior subordinated discount notes to date.
 
As a result of the Company's year-to-date note repurchases and refinancings, the Company anticipates saving approximately $50 million in annualized net interest expense. In addition, the Company has recorded a pre-tax loss on retirement of long-term obligations of $48 million in the third quarter of 2004 and has included a pre-tax loss on retirement of long-term obligations of approximately $35 million in its outlook for the fourth quarter of 2004.
 
The Company reduced its Net Leverage Ratio ("total debt less cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash and investments on hand divided by third quarter annualized Adjusted EBITDA") to 6.7x as of September 30, 2004.
 
Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2005 Outlook
 
The Company's fourth quarter and full year 2004 and 2005 outlook for each of its operating segments is provided
on page 9 of this press release.
 
 
4Q04 Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
2005 Highlights
 
 
 
 
Conference Call Information
 
American Tower will host a conference call today at 10:00 a.m. Eastern to discuss quarterly results and the Company's outlook for full year 2005. The call will be hosted by Brad Singer, Chief Financial Officer, who will be joined by Jim Taiclet, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The dial-in numbers are US/Canada: (877) 235-9047, International: (706) 645-9644 access code 1524219. A replay of the call will be available from 11:00 a.m. Eastern October 28, 2004 until 11:00 p.m. Eastern November 4, 2004. The replay dial-in numbers are US/Canada: (800) 642-1687 and international: (706) 645-9291, access code 1524219. American Tower will also sponsor a live simulcast of the call on its web site, http://investor.americantower.com. A replay of the call will be available on the web site shortly after the conclusion of the call.
 
American Tower is the leading independent owner, operator and developer of broadcast and wireless communications sites in North America. American Tower operates approximately 15,000 sites in the United States, Mexico, and Brazil, including approximately 300 broadcast tower sites. For more information about American Tower Corporation, please visit our website www.americantower.com.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
In addition to the results prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) provided throughout this press release, we have presented the following non-GAAP financial measures: Adjusted EBITDA, Free Cash Flow and Net Leverage Ratio. These measures are not intended as substitutes for other measures of financial performance determined in accordance with GAAP. They are presented as additional information because management believes they are useful indicators of the current financial performance of our core businesses. We believe that these measures can assist in comparing company performances on a consistent basis without regard to depreciation and amortization or capital structure. Our concern is that depreciation and amortization can vary significantly among companies depending on accounting methods, particularly where acquisitions or non-operating factors
 
 
including historical cost bases are involved. Additionally, interest expense may vary significantly depending on capital structure. Notwithstanding the foregoing, our measures of Adjusted EBITDA, Free Cash Flow and Net Leverage Ratio may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. Reconciliations of these measures to GAAP are included on page 10 of this press release. Our results under GAAP are set forth in the financial statements attached as pages 5 to 7 of this press release.
 
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" concerning our goals, beliefs, expectations, strategies, objectives, plans, future operating results and underlying assumptions, and other statements that are not necessarily based on historical facts. Examples of these statements include, but are not limited to, our quarterly and full year 2004 and full year 2005 Outlook, the planned sale of our tower construction services unit and planned future capital expenditures. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated in our forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors, including: (1) a decrease in demand for tower space would materially and adversely affect our operating results; (2) our substantial leverage and debt service obligations may adversely affect our operating results; (3) restrictive covenants in our loan agreement and indentures could adversely affect our business by further limiting our flexibility; (4) our participation or inability to participate in tower industry consolidation could involve certain risks; (5) if our wireless service provider customers consolidate or merge with each other to a significant degree, our growth, our revenue and our ability to generate positive cash flows could be adversely affected; (6) due to the long-term expectations of revenue from tenant leases, we are dependent on the creditworthiness of our tenants; (7) our foreign operations are subject to expropriation risk, governmental regulation, funds inaccessibility, and foreign exchange exposure; (8) a substantial portion of our revenues is derived from a small number of customers; (9) new technologies could make our tower antenna leasing services less desirable to potential tenants and result in decreasing revenues; (10) our business is subject to government regulations and changes in current or future laws or regulations could restrict our ability to operate our business as we currently do; and (11) the bankruptcy proceeding of our Verestar subsidiary exposes us to risks and uncertainties. For other important factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in our forward-looking statements, we refer you to the information under the caption entitled "Factors That May Affect Future Results" in our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2004, which we incorporate herein by reference. We undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this press release to reflect subsequently occurring events or circumstances.
 
 
 
UNAUDITED CONDENSED
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(In thousands)
 
 
 
UNAUDITED CONDENSED
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(In thousands, except per share data)
 
 
 
UNAUDITED CONDENSED
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(In thousands)
 
 
 
UNAUDITED SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
 
SELECTED CAPITAL EXPENDITURE DETAIL
 
 
 
American Tower Corporation Financial Summary
October 28, 2004
(In millions, except per share data)
 
2004: 4Q AND FULL YEAR OUTLOOK, 2005: FULL YEAR OUTLOOK
 
The following estimates are based on a number of assumptions that management believes to be reasonable, and reflect the Company's expectations as of October 28, 2004. Company outlook is based on assumptions about the number of new builds constructed, tenant lease-up and the timing of tower closings. Please refer to the cautionary language regarding "forward-looking" statements included in this press release when considering this information. The Company undertakes no obligation to update this information.
 
"Segment operating profit" is defined as segment revenues less segment operating expenses before depreciation, amortization and accretion, corporate general administrative and development expense, and impairments, net loss on sale of long-lived assets and restructuring expense. Segment operating profit for rental and management includes interest income, TV Azteca, net.
 
"Adjusted EBITDA" is defined as income from operations before depreciation, amortization and accretion and impairments, net loss on sale of long-lived assets and restructuring expense, plus interest income, TV Azteca, net.
 
 
 
 
 
 
UNAUDITED RECONCILIATIONS TO GAAP MEASURES
In thousands
 
Third Quarter 2004 and 2003: Adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow
 
The reconciliation of net loss to adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow is as follows:
 
 
 


