FILE:AMT/AMT-8K-20050706075015.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Appointment of Principal Officer.
 
On July 6, 2005, American Tower Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that Jean A. Bua will be joining the Company as Senior Vice President of Finance and Corporate Controller. In this role, Ms. Bua will serve as the Company's principal accounting officer. It is expected that Ms. Bua will commence her new role with the Company effective August 15, 2005.
 
Ms. Bua, age 46, is joining the Company from Iron Mountain, Inc., a global records management and data protection services company, where she most recently served as Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer and Worldwide Controller. From 1993 to 1996, Ms. Bua was Corporate Controller for Duracraft Corporation, an international consumer products manufacturer. Prior to joining Duracraft, Ms. Bua was Assistant Controller for Keithley Instruments, a high-tech hardware and software company, from 1991 to 1993. Before that, Ms. Bua was a management consultant for Ernst & Young and an auditor for KPMG. Ms. Bua is a Certified Public Accountant and holds a Masters of Business Administration degree from the University of Rhode Island.
 
Ms. Bua has no prior business relationship with the Company nor any family relationship with any of the Company's directors or executive officers. Ms. Bua is an at-will employee entitled to employee benefits consistent with those offered to other Company employees of a similar level, including annual base salary, bonus, participation in employee benefit programs, severance and other benefits.
 
A copy of the Company's press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
ATC Contact: Michael Powell
Director of Investor Relations
Telephone: (617) 375-7500
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
- American Tower Corporation (NYSE: AMT) today announced that Jean A. Bua will be joining the Company as Senior Vice President of Finance and Corporate Controller. It is expected that Ms. Bua will commence her new role with the Company effective August 15, 2005.
Boston, Massachusetts  July 6, 2005
 
Ms. Bua is joining American Tower Corporation from Iron Mountain, Inc., a global records management and data protection services company, where she most recently served as Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer and Worldwide Controller. During her nine year tenure with Iron Mountain, Ms. Bua was responsible for worldwide financial operations, including SEC reporting, implementation of Sarbanes-Oxley compliance initiatives, capital market analysis and financial planning and analysis. Ms. Bua also oversaw the company's merger and acquisition due diligence and integration efforts.
 
"American Tower is pleased to have a financial executive as talented as Jean join our team," said American Tower Chief Financial Officer, Brad Singer. "Jean is bright, hardworking and knowledgeable, and brings extensive experience in producing real results  and highly relevant merger integration experience  to American Tower. In addition, Jean's consistent track record of executing the financial functions of a high growth company will be instrumental to our team as we lead our Company into the future."
 
Prior to joining Iron Mountain, Ms. Bua was Corporate Controller for Duracraft Corporation, an international consumer products manufacturer, from 1993 to 1996. Prior to joining Duracraft, Ms. Bua was Assistant Controller for Keithley Instruments, a high-tech hardware and software company, from 1991 to 1993. Before that, Ms. Bua was a management consultant for Ernst and Young and an auditor for KPMG.
 
Ms. Bua earned her Bachelor of Science in Business Administration, summa cum laude from Bryant College and her Masters of Business Administration from the University of Rhode Island.
 
American Tower is the leading independent owner, operator and developer of broadcast and wireless communications sites in North America. American Tower operates over 14,800 sites in the United States, Mexico, and Brazil, including approximately 300 broadcast tower sites. For more information about American Tower, please visit www.americantower.com.
 


