FILE:AMT/AMT-8K-20051007080632.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Director.
 
On October 6, 2005, Dean J. Douglas notified American Tower Corporation (the "Company") that he intends to resign as a member of the Company's board of directors, effective immediately. Mr. Douglas was a member of the Compensation Committee of the board of directors at the time of his resignation. Mr. Douglas is resigning to devote his full time and attention to his new position as Chief Executive Officer of LCC International, Inc. Mr. Douglas is not resigning as a result of any disagreement with the Company.
 
On October 7, 2005, the Company issued a press release announcing Mr. Douglas' resignation. A copy of the Company's press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
ATC Contact: Michael Powell
Director of Investor Relations
Telephone: (617) 375-7500
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
- American Tower Corporation (NYSE: AMT) announced today that Dean J. Douglas, a member of the Company's board of directors, has notified the Company that he intends to step down as a director of the Company, effective immediately.
Boston, Massachusetts  October 7, 2005
 
Mr. Douglas notified the Company that he has accepted employment as the Chief Executive Officer of LCC International, a provider of integrated solutions for wireless voice and data communications networks and consulting services to the wireless telecommunications industry. Mr. Douglas is resigning from the Company's board of directors to devote his full time and attention to his new position. Mr. Douglas originally joined the Company's board of directors on August 8, 2005, in connection with the Company's merger with SpectraSite.
 
"We are excited for Dean and wish him well in his new position," said Jim Taiclet, American Tower's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "We understand and appreciate Dean's decision to focus his energies on leading LCC and thank him for his service to American Tower and SpectraSite."
 
Following the departure of Mr. Douglas, the Company's board will consist of eight members, seven of whom are independent directors.
 
American Tower is the leading independent owner, operator and developer of broadcast and wireless communications sites in North America. American Tower owns and operates over 22,000 sites in the United States, Mexico, and Brazil. Additionally, American Tower manages approximately 2,000 revenue producing rooftop and tower sites. For more information about American Tower, please visit .
www.americantower.com
 


