FILE:AMT/AMT-8K-20050628171814.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
Retention and Completion Bonus Program
 
As previously disclosed in a Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 4, 2005, on May 3, 2005, American Tower Corporation (the "Company") entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement") with SpectraSite, Inc. ("SpectraSite") providing for, among other things, the merger of SpectraSite with a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (the "Merger").
 
On June 15, 2005, the Company filed a Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-125328) containing the final Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus (the "Prospectus") for the Merger. As set forth in the Prospectus, the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors has been in the process of establishing terms for a retention and completion bonus program (the "Program") for certain of the Company's executive officers in connection with the Merger. On June 23, 2005, the Compensation Committee approved the Program.
 
The Program provides for, subject to consummation of the Merger, increased base salaries and one-time special bonuses for certain employees, including the named executive officers set forth below. As annual bonus payments are based in part on base salary, an increase in base salary would also result in an increase in target annual cash bonus potential for these executive officers. The Company's President and Chief Executive Officer, James D. Taiclet, Jr., is not eligible for participation in the Program.
 
The following information updates the information contained in Exhibit 10 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed May 10, 2005, with respect to 2005 base salary and cash bonus incentives with named executive officers:
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


