FILE:AMT/AMT-8K-20070601070818.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
(d) On June 1, 2007, American Tower Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that its Board of Directors had elected JoAnn A. Reed as a member of the Board, effective May 31, 2007. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Ms. Reed is the Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Medco Health Solutions, Inc., a leading pharmacy benefit manager. Since joining Medco in 1988, Ms. Reed has served in finance and accounting roles of increasing responsibility and was appointed Senior Vice President, Finance in 1992 and Chief Financial Officer in 1996. Prior to joining Medco, Ms. Reed's experience includes finance roles at Aetna/American Re-Insurance Co., CBS Inc., Standard and Poor's Corp., and Unisys/Timeplex Inc. Ms. Reed currently serves on the board of directors of Waters Corp. and as a Trustee for St. Mary's College of Notre Dame, Indiana.
In accordance with the Company's By-Laws, Ms. Reed will serve as a director until the next annual meeting of stockholders or until her successor is elected and qualified. When Ms. Reed is appointed to serve on a standing committee of the Board, the Company will file an amendment to this Form 8-K and include the relevant information pertaining to such appointment.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
ATC Contact: Michael Powell
Director of Investor Relations
Telephone: (617) 375-7500
 American Tower Corporation (NYSE: AMT) today announced that its Board of Directors has elected JoAnn A. Reed as a member of the Board, effective May 31, 2007. With Ms. Reed's addition, American Tower has expanded its Board to nine directors.
Boston, Massachusetts  June 1, 2007
"We are very pleased to welcome JoAnn to our Board," said Jim Taiclet, American Tower's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "JoAnn's deep knowledge and experience in finance and accounting and her perspective as Chief Financial Officer of a Fortune 100 company will enable her to make a significant contribution to American Tower. I look forward to working closely with JoAnn as we continue to advance our strategic, operational, and financing initiatives."
Ms. Reed is the Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Medco Health Solutions, Inc., a leading pharmacy benefit manager. Since joining Medco in 1988, Ms. Reed has served in finance and accounting roles of increasing responsibility and was appointed Senior Vice President, Finance in 1992 and Chief Financial Officer in 1996. Prior to joining Medco, Ms. Reed's experience includes finance roles at Aetna/American Re-Insurance Co., CBS Inc., Standard and Poor's Corp., and Unisys/Timeplex Inc. Ms. Reed currently serves on the board of directors of Waters Corp. and as a Trustee for St. Mary's College of Notre Dame, Indiana.
American Tower is a leading independent owner, operator and developer of broadcast and wireless communications sites. American Tower owns and operates over 22,000 sites in the United States, Mexico and Brazil. Additionally, American Tower manages approximately 2,000 revenue producing rooftop and tower sites. For more information about American Tower, please visit .
www.americantower.com


