FILE:AMT/AMT-8K-20070507061502.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On May 4, 2007, American Tower Corporation (the "Company") entered into (i) a Loan Agreement, (ii) a Management Agreement and (iii) a Cash Management Agreement (each of the foregoing as defined below). The description of the Loan Agreement, the Management Agreement and the Cash Management Agreement set forth in Item 2.03 of this report is incorporated herein by reference.
 
On May 4, 2007, the Company used a portion of the net proceeds of the offering described in Item 2.03 below, and incorporated under this Item 1.02 by reference, to repay all indebtedness, or approximately $765 million in principal amount, outstanding under the senior secured credit facilities (the "SpectraSite credit facility") of SpectraSite Communications, LLC ("SpectraSite Communications") plus accrued interest thereon and other costs and expenses related thereto. In addition, net proceeds from the offering were used to repay approximately $250 million outstanding under the revolving senior secured credit facilities of American Towers, Inc.
The SpectraSite credit facility consisted of a $250.0 million revolving credit facility, a $700.0 million Term Loan A, a $200.0 million Delayed Draw Term Loan and a $250.0 million incremental revolving credit facility. The obligations under the SpectraSite credit facility were guaranteed by SpectraSite, LLC, the parent company of SpectraSite Communications and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, and the borrower's restricted subsidiaries, and were secured by liens on and security interests in substantially all assets of the borrower and the restricted subsidiaries. For a summary of the material terms of the SpectraSite credit facility, see the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, filed on February 28, 2007.
 
On May 7, 2007, the Company issued a press release announcing financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2007. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.3.
Exhibit 99.3 is furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing made by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
On May 4, 2007, American Tower Trust I (the "Trust"), a trust established by American Tower Depositor Sub, LLC (the "Depositor"), an indirectly-owned special-purpose subsidiary of the Company, issued in a private transaction (the "Transaction"), $1.75 billion of Commercial Mortgage Pass-Through Certificates, Series 2007-1 (the "Certificates"). A copy of the May 4, 2007 press release announcing the close of the Transaction is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
The assets of the Trust consist of a recourse loan (the "Loan") initially made by the Depositor to American Tower Asset Sub, LLC and American Tower Asset Sub II, LLC (together, the "Borrowers"), pursuant to a Loan and Security Agreement among the foregoing parties dated as of May 4, 2007 (the "Loan Agreement"). The Borrowers are jointly and severally liable under the Loan, which is secured primarily by mortgages on the Borrowers' interests in certain of the wireless communications and related
tower sites (the "Sites"). As indicated in the table below, the Certificates were issued in seven separate classes. Each of the Class B, Class C, Class D, Class E and Class F Certificates are subordinated in right of payment to any other Class which has an earlier alphabetical designation. The Certificates were issued with terms identical to the Loan (defined below) except for the Class A-FL Certificates, which bear interest at a floating rate while the related component of the Loan bears interest at a fixed rate, as described below. The effective weighted average fixed interest rate of the Loan is 5.61%. The Certificates have an expected life of approximately seven years with a final repayment date in April 2037.
 
The Company used a substantial portion of the net proceeds from this issuance to repay all indebtedness, or approximately $765 million in principal amount, outstanding under the SpectraSite credit facility plus accrued interest thereon and other costs and expenses related thereto. The Company expects to use the remaining net proceeds to fund the repurchase of up to approximately $325 million of the 7.25% senior subordinated notes due 2011 of American Towers, Inc. ("ATI") pursuant to ATI's previously announced tender offer, to pay other consideration payable in connection with that tender offer and the related consent solicitation, and for general corporate purposes.
The Loan will be paid solely from the cash flows generated from the operation of the Sites held by the Borrowers. The Borrowers are required to make monthly payments of interest on the Loan. Subject to certain limited exceptions described below, no payments of principal will be required to be made prior to the monthly payment date in April 2014, which is the anticipated repayment date for the Loan. However, if the debt service coverage ratio, generally defined as the net cash flow divided by the amount of interest, servicing fees and trustee fees that the Borrowers will be required to pay over the succeeding twelve months on the Loan, is (A) for the five-year period commencing on the Transaction closing date, 1.30x or less for such calendar quarter or (B) beginning with the first full calendar quarter after the expiration of such five-year period, 1.75x or less for such quarter (the "Cash Trap DSCR"), and such debt service ratio continues to exist for two consecutive calendar quarters, then all cash flow in excess of amounts required to make debt service payments, to fund required reserves, to pay management fees and budgeted operating expenses and to make other payments required under the loan documents, referred to as excess cash flow, will be deposited into a reserve account instead of being released to the Borrowers. The funds in the reserve account will not be released to the Borrowers unless the debt service coverage ratio exceeds
 
 
the Cash Trap DSCR for two consecutive calendar quarters. An "amortization period" commences if (i) as of the end of any calendar quarter the debt service coverage ratio falls below (A) for the five-year period commencing on the Closing Date, 1.15x or (b) beginning with the first full calendar quarter after the expiration of such five-year period, 1.45x (the "Minimum DSCR") for such calendar quarter and continues to exist until the end of any two consecutive calendar quarters the debt service coverage ratio exceeds the Minimum DSCR for such two consecutive calendar quarters or (ii) on the anticipated repayment date the Loan has not been repaid in full.
The Borrowers may not prepay the Loan in whole or in part at any time prior to May 2009, except in limited circumstances (such as the occurrence of certain casualty and condemnation events relating to the Borrowers' tower sites and certain dispositions of Sites). Thereafter, prepayment is permitted provided it is accompanied by applicable prepayment consideration. If the prepayment occurs within nine months of the anticipated repayment date, no prepayment consideration is due. The entire unpaid principal balance of the Loan components will be due in April 2037. The Loan may be defeased in whole or in part at any time.
The Loan is secured by (1) mortgages, deeds of trust and deeds to secure debt on substantially all of the tower sites and their operating cash flows, (2) a security interest in substantially all of the Borrowers' personal property and fixtures and (3) the Borrowers' rights under the Management Agreement (as defined below). American Tower Holding Sub, LLC (the "Guarantor"), whose only material assets are its equity interests in each of the Borrowers, and American Tower Guarantor Sub, LLC (the "Parent Guarantor") whose only material asset is its equity interests in the Guarantor, have each guaranteed repayment of the Loan and pledged their equity interests in their respective subsidiary or subsidiaries as security for such payment obligations.
The Loan documents include covenants customary for Loans subject to rated securitizations. Among other things, the Borrowers are prohibited from incurring other indebtedness for borrowed money or further encumbering their assets. The organizational documents of the Borrowers contain provisions consistent with rating agency securitization criteria for special purpose entities, including the requirement that the Borrowers maintain at least two independent directors.
In connection with the issuance and sale of the Certificates, the Borrowers, as owners, entered into a management agreement ("Management Agreement") dated as of May 4, 2007 with SpectraSite Communications, as manager (in that capacity, "Manager"). SpectraSite Communications is a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of the Company. Pursuant to the Management Agreement, the Manager will perform, on behalf of the Borrowers, those functions reasonably necessary to maintain, market, operate, manage and administer the Tower Sites.
Also in connection with the issuance and sale of the Certificates, the Borrowers, as borrowers, the Depositor, as lender, LaSalle Bank National Association ("Trustee"), as agent, and SpectraSite Communications, as manager, entered into a cash management agreement ("Cash Management Agreement") dated as of May 4, 2007. Pursuant to the Cash Management Agreement, the Borrowers will establish certain accounts and reserves, controlled by the Depositor or its assignee, to which the Borrowers and the Manager will be required to transfer all revenue from the Sites otherwise received. The Borrowers, Manager and Trustee will administer the reserve funds in the manner set forth in the Loan Agreement. In connection with the issuance and sale of the Certificates, the Depositor, as depositor, the Bank of New York ("Servicer"), as servicer, and Trustee, as trustee, entered into a trust and servicing agreement ("Trust and Servicing Agreement") dated as of May 4, 2007. Pursuant to the Trust and Servicing Agreement, the Servicer will administer and oversee the performance by the Borrowers and the Manager of their respective obligations under the documents entered into in connection with the transaction.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
ATC Contact: Michael Powell
Vice President of Finance, Investor Relations
Telephone: (617) 375-7500
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
American Tower Corp. (NYSE: AMT) (the "Company") announced today that American Tower Depositor Sub, LLC, a special-purpose subsidiary of the Company, has completed its previously announced private offering of $1.75 billion of Commercial Mortgage Pass-Through Certificates, Series 2007-1 (the "Certificates"). The Certificates are backed by the debt of two other special-purpose subsidiaries of the Company and the debt is secured primarily by mortgages on the subsidiaries' interests in 5,295 wireless and broadcast communication towers and the related tower sites. The weighted average interest rate on the various classes of Certificates is approximately 5.61% and all of the Certificates have an expected life of approximately seven years with a final maturity of April 2037.
Boston, Massachusetts 
May 4, 2007
The Company used a portion of the proceeds (after payment of underwriting commissions and other transaction expenses and funding of certain reserve accounts) of this offering to repay all amounts outstanding under the senior secured credit facilities of SpectraSite Communications, LLC, including approximately $765 million in principal, plus accrued interest and other related costs and expenses. In addition, the Company repaid approximately $250 million outstanding under the revolving senior secured credit facilities of American Towers, Inc. ("ATI"). The Company expects to use the remaining net proceeds to fund the repurchase of up to approximately $325 million of the 7.25% senior subordinated notes due 2011 of ATI pursuant to ATI's previously announced tender offer, to pay other consideration payable in connection with that tender offer and the related consent solicitation, and for general corporate purposes.
This press release is not an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of the Certificates in any jurisdiction in which any such offer, solicitation, or sale would be unlawful prior to the registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. The Certificates subject to the offering have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or any state securities laws, and are being offered only to qualified institutional buyers in reliance on Rule 144A under the Securities Act, to institutional accredited investors and to non-U.S. persons in offshore transactions in reliance on Regulation S under the Securities Act. Unless so registered, the Certificates may not be offered or sold in the United States or to U.S. persons except pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws.
American Tower is a leading independent owner, operator and developer of broadcast and wireless communications sites. American Tower owns and operates over 22,000 sites in the United States, Mexico and Brazil. Additionally, American Tower manages approximately 2,000 revenue producing rooftop and tower sites. For more information about American Tower, please visit .
www.americantower.com
Cautionary Language Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" concerning the offering that are based on management's current expectations and assumptions and that are not based on historical facts. Examples of these statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the expected life of the Certificates and the Company's expectations for the use of proceeds from the offering. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. For important factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in our forward-looking statements, we refer you to the information contained in Item 1A of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 under the caption "Risk Factors." We undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this press release to reflect subsequently occurring events or circumstances.

Exhibit 99.2
UNAUDITED CONDENSED
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(In thousands)
 
UNAUDITED CONDENSED
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(In thousands, except per share data)
 
UNAUDITED CONDENSED
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(In thousands)
 

Exhibit 99.3
ATC Contact: Michael Powell
Director of Investor Relations
Telephone: (617) 375-7500
FIRST QUARTER 2007 HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
 
 
 American Tower Corporation (NYSE: AMT) today reported financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2007.
Boston, Massachusetts  May 7, 2007
Jim Taiclet, American Tower's Chief Executive Officer stated, "Wireless communications continue to increase in importance for consumers and business users alike. As a result, our major customers in both the U.S. and Latin America are enjoying sustained growth in revenue and profitability. Moreover, wireless service providers are focusing on improving the quality of their services and launching new services.
"These two factors, the profitable growth of the wireless industry and its focus on high quality existing and new services, drive strong demand for tower space that we believe is sustainable over time. Our first quarter financial results reflect both this overarching industry growth trend and American Tower's ability to consistently deliver the highest operating margins in the tower sector.
"We are also taking advantage of the size and quality of our tower portfolio to advance our financial strategy. Our recently completed $1.75 billion securitization of a portion of our tower assets increased our financial flexibility while reducing our cost of financing. With the securitized financing in place, we are in a solid position to move forward on additional improvements to our balance sheet while supporting our ongoing share repurchase program and maintaining our readiness to pursue strategic opportunities."
First Quarter 2007 Operating Highlights
American Tower generated the following operating results for the quarter ended March 31, 2007 (unless otherwise indicated, all comparative information is compared against the quarter ended March 31, 2006):
Total revenues increased 10% to $352.5 million and rental and management segment revenues increased 9% to $346.0 million. Rental and Management Segment Gross Margin increased 11% to $265.8 million and Services segment revenue and Gross Margin increased to $6.4 million and $2.9 million, respectively.
Total selling, general, administrative and development expense was $48.6 million. The Company's selling, general, administrative and development expense for the quarter includes stock-based
compensation expense of $16.7 million and $2.8 million of additional costs related to the review of the Company's stock option granting practices, related legal and governmental proceedings and other related costs. Including these additional costs related to the stock option review, Adjusted EBITDA increased 10% to $236.7 million and Adjusted EBITDA Margin was 67%. Income from operations increased to $86.1 million, and net income increased to $22.2 million, or $0.05 per basic and diluted common share.
Free Cash Flow increased to $139.9 million, consisting of $171.4 million of cash provided by operating activities, less $31.4 million of payments for purchases of property and equipment and construction activities, including $16.6 million of discretionary capital spending. The Company completed the construction of 22 towers and the installation of 4 in-building systems during the quarter and spent approximately $9.9 million on ground lease purchases.
Subsequent to the end of the first quarter of 2007, the Company received net proceeds of approximately $80 million in connection with the successful completion of its refund claim with the Internal Revenue Service related to the carry back of certain federal net operating losses.
Please refer to Non-GAAP and Defined Financial Measures on pages 3 and 4 for definitions of Rental and Management Segment Gross Margin, Services Segment Gross Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA Margin and Free Cash Flow. For additional financial information, including reconciliations to GAAP measures, please refer to the supplemental schedules of selected financial information on pages 8 through 11.
Stock Repurchase Program
During the quarter ended March 31, 2007, the Company completed its $750 million stock repurchase program and commenced repurchases pursuant to its $1.5 billion stock repurchase program. As a result, during the quarter the Company repurchased a total of 12.6 million shares of its Class A common stock for approximately $496 million. As of May 2, 2007, the Company had repurchased pursuant to its publicly announced stock repurchase programs an aggregate of 29.3 million shares of its Class A common stock for approximately $1,039 million since November 2005, which includes the repurchase of 3.7 million shares of its Class A common stock for approximately $144 million subsequent to March 31, 2007. The Company expects to complete the remaining $1,211 million of stock repurchases pursuant to its current $1.5 billion stock repurchase program by February of 2008.
Financing Highlights
On May 4, 2007, the Company completed the issuance, in a private transaction, of $1.75 billion of Commercial Mortgage Pass-Through Certificates. The Certificates are backed by debt of two special-purpose subsidiaries of the Company, which are secured primarily by mortgages on their interests in 5,295 wireless and broadcast communication towers and the related tower sites. The Certificates have an expected life of seven years with a final maturity date of April 2037 and the weighted average interest rate on the certificates is approximately 5.61%.
The Company used a portion of the net proceeds from the offering of the Certificates to repay approximately $765 million outstanding under its SpectraSite credit facility, plus accrued interest thereon and other costs related thereto, as well as $250 million under its American Tower revolving credit facility. The Company expects to use the remaining net proceeds to fund the repurchase of approximately $325 million of the Company's 7.25% senior subordinated notes due 2011 of American Towers, Inc. pursuant to the tender offer previously announced by the Company, to pay other consideration payable in connection with the tender offer and the related consent solicitation, and for general corporate purposes. Pro forma for the securitization, including the use of proceeds described above, the Company had approximately $1.0 billion of available liquidity as of May 7, 2007.
Full Year 2007 Outlook
The following estimates are based on a number of assumptions that management believes to be reasonable, and reflect the Company's expectations as of May 7, 2007. Please refer to the cautionary language regarding "forward-looking" statements included in this press release when considering this information. The Company undertakes no obligation to update this information.
Conference Call Information
American Tower will host a conference call today at 8:30 a.m. ET to discuss its first quarter 2007 results and the Company's outlook for the full year 2007. The call will be hosted by Brad Singer, Chief Financial Officer, who will be joined by Jim Taiclet, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The dial-in numbers are US/Canada: (877) 235-9047 and International: (706) 645-9644, access code 5191904. A replay of the call will be available from 9:30 a.m. ET May 7, 2007 until 11:59 p.m. ET May 14, 2007. The replay dial-in numbers are US/Canada: (800) 642-1687 and International: (706) 645-9291, access code 5191904. American Tower will also sponsor a live simulcast of the call on its website, . When available, a replay of the call will be accessible on the Company's website.
www.americantower.com
American Tower is a leading independent owner, operator and developer of broadcast and wireless communications sites in the United States, Mexico and Brazil. American Tower owns and operates over 22,000 sites in the United States, Mexico, and Brazil. Additionally, American Tower manages approximately 2,000 revenue producing rooftop and tower sites. For more information about American Tower, please visit .
www.americantower.com
Non-GAAP and Defined Financial Measures
In addition to the results prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) provided throughout this press release, the Company has presented the following non-GAAP and defined financial measures: Rental and Management Segment Gross Margin, Services Segment Gross Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA Margin and Free Cash Flow. American Tower defines Rental and Management Segment Gross Margin as income from operations before depreciation, amortization and accretion, impairments, net loss on sale of long-lived assets, restructuring and merger related expense, stock-based compensation expense, corporate expenses, rental and management segment overhead, services segment overhead, services segment operating expenses, services segment revenue, plus interest income, TV Azteca, net. American Tower defines Services Segment Gross Margin as income from operations before depreciation, amortization and accretion, impairments, net loss on sale of long-
lived assets, restructuring and merger related expense, stock-based compensation expense, corporate expenses, services segment overhead, rental and management segment overhead, rental and management segment operating expenses, and rental and management segment revenue. American Tower defines Adjusted EBITDA as income from operations before depreciation, amortization and accretion, impairments, net loss on sale of long-lived assets, restructuring and merger related expense and stock-based compensation expense, plus interest income, TV Azteca, net. American Tower defines Adjusted EBITDA Margin as a percentage of Adjusted EBITDA over total revenue. American Tower defines Free Cash Flow as cash provided by operating activities less payments for purchase of property and equipment and construction activities. These measures are not intended as substitutes for other measures of financial performance determined in accordance with GAAP. They are presented as additional information because management believes they are useful indicators of the current financial performance of our core businesses. We believe that these measures can assist in comparing company performances on a consistent basis without regard to depreciation and amortization or capital structure. Our concern is that depreciation and amortization can vary significantly among companies depending on accounting methods, particularly where acquisitions or non-operating factors including historical cost bases are involved. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company's measures of Rental and Management Segment Gross Margin, Services Segment Gross Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA Margin and Free Cash Flow may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
Cautionary Language Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" concerning the Company's goals, beliefs, expectations, strategies, objectives, plans, future operating results and underlying assumptions, and other statements that are not necessarily based on historical facts. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated in our forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors, including: (1) a decrease in demand for tower space would materially and adversely affect our operating results and we cannot control that demand; (2) if our wireless service provider customers consolidate or merge with each other to a significant degree, our growth, revenue and ability to generate positive cash flows could be adversely affected; (3) substantial leverage and debt service obligations may adversely affect us; (4) restrictive covenants in our credit facilities and indentures could adversely affect our business by limiting flexibility; (5) due to the long-term expectations of revenue from tenant leases, the tower industry is sensitive to the creditworthiness of its tenants; (6) our foreign operations are subject to economic, political and other risks that could adversely affect our revenues or financial position; (7) a substantial portion of our revenues is derived from a small number of customers; (8) status of Iusacell Celular's financial restructuring exposes us to risks and uncertainties (9) new technologies could make our tower leasing business less desirable to potential tenants and result in decreasing revenues; (10) we could have liability under environmental laws; (11) our business is subject to governmental regulations and changes in current or future laws or regulations could restrict our ability to operate our business as we currently do; (12) increasing competition in the tower industry may create pricing pressures that may adversely affect us; (13) if we are unable to protect our rights to the land under our towers, it could adversely affect our business and operating results; (14) if we are unable or choose not to exercise our rights to purchase towers that are subject to lease and sublease agreements at the end of the applicable period, our cash flows derived from such towers would be eliminated; (15) our towers may be affected by natural disasters and other unforeseen damage for which our insurance may not provide adequate coverage; (16) our costs could increase and our revenues could decrease due to perceived health risks from radio emissions, especially if these risks are substantiated; (17) our stock option granting practices are subject to ongoing governmental proceedings, which could result in fines, penalties or other liability; (18) pending civil litigation relating to our stock option granting practices exposes us to risks and uncertainties; and (19) the bankruptcy proceeding of our Verestar subsidiary exposes us to risks and uncertainties. For other important factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in our forward-looking statements, we refer you to the information contained in Item 1A of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 under the caption "Risk Factors." We undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this press release to reflect subsequently occurring events or circumstances.
UNAUDITED CONDENSED
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(In thousands)
 
UNAUDITED CONDENSED
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(In thousands, except per share data)
 
UNAUDITED CONDENSED
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(In thousands)
 
UNAUDITED SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
($ in thousands, except where noted)
SELECTED INCOME STATEMENT DETAIL:
 
 
SELECTED BALANCE SHEET DETAIL:
 
UNAUDITED SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION, Continued
($ in thousands, except where noted)
 
SELECTED CASH FLOW DETAIL:
 
SELECTED PORTFOLIO DETAIL  OWNED SITES:
 
UNAUDITED RECONCILIATIONS TO GAAP MEASURES AND THE CALCULATION OF DEFINED FINANCIAL MEASURES
($ in thousands, except where noted)
The reconciliation of net income (loss) to Adjusted EBITDA and the calculation of Rental and Management Segment Operating Profit, Rental and Management Segment Gross Margin, Services Segment Operating Profit and Services Segment Gross Margin are as follows:
 
UNAUDITED RECONCILIATIONS TO GAAP MEASURES AND THE CALCULATION OF DEFINED FINANCIAL MEASURES, Continued
($ in thousands, except where noted)
The calculation of Adjusted EBITDA Margin is as follows:
 
The calculation of Free Cash Flow is as follows:
 
The reconciliation of Income from continuing operations to Adjusted EBITDA Outlook is as follows: ($ in millions)
 


