FILE:AMT/AMT-8K-20070905170432.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On September 5, 2007, American Tower Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that Mr. Amit Sharma had joined the Company as Executive Vice President, Asia. A copy of the Company's press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
ATC Contact: Michael Powell
Director of Investor Relations
Telephone: (617) 375-7500
 American Tower Corporation (NYSE: AMT) today announced that Mr. Amit Sharma had joined the Company as Executive Vice President, Asia. Mr. Sharma will serve as President of the Company's Asian operations and will be based in the Company's new office in Delhi, India. In this role, Mr. Sharma will be responsible for pursuing opportunities to extend the Company's wireless communications site leasing business into India and Southeast Asia. Mr. Sharma will report directly to the Company's Chief Executive Officer, Jim Taiclet.
Boston, Massachusetts  September 5, 2007
Jim Taiclet said, "Amit will be a great asset as we look to expand into India and Southeast Asia. We believe that the developing tower industry in India has great potential. Amit's deep knowledge of the telecommunications industry in India and Southeast Asia, combined with his experience in establishing and growing businesses in the region, will create a strong foundation for our expansion efforts."
Mr. Sharma comes to American Tower from Motorola. Since 1992, Mr. Sharma has led country teams in India and Southeast Asia for Motorola, including as Country President, India and as Head of Strategy, Asia-Pacific. Mr. Sharma also served on Motorola's Asia Pacific Board and a member of its senior leadership team. Prior to joining Motorola, Mr. Sharma was with GE Capital, serving as Vice President, Strategy and Business Development, and prior to that, with McKinsey, New York, serving as a core member of the firm's Electronics and Marketing Practices.
Mr. Sharma earned his MBA in International Business from the Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania, where he was on the Dean's List and the Director's Honors List. Mr. Sharma also holds an MS in Computer Science from the Moore School, University of Pennsylvania, and a Bachelor of Technology in Mechanical Engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology.
American Tower is a leading independent owner, operator and developer of broadcast and wireless communications sites. American Tower owns and operates over 22,000 sites in the United States, Mexico, and Brazil. Additionally, American Tower manages approximately 2,000 revenue producing rooftop and tower sites. For more information about American Tower, please visit .
www.americantower.com


