FILE:AMT/AMT-8K-20070220061255.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01    Entry into Material Definitive Agreement.
On February 16, 2007, American Tower Corporation (the "Company") entered into two incremental revolving loan commitments for $550.0 million of additional borrowing capacity under the senior secured credit facilities of the Company's principal operating subsidiaries, as set forth below.
The Company entered into a Notice of Incremental Facility Commitment, dated February 16, 2007, with respect to an additional $300.0 million of revolving loan commitments pursuant to the American Tower credit facility (the "American Tower Credit Facility"), all of which remained undrawn at closing. The incremental facility lenders under the American Tower Credit Facility include JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Toronto Dominion (Texas) LLC, Credit Suisse, Cayman Island Branch and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. The borrowers under the American Tower Credit Facility include American Tower L.P., American Towers, Inc., American Tower International, Inc. and American Tower LLC. The obligations under the American Tower Credit Facility are guaranteed by the Company and the borrowers' restricted subsidiaries and are secured by liens on and security interests in substantially all assets of the borrowers and the restricted subsidiaries.
The Company also entered into a Notice of Incremental Facility Commitment, dated February 16, 2007, with respect to an additional $250.0 million of revolving loan commitments pursuant to the SpectraSite credit facility (the "SpectraSite Credit Facility"), all of which remained undrawn at closing. The incremental facility lenders under the SpectraSite Credit Facility include JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Toronto Dominion (Texas) LLC, Credit Suisse, Cayman Island Branch and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. The borrower under the SpectraSite Credit Facility is SpectraSite Communications, Inc. The obligations under the SpectraSite Credit Facility are guaranteed by SpectraSite, LLC, the parent company of SpectraSite Communications, Inc. and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, and the borrower's restricted subsidiaries and are secured by liens on and security interests in substantially all assets of the borrower and the restricted subsidiaries.
These revolving loans have terms that are consistent with those of the American Tower Credit Facility and the SpectraSite Credit Facility (the "Credit Facilities"), and they mature on October 27, 2010. All amounts will be due and payable in full at maturity. The Credit Facilities do not require amortization of payments and may be paid prior to maturity in whole or in part at the borrowers' option without penalty or premium. The Credit Facilities allow the Company to use borrowings for general corporate purposes and, provided certain conditions are met, permit the use of borrowings under the Credit Facilities and internally generated funds to repurchase the Company's equity securities and repurchase and refinance other indebtedness without additional lender approval.
For a summary of the material terms of the Credit Facilities, see the Company's Amendment No. 1 to Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the year ended December 31, 2005, filed on November 29, 2006.
The Company included the announcement regarding the new incremental facility commitments in its press release issued February 20, 2007 with respect to its financial results for the fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2006. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.2.
 
Item 2.02    Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 20, 2007, the Company issued a press release that included an announcement of the Company's financial results for the fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2006. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.2.
Item 2.03    Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
On February 16, 2007, the Company borrowed $250.0 million of the then-existing revolving loan commitment under the American Tower Credit Facility. The borrowings will be used to fund repurchases of the Company's 5.0% Convertible Notes due 2010 (the "5.0% Notes") pursuant to the Company's previously announced tender offer, as well as for general corporate purposes. The Company's tender offer for the 5.0% Notes is being conducted to satisfy the rights granted to each holder under the indenture for the 5.0% Notes to require the Company to repurchase on February 20, 2007 all or any part of such holder's 5.0% Notes at a price equal to the issue price plus accrued and unpaid interest. The tender offer is scheduled to expire at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on February 20, 2007. As of the commencement of the tender offer, approximately $252.2 million of the 5.0% Notes were outstanding. If all outstanding 5.0% Notes are surrendered for repurchase in the tender offer, the aggregate cash repurchase price will be approximately $252.4 million.
To the extent applicable, the contents of Item 1.01 above are incorporated into this Item 2.03 by this reference.
Item 5.02    Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(b) On February 14, 2007, J. Michael Gearon, Jr., Vice Chairman and President of American Tower International, notified the Company of his intention to leave the Company to devote more time to his personal endeavors and other interests.
Item 8.01    Other Events.
On February 20, 2007, the Company announced that its Board of Directors approved a new stock repurchase program pursuant to which the Company intends to repurchase up to $1.5 billion of its Class A common stock through February 2008. The Company included this announcement in its press release issued February 20, 2007 with respect to its financial results for the fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2006. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.2.
Item 9.01    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: February 20, 2007
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
UNAUDITED CONDENSED
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(In thousands)
 
 
UNAUDITED CONDENSED
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(In thousands, except per share data)
 
 
UNAUDITED CONDENSED
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(In thousands)
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
ATC Contact: Michael Powell
Director of Investor Relations
Telephone: (617) 375-7500
FULL YEAR 2006 HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
 
 
 American Tower Corporation (NYSE: AMT) today reported financial results for the fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2006.
Boston, Massachusetts  February 20, 2007
Jim Taiclet, American Tower's Chief Executive Officer stated, "As demonstrated by American Tower's strong revenue, Adjusted EBITDA, and Free Cash Flow growth, 2006 was a positive year for the tower industry. We anticipate that the factors which drove much of our new business in 2006 will continue into 2007, including initiatives by US wireless carriers to increase capacity and coverage and deploy new data services. Additionally, we look forward to working closely with our customers who acquired spectrum as part of Auction 66 to help enable the effective and rapid deployment of new markets and services.
"During 2007, we will continue to actively pursue the three pillars of our corporate strategy: seeking and evaluating opportunities, both domestically and internationally, to add quality assets to our portfolio, achieving the highest possible returns on those assets through continuous improvement of our operational execution, and optimizing our balance sheet to benefit our shareholders while maintaining the financial flexibility to pursue future strategic opportunities.
"With respect to our financial strategy, we are pleased to announce our new $1.5 billion stock repurchase plan, the additional liquidity provided by our recently expanded credit facilities, and our intention to obtain a new securitized financing for towers in our SpectraSite portfolio."
Fourth Quarter 2006 Operating Highlights
American Tower generated the following operating results for the quarter ended December 31, 2006 (unless otherwise indicated, all comparative information is compared against the quarter ended December 31, 2005):
Total revenues increased 10% to $337.6 million and rental and management segment revenues increased 9% to $331.2 million. Rental and Management Segment Gross Margin increased 12% to $249.8 million and Services segment revenue and Gross Margin increased to $6.4 million and $2.8 million, respectively.
Total selling, general, administrative and development expense was $44.0 million. The Company's selling, general, administrative and development expense for the quarter includes stock-based compensation expense of $10.0 million and $6.6 million of additional costs related to the review of the Company's stock option granting practices, related legal and governmental proceedings and other related costs. Including these additional costs related to the stock option review, Adjusted EBITDA increased 12% to $218.5 million and Adjusted EBITDA Margin was 65%.
 
Page 2 of 11
Income from operations increased to $73.4 million, and net income increased to $18.3 million, or $0.04 per basic and diluted common share.
Free Cash Flow increased to $109.1 million, consisting of $145.6 million of cash provided by operating activities, less $36.4 million of payments for purchases of property and equipment and construction activities, including $14.7 million of discretionary capital spending. The Company completed the construction of 64 towers and the installation of 3 in-building systems during the quarter.
Please refer to Non-GAAP and Defined Financial Measures on pages 3 through 4 for definitions of Rental and Management Segment Gross Margin, Services Segment Gross Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA Margin and Free Cash Flow. For additional financial information, including reconciliations to GAAP measures, please refer to the supplemental schedules of selected financial information and selected American Tower and SpectraSite stand-alone financial information on pages 8 through 11.
Stock Repurchase Program
The Company's Board of Directors has approved a new stock repurchase program pursuant to which the Company intends to repurchase up to $1.5 billion of its Class A common stock through February 2008. The Company expects to utilize cash on hand, cash from operations, borrowings under its credit facilities, and borrowings from potential future financings to fund the repurchase program. Under the program, management is authorized to purchase shares from time to time in open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions at prevailing market prices. To facilitate repurchases, the Company plans to make purchases pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan, which will allow the Company to repurchase its shares during periods when it otherwise might be prevented from doing so under insider trading laws or because of self-imposed trading blackout periods.
The Company expects to complete its current $750 million stock repurchase program by the end of February 2007, at which time the Company expects to commence its new stock repurchase program. During the quarter ended December 31, 2006, the Company repurchased approximately 1.1 million shares of its Class A common stock for approximately $40 million. As of February 20, 2007, the Company had repurchased an aggregate of 20.2 million shares of its Class A common stock for approximately $686 million pursuant to this program, which includes the repurchase of 7.2 million shares of its Class A common stock for approximately $287 million subsequent to December 31, 2006.
Financing Highlights
In February 2007, the Company raised $550 million of additional borrowing capacity under the senior secured credit facilities of its principal operating subsidiaries. The Company secured a $300 million revolving loan under the American Tower credit facility and a $250 million revolving loan under the SpectraSite credit facility, both of which remained undrawn at closing. In addition, the Company drew down $250 million of its existing revolving loans under the American Tower credit facility to fund repurchases of the Company's 5.0% Convertible Notes, pursuant to its previously announced tender offer. As a result, the Company increased its available liquidity under its credit facilities as of February 20, 2007 to over $800 million, which may be used to fund stock repurchases, repurchase existing debt, and for other general corporate purposes. The terms of the new revolving loans are consistent with the terms of the Company's existing credit facilities and mature on October 27, 2010.
During the first half of 2007, the Company anticipates raising additional capital through a securitization of the majority of the towers in its SpectraSite portfolio to repurchase existing debt, fund stock repurchases, and for other general corporate purposes.
Organizational Changes
The Company also announced several changes in its organizational structure. Jean Bua, currently the Company's Senior Vice President, Finance and Corporate Controller, will be assuming greater responsibilities in the Company's finance organization and accordingly, will be promoted to Executive Vice President, Finance and Corporate Controller. In addition, Michael Gearon, Vice Chairman and President of American Tower International, has notified the Company of his intention to leave the Company to devote more time to his personal endeavors and other interests. Hal Hess, currently the Company's Executive Vice President, General Counsel, will assume Mr. Gearon's responsibilities as the new Executive Vice President, International Operations. Mr. Hess
Page 3 of 11
originally joined the Company in 2001 as Chief Financial Officer of American Tower International and has continued to serve in that capacity since becoming General Counsel of the Company in 2002. The Company is in the process of hiring a new Chief Administrative Officer, who will assume the responsibilities of General Counsel as Mr. Hess transitions into his new role.
Full Year 2007 Outlook
The following estimates are based on a number of assumptions that management believes to be reasonable, and reflect the Company's expectations as of February 20, 2007. Please refer to the cautionary language regarding "forward-looking" statements included in this press release when considering this information. The Company undertakes no obligation to update this information.
 
Conference Call Information
American Tower will host a conference call today at 8:30 a.m. EST to discuss its fourth quarter and full year 2006 results and the Company's outlook for the full year 2007. The call will be hosted by Brad Singer, Chief Financial Officer, who will be joined by Jim Taiclet, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The dial-in numbers are US/Canada: (877) 235-9047 and International: (706) 645-9644, access code 8461283. A replay of the call will be available from 9:30 a.m. EST February 20, 2007 until 11:59 p.m. EST February 27, 2007. The replay dial-in numbers are US/Canada: (800) 642-1687 and International: (706) 645-9291, access code 8461283. American Tower will also sponsor a live simulcast of the call on its website, . When available, a replay of the call will be accessible on the Company's website.
www.americantower.com
American Tower is a leading independent owner, operator and developer of broadcast and wireless communications sites in the United States, Mexico and Brazil. American Tower owns and operates over 22,000 sites in the United States, Mexico, and Brazil. Additionally, American Tower manages approximately 2,000 revenue producing rooftop and tower sites. For more information about American Tower, please visit .
www.americantower.com
Non-GAAP and Defined Financial Measures
In addition to the results prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) provided throughout this press release, the Company has presented the following non-GAAP and defined financial measures: Rental and Management Segment Gross Margin, Services Segment Gross Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA Margin and Free Cash Flow. American Tower defines Rental and
Page 4 of 11
Management Segment Gross Margin as income from operations before depreciation, amortization and accretion, impairments, net loss on sale of long-lived assets, restructuring and merger related expense, stock-based compensation expense, corporate expenses, rental and management segment overhead, services segment overhead, services segment operating expenses, services segment revenue, plus interest income, TV Azteca, net. American Tower defines Services Segment Gross Margin as income from operations before depreciation, amortization and accretion, impairments, net loss on sale of long-lived assets, restructuring and merger related expense, stock-based compensation expense, corporate expenses, services segment overhead, rental and management segment overhead, rental and management segment operating expenses, and rental and management segment revenue. American Tower defines Adjusted EBITDA as income from operations before depreciation, amortization and accretion and impairments, net loss on sale of long-lived assets, restructuring and merger related expense and stock-based compensation expense, plus interest income, TV Azteca, net. American Tower defines Adjusted EBITDA Margin as a percentage of Adjusted EBITDA over total revenue. American Tower defines Free Cash Flow as cash provided by operating activities less payments for purchase of property and equipment and construction activities. These measures are not intended as substitutes for other measures of financial performance determined in accordance with GAAP. They are presented as additional information because management believes they are useful indicators of the current financial performance of our core businesses. We believe that these measures can assist in comparing company performances on a consistent basis without regard to depreciation and amortization or capital structure. Our concern is that depreciation and amortization can vary significantly among companies depending on accounting methods, particularly where acquisitions or non-operating factors including historical cost bases are involved. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company's measures of Rental and Management Segment Gross Margin, Services Segment Gross Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA Margin and Free Cash Flow may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
Cautionary Language Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" concerning the Company's goals, beliefs, expectations, strategies, objectives, plans, future operating results and underlying assumptions, and other statements that are not necessarily based on historical facts. Examples of these statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding our full year 2007 outlook, our stock repurchase programs and our expectations regarding future financing transactions, including a potential securitization. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated in our forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors, including: (1) a decrease in demand for tower space would materially and adversely affect our operating results and we cannot control that demand; (2) if our wireless service provider customers consolidate or merge with each other to a significant degree, our growth, revenue and ability to generate positive cash flows could be adversely affected; (3) substantial leverage and debt service obligations may adversely affect us; (4) restrictive covenants in our credit facilities and indentures could adversely affect our business by limiting flexibility; (5) due to the long-term expectations of revenue from tenant leases, the tower industry is sensitive to the creditworthiness of its tenants; (6) our foreign operations are subject to economic, political and other risks that could adversely affect our revenues or financial position; (7) a substantial portion of our revenues is derived from a small number of customers; (8) status of Iusacell Celular's financial restructuring exposes us to risks and uncertainties (9) new technologies could make our tower leasing business less desirable to potential tenants and result in decreasing revenues; (10) we could have liability under environmental laws; (11) increasing competition in the tower industry may create pricing pressures that may adversely affect us; (12) if we are unable to protect our rights to the land under our towers, it could adversely affect our business and operating results; (13) if we are unable or choose not to exercise our rights to purchase towers that are subject to lease and sublease agreements at the end of the applicable period, our cash flows derived from such towers would be eliminated; (14) our towers may be affected by natural disasters and other unforeseen damage for which our insurance may not provide adequate coverage; (15) our costs could increase and our revenues could decrease due to perceived health risks from radio emissions, especially if these risks are substantiated; (16) our stock option granting practices are subject to ongoing governmental proceedings, which could result in fines, penalties or other liability; (17) pending civil litigation relating to our stock option granting practices exposes us to risks and uncertainties; and (18) the bankruptcy proceeding of our Verestar subsidiary exposes us to risks and uncertainties. For other important factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in our forward-looking statements, we refer you to the information contained in Item 1A of our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006 under the caption "Risk Factors." We undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this press release to reflect subsequently occurring events or circumstances.
 
Page 5 of 11
UNAUDITED CONDENSED
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(In thousands)
 
 
Page 6 of 11
UNAUDITED CONDENSED
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(In thousands, except per share data)
 
 
Page 7 of 11
UNAUDITED CONDENSED
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(In thousands)
 
 
Page 8 of 11
UNAUDITED SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
($ in thousands, except where noted)
SELECTED INCOME STATEMENT DETAIL:
 
SELECTED BALANCE SHEET DETAIL:
Page 9 of 11
UNAUDITED SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION, Continued
($ in thousands, except where noted)
 
SELECTED CASH FLOW DETAIL:
SELECTED PORTFOLIO DETAIL  OWNED SITES:
 
 
Page 10 of 11
UNAUDITED RECONCILIATIONS TO GAAP MEASURES
($ in thousands, except where noted)
The reconciliation of net income (loss) to Adjusted EBITDA and Rental and Management and Segment Operating Profit is as follows:
 
The calculation of Adjusted EBITDA Margin is as follows:
 
 
Page 11 of 11
UNAUDITED RECONCILIATIONS TO GAAP MEASURES, Continued
($ in thousands, except where noted)
The calculation of Free Cash Flow is as follows:
 
The reconciliation of Income from continuing operations to Adjusted EBITDA Outlook is as follows: ($ in millions)
 


