FILE:AMT/AMT-8K-20070321171530.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
(d) On March 21, 2007, American Tower Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that its Board of Directors had elected Ronald M. Dykes as a member of the Board, effective March 21, 2007. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Mr. Dykes most recently served as Chief Financial Officer of BellSouth Corporation, a position he retired from in 2005. Prior to his retirement, Mr. Dykes had worked for BellSouth Corporation and its predecessor entities in various capacities for over 34 years. From October 2000 through December 31, 2005, Mr. Dykes also served as a director of Cingular Wireless, most recently as Chairman of the Board.
In accordance with the Company's By-Laws, Mr. Dykes will serve as a director until the next annual meeting of stockholders or until his successor is elected and qualified. Mr. Dykes has not yet been appointed to any standing committees of the Board. The Company will file an amendment to this Form 8-K to disclose this information after any such appointment is made.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
ATC Contact: Michael Powell
Director of Investor Relations
Telephone: (617) 375-7500
 American Tower Corporation (NYSE: AMT) today announced that its Board of Directors has elected Ronald M. Dykes as a member of the Board, effective March 21, 2007.
Boston, Massachusetts  March 21, 2007
Mr. Dykes brings over 34 years of telecommunications industry experience to the Company's Board of Directors. Mr. Dykes is the former Chief Financial Officer of BellSouth Corporation, a position he retired from in 2005. In addition, from October 2000 through December 2005, Mr. Dykes served as a director of Cingular Wireless, most recently as Chairman of the Board.
"Ron will be a tremendous addition to our board, bringing both his deep understanding of the telecom industry and his Chief Financial Officer experience to the table," said Jim Taiclet, American Tower's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "Ron is a respected industry leader with an outstanding track record of accomplishments. We are truly excited to be working closely with him as we pursue our Company vision of serving our customers as the premier wireless communications infrastructure provider."
"I am pleased to join the American Tower team," said Mr. Dykes. "American Tower plays an important role in the wireless communications industry, and I look forward to contributing to the Company's success as a member of the Board."
American Tower is a leading independent owner, operator and developer of broadcast and wireless communications sites. American Tower owns and operates over 22,000 sites in the United States, Mexico, and Brazil. Additionally, American Tower manages approximately 2,000 revenue producing rooftop and tower sites. For more information about American Tower, please visit
www.americantower.com.


