FILE:AMT/AMT-8K-20070430070724.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On April 30, 2007, American Tower Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that it had priced, in a private transaction, $1.75 billion of Commercial Mortgage Pass-Through Certificates, Series 2007-1, which will be backed by debt of two special-purpose subsidiaries of the Company and secured primarily by mortgages on their interests in 5,295 broadcast and wireless communications towers and the related tower sites. A copy of the press release is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
AMERICAN TOWER CORPORATION
                            (Registrant)
Date: April 30, 2007
By:  
            /s/  B E. S
RADLEY
INGER                    
                            Bradley E. Singer
            Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
ATC Contact: Michael Powell
Director of Investor Relations
Telephone: (617) 375-7500
American Tower Corporation (NYSE: AMT) (the "Company") announced today that it has priced, in a private transaction, $1.75 billion of Commercial Mortgage Pass-Through Certificates, Series 2007-1 (the "Certificates"). The Certificates will be backed by debt of two special-purpose subsidiaries of the Company that will be secured primarily by mortgages on their interests in 5,295 broadcast and wireless communications towers and the related tower sites. The weighted average interest rate on the various classes of Certificates is approximately 5.61%, and all of the Certificates have an expected life of approximately seven years and a final maturity of April 2037. The Company expects the offering to close on May 4, 2007.
Boston, Massachusetts  April 30, 2007
The Company expects to use the net proceeds from this offering to repay certain outstanding indebtedness of the Company's principal United States operating subsidiaries, SpectraSite Communications, LLC ("SpectraSite") and American Towers, Inc. ("ATI"). In particular, the Company expects to use the net proceeds to repay approximately $755 million outstanding under the senior secured credit facilities of SpectraSite plus accrued interest thereon and other costs and expenses related thereto, to fund the repurchase of approximately $325 million of ATI 7.25% senior subordinated notes due 2011 pursuant to the Company's previously announced tender offer, to pay other consideration payable in connection with the tender offer and the related consent solicitation, and for general corporate purposes.
This press release is not an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of the certificates in any jurisdiction in which any such offer, solicitation, or sale would be unlawful prior to the registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. The Certificates have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or any state securities laws, and are being offered only to qualified institutional buyers in reliance on Rule 144A under the Securities Act, to institutional accredited investors and to non-U.S. persons in offshore transactions in reliance on Regulation S under the Securities Act. Unless so registered, the Certificates may not be offered or sold in the United States or to U.S. persons except pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws.
American Tower is a leading independent owner, operator and developer of broadcast and wireless communications sites. American Tower owns and operates over 22,000 sites in the United States, Mexico, and Brazil. Additionally, American Tower manages approximately 2,000 revenue producing rooftop and tower sites. For more information about American Tower, please visit .
www.americantower.com
Cautionary Language Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" concerning the proposed offering that are based on management's current expectations and assumptions and that are not based on historical facts. Examples of these statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the Company's expectations of the dollar amount to be raised in the proposed offering, the Company's ability to complete the proposed offering and the timing of the closing of the offering, and the Company's expectations for the use of proceeds from the proposed offering. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from
those indicated in such forward-looking statements include uncertainties relating to market conditions for mortgage-backed securities generally, for securities backed by mortgages on communications towers, and for these securities in particular. For other important factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in our forward-looking statements, we refer you to the information contained in Item 1A of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 under the caption "Risk Factors." We undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this press release to reflect subsequently occurring events or circumstances.


