FILE:AMT/AMT-8K-20070423061157.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On April 23, 2007, American Tower Corporation (the "Company") issued (1) a press release announcing that that it intends to securitize revenues from 5,295 broadcast and wireless communications towers owned by two special-purpose subsidiaries of the Company through a securitization involving an offering, in a private transaction, of up to $1.75 billion of Commercial Mortgage Pass-Through Certificates and (2) a press release announcing that the Company has commenced a cash tender offer for any and all of the outstanding 7.25% senior subordinated notes due 2011 of its wholly owned subsidiary, American Towers, Inc., and a related consent solicitation. Copies of the press releases are filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2 and are incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
ATC Contact: Michael Powell
Director of Investor Relations
Telephone: (617) 375-7500
American Tower Corporation (NYSE: AMT) (the "Company") announced today that it intends to securitize revenues from 5,295 broadcast and wireless communications towers owned by two special-purpose subsidiaries of the Company. The securitization is expected to involve an offering, in a private transaction, of up to $1.75 billion of Commercial Mortgage Pass-Through Certificates. The certificates will be backed by debt of the special-purpose subsidiaries that will be secured primarily by mortgages on their interests in the communications towers and the related tower sites. The servicing and repayment of the certificates are expected to be made solely from the cash flows generated by the communications towers that are a part of the transaction.
Boston, Massachusetts  April 23, 2007
The Company expects to use the net proceeds from this offering to repay certain outstanding indebtedness of the Company's principal United States operating subsidiaries, SpectraSite Communications, LLC ("SpectraSite") and American Towers, Inc. ("ATI"). In particular, the Company expects to use the net proceeds to repay approximately $755 million outstanding under the senior secured credit facilities of SpectraSite plus accrued interest thereon and other costs and expenses related thereto, to fund the repurchase of approximately $325 million of ATI 7.25% senior subordinated notes due 2011 pursuant to the tender offer announced separately by the Company today, to pay other consideration payable in connection with the tender offer and the related consent solicitation, and for general corporate purposes.
There can be no assurance that the offering of the certificates will be consummated or that the tender offer and consent solicitation will be successful.
This press release is not an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of the certificates in any jurisdiction in which any such offer, solicitation, or sale would be unlawful prior to the registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. The certificates subject to the proposed offering have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or any state securities laws, and are being offered only to qualified institutional buyers in reliance on Rule 144A under the Securities Act, to institutional accredited investors and to non-U.S. persons in offshore transactions in reliance on Regulation S under the Securities Act. Unless so registered, the certificates may not be offered or sold in the United States or to U.S. persons except pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws.
American Tower is a leading independent owner, operator and developer of broadcast and wireless communications sites. American Tower owns and operates over 22,000 sites in the United States, Mexico, and Brazil. Additionally, American Tower manages approximately 2,000 revenue producing rooftop and tower sites. For more information about American Tower, please visit .
www.americantower.com
Cautionary Language Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" concerning the proposed offering that are based on management's current expectations and assumptions and that are not based on historical facts. Examples of these statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the Company's expectations of the dollar amount to be raised in the proposed offering, the Company's ability to complete the proposed offering, and the Company's expectations for the use of proceeds from the proposed offering. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in such forward-looking statements include uncertainties relating to market conditions for mortgage-backed securities generally, for securities backed by mortgages on communications towers, and for these securities in particular. For other important factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in our forward-looking statements, we refer you to the information contained in Item 1A of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 under the caption "Risk Factors." We undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this press release to reflect subsequently occurring events or circumstances.
 

Exhibit 99.2
ATC Contact: Michael Powell
Director of Investor Relations
Telephone: (617) 375-7500
American Tower Corporation (NYSE: AMT) announced today that its wholly owned subsidiary, American Towers, Inc. (the "Company"), has commenced a cash tender offer for any and all of its outstanding $325,075,000 aggregate principal amount of 7.25% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2011 (the "Notes") on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in its Offer to Purchase and Consent Solicitation Statement dated April 23, 2007 (the "Statement") and the related Consent and Letter of Transmittal. The Company is also soliciting consents to certain proposed amendments to the indenture governing the Notes to eliminate most of the restrictive covenants and certain events of default. The tender offer documents more fully set forth the terms of the tender offer and consent solicitation.
Boston, Massachusetts  April 23, 2007
The tender offer will expire at midnight, New York City time, on May 18, 2007, unless extended or earlier terminated by the Company. The Company reserves the right to terminate, withdraw or amend the tender offer and consent solicitation at any time subject to applicable law.
The total consideration for each $1,000 principal amount of Notes tendered and accepted for purchase pursuant to the tender offer will be determined as specified in the Statement, on the basis of a yield to the first redemption date equal to the sum of (i) the yield (based on the bid side price) of the U.S. Treasury Security specified in the Statement, as calculated by Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC ("Credit Suisse") in accordance with standard market practice on the price determination date, plus (ii) a fixed spread of 50 basis points. The Company will pay accrued and unpaid interest up to, but not including, the applicable payment date.
Each holder who validly tenders its Notes and delivers consents on or prior to 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on May 4, 2007 (the "Consent Date") shall be entitled to a consent payment, which is included in the total consideration above, of $30 for each $1,000 principal amount of Notes tendered by such holder if such Notes are accepted for purchase pursuant to the tender offer. Holders who tender Notes are required to consent to the proposed amendments to the indenture. Any tender of Notes may be validly withdrawn and consents may be validly revoked at any time prior to the time at which the Company has received sufficient consents with respect to the proposed amendments to the indenture, accepted for payment then-tendered Notes and executed the Supplemental Indenture, but not thereafter unless the tender offer and consent solicitation are terminated without any Notes being purchased. Holders who tender Notes after the consent date will not receive the consent payment.
The Company has reserved the right to accept for purchase at any time following the Consent Date but prior to the Expiration Date (the "Early Acceptance Time") all Notes then validly tendered. If the Company elects to exercise this option, it will pay for such Notes on a date (the "Early Payment Date") promptly following the Early Acceptance Time. On the Early Payment Date, the Company will also pay accrued and unpaid interest up to, but not including, the Early Payment Date on the Notes accepted for purchase.
Subject to its right to exercise this early acceptance option, the Company currently expects to accept for purchase, and pay the total consideration (as to all Notes tendered prior to the Consent Date) and the tender offer consideration (which is the total consideration less the cash consent payment, as to all Notes tendered after the Consent Date) with respect to, all validly tendered Notes on a date (the "Final Payment Date") promptly following the Expiration Date. On the Final Payment Date, the Company will also pay accrued and unpaid interest up to, but not including, the Final Payment Date on the Notes accepted for purchase.
The Company's obligation to accept for purchase, and to pay for, Notes validly tendered and not validly withdrawn pursuant to the tender offer and consent solicitation is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions, including the receipt of sufficient consents with respect to the proposed amendments to the indenture and the consummation of a new debt financing by a trust formed by an affiliate of the Company. The complete terms and conditions of the tender offer and the consent solicitation are set forth in the tender offer documents which are being sent to holders of Notes. Holders are urged to read the tender offer documents carefully.
The Company has retained Credit Suisse to act as Dealer Manager in connection with the tender offer and consent solicitation. Questions about the tender offer and consent solicitation may be directed to Credit Suisse at 212-325-7596 (collect). Copies of the tender offer documents and other related documents may be obtained from D.F. King & Co., Inc., the information agent for the tender offer and consent solicitation, at 800-967-7921 (toll free) or 212-269-5550 (collect).
The tender offer and consent solicitation is being made solely by means of the tender offer documents. Under no circumstances shall this press release constitute an offer to purchase or the solicitation of an offer to sell the Notes or any other securities of the Company. It also is not a solicitation of consents to the proposed amendments to the indenture. No recommendation is made as to whether holders of the Notes should tender their Notes or give their consent.
American Tower is a leading independent owner, operator and developer of broadcast and wireless communications sites. American Tower owns and operates over 22,000 sites in the United States, Mexico and Brazil. Additionally, American Tower manages approximately 2,000 revenue producing rooftop and tower sites. For more information about American Tower, please visit .
www.americantower.com
Cautionary Language Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" concerning the tender offer that are based on management's current expectations and assumptions and that are not based on historical facts. Examples of these statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the Company's expectations regarding the Notes to be tendered in the tender offer, the amounts to be paid to holders of the Notes in the tender offer and the conditions to the tender offer, including with respect to receipt of sufficient consents and the consummation of a new debt financing by the trust formed by an affiliate of the Company. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in such forward-looking statements include uncertainties regarding the amount of Notes actually surrendered in the tender offer, the timing of the repurchase of Notes surrendered in the tender offer and the satisfaction of the conditions to the tender offer. For other important factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in our forward-looking statements, we refer you to the information contained in Item 1A of the American Tower Corporation Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 under the caption "Risk Factors." We undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this press release to reflect subsequently occurring events or circumstances.


