FILE:AMT/AMT-8K-20070925071203.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On September 24, 2007, American Tower Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing a proposed institutional private placement of $250.0 million aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes due 2017. On September 25, 2007, the Company issued a press release announcing that it had increased the size of the offering to $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of notes and that it had priced the offering. The Company's press releases dated September 24, 2007 and September 25, 2007 are filed herewith as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, and are incorporated by reference herein.
A copy of the "Recent Developments" section of the senior notes offering memorandum is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.3, and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
ATC Contact: Michael Powell
Director of Investor Relations
Telephone: (617) 375-7500
American Tower Corporation (NYSE: AMT) announced today that it intends to offer $250.0 million aggregate principal amount of 10-year fixed rate senior unsecured notes in an institutional private placement. The closing of the offering is expected to occur in late September, subject to market conditions.
Boston, Massachusetts  September 24, 2007
The Company intends to use the net proceeds from this offering to refinance a portion of indebtedness incurred under the Company's new senior unsecured term loan credit facility.
This announcement is neither an offer to sell nor a solicitation of an offer to buy any of these notes, solicitation or sale in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale is unlawful. The notes subject to the proposed offering have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or any state securities laws, and are being offered only to qualified institutional buyers in reliance on Rule 144A under the Securities Act, to institutional accredited investors and to non-U.S. persons in offshore transactions in reliance on Regulation S under the Securities Act. Unless so registered, the notes may not be offered or sold in the United States or to U.S. persons except pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws.
American Tower is a leading independent owner, operator and developer of broadcast and wireless communications sites. American Tower owns and operates over 22,000 sites in the United States, Mexico and Brazil. Additionally, American Tower manages approximately 2,000 revenue producing rooftop and tower sites.
Cautionary Language Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" that are based on management's current expectations and assumptions and that are not based on historical facts. Examples of these statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the Company's expectations of the dollar amount to be raised in the proposed offering, the Company's ability to complete the proposed offering, and the Company's expectations for the use of proceeds from the proposed offering. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in such forward-looking statements include market conditions for corporate debt generally, for the securities of telecommunications companies and for the Company's indebtedness in particular. For other important factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in our forward-looking statements, we refer you to the information contained in Item 1A of the American Tower Corporation Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 under the caption "Risk Factors" and in other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this press release to reflect subsequently occurring events or circumstances.

Exhibit 99.2
ATC Contact: Michael Powell
Director of Investor Relations
Telephone: (617) 375-7500
American Tower Corporation (NYSE: AMT) announced today that it has agreed to sell 7.0% senior unsecured notes due 2017 in an aggregate principal amount of $500.0 million through an institutional private placement. The Company had previously announced a proposed notes offering of $250.0 million aggregate principal amount and increased the size of the offering to $500.0 million based on market demand. The net proceeds to the Company of this offering are expected to be approximately $493.5 million. The closing of the offering is expected to occur on October 1, 2007 and is subject to customary closing conditions.
Boston, Massachusetts  September 25, 2007
The Company intends to use the net proceeds from this offering, together with available cash, to repay all of the outstanding indebtedness incurred under the Company's new senior unsecured term loan credit facility. The Company will terminate the term loan upon repayment.
This announcement is neither an offer to sell nor a solicitation of an offer to buy any of these notes, solicitation or sale in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale is unlawful. The notes subject to the offering have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or any state securities laws, and are being offered only to qualified institutional buyers in reliance on Rule 144A under the Securities Act, to institutional accredited investors and to non-U.S. persons in offshore transactions in reliance on Regulation S under the Securities Act. Unless so registered, the notes may not be offered or sold in the United States or to U.S. persons except pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws.
American Tower is a leading independent owner, operator and developer of broadcast and wireless communications sites. American Tower owns and operates over 22,000 sites in the United States, Mexico and Brazil. Additionally, American Tower manages approximately 2,000 revenue producing rooftop and tower sites.
Cautionary Language Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" that are based on management's current expectations and assumptions and that are not based on historical facts. Examples of these statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the Company's expectations of the dollar amount to be received in net proceeds, the Company's expectations of the closing date and its ability to complete the offering, and the Company's expectations for the use of proceeds from the offering. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in such forward-looking statements include market conditions for corporate debt generally, for the securities of telecommunications companies and for the Company's indebtedness in particular. For other important factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in our forward-looking statements, we refer you to the information contained in Item 1A of the American Tower Corporation Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 under the caption "Risk Factors" and in other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this press release to reflect subsequently occurring events or circumstances.

Exhibit 99.3
Recent Developments
On August 30, 2007, American Tower Corporation entered into a new $500.0 million senior unsecured term loan credit facility. In connection with that transaction, we received approximately $498.5 million of net proceeds from the term loan, which we used to repay $450.0 million of borrowings under our continuing senior unsecured revolving credit facility and the remainder for general corporate purposes. The term loan sets forth certain coverage ratios and is to be repaid at maturity, five years from commencement. The sole borrower under the term loan is American Tower Corporation, and our subsidiaries do not guarantee the loans thereunder. In addition, on September 10, 2007, we repaid an additional $50.0 million of borrowings under the senior unsecured revolving credit facility using available cash.
Credit Facilities
In February 2007, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program to repurchase, from time to time based on market conditions, up to $1,500.0 million of our Class A common stock through February 2008. As of September 21, 2007, we had repurchased a total of 21.4 million shares of Class A common stock for an aggregate of $865.7 million pursuant to this program, including 7.4 million shares purchased after June 30, 2007 for an aggregate of $306.3 million.
Stock Repurchase Program


