FILE:AMT/AMT-8K-20070313170509.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
(c) On March 13, 2007, American Tower Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that Edmund DiSanto will be joining the Company as Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer and General Counsel. In this role, Mr. DiSanto will have oversight of the Company's legal, risk management, compensation and human resources functions. It is expected that Mr. DiSanto will commence his new role with the Company effective April 1, 2007. A copy of the Company's press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Mr. DiSanto, age 54, is joining the Company from Pratt & Whitney, a unit of United Technologies Corporation. Mr. DiSanto started with Pratt & Whitney in 1997 as Group Deputy Counsel and since then has held various legal and business development roles, most recently as Vice President, Global Service Partners Business Development. Prior to joining Pratt & Whitney, Mr. DiSanto served in a number of legal, business and operations roles at United Dominion Industries, Carrier Corporation and United Technologies Corporation.
The Company has entered into a letter agreement with Mr. DiSanto that sets forth his compensation, severance and other benefits. Pursuant to the Company's agreement with Mr. DiSanto, he will receive an initial base salary of $350,000 with a target cash bonus potential equal to 60% of base salary. In addition, Mr. DiSanto will be recommended to receive an option to purchase 200,000 shares of the Company's Class A common stock, subject to approval by the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors. The Company has also agreed to reimburse Mr. DiSanto for moving expenses, related relocation fees and reimbursement for reasonable commuting expenses.
Pursuant to this letter agreement, the Company will be required to provide severance benefits to Mr. DiSanto if he is terminated "without cause" or terminates his employment for "good reason," as such terms are defined in the letter agreement. If such a termination occurs, Mr. DiSanto is entitled to receive the following severance benefits: (1) bi-weekly payment of his then current salary for eighteen months following the date of termination, (2) a prorated target cash bonus for the year of termination, and (3) continued health benefits for eighteen months following the date of termination (to run concurrent with COBRA coverage). Mr. DiSanto's rights to exercise stock options following termination will be in accordance with similarly situated Executive Vice Presidents under the Company's then current employment and severance arrangements. The foregoing severance benefits are contingent upon Mr. DiSanto signing a separation and release agreement in acceptable form, which would include customary confidentiality and non-solicitation provisions, as well as restrict Mr. DiSanto from providing services to competitors of the Company.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
ATC Contact: Michael Powell
Director of Investor Relations
Telephone: (617) 375-7500
 American Tower Corporation (NYSE: AMT) today announced that Edmund DiSanto will be joining the Company as its new Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer and General Counsel. In this role, Mr. DiSanto will have oversight of the Company's legal, risk management, compensation and human resources functions and will report directly to the Company's Chief Executive Officer, Jim Taiclet. It is expected that Mr. DiSanto will commence his new role with the Company effective April 1, 2007.
Boston, Massachusetts  March 13, 2007
Jim Taiclet said, "We are pleased that Ed has agreed to join the American Tower management team. We created the position of Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer and General Counsel to advance the capabilities and improve the cross-functional effectiveness of our corporate operations. Ed's breadth of experience over the last 29 years as a legal counselor, business advisor and skilled manager make him ideally suited for this role. We look forward to working with Ed as we continue to implement our process improvement initiatives and strive for the highest levels of effectiveness in corporate governance and compliance."
Mr. DiSanto comes to American Tower from Pratt & Whitney, a unit of United Technologies Corporation and a leader in the design, manufacture and service of aircraft engines, industrial gas turbines and space propulsion systems. Mr. DiSanto started with Pratt & Whitney in 1997 as Group Deputy Counsel and since then has held legal and business development roles of increasing responsibility, most recently as Vice President, Global Service Partners Business Development. Prior to joining Pratt & Whitney, Mr. DiSanto served in a number of legal, business and operations roles at United Dominion Industries, Carrier Corporation and United Technologies Corporation.
Mr. DiSanto earned his law degree from Boston College Law School and a Bachelor of Science from Northeastern University.
American Tower is a leading independent owner, operator and developer of broadcast and wireless communications sites. American Tower owns and operates over 22,000 sites in the United States, Mexico, and Brazil. Additionally, American Tower manages approximately 2,000 revenue producing rooftop and tower sites. For more information about American Tower, please visit
www.americantower.com
.


