FILE:AMT/AMT-8K-20071107061534.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On November 7, 2007, American Tower Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2007. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.2.
Exhibit 99.2 is furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing made by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On November 7, 2007, the Company announced that Mr. Steven C. Marshall had joined the Company as Executive Vice President, International Business Development. The Company included this announcement in its press release issued November 7, 2007 with respect to its financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2007. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.2.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (In thousands)
 
UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS (In thousands, except per share data)
 
UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (In thousands)
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
Contact: Michael Powell
Director of Investor Relations
Telephone: (617) 375-7500
THIRD QUARTER 2007 HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
 
American Tower Corporation (NYSE: AMT) today reported financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2007:
Boston, Massachusetts  November 7, 2007:
Jim Taiclet, American Tower's Chief Executive Officer stated, "Continued robust demand for tower space and diligent operational execution by our managers and employees enabled American Tower to deliver another quarter of double digit revenue and Adjusted EBITDA growth. We expect a strong finish for the year, as reflected in our increased 2007 guidance for tower revenue, and anticipate that the favorable leasing environment will extend through 2008.
"Strategically, we still seek to add high quality assets to our portfolio while maintaining our track record of investment discipline, both in the US and in selected high growth markets abroad. At the same time, our generation of significant cash from operations and rising Adjusted EBITDA enables American Tower to continue our substantial share repurchase program."
Third Quarter 2007 Operating Highlights
American Tower generated the following operating results for the quarter ended September 30, 2007 (unless otherwise indicated, all comparative information is compared against the quarter ended September 30, 2006):
Total revenues increased 10% to $367.6 million and rental and management segment revenues increased 10% to $358.6 million. Rental and Management Segment Gross Margin increased 13% to $278.3 million and services segment revenue and Gross Margin increased to $9.0 million and $4.1 million, respectively. Rental and management segment revenue and Gross Margin include approximately $4.3 million and $7.2 million, respectively, of one-time positive items, for the quarter ended September 30, 2007.
Total selling, general, administrative and development expense was $49.0 million. The Company's selling, general, administrative and development expense for the quarter includes stock-based compensation expense of $15.3 million and $6.1 million of additional costs related to the review of the Company's historical stock option granting practices, related legal and governmental proceedings and other related costs. Including these costs related to the stock option review and the one-time positive items noted above, Adjusted EBITDA increased 14% to $248.6 million and Adjusted EBITDA margin was 68%.
Operating income increased to $98.5 million and income from continuing operations increased to $60.1 million. Net income was $59.6 million or $0.15 per basic and $0.14
 
per diluted common share. Net income for the quarter ended September 30, 2007 includes a $41.7 million income tax benefit related to the realization of future usage of state net operating losses.
Free Cash Flow was $142.3 million, consisting of $181.6 million of cash provided by operating activities, less $39.4 million of payments for purchases of property and equipment and construction activities, including $19.2 million of discretionary capital spending. The Company completed the construction of 42 towers and the installation of 6 in-building systems during the quarter and spent approximately $10.6 million on ground lease purchases.
Please refer to Non-GAAP and Defined Financial Measures on pages 4 and 5 for definitions of Rental and Management Segment Gross Margin, Services Segment Gross Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA Margin and Free Cash Flow. For additional financial information, including reconciliations to GAAP measures, please refer to the supplemental schedules of selected financial information on pages 9 through 12.
Stock Repurchase Program
During the quarter ended September 30, 2007, the Company repurchased a total of 8.2 million shares of its Class A common stock for approximately $339 million. As of October 25, 2007 the Company had repurchased pursuant to its publicly announced stock repurchase programs an aggregate of 46.8 million shares of its Class A common stock for approximately $1,773 million since November 2005, which includes the repurchase of 2.9 million shares of its Class A common stock for approximately $125 million during the period October 1, 2007 to October 25, 2007. The Company expects to complete the remaining $477 million of stock repurchases pursuant to its current $1.5 billion stock repurchase program by the end of February 2008.
International Expansion Update
The Company announced today that Steven Marshall had joined the Company as Executive Vice President, International Business Development. In this role, Mr. Marshall will be responsible for developing international business opportunities and will report directly to the Company's Chief Executive Officer, Jim Taiclet.
Jim Taiclet said, "Steve Marshall is a tremendous addition to our executive management team  a truly unique talent, having both led a major multinational tower company and successfully driven significant business development initiatives during his career in all of the regions that we are exploring for possible expansion. I am truly excited to have Steve join our senior management team."
Mr. Marshall comes to American Tower from National Grid Plc, where he served in a number of leadership and business development positions since 1997. Between 2003 and 2007, Mr. Marshall was Chief Executive Officer, National Grid Wireless, where he led National Grid's wireless tower infrastructure business in the United States and United Kingdom. In addition, during his tenure at National Grid, as well as at Costain Group Plc and Tootal Group Plc, he led operational and business development efforts in Latin America, India, Southeast Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
Full Year 2007 and 2008 Outlook
The following estimates are based on a number of assumptions that management believes to be reasonable, and reflect the Company's expectations as of November 7, 2007. Please refer to the cautionary language regarding "forward-looking" statements included in this press release when considering this information. The Company undertakes no obligation to update this information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conference Call Information
American Tower will host a conference call today at 8:30 a.m. ET to discuss its third quarter 2007 results and the Company's outlook for the full year 2007 and 2008. The call will be hosted by Brad Singer, Chief Financial Officer, who will be joined by Jim Taiclet, Chief Executive Officer. The conference call dial-in numbers are as follows:
US/Canada dial-in: (877) 235-9047
International dial-in: (706) 645-9644
Passcode: 20977029
A replay of the call will be available from 9:30 a.m. ET November 7, 2007 until 11:59 p.m. November 14, 2007. The replay dial-in numbers are as follows:
US/Canada dial-in: (800) 642-1687
International dial-in: (706) 645-9291
Passcode: 20977029
American Tower will also sponsor a live simulcast of the call on its website, . When available, a replay of the call will be available on the Company's website.
www.americantower.com
 
About American Tower
American Tower is a leading independent owner, operator and developer of broadcast and wireless communications sites. American Tower owns and operates over 22,500 sites in the United States, Mexico and Brazil. Additionally, American Tower manages approximately 2,000 revenue producing rooftop and tower sites. For more information about American Tower, please visit .
www.americantower.com
Non-GAAP and Defined Financial Measures
In addition to the results prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) provided throughout this press release, the Company has presented the following non-GAAP and defined financial measures: Rental and Management Segment Gross Margin, Services Segment Gross Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA Margin and Free Cash Flow. American Tower defines Rental and Management Segment Gross Margin as operating income before depreciation, amortization and accretion, impairments, net loss on sale of long-lived assets, restructuring and merger related expense, stock-based compensation expense, corporate expenses, rental and management segment overhead, services segment overhead, services segment operating expenses, services segment revenue, plus interest income, TV Azteca, net. American Tower defines Services Segment Gross Margin as operating income before depreciation, amortization and accretion, impairments, net loss on sale of long-lived assets, restructuring and merger related expense, stock-based compensation expense, corporate expenses, services segment overhead, rental and management segment overhead, rental and management segment operating expenses, and rental and management segment revenue. American Tower defines Adjusted EBITDA as operating income before depreciation, amortization and accretion, impairments, net loss on sale of long-lived assets, restructuring and merger related expense, and stock-based compensation expense, plus interest income, TV Azteca, net. American Tower defines Adjusted EBITDA Margin as a percentage of Adjusted EBITDA over total revenue. American Tower defines Free Cash Flow as cash provided by operating activities less payments for purchase of property and equipment and construction activities. These measures are not intended as substitutes for other measures of financial performance determined in accordance with GAAP. They are presented as additional information because management believes they are useful indicators of the current financial performance of our core businesses. We believe that these measures can assist in comparing company performances on a consistent basis irrespective of depreciation and amortization or capital structure. Depreciation and amortization can vary significantly among companies depending on accounting methods, particularly where acquisitions or non-operating factors including historical cost bases are involved. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company's measures of Rental and Management Segment Gross Margin, Services Segment Gross Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA Margin and Free Cash Flow may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
Cautionary Language Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains "forward-looking" statements concerning the Company's goals, beliefs, expectations, strategies, objectives, plans, future operating results and underlying assumptions, and other statements that are not necessarily based on historical facts. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated in our forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors, including: (1) a decrease in demand for tower space would materially and adversely affect our operating results and we cannot control that demand; (2) if our wireless service provider customers consolidate or merger with each other to a significant degree, our growth, revenue and ability to generate positive cash flows could be adversely affected; (3) substantial leverage and debt service obligations may adversely affect us; (4) restrictive covenants in our Revolving Credit Facility, the indentures governing our debt securities, and the loan agreement related to our Securitization could adversely affect our business by limiting flexibility; (5) we could suffer adverse tax and other financial consequences if taxing authorities do not agree with our tax positions, including with respect to our utilization of net operating losses; (6) due to the long-term expectations of revenue from tenant leases, the tower industry is sensitive to the creditworthiness of it tenants; (7) our foreign operations are subject to economic, political and other risks that could adversely affect our revenues or financial position; (8) a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from a small number of customers; (9) new technologies could make our tower leasing business less desirable to potential tenants and result in decreasing revenues; (10) we could have liability under environmental laws; (11) our business is subject to governmental regulations and changes in current or future laws or regulations could restrict our ability to operate our business as we currently do; (12) increasing competition in the tower industry may create pricing pressures
 
that may adversely affect us; (13) if we are unable to protect our rights to the land under our towers, it could adversely affect our business and operating results; (14) if we are unable or choose not to exercise our rights to purchase towers that are subject to lease and sublease agreements at the end of the applicable period, our cash flows derived from such towers would be eliminated; (15) our towers may be affected by natural disasters and other unforeseen damage for which our insurance may not provide adequate coverage; (16) our costs could increase and our revenues could decrease due to perceived health risks from radio emissions, especially if these risks are substantiated; (17) our stock option granting practices are subject to ongoing governmental proceedings, which could result in fines, penalties or other liability; and (18) pending civil litigation relating to our stock option granting practices exposes us to risks and uncertainties. For other important information regarding these risk factors, we refer you to the information contained in Item 1A of our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 under the caption "Risk Factors". Forward-looking statements represent the Company's current expectations and are inherently uncertain. We undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this press release to reflect subsequently occurring events or circumstances.
 
UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (In thousands)
 
 
UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS (In thousands, except per share data)
 
 
UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (In thousands)
 
 
 
UNAUDITED SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION (In thousands, except where noted)
SELECTED BALANCE SHEET DETAIL:
 
 
 
 
UNAUDITED SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION, CONTINUED (In thousands, except where noted)
SELECTED INCOME STATEMENT DETAIL:
 
 
SELECTED CASH FLOW DETAIL:
 
SELECTED PORTFOLIO DETAIL  OWNED SITES:
 
 
UNAUDITED RECONCILIATIONS TO GAAP MEASURES AND THE CALCULATION OF DEFINED FINANCIAL MEASURES (In thousands, except where noted)
The reconciliation of net income to Adjusted EBITDA and the calculation of Rental and Management Segment Operating Profit, Rental and Management Gross Margin, Services Segment Operating Profit, Services Segment Gross Margin and Adjusted EBITDA Margin are as follows:
 
 
UNAUDITED CALCULATION OF DEFINED FINANCIAL MEASURES, CONTINUED (In thousands)
The calculation of Free Cash Flow is as follows:
 
 
UNAUDITED RECONCILIATIONS OF OUTLOOK TO GAAP MEASURES (In millions)
The reconciliation of Income from continuing operations to Adjusted EBITDA Outlook is as follows:
 
 
 


