FILE:AMT/AMT-8K-20070611070855.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On June 11, 2007, American Tower Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that it had successfully refinanced its existing $1.6 billion senior secured credit facilities at the American Tower operating company ("AMT OpCo") level with a new $1.25 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility of American Tower Corporation.
At closing, the Company drew down approximately $1.0 billion under the new credit facility and used the net proceeds and cash on hand to repay all amounts outstanding under the existing AMT OpCo credit facilities. The basis for determining interest rates for the new credit facility is determined at the option of the Company with the margin ranging between 0.40% to 1.25% above the LIBOR rate for LIBOR based borrowings or between 0.00% to 0.25% above the defined base rate for base rate borrowings, in each case based upon the Company's debt ratings. A quarterly commitment fee on the undrawn portion of the credit facility is required, ranging from 0.08% to 0.25% per annum, based upon the Company's debt ratings.
The new credit facility contains certain financial ratios and operating covenants and other restrictions (including limitations on additional debt, guaranties, sales of assets and liens) with which the Company must comply. The credit facility contains the following three financial maintenance tests with which the Company must comply:
 
 
 
Any failure to comply with the financial and operating covenants of the credit facility would not only prevent the Company from being able to borrow additional funds, but would constitute a default, which could result in, among other things, the amounts outstanding, including all accrued interest and unpaid fees, becoming immediately due and payable.
The loan agreement for the Company's new credit facility is with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and The Toronto Dominion Bank, New York Branch, as Issuing Banks, Toronto Dominion (Texas) LLC, as Administrative Agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Syndication Agent, and the lenders that are signatories thereto. The credit facility has a term of five years and matures on June 8, 2012. All amounts will be due and payable in full at maturity. The credit facility does not require amortization of payments and may be paid prior to maturity in whole or in part at the Company's option without penalty or premium. The credit facility allows the Company to use borrowings for working capital needs and other general corporate purposes of the Company and its subsidiaries (including, without limitation, to refinance or repurchase other indebtedness and, provided certain conditions are met, to repurchase the Company's equity securities, in each case without additional lender approval).
The foregoing is only a summary of certain provisions of the new credit facility and is qualified in its entirety by the terms of the loan agreement for the credit facility, a copy of which will be filed as an exhibit to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Please refer to the discussion under Item 1.01 above, which is incorporated under this Item 1.02 by reference. In addition, for a summary of the material terms of the AMT OpCo credit facilities, see the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, filed on February 28, 2007.
 
Please refer to the discussion under Item 1.01 above, which is incorporated under this Item 2.03 by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
ATC Contact: Michael Powell
Director of Investor Relations
Telephone: (617) 375-7500
American Tower Corporation (NYSE: AMT) announced today that it has successfully refinanced its existing $1.6 billion senior secured credit facilities at the American Tower operating company ("AMT OpCo") level with a new $1.25 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility of American Tower Corporation.
Boston, Massachusetts  June 11, 2007
At closing, the Company drew down approximately $1.0 billion under the new credit facility and used the net proceeds and cash on hand to repay all amounts outstanding under the existing AMT OpCo credit facilities. The new credit facility has a term of five years, maturing in full on June 8, 2012. The credit facility does not require amortization of payments and may be paid prior to maturity in whole or in part at the Company's option without penalty or premium. The credit facility allows the Company to use borrowings for working capital needs and other general corporate purposes of the Company and its subsidiaries (including, without limitation, to refinance or repurchase other indebtedness and, provided certain conditions are met, to repurchase the Company's equity securities, in each case without additional lender approval).
The new senior unsecured revolving credit facility is rated BB+ by Standard & Poor's, Ba1 by Moody's, and BB+ by Fitch.
American Tower is a leading independent owner, operator and developer of broadcast and wireless communications sites. American Tower owns and operates over 22,000 sites in the United States, Mexico and Brazil. Additionally, American Tower manages approximately 2,000 revenue producing rooftop and tower sites. For more information about American Tower, please visit .
www.americantower.com
Cautionary Language Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" that are based on management's current expectations and assumptions and that are not based on historical facts. Examples of these statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the Company's expectations for (i) the use of proceeds from the credit facility, (ii) the repurchase or refinancing of other indebtedness and (iii) the effect of the transactions described herein, including effects on our financial flexibility. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in such forward-looking statements include market conditions for corporate debt generally, for the securities of telecommunications companies and for the Company's indebtedness in particular. For other important factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in our forward-looking statements, we refer you to the information contained in Item 1A of the American Tower Corporation Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
2007 under the caption "Risk Factors" and in other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this press release to reflect subsequently occurring events or circumstances.


