FILE:AMT/AMT-8K-20070904070828.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On September 4, 2007, American Tower Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that it had entered into a new $500.0 million senior unsecured term loan credit facility (the "Term Loan").
The Company expects to receive net proceeds of approximately $498.5 million from the Term Loan and will use approximately $450.0 million to repay certain existing indebtedness under the Company's continuing senior unsecured revolving credit facility and the remainder for general corporate purposes. The basis for determining interest rates for the Term Loan is determined at the option of the Company with the margin ranging between 0.40% to 1.25% above the LIBOR rate for LIBOR based borrowings or between 0.00% to 0.25% above the defined base rate for base rate borrowings, in each case based upon the Company's debt ratings.
The Term Loan contains certain financial ratios and operating covenants and other restrictions (including limitations on additional debt, guaranties, sales of assets and liens) with which the Company must comply that are substantially consistent with the senior unsecured revolving credit facility, including the following three financial maintenance tests:
 
 
 
Any failure to comply with the financial and operating covenants of the Term Loan would constitute a default, which could result in, among other things, the amounts outstanding, including all accrued interest, becoming immediately due and payable.
The loan agreement for the Term Loan is with Toronto Dominion (Texas) LLC, as Administrative Agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Syndication Agent, and lenders that are signatories thereto. The borrower under the Term Loan is American Tower Corporation. The Term Loan has a term of five years and matures on August 30, 2012. All amounts will be due and payable in full at maturity. The Term Loan does not require amortization of principal and may be paid prior to maturity in whole or in part at the Company's option without penalty or premium; provided however, that the Term Loan requires its mandatory prepayment, subject to certain limited exceptions, with the net proceeds from any future issuances, offerings or placements of debt obligations or equity securities by the Company, or by any of the Company's subsidiaries (other than unrestricted subsidiaries), to unaffiliated third parties.
The foregoing is only a summary of certain provisions of the Term Loan and is qualified in its entirety by the terms of the loan agreement for the Term Loan, a copy of which will be filed as an exhibit to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Please refer to the discussion under Item 1.01 above, which is incorporated under this Item 2.03 by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
ATC Contact: Michael Powell
Director of Investor Relations
Telephone: (617) 375-7500
American Tower Corporation (NYSE: AMT) announced today that it has entered into a new $500.0 million senior unsecured term loan credit facility. The Company expects to receive net proceeds of approximately $498.5 million from the new term loan and will use approximately $450.0 million to repay certain existing indebtedness under the Company's continuing senior unsecured revolving credit facility and the remainder for general corporate purposes. As a result, the Company will have $550.0 million outstanding under its existing $1.25 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility. The new term loan has a term of five years, maturing in full on August 30, 2012. The new term loan does not require amortization of principal and may be paid prior to maturity in whole or in part at the Company's option without penalty or premium; provided however, that the new term loan requires its mandatory prepayment, subject to certain limited exceptions, with the net proceeds from any future issuances, offerings or placements of debt obligations or equity securities by the Company, or by any of the Company's subsidiaries (other than unrestricted subsidiaries), to unaffiliated third parties.
Boston, Massachusetts  September 4, 2007
American Tower is a leading independent owner, operator and developer of broadcast and wireless communications sites. American Tower owns and operates over 22,000 sites in the United States, Mexico and Brazil. Additionally, American Tower manages approximately 2,000 revenue producing rooftop and tower sites. For more information about American Tower, please visit .
www.americantower.com
Cautionary Language Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" that are based on management's current expectations and assumptions and that are not based on historical facts. Examples of these statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the Company's expectations for (i) the use of proceeds from the new term loan and (ii) the effect of the transactions described herein, including effects on our financial flexibility. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in such forward-looking statements include market conditions for corporate debt generally, for the securities of telecommunications companies and for the Company's indebtedness in particular. For other important factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in our forward-looking statements, we refer you to the information contained in Item 1A of the American Tower Corporation Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 under the caption "Risk Factors" and in other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this press release to reflect subsequently occurring events or circumstances.


