FILE:AMT/AMT-8K-20080314141928.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On March 14, 2008, American Tower Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that it had filed its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company also announced that its Board of Directors approved a new stock repurchase program pursuant to which the Company is authorized to repurchase up to $1.5 billion of its Class A common stock, as well as provided information regarding its full year 2008 outlook. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Exhibit 99.1 is furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall such exhibit be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing made by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
AMERICAN TOWER CORPORATION
(Registrant)
Date: March 14, 2008
By:  
/s/  Bradley E. Singer                                
        Bradley E. Singer
        Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Contact: Michael Powell
Vice President, Investor Relations
Telephone: (617) 375-7500
American Tower Corporation (NYSE: AMT) today announced that it has filed its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, the Company announced a new stock repurchase program and provided its full year 2008 outlook.
Boston, Massachusetts  March 14, 2008:
Stock Repurchase Program
The Company's Board of Directors has approved a new stock repurchase program, pursuant to which the Company is authorized to purchase up to $1.5 billion of its Class A common stock. The Company expects to fund repurchases through a combination of cash on hand, cash generated by operations, borrowings under its revolving credit facility and future financing transactions. Accordingly, the Company's stock repurchase program is subject to the Company having available cash to fund repurchases. Under the program, management is authorized to purchase shares from time to time through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions at prevailing prices as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements, and subject to market conditions and other factors. To facilitate repurchases, the Company plans to make purchases pursuant to trading plans under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which allows the Company to repurchase shares during periods when it otherwise might be prevented from doing so under insider trading laws or because of self-imposed trading blackout periods.
Full Year 2008 Outlook
The following estimates are based on a number of assumptions that management believes to be reasonable, and reflect the Company's expectations as of March 14, 2008. Please refer to the cautionary language regarding "forward-looking" statements included in this press release when considering this information. The Company undertakes no obligation to update this information.
 
 
 
 
 
The reconciliation of Income from continuing operations to Adjusted EBITDA Outlook is as follows:
 
 
 
About American Tower
American Tower is a leading independent owner, operator and developer of broadcast and wireless communications sites. American Tower owns and operates over 22,800 sites in the United States, Mexico and Brazil. For more information about American Tower, please visit www.americantower.com.
 
Non-GAAP and Defined Financial Measures
In addition to the results prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) provided throughout this press release, the Company has presented the following non-GAAP and defined financial measures: Rental and Management Segment Gross Margin, Network Development Services Segment Gross Margin, and Adjusted EBITDA. American Tower defines Rental and Management Segment Gross Margin as operating income before depreciation, amortization and accretion, impairments, net loss on sale of long-lived assets, restructuring and merger related expense, stock-based compensation expense, corporate expenses, rental and management segment overhead, services segment overhead, services segment operating expenses, services segment revenue, plus interest income, TV Azteca, net. American Tower defines Network Development Services Segment Gross Margin as operating income before depreciation, amortization and accretion, impairments, net loss on sale of long-lived assets, restructuring and merger related expense, stock-based compensation expense, corporate expenses, services segment overhead, rental and management segment overhead, rental and management
segment operating expenses, and rental and management segment revenue. American Tower defines Adjusted EBITDA as operating income before depreciation, amortization and accretion, impairments, net loss on sale of long-lived assets, restructuring and merger related expense, and stock-based compensation expense, plus interest income, TV Azteca, net. These measures are not intended as substitutes for other measures of financial performance determined in accordance with GAAP. They are presented as additional information because management believes they are useful indicators of the current financial performance of our core businesses. We believe that these measures can assist in comparing company performances on a consistent basis irrespective of depreciation and amortization or capital structure. Depreciation and amortization can vary significantly among companies depending on accounting methods, particularly where acquisitions or non-operating factors including historical cost bases are involved. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company's measures of Rental and Management Segment Gross Margin, Network Development Services Segment Gross Margin, and Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
Cautionary Language Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains "forward-looking" statements concerning the Company's goals, beliefs, expectations, strategies, objectives, plans, future operating results and underlying assumptions, and other statements that are not necessarily based on historical facts. Examples of these statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding our full year 2008 Outlook and our stock repurchase program. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated in our forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors, including: (1) a decrease in demand for tower space would materially and adversely affect our operating results and we cannot control that demand; (2) if our wireless service provider customers consolidate or merge with each other to a significant degree, our growth, revenue and ability to generate positive cash flows could be adversely affected; (3) substantial leverage and debt service obligations may adversely affect us; (4) restrictive covenants in the loan agreement for our Revolving Credit Facility, the indentures governing our debt securities, and the loan agreement related to our Securitization could adversely affect our business by limiting flexibility; (5) we have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting that, until remediated, could result in a material misstatement in our financial statements; (6) we could suffer adverse tax and other financial consequences if taxing authorities do not agree with our tax positions, or we are unable to realize our net operating losses; (7) due to the long-term expectations of revenue from tenant leases, the tower industry is sensitive to the creditworthiness of its tenants; (8) our foreign operations are subject to economic, political and other risks that could adversely affect our revenues or financial position; (9) a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from a small number of customers; (10) we anticipate that we may need additional financing to fund our stock repurchase programs, to refinance our existing indebtedness and to fund future growth and expansion initiatives; (11) new technologies could make our tower leasing business less desirable to potential tenants and result in decreasing revenues; (12) we could have liability under environmental laws; (13) our business is subject to government regulations and changes in current or future laws or regulations could restrict our ability to operate our business as we currently do; (14) increasing competition in the tower industry may create pricing pressures that may adversely affect us; (15) if we are unable to protect our rights to the land under our towers, it could adversely affect our business and operating results; (16) if we are unable or choose not to exercise our rights to purchase towers that are subject to lease and sublease agreements at the end of the applicable period, our cash flows derived from such towers would be eliminated; (17) our towers may be affected by natural disasters and other unforeseen damage for which our insurance may not provide adequate coverage; (18) our costs could increase and our revenues could decrease due to perceived health risks from radio emissions, especially if these perceived risks are substantiated; (19) our historical stock option granting practices are subject to ongoing governmental proceedings, which could result in fines, penalties or other liability; and (20) pending civil litigation relating to our historical stock option granting practices exposes us to risks and uncertainties. For other important information regarding these risk factors, we refer you to the information contained in Item 1A of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 under the caption "Risk Factors." Forward-looking statements represent the Company's current expectations and are inherently uncertain. We undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this press release to reflect subsequently occurring events or circumstances.


