FILE:AMT/AMT-8K-20080611163340.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) On June 11, 2008, Bradley E. Singer, the Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of American Tower Corporation (the "Company") and the Company's principal financial officer, notified the Company that he intends to resign from his current positions with the Company. Mr. Singer's anticipated departure date is June 30, 2008. Mr. Singer is resigning so that he may pursue other opportunities and not as a result of any disagreement with the Company.
On June 11, 2008, the Company issued a press release (the "Press Release") announcing the departure of Mr. Singer as the Company's Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. A copy of the Company's press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
(c) The Company announced in the Press Release that Jean Bua, Executive Vice President, Finance and Corporate Controller, will serve as interim Chief Financial Officer (and principal financial officer) upon the departure of Mr. Singer. Ms. Bua will also retain her duties as principal accounting officer. Ms. Bua will report directly to Jim Taiclet, the Company's Chief Executive Officer. The Company will be initiating a selection process that will consider both internal and external candidates to succeed Mr. Singer as Chief Financial Officer.
Ms. Bua, age 49, joined the Company in August 2005, as Senior Vice President, Finance and Corporate Controller, and in February 2007, was named Executive Vice President, Finance and Corporate Controller. Prior to joining the Company, since 1996, Ms. Bua was with Iron Mountain, Inc., a global records management and data protection services company, where she most recently served as Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer and Worldwide Controller. From 1993 to 1996, Ms. Bua was Corporate Controller for Duracraft Corporation, an international consumer products manufacturer. Prior to joining Duracraft, Ms. Bua was Assistant Controller for Keithley Instruments, a high-tech hardware and software company, from 1991 to 1993. Ms. Bua was also previously a management consultant for Ernst & Young and an auditor for KPMG. Ms. Bua is a Certified Public Accountant and holds an M.B.A. degree from the University of Rhode Island.
When Ms. Bua joined the Company in August 2005, the Company entered into a letter agreement with Ms. Bua that set forth her initial salary and bonus, as well as severance and other benefits. Pursuant to this letter agreement, the Company will be required to provide severance benefits to Ms. Bua if she is terminated other than for "cause" or terminates her employment for "good reason," as such terms are defined in the letter agreement. If such a termination occurs, Ms. Bua is entitled to receive the following severance benefits: (1) bi-weekly payment of her then current salary for eighteen months following the date of termination and (2) continued health benefits for eighteen months following the date of termination (to run concurrent with COBRA coverage). Ms. Bua's rights to exercise stock options would also be extended for a period equal to the lesser of three years following the date of such termination or the expiration of the options, and her stock options would continue to vest during the same period. The foregoing severance benefits are contingent upon Ms. Bua signing a separation and release agreement in acceptable form, which would include customary non-solicitation and non-competition provisions.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Contact: Michael Powell
Vice President, Investor Relations
Telephone: (617) 375-7500
American Tower Corporation (NYSE: AMT) today announced that its Chief Financial Officer, Brad Singer, has decided to leave the Company to pursue an opportunity as Chief Financial Officer of Discovery Communications, LLC. Mr. Singer joined American Tower in September 2000 and has served as its Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer since December 2001. His last day as Chief Financial Officer is anticipated to be June 30, 2008.
Boston, Massachusetts  June 11, 2008:
Jean Bua, Executive Vice President, Finance and Corporate Controller, will serve as interim Chief Financial Officer upon the departure of Mr. Singer. Ms. Bua will report directly to Jim Taiclet, American Tower's Chief Executive Officer. The Company will be initiating a selection process that will consider both internal and external candidates to succeed Mr. Singer as Chief Financial Officer.
Jim Taiclet said, "On behalf of all of us at American Tower, I want to thank Brad for his tremendous contributions during his more than seven years at the Company. Brad played an integral role as part of our senior leadership team and in developing and implementing our operational and financial strategy, and his efforts have helped establish the strong position that our Company enjoys today. On behalf of everyone at American Tower, I wish Brad every success in the future."
Commenting on his time with the Company, Mr. Singer said, "I have enjoyed my years at American Tower, and I believe that this is the appropriate time to begin the next stage of my professional career. American Tower has great employees, outstanding assets and has the strategy in place to capitalize on them. I am gratified with what we have achieved together, and I believe that American Tower's strategic and financial position and talented leadership team will enable the Company to continue to succeed as a leader in the telecommunications industry."
Ms. Bua joined American Tower in August 2005 as Senior Vice President, Finance and Corporate Controller, and in February 2007, was named Executive Vice President, Finance and Corporate Controller. Prior to joining American Tower, Ms. Bua spent nine years with Iron Mountain, Inc., a global records management and data protection services company, where she most recently served as Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer and Worldwide Controller.
American Tower is a leading independent owner, operator and developer of broadcast and wireless communications sites. American Tower owns and operates over 23,000 sites in the United States, Mexico and Brazil. For more information about American Tower, please visit
www.americantower.com


