FILE:AMT/AMT-8K-20080502061317.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 2, 2008, American Tower Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2008. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Exhibit 99.1 is furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall such exhibit be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing made by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Contact: Michael Powell
Vice President, Investor Relations
Telephone: (617) 375-7500
FIRST QUARTER 2008 HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
American Tower Corporation (NYSE: AMT) today reported financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2008.
Boston, Massachusetts  May 2, 2008:
Jim Taiclet, American Tower's Chief Executive Officer stated, "We experienced another strong quarter as demand remained robust for our tower space across all three of our current geographic markets: the United States, Mexico and Brazil. We believe that these demand levels are supported by longer-term trends, including our customers' efforts to continually improve voice network quality and the increasing success and pervasiveness of wireless data. We anticipate these trends to create an environment that is positive for the tower industry, and in particular, we believe that the quality of our asset base, our scale, and our proven ability to operate these assets will allow us to capture a significant share of the potential opportunity.
"Our strategic and financial initiatives have enabled us to opportunistically expand our footprint with attractive acquisitions, as well as raise incremental liquidity on favorable terms. We added 265 new communications sites in our existing markets in the first quarter, primarily through acquisitions, with strong initial returns and prospects for additional growth. In addition, we entered into a build-to-suit program in India for approximately 200 towers. Our ability to access the capital markets at attractive rates was demonstrated in the first quarter as we raised an incremental $325 million term loan, of which a significant portion is fixed at an interest rate below 4%. We remain committed to continuing to explore opportunities to add quality assets to our portfolio in our existing markets as well as in new geographies and we remain focused and disciplined in achieving our return criteria while maintaining an appropriate financial profile."
First Quarter 2008 Operating Highlights
American Tower generated the following operating results for the quarter ended March 31, 2008 (unless otherwise indicated, all comparative information is presented against the quarter ended March 31, 2007):
Total revenue increased 8.4% to $382.2 million and rental and management segment revenue increased 8.1% to $374.0 million. Rental and Management Segment Gross Margin increased 9.3% to $290.6 million and network development services segment revenue and Gross Margin increased to $8.2 million and $4.6 million, respectively. Rental and management segment revenue and Gross Margin include a year over year decrease of approximately $5.2 million non-cash straight-line revenue which was included in the Company's previously disclosed outlook.
 
Total selling, general, administrative and development expense was $48.9 million. The Company's selling, general, administrative and development expense for the quarter includes stock-based compensation expense of $16.3 million and $0.6 million of additional costs related to ongoing legal and governmental proceedings and other related costs associated with the Company's historical stock option granting practices. Including costs related to the stock option review, Adjusted EBITDA increased 10.9% to $262.5 million and Adjusted EBITDA Margin was 69%.
Operating income increased to $144.9 million and income from continuing operations increased to $42.2 million, which includes approximately $30.2 million pre-tax and $18.9 million, net of tax, respectively, related to the Company's change in useful life estimates for its towers and related intangible assets, as discussed below. Net income was $42.2 million or $0.11 per basic common share and $0.10 per diluted common share.
Free Cash Flow was $137.8 million, consisting of $182.4 million of cash provided by operating activities, less $44.6 million of payments for purchase of property and equipment and construction activities, including $36.7 million of capital spending on the construction of new towers, the installation of in-building systems and ground lease purchases as well as capital for the redevelopment of existing sites to meet additional tenant demand. During the quarter ended March 31, 2008, the Company completed the construction of 18 towers and the installation of 3 in-building systems and spent approximately $8.5 million on ground lease purchases.
Please refer to Non-GAAP and Defined Financial Measures on page 4 for definitions of Rental and Management Segment Gross Margin, Network Development Services Segment Gross Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA Margin and Free Cash Flow. For additional financial information, including reconciliations to GAAP measures, please refer to the supplemental schedules of selected financial information on pages 9 through 12.
Asset Life Estimates
As previously disclosed, the Company undertook a review of the estimated useful life of its towers and related intangible assets in the second half of 2007 to determine whether it should modify its current estimates based on its historical operating experience. The Company retained an independent consultant to assist it in completing this review and received a report from the consultant in the first quarter of 2008. Through December 31, 2007, the Company depreciated its towers and related intangible assets on a straight-line basis over the shorter term of the underlying ground lease (including renewal options) or its estimated useful life, which the Company had historically estimated to be 15 years. The Company has concluded that it should increase the estimated useful life of its towers and related intangible assets from 15 to 20 years and has accounted for the change prospectively, effective January 1, 2008. As a result of the change, the Company's depreciation and amortization expense was reduced by approximately $30.2 million for the first quarter of 2008.
Stock Repurchase Program
During the quarter ended March 31, 2008, the Company repurchased a total of 4.5 million shares of its Class A common stock for approximately $170.6 million. As of April 28, 2008 the Company had repurchased pursuant to its publicly announced stock repurchase programs an aggregate of 57.1 million shares of its Class A common stock for approximately $2.2 billion since November 2005, which includes the repurchase of 0.8 million shares of its Class A common stock for approximately $32.9 million, during the period April 1, 2008 to April 28, 2008.
International Business Development Update
Subsequent to the quarter ended March 31, 2008, the Company entered into a build-to-suit agreement with a wireless carrier in India to build approximately 200 tower sites. In connection with the agreement, the Company anticipates incurring additional capital expenditures of approximately $15 million and expects to complete the construction of the sites by the end of 2008. In addition, the Company is continuing to evaluate other opportunities within the region for additional investment opportunities that meet our return on investment criteria.
 
Full Year 2008 Outlook
The following estimates are based on a number of assumptions that management believes to be reasonable, and reflect the Company's expectations as of May 2, 2008. Please refer to the cautionary language regarding "forward-looking" statements included in this press release when considering this information. The Company undertakes no obligation to update this information.
 
 
Conference Call Information
American Tower will host a conference call today at 8:30 a.m. ET to discuss its first quarter 2008 financial results and the Company's outlook for the full year 2008. The call will be hosted by Brad Singer, Chief Financial Officer, who will be joined by Jim Taiclet, Chief Executive Officer. The conference call dial-in numbers are as follows:
US/Canada dial-in: (877) 235-9047
International dial-in: (706) 645-9644
Passcode: 43052400
A replay of the call will be available from 11:30 a.m. ET May 2, 2008 until 11:59 p.m. ET May 9, 2008. The replay dial-in numbers are as follows:
US/Canada dial-in: (800) 642-1687
International dial-in: (706) 645-9291
Passcode: 43052400
 
American Tower will also sponsor a live simulcast of the call on its website, . When available, a replay of the call will be available on the Company's website.
www.americantower.com
About American Tower
American Tower is a leading independent owner, operator and developer of broadcast and wireless communications sites. American Tower owns and operates over 23,000 sites in the United States, Mexico and Brazil. For more information about American Tower, please visit .
www.americantower.com
Non-GAAP and Defined Financial Measures
In addition to the results prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) provided throughout this press release, the Company has presented the following non-GAAP and defined financial measures: Rental and Management Segment Gross Margin, Network Development Services Segment Gross Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA Margin and Free Cash Flow. American Tower defines Rental and Management Segment Gross Margin as operating income before depreciation, amortization and accretion, impairments and net loss on sale of long-lived assets, stock-based compensation expense, corporate expenses, rental and management segment overhead, network development services segment overhead, network development services segment operating expenses, network development services segment revenue, plus interest income, TV Azteca, net. American Tower defines Network Development Services Segment Gross Margin as operating income before depreciation, amortization and accretion, impairments and net loss on sale of long-lived assets, stock-based compensation expense, corporate expenses, network development services segment overhead, rental and management segment overhead, rental and management segment operating expenses, and rental and management segment revenue. American Tower defines Adjusted EBITDA as operating income before depreciation, amortization and accretion, impairments and net loss on sale of long-lived assets, and stock-based compensation expense, plus interest income, TV Azteca, net. American Tower defines Adjusted EBITDA Margin as a percentage of Adjusted EBITDA over total revenue. American Tower defines Free Cash Flow as cash provided by operating activities less payments for purchase of property and equipment and construction activities. These measures are not intended as substitutes for other measures of financial performance determined in accordance with GAAP. They are presented as additional information because management believes they are useful indicators of the current financial performance of our core businesses. We believe that these measures can assist in comparing company performances on a consistent basis irrespective of depreciation and amortization or capital structure. Depreciation and amortization can vary significantly among companies depending on accounting methods, particularly where acquisitions or non-operating factors including historical cost bases are involved. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company's measures of Rental and Management Segment Gross Margin, Network Development Services Segment Gross Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA Margin and Free Cash Flow may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
Cautionary Language Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" concerning the Company's goals, beliefs, expectations, strategies, objectives, plans, future operating results and underlying assumptions, and other statements that are not necessarily based on historical facts. Examples of these statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding our full year 2008 outlook, our stock repurchase programs and our international business development initiatives. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated in our forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors, including: (1) decrease in demand for tower space would materially and adversely affect our operating results and we cannot control that demand; (2) if our wireless service provider customers consolidate or merge with each other to a significant degree, our growth, revenue and ability to generate positive cash flows could be adversely affected; (3) substantial leverage and debt service obligations may adversely affect us; (4) restrictive covenants in the loan agreement for our Revolving Credit Facility and Term Loan, the indentures governing our debt securities, and the loan agreement related to our Securitization could adversely affect our business by limiting flexibility; (5) we have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to accounting for income taxes that, until remediated, could result in a material misstatement in our financial statements; (6) we could suffer adverse tax and other financial consequences if taxing authorities do not agree with our tax positions, or we are unable to utilize our net operating losses; (7) due to the long-term
 
expectations of revenue from tenant leases, the tower industry is sensitive to the credit worthiness of its tenants; (8) our foreign operations are subject to economic, political and other risks that could adversely affect our revenues or financial position; (9) a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from a small number of customers; (10) new technologies could make our tower leasing business less desirable to potential tenants and result in decreasing revenues; (11) we could have liability under environmental laws; (12) our business is subject to governmental regulations and changes in current or future laws or regulations could restrict our ability to operate our business as we currently do; (13) increasing competition in the tower industry may create pricing pressures that may adversely affect us; (14) if we are unable to protect our rights to the land under our towers, it could adversely affect our business and operating results; (15) if we are unable or choose not to exercise our rights to purchase towers that are subject to lease and sublease agreements at the end of the applicable period, our cash flows derived from such towers would be eliminated; (16) our towers may be affected by natural disasters and other unforeseen damage for which our insurance may not provide adequate coverage; (17) our costs could increase and our revenues could decrease due to perceived health risks from radio emissions, especially if these risks are substantiated; (18) our historical stock option granting practices are subject to ongoing governmental proceedings, which could result in fines, penalties or other liability; and (19) pending civil litigation relating to our historical stock option granting practices exposes us to risks and uncertainties. For other important factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in our forward-looking statements, we refer you to the information contained in Item 1A of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 under the caption "Risk Factors." We undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this press release to reflect subsequently occurring events or circumstances.
 
UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (In thousands)
 
 
UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS (In thousands, except per share data)
 
 
 
UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (In thousands)
 
 
UNAUDITED SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION (In thousands, except where noted)
SELECTED BALANCE SHEET DETAIL:
 
 
 
 
 
 
UNAUDITED SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION, CONTINUED (In thousands, except where noted)
SELECTED INCOME STATEMENT DETAIL:
 
 
 
SELECTED CASH FLOW DETAIL:
 
SELECTED PORTFOLIO DETAIL  OWNED SITES:
 
 
UNAUDITED RECONCILIATIONS TO GAAP MEASURES AND THE CALCULATION OF DEFINED FINANCIAL MEASURES (In thousands, except where noted)
The reconciliation of net income to Adjusted EBITDA and the calculation of Rental and Management Segment Operating Profit, Rental and Management Gross Margin, Network Development Services Segment Operating Profit, Network Development Services Segment Gross Margin and Adjusted EBITDA Margin are as follows:
 
 
UNAUDITED CALCULATION OF DEFINED FINANCIAL MEASURES, CONTINUED (In thousands)
The calculation of Free Cash Flow is as follows:
 
UNAUDITED RECONCILIATIONS OF OUTLOOK TO GAAP MEASURES (In millions)
The reconciliation of Income from continuing operations to Adjusted EBITDA Outlook is as follows:
 
 
 


