FILE:AMT/AMT-8K-20081103061058.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 3, 2008, American Tower Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2008. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Exhibit 99.1 is furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall such exhibit be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing made by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Contact: Michael Powell
Vice President, Investor Relations
Telephone: (617) 375-7500
THIRD QUARTER 2008 HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
American Tower Corporation (NYSE: AMT) today reported financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2008.
Boston, Massachusetts  November 3, 2008:
Jim Taiclet, American Tower's Chief Executive Officer stated, "Our company's strong growth in tower revenue and Adjusted EBITDA, as demonstrated by our third quarter results, expectations for the remainder of 2008 and outlook for 2009, reflects our continued confidence in the stability and growth prospects of our business."
"For the full year 2008, we anticipate tower revenue and Adjusted EBITDA to increase approximately 10% and 14%, respectively, excluding the impacts of foreign currency fluctuations and straight-line revenue and expense recognition. We also expect strong core growth from our operations in 2009, based on our customers' continued investment in their wireless networks. Accordingly, our outlook for 2009 represents an increase in tower revenue and Adjusted EBITDA of approximately 10% and 11%, respectively, excluding the impacts of foreign currency fluctuations, straight-line revenue and expense recognition and any potential benefits from a widespread WiMAX network build out."
"Moreover, even in the face of uncertain credit markets, we have maintained our solid financial position, one which differentiates our company from industry peers. Our significant free cash flow generation, relatively low financial leverage and absence of near term refinancing requirements make American Tower the most resilient and financially flexible company in the tower industry. Our solid financial position, which includes over $600 million of liquidity, and very stable contractual revenue base provide a foundation for us to pursue exciting growth opportunities."
Third Quarter 2008 Operating Highlights
American Tower generated the following operating results for the quarter ended September 30, 2008 (unless otherwise indicated, all comparative information is presented against the quarter ended September 30, 2007):
Total revenue increased 11.3% to $409.3 million and rental and management segment revenue increased 10.0% to $394.4 million. Rental and management segment revenue growth of 10.0% includes approximately 1.1% growth from favorable foreign currency fluctuations and a negative impact to growth of approximately 1.5% from straight-line revenue recognition. Rental and Management Segment Gross Margin increased 9.3% to $304.3 million, and network development services segment revenue and Gross Margin increased to $14.9 million and $4.7 million, respectively. For the quarter ended September 30, 2007, rental and management segment revenue and Gross Margin included previously disclosed positive one-time items of approximately $4.3 million and $7.2 million, respectively.
Total selling, general, administrative and development expense was $44.7 million. The Company's selling, general, administrative and development expense for the quarter includes $13.2 million of stock-based compensation expense and $2.1 million of international business development expense. Adjusted EBITDA increased 11.6% to $277.5 million and Adjusted EBITDA Margin was 68%. Adjusted EBITDA growth of 11.6% includes approximately 0.9% growth from favorable foreign currency fluctuations and a negative impact to growth of approximately 2.5% from straight-line revenue and expense recognition.
Operating income was $154.4 million and net income was $60.5 million, which includes approximately $30.4 million pre-tax and $19.1 million, net of tax, respectively, related to the Company's previously disclosed change in useful life estimates for its towers and certain related intangible assets. Net income per basic and diluted common share was $0.15.
Free Cash Flow was $159.3 million, consisting of $227.2 million of cash provided by operating activities, less $67.9 million of payments for purchase of property and equipment and construction activities, including $57.4 million of capital spending on the construction of new towers, the installation of in-building systems and ground lease purchases, as well as capital for the redevelopment of existing sites to meet additional tenant demand. During the quarter ended September 30, 2008, the Company completed the construction of 223 sites, which includes the completion of the Company's first 52 towers in India. In addition, the Company spent approximately $11.4 million on ground lease purchases, which is included in payments for purchase of property and equipment and construction activities.
Please refer to Non-GAAP and Defined Financial Measures on page 4 for definitions of Rental and Management Segment Gross Margin, Network Development Services Segment Gross Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA Margin and Free Cash Flow. For additional financial information, including reconciliations to GAAP measures, please refer to the supplemental schedules of selected financial information on pages 9 through 13.
Stock Repurchase Program
During the quarter ended September 30, 2008, the Company repurchased a total of approximately 8.3 million shares of its Class A common stock for approximately $331.8 million. As of October 24, 2008 the Company had repurchased approximately $484.0 million under its $1.5 billion share repurchase program announced in March 2008, which includes the repurchase of approximately 1.0 million shares of its Class A common stock for approximately $30.1 million, during the period October 1, 2008 to October 24, 2008. Pursuant to its publicly announced stock repurchase programs, the Company has repurchased an aggregate of 69.3 million shares of its Class A common stock for approximately $2.7 billion since November 2005. The Company remains committed to its stock repurchase program, but expects that it may adjust the pacing of the program in response to general market conditions and other relevant factors.
Full Year 2008 and 2009 Outlook
The following estimates are based on a number of assumptions that management believes to be reasonable, and reflect the Company's expectations as of November 3, 2008. Actual results may differ materially from these estimates as a result of various factors, and we refer you to the cautionary language regarding "forward-looking" statements included in this press release when considering this information. In particular, we note that if the recent volatility in foreign currency markets continues, specifically with respect to the Mexican Peso and Brazilian Real, actual results for 2009 could differ materially from the estimates set forth below. Our operations in Mexico and Brazil comprised approximately 10% and 5%, respectively, of our rental and management segment revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2008.
The Company's estimates, for the full year 2009 assume that the Mexican Peso and Brazilian Real will strengthen against the US Dollar over the course of 2009 (specific assumptions are set forth in footnote 7 to the outlook table below). If the average exchange rates for the full year 2009 varied by 10% from these assumptions, then the Company estimates that actual rental and management segment revenue and Adjusted EBITDA for the full year 2009 would vary either positively or negatively by approximately $17 million and $9 million, respectively, from what is included in the Company's full year 2009 outlook.
 
The following table reflects the estimated impact of foreign currency fluctuations and straight-line revenue and expense recognition on rental and management segment revenue and Adjusted EBITDA outlook:
 
 
 
Conference Call Information
American Tower will host a conference call today at 8:30 a.m. ET to discuss its third quarter 2008 financial results and the Company's outlook for the full year 2008 and 2009. The conference call dial-in numbers are as follows:
US/Canada dial-in: (877) 235-9047
International dial-in: (706) 645-9644
Passcode: 69778631
A replay of the call will be available from 11:30 a.m. ET November 3, 2008 until 11:59 p.m. ET November 17, 2008. The replay dial-in numbers are as follows:
US/Canada dial-in: (800) 642-1687
International dial-in: (706) 645-9291
Passcode: 69778631
American Tower will also sponsor a live simulcast of the call on its website, . When available, a replay of the call will be available on the Company's website.
www.americantower.com
About American Tower
American Tower is a leading independent owner, operator and developer of broadcast and wireless communications sites. American Tower owns and operates over 23,000 sites in the United States, Mexico, Brazil and India. For more information about American Tower, please visit .
www.americantower.com
Non-GAAP and Defined Financial Measures
In addition to the results prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) provided throughout this press release, the Company has presented the following non-GAAP and defined financial measures: Rental and Management Segment Gross Margin, Network Development Services Segment Gross Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA Margin and Free Cash Flow. American Tower defines Rental and Management Segment Gross Margin as operating income before depreciation, amortization and accretion, impairments and net loss (gain) on sale of long-lived assets, stock-based compensation expense, corporate expenses, rental and management segment overhead, network development services segment overhead, network development services segment operating expenses, network development services segment revenue, plus interest income, TV Azteca, net. American Tower defines Network Development Services Segment Gross Margin as operating income before depreciation, amortization and accretion, impairments and net loss (gain) on sale of long-lived assets, stock-based compensation expense, corporate expenses, network development services segment overhead, rental and management segment overhead, rental and management segment operating expenses, and rental and management segment revenue. American Tower defines Adjusted EBITDA as operating income before depreciation, amortization and accretion, impairments and net loss (gain) on sale of long-lived assets, and stock-based compensation expense, plus interest income, TV Azteca, net. American Tower defines Adjusted EBITDA Margin as a percentage of Adjusted EBITDA over total revenue. American Tower defines Free Cash Flow as cash provided by operating activities less payments for purchase of property and equipment and construction activities. These measures are not intended as substitutes for other measures of financial performance determined in accordance with GAAP. They are presented as additional information because management believes they are useful indicators of the current financial performance of our core businesses. We believe that these measures can assist in comparing company performances on a consistent basis irrespective of depreciation and amortization or capital structure. Depreciation and amortization can vary significantly among companies depending on accounting methods, particularly where acquisitions or non-operating factors including historical cost bases are involved. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company's measures of Rental and Management Segment Gross Margin, Network Development Services Segment Gross Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA Margin and Free Cash Flow may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
 
Cautionary Language Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" concerning the Company's goals, beliefs, expectations, strategies, objectives, plans, future operating results and underlying assumptions, and other statements that are not necessarily based on historical facts. Examples of these statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding our full year 2008 and 2009 outlook, our stock repurchase programs and our international business development initiatives. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated in our forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors, including: (1) decrease in demand for tower space would materially and adversely affect our operating results and we cannot control that demand; (2) if our wireless service provider customers consolidate or merge with each other to a significant degree, our growth, revenue and ability to generate positive cash flows could be adversely affected; (3) substantial leverage and debt service obligations may adversely affect us; (4) restrictive covenants in the loan agreement for our Revolving Credit Facility and Term Loan, the indentures governing our debt securities, and the loan agreement related to our securitization transaction could adversely affect our business by limiting flexibility; (5) we have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to accounting for income taxes that, until remediated, could result in a material misstatement in our financial statements; (6) we could suffer adverse tax and other financial consequences if taxing authorities do not agree with our tax positions, or we are unable to utilize our net operating losses; (7) due to the long-term expectations of revenue from tenant leases, the tower industry is sensitive to the credit worthiness of its tenants; (8) our foreign operations are subject to economic, political, and other risks that could adversely affect our revenues or financial position, including risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; (9) a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from a small number of customers; (10) we anticipate that we may need additional financing to fund our stock repurchase programs, to refinance our existing indebtedness and to fund future growth and expansion initiatives; (11) new technologies could make our tower leasing business less desirable to potential tenants and result in decreasing revenues; (12) we could have liability under environmental laws; (13) our business is subject to governmental regulations and changes in current or future laws or regulations could restrict our ability to operate our business as we currently do; (14) increasing competition in the tower industry may create pricing pressures that may adversely affect us; (15) if we are unable to protect our rights to the land under our towers, it could adversely affect our business and operating results; (16) if we are unable or choose not to exercise our rights to purchase towers that are subject to lease and sublease agreements at the end of the applicable period, our cash flows derived from such towers would be eliminated; (17) our towers may be affected by natural disasters and other unforeseen damage for which our insurance may not provide adequate coverage; (18) our costs could increase and our revenues could decrease due to perceived health risks from radio emissions, especially if these risks are substantiated; (19) our historical stock option granting practices are subject to ongoing governmental proceedings, which could result in fines, penalties or other liability; and (20) pending civil litigation relating to our historical stock option granting practices exposes us to risks and uncertainties. For other important factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in our forward-looking statements, we refer you to the information contained in Item 1A of our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2008 under the caption "Risk Factors." We undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this press release to reflect subsequently occurring events or circumstances.
 
UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (In thousands)
 
 
UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS (In thousands, except per share data)
 
 
 
UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (In thousands)
 
 
UNAUDITED SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION (In thousands, except where noted)
SELECTED BALANCE SHEET DETAIL:
 
 
 
 
 
 
UNAUDITED SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION, CONTINUED (In thousands, except where noted)
SELECTED INCOME STATEMENT DETAIL:
The following table reflects the estimated impact of foreign currency fluctuations and straight-line revenue and expense recognition on rental and management segment revenue and Adjusted EBITDA:
 
Rental and management segment straight-line revenue and expense:
In accordance with GAAP, the Company recognizes rental and management segment revenue and expense related to non-cancelable customer and ground lease agreements with fixed escalations on a straight-line basis, over the applicable lease term. As a result, the Company's revenue recognized and cash collected per customer lease, and expense incurred and cash paid per ground lease may differ materially. Additional information regarding straight-line accounting can be found in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007. A summary of rental and management segment straight-line revenue and expense, which represents the non-cash revenue and expense recorded due to straight-line recognition, is as follows:
 
 
 
 
UNAUDITED SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION, CONTINUED (In thousands, except where noted)
 
SELECTED CASH FLOW DETAIL:
 
SELECTED PORTFOLIO DETAIL  OWNED SITES:
 
 
UNAUDITED RECONCILIATIONS TO GAAP MEASURES AND THE CALCULATION OF DEFINED FINANCIAL MEASURES (In thousands, except where noted)
The reconciliation of net income to Adjusted EBITDA and the calculation of Rental and Management Segment Operating Profit, Rental and Management Gross Margin, Network Development Services Segment Operating Profit, Network Development Services Segment Gross Margin and Adjusted EBITDA Margin are as follows:
 
 
UNAUDITED CALCULATION OF DEFINED FINANCIAL MEASURES, CONTINUED (In thousands)
The calculation of Free Cash Flow is as follows:
 
 
UNAUDITED RECONCILIATIONS OF OUTLOOK TO GAAP MEASURES (In millions)
The reconciliation of Income from continuing operations to Adjusted EBITDA outlook is as follows:
 
 
 


