FILE:AMT/AMT-8K-20080324082310.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On March 24, 2008, American Tower Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that it had entered into a Notice of Incremental Facility Commitment, dated March 24, 2008, with respect to an additional $325.0 million of term loan commitments pursuant to the Company's existing $1.25 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the "Revolver").
The Company expects to receive net proceeds of approximately $321.7 million from the incremental facility, which, together with available cash will be used to repay $325.0 million of existing indebtedness under the Revolver. After the repayment, $650.0 million will be outstanding under the Revolver. The basis for determining interest rates for the incremental facility is determined at the option of the Company with the margin ranging between 0.50% to 1.50% above the LIBOR rate for LIBOR based borrowings or between 0.00% to 0.50% above the defined base rate for base rate borrowings, in each case based upon the Company's debt ratings. Based on the Company's current debt ratings, the interest rate for the incremental facility will be LIBOR + 1.00%. The Company intends to enter into interest rate swap agreements to fix the floating interest rate of the incremental facility for a portion of the term of the facility, which has a maturity date of June 8, 2012.
The incremental facility contains certain financial ratios and operating covenants and other restrictions applicable to the Company and its subsidiaries designated as restricted subsidiaries on a consolidated basis that are consistent with the Revolver. Any failure to comply with the financial and operating covenants of the incremental facility would constitute a default, which could result in, among other things, the amounts outstanding, including all accrued interest, becoming immediately due and payable.
The incremental facility lenders include JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Toronto Dominion (Texas) LLC, The Royal Bank of Scotland, plc, Calyon, New York Branch, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Company, Union Bank of California, N.A, Morgan Stanley Bank, Mizuho Corporate Bank, Ltd. And Credit Suisse, Cayman Islands Branch. The borrower under the incremental facility is American Tower Corporation. All amounts will be due and payable in full at maturity. The incremental facility does not require amortization of principal and may be paid prior to maturity in whole or in part at the Company's option without penalty or premium.
The foregoing is only a summary of certain provisions of the incremental facility and is qualified in its entirety by the terms of the loan agreement for the Revolver, which the Company filed as an exhibit to its Form 10-K for year ended December 31, 2007, as well as the Notice of Incremental Facility Commitment, a copy of which will be filed as an exhibit to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
Please refer to the discussion under Item 1.01 above, which is incorporated under this Item 2.03 by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
AMERICAN TOWER CORPORATION
(Registrant)
Date: March 24, 2008
By:  
/s/  Bradley E. Singer                            
        Bradley E. Singer
        Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
ATC Contact: Michael Powell
Vice President, Investor Relations
Telephone: (617) 375-7500
American Tower Corporation (NYSE: AMT) announced today that it has entered into an incremental term loan commitment for $325.0 million of additional borrowing capacity pursuant to the Company's existing senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the "Revolver"). The Company expects to receive net proceeds of approximately $321.7 million from the new incremental facility, which, together with available cash will be used to repay $325.0 million of existing indebtedness under the Revolver. As a result, the Company will have approximately $650.0 million outstanding under the Revolver and the capacity to borrow approximately $588.1 million.
Boston, Massachusetts  March 24, 2008
The basis for determining interest rates for the incremental facility is the same as that for the Revolver and is determined at the option of the Company with the margin ranging between 0.50% to 1.50% above the LIBOR rate for LIBOR based borrowings or between 0.00% to 0.50% above the defined base rate for base rate borrowings, in each case based upon the Company's debt ratings. Based on the Company's current debt ratings, the interest rate for the incremental facility will be LIBOR + 1.00%. The Company intends to enter into interest rate swap agreements to fix the floating interest rate of the incremental facility for a portion of the term of the facility, which has a maturity date of June 8, 2012. The incremental facility does not require amortization of principal and may be paid prior to maturity in whole or in part at the Company's option without penalty or premium.
American Tower is a leading independent owner, operator and developer of broadcast and wireless communications sites. American Tower owns and operates over 22,800 sites in the United States, Mexico and Brazil. For more information about American Tower, please visit www.americantower.com.
Cautionary Language Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" that are based on management's current expectations and assumptions and that are not based on historical facts. Examples of these statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the Company's expectations for (i) the use of proceeds from the incremental facility and (ii) the effect of the transactions described herein, including effects on our financial flexibility. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in such forward-looking statements include market conditions for corporate debt generally, for the securities of telecommunications companies and for the Company's indebtedness in particular. For other important factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in our forward-looking statements, we refer you to the information contained in Item 1A of the American Tower Corporation Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 under the caption "Risk Factors" and in other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this press release to reflect subsequently occurring events or circumstances.


