FILE:AMT/AMT-8K-20090429061015.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 29, 2009, American Tower Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2009. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Exhibit 99.1 is furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall such exhibit be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing made by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Contact: Michael Powell
Vice President, Investor Relations
Telephone: (617) 375-7500
FIRST QUARTER 2009 HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
American Tower Corporation (NYSE: AMT) today reported financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2009.
Boston, Massachusetts  April 29, 2009:
Jim Taiclet, American Tower's Chief Executive Officer stated, "In the first quarter, we continued our track record of delivering strong Core Growth in tower revenue and Adjusted EBITDA of approximately 10% and 11%, respectively. These solid performance metrics confirm our expectations that the wireless industries in our served markets continue to grow, despite the current macro economic conditions. These trends are driving demand for our tower space as our customers continue to invest in their networks. We believe that the overall quality of our sites and our proven operational execution will position us well to capture a significant share of these future business opportunities."
"Furthermore, our significant liquidity and lack of near-term debt maturities limit our risk of material interest expense increases or shareholder dilution, which we believe positions the Company well for both the present and future. In addition, our financial flexibility should enable us to reinvest our free cash flow back into our core business at a time when valuations may become attractive. For example, in March, we announced a transaction in India, which when concluded would expand our portfolio by approximately 1,700 wireless communications tower sites, demonstrating our ability and interest in expanding our portfolio while remaining patient and disciplined."
First Quarter 2009 Operating Highlights
American Tower generated the following operating results for the quarter ended March 31, 2009 (unless otherwise indicated, all comparative information is presented against the quarter ended March 31, 2008):
Total revenues increased 6.9% to $408.7 million, and rental and management segment revenues increased 5.9% to $395.9 million. Rental and management segment revenue growth of 5.9% includes a negative impact to growth of approximately 2.9% as a result of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and a negative impact of 1.4% from straight-line revenue recognition. Rental and Management Segment Gross Margin increased 6.5% to $309.4 million, and network development services segment revenue and Gross Margin increased to $12.7 million and $5.1 million, respectively.
Total selling, general, administrative and development expense was $57.6 million. The Company's selling, general, administrative and development expense for the quarter includes $24.3 million of stock-based compensation expense and $1.1 million of international business development expense. Adjusted EBITDA increased 7.1% to $281.2 million, and Adjusted EBITDA Margin was 69%. Adjusted EBITDA growth of 7.1% includes a negative impact to growth of approximately 2.0% as a result of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and a negative impact of 2.3% from straight-line revenue and expense recognition.
 
Operating income was $150.3 million and net income was $58.6 million. Net income per basic and diluted common share was $0.15.
Free Cash Flow was $156.1 million, consisting of $205.7 million of cash provided by operating activities, less $49.6 million of payments for purchase of property and equipment and construction activities, including $42.4 million of capital spending for the construction of new towers, the installation of in-building distributed antenna system networks and ground lease purchases, as well as capital spending for the redevelopment of existing sites to meet additional tenant demand. During the quarter ended March 31, 2009, the Company completed the construction of 200 communications sites.
Please refer to Non-GAAP and Defined Financial Measures on page 4 for definitions of Rental and Management Segment Gross Margin, Network Development Services Segment Gross Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA Margin, Free Cash Flow and Core Growth. For additional financial information, including reconciliations to GAAP measures, please refer to the supplemental schedules of selected financial information on pages 9 through 13.
Stock Repurchase Program
As of March 31, 2009, the Company had repurchased approximately 14.0 million shares of its Class A common stock for approximately $535.2 million under its $1.5 billion share repurchase program announced in March 2008, which includes approximately 67,438 shares of its Class A common stock repurchased for approximately $1.8 million during the first quarter of 2009. The Company expects to continue to manage the pacing of the program in the future in response to general market conditions and other relevant factors.
International Expansion Update
As previously disclosed, on March 16, 2009, the Company announced that its Mauritius subsidiary entered into a definitive agreement under which it will acquire an Indian company, XCEL Telecom Private Limited, which owns approximately 1,700 wireless communications tower sites in India, including a number of tower sites that are currently under construction. The Company anticipates the transaction will close during the second quarter, subject to customary closing conditions.
Full Year 2009 Outlook
The following estimates are based on a number of assumptions that management believes to be reasonable, and reflect the Company's expectations as of April 29, 2009. Actual results may differ materially from these estimates as a result of various factors, and we refer you to the cautionary language regarding "forward-looking" statements included in this press release when considering this information. We note that if the lack of credit availability continues, it may adversely affect the ability of certain of our customers to timely meet their obligations to the Company. In addition, if the recent volatility in foreign currency markets continues, specifically with respect to the Mexican Peso and Brazilian Real, actual results for 2009 could differ materially from the estimates set forth below. Our operations in Mexico and Brazil comprised approximately 9% and 4%, respectively, of our rental and management segment revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2009.
The Company previously provided its full year 2009 outlook in its press release dated February 26, 2009. At that time, the Company assumed the following average foreign currency exchange for the full year 2009: (a) 12.00 Mexican Pesos to 1.00 US Dollar and (b) 2.00 Brazilian Reais to 1.00 US Dollar. The outlook provided below is based on the same foreign currency exchange estimates, which assume that the Mexican Peso and Brazilian Real will strengthen against the US Dollar compared to the current exchange rates for these foreign currencies over the course of 2009.
As of April 28, 2009, the current foreign currency exchange rates were approximately 14.00 Mexican Pesos to 1.00 US Dollar and 2.20 Brazilian Reais to 1.00 US Dollar. If the average foreign currency exchange rates for the remainder of 2009 remained at these levels, then the Company estimates that actual rental and management segment revenue and Adjusted EBITDA for the full year 2009 would be negatively impacted by approximately $21 million and $10 million, respectively, from what is included in the Company's full year 2009 outlook.
 
The following table reflects the estimated impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and straight-line revenue and expense recognition on rental and management segment revenue and Adjusted EBITDA outlook:
 
 
 
 
Conference Call Information
American Tower will host a conference call today at 8:30 a.m. ET to discuss its first quarter 2009 financial results and the Company's outlook for the full year 2009. Supplemental materials for the call will be available on the Company's website, . The conference call dial-in numbers are as follows:
www.americantower.com
US/Canada dial-in: (877) 235-9047
International dial-in: (706) 645-9644
Passcode: 94670401
A replay of the call will be available from 10:30 a.m. ET April 29, 2009 until 11:59 p.m. ET May 12, 2009. The replay dial-in numbers are as follows:
US/Canada dial-in: (800) 642-1687
International dial-in: (706) 645-9291
Passcode: 94670401
American Tower will also sponsor a live simulcast of the call on its website, . When available, a replay of the call will be available on the Company's website.
www.americantower.com
About American Tower
American Tower is a leading independent owner, operator and developer of broadcast and wireless communications sites. American Tower owns and operates over 23,900 communications sites in the United States, Mexico, Brazil and India. For more information about American Tower, please visit .
www.americantower.com
Non-GAAP and Defined Financial Measures
In addition to the results prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) provided throughout this press release, the Company has presented the following non-GAAP and defined financial measures: Rental and Management Segment Gross Margin, Network Development Services Segment Gross Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA Margin, Free Cash Flow and Core Growth. American Tower defines Rental and Management Segment Gross Margin as operating income before depreciation, amortization and accretion, other operating expenses, stock-based compensation expense, corporate expenses, international business development expense, rental and management segment overhead, network development services segment overhead, network development services segment operating expenses, network development services segment revenue, plus interest income, TV Azteca, net. American Tower defines Network Development Services Segment Gross Margin as operating income before depreciation, amortization and accretion, other operating expenses, stock-based compensation expense, corporate expenses, international business development expense, network development services segment overhead, rental and management segment overhead, rental and management segment operating expenses, and rental and management segment revenue. American Tower defines Adjusted EBITDA as operating income before depreciation, amortization and accretion, other operating expenses, and stock-based compensation expense, plus interest income, TV Azteca, net. American Tower defines Adjusted EBITDA Margin as a percentage of Adjusted EBITDA over total revenue. American Tower defines Free Cash Flow as cash provided by operating activities less payments for purchase of property and equipment and construction activities. American Tower defines Core Growth in rental and management segment revenue and Adjusted EBITDA as the increase or decrease, expressed as a percentage, resulting from a comparison of financial results for a current period with corresponding financial results for the corresponding period in a prior year, in each case, excluding the impact of straight-line revenue and expense recognition and foreign currency fluctuations. These measures are not intended as substitutes for other measures of financial performance determined in accordance with GAAP. They are presented as additional information because management believes they are useful indicators of the current financial performance of our core businesses. We believe that these measures can assist in comparing company performances on a consistent basis irrespective of depreciation and amortization or capital structure. Depreciation and amortization can vary significantly among companies depending on accounting methods, particularly where acquisitions or non-operating factors including historical cost bases are involved. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company's measures of Rental and Management Segment Gross Margin, Network Development Services Segment Gross Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA Margin, Free Cash Flow and Core Growth may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
 
Cautionary Language Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" concerning the Company's goals, beliefs, expectations, strategies, objectives, plans, future operating results and underlying assumptions, and other statements that are not necessarily based on historical facts. Examples of these statements include, but are not limited to statements regarding our full year 2009 outlook, our stock repurchase programs, our pending transaction with XCEL Telecom Private Limited, the financial strength of certain of our customers and foreign currency exchange rates. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated in our forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors, including: (1) decrease in demand for communications sites would materially and adversely affect our operating results and we cannot control that demand; (2) if our wireless service provider customers consolidate or merge with each other to a significant degree, our growth, revenue and ability to generate positive cash flows could be adversely affected; (3) substantial leverage and debt service obligations may adversely affect us; (4) restrictive covenants in the loan agreement for the revolving credit facility and term loan, the indentures governing our debt securities, and the loan agreement related to our securitization transaction could adversely affect our business by limiting flexibility; (5) we could suffer adverse tax and other financial consequences if taxing authorities do not agree with our tax positions, or we are unable to utilize our net operating losses; (6) due to the long-term expectations of revenue from tenant leases, the tower industry is sensitive to the creditworthiness and financial strength of its tenants; (7) our foreign operations are subject to economic, political, and other risks that could adversely affect our revenues or financial position, including risks associated with foreign currency exchange rates; (8) a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from a small number of customers; (9) we anticipate that we may need additional financing to fund our stock repurchase programs, to refinance our existing indebtedness and to fund future growth and expansion initiatives; (10) new technologies could make our tower leasing business less desirable to potential tenants and result in decreasing revenues; (11) we could have liability under environmental laws; (12) our business is subject to government regulations and changes in current or future laws or regulations could restrict our ability to operate our business as we currently do; (13) increasing competition in the tower industry may create pricing pressures that may adversely affect us; (14) if we are unable to protect our rights to the land under our towers, it could adversely affect our business and operating results; (15) if we are unable or choose not to exercise our rights to purchase towers that are subject to lease and sublease agreements at the end of the applicable period, our cash flows derived from such towers would be eliminated; (16) our towers may be affected by natural disasters and other unforeseen damage for which our insurance may not provide adequate coverage; (17) our costs could increase and our revenues could decrease due to perceived health risks from radio emissions, especially if these perceived risks are substantiated; and (18) our historical stock option granting practices are subject to ongoing governmental proceedings, which could result in fines, penalties or other liability. For other important factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in our forward-looking statements, we refer you to the information contained in Item 1A of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 under the caption "Risk Factors." We undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this press release to reflect subsequently occurring events or circumstances.
 
UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (In thousands)
 
 
UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS (In thousands, except per share data)
 
 
 
UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (In thousands)
 
 
UNAUDITED SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION (In thousands, except where noted)
SELECTED BALANCE SHEET DETAIL:
 
 
 
UNAUDITED SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION, CONTINUED (In thousands, except where noted)
SELECTED INCOME STATEMENT DETAIL:
The following table reflects the estimated impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and straight-line revenue and expense recognition on rental and management segment revenue and Adjusted EBITDA:
 
Rental and management segment straight-line revenue and expense:
In accordance with GAAP, the Company recognizes rental and management segment revenue and expense related to non-cancelable customer and ground lease agreements with fixed escalations on a straight-line basis, over the applicable lease term. As a result, the Company's revenue recognized and cash collected per customer lease, and expense incurred and cash paid per ground lease may differ materially. Additional information regarding straight-line accounting can be found in the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008. A summary of rental and management segment straight-line revenue and expense, which represents the non-cash revenue and expense recorded due to straight-line recognition, is as follows:
 
 
 
 
UNAUDITED SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION, CONTINUED (In thousands, except where noted)
 
SELECTED CASH FLOW DETAIL:
 
SELECTED PORTFOLIO DETAIL  OWNED SITES:
 
 
UNAUDITED RECONCILIATIONS TO GAAP MEASURES AND THE CALCULATION OF DEFINED FINANCIAL MEASURES (In thousands, except where noted)
The reconciliation of Net income (loss) to Adjusted EBITDA and the calculation of Rental and Management Segment Operating Profit, Rental and Management Gross Margin, Network Development Services Segment Operating Profit, Network Development Services Segment Gross Margin and Adjusted EBITDA Margin are as follows:
 
 
UNAUDITED CALCULATION OF DEFINED FINANCIAL MEASURES, CONTINUED (In thousands)
The calculation of Free Cash Flow is as follows:
 
UNAUDITED RECONCILIATIONS OF OUTLOOK TO GAAP MEASURES (In millions)
The reconciliation of Income from continuing operations to Adjusted EBITDA outlook is as follows:
 
 
 


