FILE:AMT/AMT-8K-20090527110026.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 27, 2009, American Tower Corporation (the "Company") issued press releases announcing a proposed institutional private placement of $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes due 2019 and the launch of a cash tender offer for any and all of its outstanding $225.0 million 7.50% senior notes due 2012. In addition, on May 27, 2009, the Company issued a press release announcing that it had completed the acquisition of XCEL Telecom Private Ltd. The Company's press releases, each dated May 27, 2009, are filed herewith as Exhibits 99.1, 99.2 and 99.3, and are incorporated by reference herein.
An excerpt from the "Recent Developments" section of the senior notes preliminary confidential offering circular is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.4, and is incorporated by reference herein.
An excerpt from the "Selected Historical Consolidated Financial Data" section of the senior notes preliminary confidential offering circular is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.5, and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
ATC Contact: Michael Powell
Vice President, Investor Relations
Telephone: (617) 375-7500
American Tower Corporation (NYSE: AMT) announced today that it intends to offer $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of 10-year fixed rate senior unsecured notes in an institutional private placement.
Boston, Massachusetts  May 27, 2009
The Company intends to use the net proceeds from this proposed offering (i) to finance the repurchase of the Company's 7.50% senior notes due 2012 through a tender offer and, if any such notes remain outstanding following the consummation of the tender offer, to finance the redemption of such notes pursuant to their terms and the terms of the indenture under which they were issued; (ii) to repay $50 million outstanding indebtedness incurred under the Company's senior unsecured revolving credit facility; and (iii) for general corporate purposes. The tender offer is being made solely by means of the tender offer documentation.
This announcement is neither an offer to sell nor a solicitation of an offer to buy any of these notes, solicitation or sale in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale is unlawful. The notes subject to the proposed offering have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or any state securities laws, and are being offered only to qualified institutional buyers in reliance on Rule 144A under the Securities Act and to non-U.S. persons in offshore transactions in reliance on Regulation S under the Securities Act. Unless so registered, the notes may not be offered or sold in the United States or to, or for the account or benefit of, U.S. persons except pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws.
Cautionary Language Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains statements about future events and expectations, or "forward-looking statements", all of which are inherently uncertain. We have based those forward-looking statements on management's current expectations and assumptions and not on historical facts. Examples of these statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the Company's expectations of the dollar amount to be raised in the proposed offering, the Company's ability to complete the proposed offering, and the Company's expectations for the use of proceeds from the proposed offering. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in such forward-looking statements include market conditions for corporate debt generally, for the securities of telecommunications companies and for the Company's indebtedness in particular. For other important factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in our forward-looking statements, we refer you to the information contained in Item 1A of the Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009 under the caption "Risk Factors" and in other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this press release to reflect subsequently occurring events or circumstances.

Exhibit 99.2
ATC Contact: Michael Powell
Vice President, Investor Relations
Telephone: (617) 375-7500
American Tower Corporation (NYSE: AMT) announced today that it has commenced a cash tender offer for any and all of its outstanding $225,000,000 7.50% senior notes due 2012 (the "Notes") on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in its Offer to Purchase, dated May 27, 2009 (the "Offer to Purchase") and the related Letter of Transmittal. The tender offer documents more fully set forth the terms and conditions of the tender offer.
Boston, Massachusetts  May 27, 2009
The tender offer will expire at 11:59 p.m., New York City time, on June 23, 2009, (the "Expiration Date") unless extended or earlier terminated by the Company. The Company reserves the right to terminate, withdraw or amend the tender offer at any time subject to applicable law.
Holders who validly tender their Notes on or prior to 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on June 9, 2009 (the "Early Tender Date") will be eligible to receive the total consideration of $1,021.25 per $1,000 principal amount of Notes validly tendered, which includes an early tender premium of $30 per $1,000 principal amount of Notes validly tendered (the "Early Tender Premium"). Additionally, accrued and unpaid interest will be paid on any 2012 Notes accepted for purchase up to, but not including the Final Payment Date (as defined below) or the Early Payment Date (as defined below), as the case may be.
Any tender of Notes may be validly withdrawn at any time on or prior to 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on June 9, 2009, unless extended. Holders who tender Notes after the Early Tender Date will not be eligible to receive the Early Tender Premium.
The Company has reserved the right to accept for purchase at any time following the Early Payment Date but prior to the Expiration Date (the "Early Acceptance Time") all Notes then validly tendered. If the Company elects to exercise this option, it will pay for such Notes on a date (the "Early Payment Date") promptly following the Early Acceptance Time. On the Early Payment Date, the Company will also pay accrued and unpaid interest up to, but not including, the Early Payment Date on the Notes accepted for purchase.
Unless the Company exercises its early acceptance option, it expects to accept for purchase and pay the total consideration (as to all Notes tendered prior to the Early Tender Date) and the tender offer consideration (which is the total consideration less the Early Tender Premium, as to all Notes tendered after the Early Tender Date) with respect to all validly tendered Notes on a date (the "Final Payment Date") promptly following the Expiration Date. On the Final Payment Date, the Company will also pay accrued and unpaid interest up to, but not including, the Final Payment Date on the Notes accepted for purchase.
The Company's obligation to accept for purchase, and to pay for, Notes validly tendered and not validly withdrawn pursuant to the tender offer is subject to the consummation of a new debt offering by the Company. The complete terms and conditions of the tender offer are set forth in the tender offer documents which are being sent to holders of Notes. Holders are urged to read the tender offer documents carefully.
If, following the consummation of the tender offer and the new debt offering, any of the Notes remain outstanding, the Company intends to redeem such Notes at a redemption price of $1,018.75 per $1,000 principal amount of the Notes pursuant to the terms of the Notes and the indenture under which they were issued.
The Company has retained Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC to act as Dealer Manager in connection with the tender offer. Questions about the tender offer may be directed to the Dealer Manager at 800-820-1653 (toll free). Copies of the tender offer documents and other related documents may be obtained from D.F. King & Co., Inc., the information agent for the tender offer, at 800-967-7921 (toll free) or 212-269-5550 (collect).
The tender offer is being made solely by means of the tender offer documents. Under no circumstances shall this press release constitute an offer to purchase or the solicitation of an offer to sell the Notes or any other securities of the Company. No recommendation is made as to whether holders of the Notes should tender their Notes.
Cautionary Language Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains statements about future events and expectations, or "forward-looking statements", all of which are inherently uncertain. We have based those forward-looking statements on management's current expectations and assumptions and not on historical facts. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in such forward-looking statements include market conditions for corporate debt generally, for the securities of telecommunications companies and for the Company's indebtedness in particular. For other important factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in our forward-looking statements, we refer you to the information contained in Item 1A of Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009 under the caption "Risk Factors" and in other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this press release to reflect subsequently occurring events or circumstances.

Exhibit 99.3
Contact: Michael Powell
Vice President, Investor Relations
Telephone: (617) 375-7500
American Tower Corporation (NYSE: AMT) announced today that it has completed the acquisition of XCEL Telecom Private Ltd. ("XCEL"). At closing, XCEL owned approximately 1,660 towers, which are located in fifteen telecom circles in India and currently average 1.4 tenants per tower. Additionally, XCEL had approximately 70 towers in various stages of development that American Tower plans to complete over the next several months.
Boston, Massachusetts  May 27, 2009:
The acquisition's total consideration, which is subject to certain post closing adjustments, will be satisfied with cash and the assumption of XCEL's net debt and other liabilities at closing. The Company used its existing cash and cash equivalents to satisfy the cash requirements at closing.
About American Tower
American Tower is a leading independent owner, operator and developer of broadcast and wireless communications sites. American Tower owns and operates over 25,000 communications sites in the United States, Mexico, Brazil and India. For more information about American Tower, please visit .
www.americantower.com
Cautionary Language Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains statements about future events and expectations, or "forward-looking statements", all of which are inherently uncertain. We have based those forward looking statements on management's current expectations and assumptions and not on historical facts. Examples of these statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the Company's expectations of the completion of certain towers and the net expected cash consideration of the transaction. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in such forward-looking statements include market conditions for corporate debt generally, for the securities of telecommunications companies and for the Company's indebtedness in particular. For other important factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in our forward-looking statements, we refer you to the information contained in Item 1A of Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009 under the caption "Risk Factors" and in other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this press release to reflect subsequently occurring events or circumstances.

Exhibit 99.4
Recent Developments
In February 2008, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program to repurchase, from time to time based on market conditions, up to $1.5 billion of shares of our Class A common stock ("Common Stock"). As of May 22, 2009, we had repurchased a total of 14.1 million shares of Common Stock for an aggregate of $536.9 million, including commissions and fees, pursuant to this program, including the purchase of 59,100 shares during the period April 1, 2009 to May 22, 2009, for an aggregate of $1.7 million, including commissions and fees.
Stock Repurchase Program
On May 27, 2009, we completed the acquisition of XCEL Telecom Private Ltd. ("XCEL"). At closing, XCEL owned approximately 1,660 towers, which are located in fifteen telecom circles in India and currently average 1.4 tenants per tower. Additionally, XCEL had approximately 70 towers in various stages of development that we plan to complete over the next several months. The total consideration for the acquisition is expected to be approximately $154.0 million, which is subject to certain post closing adjustments, and includes XCEL's net debt and other liabilities at closing. We used our existing cash and cash equivalents to satisfy the cash requirements at closing.
Growth and Expansion

Exhibit 99.5
As more fully described in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2009, we adopted SFAS No. 160, "Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statementsan amendment of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51" (SFAS No. 160) effective January 1, 2009. The adoption of SFAS No. 160 did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations and financial position. However, it did impact the presentation and disclosure of noncontrolling (minority) interests in our consolidated financial statements. As a result of the retrospective presentation and disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 160, the Company will be required to reflect the change in presentation and disclosure for all periods presented in future filings. The adoption of SFAS No. 160 had the effect of reclassifying earnings attributable to non-controlling interest in the consolidated statement of operations from other income and expense to separate line items. SFAS No. 160 also requires that net income be adjusted to include the net income attributable to the non-controlling interest, and a new separate caption for net income attributable to common shareholders be presented in the consolidated statement of earnings. The following selected unaudited historical consolidated financial data shown has been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the impact of SFAS No. 160.
 
Additionally, with respect to our consolidated statements of financial position, the adoption of SFAS No. 160 had the effect of increasing stockholders' equity due to the reclassification of noncontrolling interest (formerly referred to as minority interest) as a component of total stockholders' equity in the amounts of $3.1 million and $3.3 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007.


