FILE:AMT/AMT-8K-20091014092158.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 13, 2009, American Tower Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that it had priced its institutional private placement of senior unsecured notes due 2015 (the "Notes"). The Notes will have an interest rate of 4.625% per annum and are being issued at a price equal to 99.864% of their face value. The Company's press release, dated October 13, 2009, is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1, and is incorporated herein by reference.
On October 14, 2009, the Company issued a press release announcing its call for redemption of the principal amount of its outstanding 7.125% senior notes due 2012 (the "2012 Notes"). In accordance with the redemption provisions of the 2012 Notes and the Indenture dated as of October 5, 2004 between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (formerly known as The Bank of New York), as trustee, the 2012 Notes will be redeemed at a price equal to 101.781% of the principal amount. In addition, the Company will pay accrued and unpaid interest on the 2012 Notes up to, but excluding, the redemption date, which has been set for November 13, 2009. The Company's press release, dated October 14, 2009, is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.2, and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
ATC Contact: Michael Powell
Vice President, Investor Relations
Telephone: (617) 375-7500
American Tower Corporation (NYSE: AMT) announced today that it has priced its institutional private placement of senior unsecured notes due April 2015 in an aggregate principal amount of $600.0 million. The notes will have an interest rate of 4.625% per annum and are being issued at a price equal to 99.864% of their face value. The net proceeds of this offering are expected to be approximately $594.7 million.
Boston, Massachusetts  October 13, 2009
The Company intends to use the net proceeds from this offering to finance the redemption of the Company's 7.125% senior notes due 2012 at a redemption price of 101.781%, plus accrued and unpaid interest up to but excluding the redemption date, pursuant to the terms of the 7.125% senior notes and the indenture under which they were issued. The remaining net proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes.
This announcement is neither an offer to sell nor a solicitation of an offer to buy any of these notes, solicitation or sale in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale is unlawful. The notes subject to the proposed offering have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or any state securities laws, and are being offered only to qualified institutional buyers in reliance on Rule 144A under the Securities Act and to non-U.S. persons in offshore transactions in reliance on Regulation S under the Securities Act. Unless so registered, the notes may not be offered or sold in the United States or to, or for the account or benefit of, U.S. persons except pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws.
Cautionary Language Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains statements about future events and expectations, or "forward-looking statements", all of which are inherently uncertain. We have based those forward-looking statements on management's current expectations and assumptions and not on historical facts. Examples of these statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the Company's expectations of the dollar amount to be received in net proceeds, the Company's ability to complete the offering, and the Company's expectations for the use of proceeds from the offering. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in such forward-looking statements include market conditions for corporate debt generally, for the securities of telecommunications companies and for the Company's indebtedness in particular. For other important factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in our forward-looking statements, we refer you to the information contained in Item 1A of the Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2009 under the caption "Risk Factors" and in other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this press release to reflect subsequently occurring events or circumstances.

Exhibit 99.2
ATC Contact: Michael Powell
Vice President, Investor Relations
Telephone: (617) 375-7500
 American Tower Corporation (NYSE: AMT) announced today the call for redemption of the principal amount of its outstanding 7.125% senior notes due 2012. The redemption date has been set for November 13, 2009. In accordance with the redemption provisions of the notes and the indenture for the notes, the notes will be redeemed at a price equal to 101.781% of the principal amount. In addition, the Company will pay accrued and unpaid interest on the redeemed notes up to, but excluding, the redemption date. The Company intends to fund the redemption with the net proceeds from its offering of 4.625% senior notes due 2015.
Boston, Massachusetts  October 14, 2009
American Tower is a leading independent owner, operator and developer of broadcast and wireless communications sites. American Tower owns and operates over 25,800 communications sites in the United States, Mexico, Brazil and India. For more information about American Tower, please visit .
www.americantower.com
Cautionary Language Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains statements about future events and expectations, or "forward-looking statements", all of which are inherently uncertain. We have based those forward-looking statements on management's current expectations and assumptions and not on historical facts. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in such forward-looking statements include market conditions for corporate debt generally, for the securities of telecommunications companies and for the Company's indebtedness in particular. For other important factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in our forward-looking statements, we refer you to the information contained in Item 1A of Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2009 under the caption "Risk Factors" and in other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this press release to reflect subsequently occurring events or circumstances.


