FILE:AMT/AMT-8K-20090610170451.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On June 10, 2009, American Tower Corporation (the "Company") completed an institutional private placement of $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of its 7.25% senior unsecured notes due 2019 (the "Notes"), which resulted in net proceeds to the Company of approximately $291.3 million, after deducting commissions and estimated expenses. The Company used $210.1 million of the net proceeds to finance the repurchase of its outstanding 7.50% notes due 2012 (the "2012 Notes") through a tender offer. In addition, the Company will use $50.0 million of the net proceeds to repay certain of its outstanding indebtedness incurred under its $1.25 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility. The remainder of the net proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes.
On June 10, 2009, the Company entered into an Indenture (the "Indenture") with The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee, relating to the Notes. The Notes were sold within the United States only to qualified institutional buyers in reliance on Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and outside the United States only to non-U.S. persons in reliance on Regulation S under the Securities Act.
The Notes will mature on May 15, 2019 and bear interest at a rate of 7.25% per annum. Accrued and unpaid interest on the notes will be payable in U.S. dollars semi-annually in arrears on May 15 and November 15 of each year, beginning November 15, 2009, to the persons in whose names the notes are registered at the close of business on the preceding May 1 and November 1, respectively. Interest on the notes will accrue from June 10, 2009 and will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months. The terms of the Indenture, among other things, limit the Company's ability to incur more subsidiary debt or permit subsidiaries to provide guarantees; create liens; and merge, consolidate or sell assets. These covenants are subject to a number of exceptions, including that the Company and its subsidiaries may incur certain indebtedness or liens on assets, mortgages or other liens securing indebtedness, if the aggregate amount of such indebtedness and such liens shall not exceed 3.5x Adjusted EBITDA as defined in the Indenture.
The Company may redeem the Notes at any time at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus a make-whole premium, together with accrued interest to the redemption date. In addition, if the Company undergoes a Change of Control and Ratings Decline, each as defined in the Indenture, the Company may be required to repurchase all of the Notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest (including additional interest, if any), up to but not including the repurchase date.
The Indenture provides that each of the following is an event of default ("Event of Default"): (i) default for 30 days in payment of any interest due with respect to the Notes; (ii) default in payment of principal or premium, if any, on the Notes when due, at maturity, upon any redemption, by declaration or otherwise; (iii) failure by the Company to comply with covenants in the Indenture or Notes for 90 days after receiving notice; (iv) a payment default or default causing acceleration under any mortgage, indenture or instrument relating to indebtedness for money borrowed or guaranteed by the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries (as defined in the Indenture) that in aggregate exceed $100.0 million; and (v) certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency with respect to the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries. If any Event of Default arising under clause (v) above occurs, the principal amount and accrued and unpaid interest on all the outstanding Notes will become due and payable immediately without further action or notice. If any other Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the trustee or the holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may declare the entire principal amount on all the outstanding Notes to be due and payable immediately.
On June 10, 2009, in connection with the issuance of the Notes, the Company entered into a Registration Rights Agreement (the "Registration Rights Agreement") with Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. (as representatives of the Purchasers named therein). Pursuant to the terms of the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company agreed that, if on the fifth business day following the one year anniversary of the issuance of the Notes (i) any Notes are not freely transferable by a holder that is not an "affiliate" (as defined in Rule 144 of the Securities Act) of the Company or otherwise where no conditions of Rule 144 are then applicable (other than the holding period requirement in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of Rule 144 so long as such holding period requirement is satisfied), (ii) the restrictive legend has not been removed from the Notes, or (iii) the Notes bear a restrictive CUSIP number, the Company will use its reasonable best efforts (a) to file a registration statement with respect to an offer to exchange the Notes for a new issue of identical exchange notes registered under the Securities Act and (b) to have the registration statement become effective not later than the fifth business day following the one year anniversary of the issuance of the Notes. Under certain circumstances, the Company may be required to effect a shelf registration statement to cover resales of the Notes. If (i) on or prior to the fifth business day following the one year anniversary of the issuance of the Notes, the Company fails to cause a registration statement or a shelf registration statement be declared effective, (ii) on or prior to the 45th day after the exchange offer registration statement is declared effective, the Company fails to consummate the exchange offer, or (iii) a registration statement thereafter ceases to be effective or usable (each such failure a "Registration Default"), the Company will be obligated to pay additional interest on the Notes at a rate of 0.25% per annum for the first 90-day period immediately following a Registration Default, and up to a maximum amount of additional interest of 0.50% per annum until all such Registration Defaults have been cured.
The foregoing is only a summary of certain provisions and is qualified in its entirety by the terms of the Indenture (including the form of 7.25% Senior Note) and the Registration Rights Agreement, copies of which will be filed as exhibits to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2009.
 
Please refer to the discussion under Item 1.01 above, which is incorporated under this Item 2.03 by reference.
 
On June 10, 2009, the Company announced that, pursuant to the terms of the tender offer for the 2012 Notes, it had accepted for purchase all 2012 Notes validly tendered and not withdrawn prior to June 9, 2009, the early acceptance date. The Company's press release, dated June 10, 2009, is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
ATC Contact: Michael Powell
Vice President, Investor Relations
Telephone: (617) 375-7500
American Tower Corporation (NYSE: AMT) announced today that it received tenders of approximately 90.7% or $204,141,000 of the $225,000,000 outstanding aggregate principal amount of its 7.50% senior notes due 2012 (the "Notes") prior to 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on June 9, 2009 (the "Early Tender Date") in connection with its previously announced tender offer.
Boston, Massachusetts  June 10, 2009
On June 10, 2009, the Company elected to accept for payment all Notes that had been validly tendered and not validly withdrawn prior to the Early Tender Date pursuant to the tender offer. Accordingly, the Company paid approximately $210.1 million in connection with the tender offer, including approximately $1.7 million in accrued and unpaid interest, to holders of the Notes.
The tender offer will expire at 11:59 p.m., New York City time, on June 23, 2009 (the "Expiration Date"), unless extended or earlier terminated by the Company. The Company will accept for purchase all Notes validly tendered and not validly withdrawn after the Early Tender Date and prior to the Expiration Date promptly after the Expiration Date. The Company reserves the right to terminate, withdraw or amend the tender offer at any time subject to applicable law.
The complete terms and conditions of the tender offer are set forth in the tender offer documents, which have been sent to holders of the Notes.
If, following the consummation of the tender offer, any of the Notes remain outstanding, the Company intends to redeem such Notes at a redemption price of $1,018.75 per $1,000 principal amount of the Notes pursuant to the terms of the Notes and the indenture under which they were issued.
The Company has retained Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC to act as Dealer Manager in connection with the tender offer. Questions about the tender offer may be directed to the Dealer Manager at 800-820-1653 (toll free). Copies of the tender offer documents and other related documents may be obtained from D.F. King & Co., Inc., the information agent for the tender offer, at 800-967-7921 (toll free) or 212-269-5550 (collect).
The tender offer is being made solely by means of the tender offer documents. Under no circumstances shall this press release constitute an offer to purchase or the solicitation of an offer to sell the Notes or any other securities of the Company. No recommendation is made as to whether holders of the Notes should tender their Notes.
Cautionary Language Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains statements about future events and expectations, or "forward-looking statements", all of which are inherently uncertain. We have based those forward-looking statements on management's current expectations and assumptions and not on historical facts. Examples of these statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the Company's expectations regarding
the Notes to be tendered in the tender offer, the amounts to be paid to holders of the Notes in the tender offer and the conditions to the tender offer. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in such forward-looking statements include market conditions for corporate debt generally, for the securities of telecommunications companies and for the Company's indebtedness in particular. For other important factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in our forward-looking statements, we refer you to the information contained in Item 1A of Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009 under the caption "Risk Factors" and in other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this press release to reflect subsequently occurring events or circumstances.


