FILE:AMT/AMT-8K-20100301074224.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(e) On February 23, 2010, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of American Tower Corporation (the "Company") considered the compensation arrangements with the Company's executive officers. The information in the table below sets forth the determinations of the Compensation Committee with respect to base salaries and cash bonus incentive targets for the year ended December 31, 2010 for the Company's chief executive officer, chief financial officer and the three other most highly compensated executive officers who were serving as executive officers on December 31, 2009 (collectively, the "Current Named Executive Officers"). In addition to the Current Named Executive Officers, the table below sets forth the determinations of the Compensation Committee for Ms. Bua, who served as the Company's chief financial officer during a portion of the year ended December 31, 2009.
 
In determining annual cash bonus incentives for the Company's executive officers, the Compensation Committee considers the achievements of each executive officer relative to his or her individual goals and objectives for the year, as well as the Company's achievement of its goals and objectives for the year. The Compensation Committee bases its decisions on a number of factors, including the Company's financial performance, the achievement of certain strategic goals and each executive's contribution to the Company's overall performance. If the Company exceeds its goals and/or the executive exceeds his or her goals, the annual cash bonus incentive could be subject to increase under certain circumstances at the discretion of the Compensation Committee, of up to 200% of the bonus target. Additional information regarding compensation of the executive officers listed above will be included in the Company's 2010 Proxy Statement when filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


