FILE:AMT/AMT-8K-20100806093023.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 6, 2010, American Tower Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that it closed its transaction with Essar Telecom Infrastructure Holding Overseas Ltd., Essar Securities Limited, and Essar Investments, Limited, each an Indian company, in which the Company acquired substantially all the issued and outstanding shares of Essar Telecom Infrastructure Private Limited ("ETIPL"), a company formed under the laws of India, for approximately $430 million in cash. Pursuant to the transaction, the Company acquired ETIPL's portfolio of over 4,600 wireless communications tower sites, as well as a number of towers under construction.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Contact: Leah Stearns
Director, Investor Relations
Telephone: (617) 375-7500
American Tower Corporation's (NYSE: AMT) Indian subsidiary, Transcend Infrastructure Ltd. (TIL), today acquired Essar Telecom Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. (ETIPL) from the Essar Group, for approximately $430 million in cash. Pursuant to the transaction, which was previously announced in February 2010, the Company acquired ETIPL's portfolio of over 4,600 wireless communications tower sites, as well as a number of towers under construction. The acquired portfolio includes sites across 14 of the 23 telecom circles in India and has an industry leading tenancy ratio of 1.9. In addition, this acquisition increases the size of the Company's communications tower site portfolio in India by almost threefold and its global portfolio to more than 32,000 communication sites.
Boston, Massachusetts  August 6, 2010:
"The Essar acquisition brings us to a portfolio of over 7,000 communication tower sites in India, providing a solid platform for future revenue growth. We are excited about the ongoing potential of this market as our customers in India continue to build out their nationwide networks while also seeking to launch next generation technologies with newly awarded spectrum," said Jim Taiclet, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer.
About American Tower
American Tower is a leading independent owner, operator and developer of broadcast and wireless communications sites. American Tower currently owns and operates over 32,000 communications sites in the United States, Mexico, Brazil, Chile, and India. For more information about American Tower, please visit www.americantower.com.


