FILE:AMT/AMT-8K-20100819171034.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 16, 2010, American Tower Corporation (the "Company") completed a registered public offering of $700.0 million aggregate principal amount of its 5.050% senior unsecured notes due 2020 (the "Notes"), which resulted in net proceeds to the Company of approximately $693.8 million, after deducting commissions and estimated expenses. The Company expects to use $575.0 million of the net proceeds to refinance a portion of borrowings under its $1.25 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility, which, along with cash on hand, was used to finance the acquisition of Essar Telecom Infrastructure Private Limited and other recent acquisitions. The remainder of the net proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes.
The Company issued the Notes under an indenture dated May 13, 2010 (the "Base Indenture"), as supplemented by a supplemental indenture dated August 16, 2010 (the "Supplemental Indenture No. 1" and, together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture"), each between the Company and the Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the "Trustee"). The following description of the Indenture is a summary and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the detailed provisions of the Indenture.
The Notes will mature on September 1, 2020 and bear interest at a rate of 5.050% per annum. Accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes will be payable in U.S. Dollars semi-annually in arrears on March 1 and September 1 of each year, beginning on March 1, 2011. Interest on the Notes will accrue from August 16, 2010 and will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months. The terms of the Indenture, among other things, limit the Company's ability to merge, consolidate or sell assets and the Company's and its subsidiaries' abilities to incur liens. These covenants are subject to a number of exceptions, including that the Company and its subsidiaries may incur liens on assets, mortgages or other liens securing indebtedness, if the aggregate amount of such liens does not exceed 3.5x Adjusted EBITDA as defined in the Indenture.
The Company may redeem the Notes at any time at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus a make-whole premium, together with accrued interest to the redemption date. In addition, if the Company undergoes a Change of Control and Ratings Decline, each as defined in the Indenture, the Company may be required to repurchase all of the Notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest (including additional interest, if any), up to but not including the repurchase date.
The Indenture provides that each of the following is an event of default ("Event of Default"): (i) default for 30 days in payment of any interest due with respect to the Notes; (ii) default in payment of principal or premium, if any, on the Notes when due, at maturity, upon any redemption, by declaration or otherwise; (iii) failure by the Company to comply with covenants in the Indenture or Notes for 90 days after receiving notice; and (iv) certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency with respect to the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries. If any Event of Default arising under clause (iv) above occurs, the principal amount and accrued and unpaid interest on all the outstanding Notes will become due and payable immediately without further action or notice. If any other Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the trustee or the holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may declare the entire principal amount on all the outstanding Notes to be due and payable immediately.
The foregoing is only a summary of certain provisions and is qualified in its entirety by the terms of the Base Indenture, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 13, 2010 as an exhibit to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3, and the Supplemental Indenture No. 1, a copy of which will be filed as an exhibit to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ending September 30, 2010.
 
Please refer to the discussion under Item 1.01 above, which is incorporated under this Item 2.03 by reference.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


