FILE:AMT/AMT-8K-20110321171143.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On March 21, 2011, American Tower Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release (the "Press Release") announcing information about its business in light of AT&T's contemplated acquisition of T-Mobile USA. A copy of the Press Release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Exhibit 99.1 is furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall such exhibit be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing made by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Contact: Garth Williams
Assistant Treasurer
Telephone: (617) 375-7500
American Tower Corporation (NYSE: AMT) today released information about its business in light of AT&T's contemplated acquisition of T-Mobile USA, which is subject to regulatory approval. For the year ended December 31, 2010, AT&T and T-Mobile accounted for approximately 20% and 8%, respectively, of American Tower's consolidated operating revenues. American Tower currently has separate leases for antenna space with AT&T and T-Mobile on the same site at approximately 3,100 communications sites owned or operated by American Tower. The revenue generated from T-Mobile on these sites represented approximately 4% of American Tower's consolidated operating revenues as of December 31, 2010. The average remaining current term on the long-term lease arrangements with AT&T is between nine and ten years, and the average remaining current term on the long-term lease arrangements with T-Mobile is between five and six years.
Boston, Massachusetts  March 21, 2011:
About American Tower
American Tower is a leading independent owner, operator and developer of broadcast and wireless communications sites. American Tower currently owns and operates approximately 36,000 communications sites in the United States, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, India, Mexico, Peru and South Africa. For more information about American Tower, please visit .
www.americantower.com


