FILE:AMT/AMT-8K-20110802072635.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 2, 2011, American Tower Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release (the "Press Release") announcing financial results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2011. A copy of the Press Release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Exhibit 99.1 is furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall such exhibit be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing made by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Contact: Leah Stearns
Director, Investor Relations
Telephone: (617) 375-7500
SECOND QUARTER 2011 HIGHLIGHTS
 
FIRST HALF 2011 HIGHLIGHTS
 
American Tower Corporation (NYSE: AMT) today reported financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2011.
Boston, Massachusetts  August 2, 2011:
Jim Taiclet, American Tower's Chief Executive Officer stated, "Our combined U.S. and international operations delivered yet another quarter of robust growth with total rental and management revenue increasing 28% and Adjusted EBITDA up 21%. In the U.S., the two leading national wireless carriers continue to actively invest in their networks to meet rapidly expanding demand for mobile data and entertainment, both adding more equipment per site and increasing the density of their sites."
"Meanwhile, our first international markets in Mexico, Brazil and India are experiencing strong growth due to new spectrum and technology deployments. Coupled with our successful introduction of the collocation business model into a number of new countries in Latin America and Africa, this strong legacy market performance resulted in a near doubling of our international segment revenue in the second quarter."
SECOND QUARTER 2011 OPERATING RESULTS OVERVIEW
American Tower generated the following operating results for the quarter ended June 30, 2011 (unless otherwise indicated, all comparative information is presented against the quarter ended June 30, 2010).
 
Total revenue increased 27.1% to $597.2 million and total rental and management revenue increased 27.9% to $583.8 million. Total rental and management Gross Margin increased 25.1% to $443.1 million. Total selling, general, administrative and development expense was $72.3 million, including $11.7 million of stock-based compensation expense. Adjusted EBITDA increased 21.2% to $389.1 million, and the Adjusted EBITDA Margin was 65%.
Total rental and management revenue Core Growth was 24.4% and excludes the positive impact of approximately 1.9% due to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and approximately 1.5% due to straight-line revenue recognition.
Core Growth in Adjusted EBITDA was 17.2% and excludes the positive impact of approximately 1.8% due to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and approximately 2.2% due to straight-line revenue and expense recognition.
Operating income increased 19.6% to $225.8 million and net income attributable to American Tower Corporation increased 15.6% to $115.2 million. Net income attributable to American Tower Corporation per basic and diluted common share both increased 16.0% to $0.29. Recurring Free Cash Flow increased 3.5% to $244.7 million and Recurring Free Cash Flow per Share increased 5.2% to $0.61.
Cash provided by operating activities increased 4.9% to $275.5 million.
Segment Results
 Domestic rental and management segment revenue increased 13.4% to $424.9 million, which represented 71% of total revenues. In addition, domestic rental and management segment Gross Margin increased 14.7% to $337.3 million, while domestic rental and management segment Operating Profit increased 13.8% to $319.5 million.
Domestic Rental and Management Segment
 International rental and management segment revenue increased 94.2% to $158.9 million, which represented 27% of total revenues. In addition, international rental and management segment Gross Margin increased 75.5% to $105.8 million, while international rental and management segment Operating Profit increased 67.6% to $84.3 million.
International Rental and Management Segment
 Network development services segment revenue was $13.4 million, which represented 2% of total revenues. Network development services segment Gross Margin was $6.6 million, and network development services segment Operating Profit was $5.1 million.
Network Development Services Segment
FIRST HALF 2011 OPERATING RESULTS OVERVIEW
American Tower generated the following operating results for the six months ended June 30, 2011 (unless otherwise indicated, all comparative information is presented against the six months ended June 30, 2010).
Total revenue increased 25.5% to $1,159.9 million and total rental and management revenue increased 25.6% to $1,130.5 million. Total rental and management Gross Margin increased 23.4% to $865.4 million. Total selling, general, administrative and development expense was $138.5 million, including $24.0 million of stock-based compensation expense. Adjusted EBITDA increased 21.1% to $766.2 million, and the Adjusted EBITDA Margin was 66%.
Operating income increased 20.8% to $444.1 million, and net income attributable to American Tower Corporation increased 5.6% to $207.1 million. Net income attributable to American Tower Corporation per basic common share increased approximately 6.1% to $0.52, and net income attributable to American Tower Corporation per diluted common share increased approximately 8.3% to $0.52. Recurring Free Cash Flow increased 6.8% to $492.9 million and Recurring Free Cash Flow per Share increased 7.9% to $1.23.
Cash provided by operating activities increased 8.3% to $559.3 million.
 
Segment Results
 Domestic rental and management segment revenue increased 13.1% to $842.5 million, which represented 73% of total revenues. In addition, domestic rental and management segment Gross Margin increased 14.5% to $671.8 million, while domestic rental and management segment Operating Profit increased 13.7% to $635.7 million.
Domestic Rental and Management Segment
 International rental and management segment revenue increased 85.0% to $288.0 million, which represented 25% of total revenues. In addition, international rental and management segment Gross Margin increased 69.1% to $193.6 million, while international rental and management segment Operating Profit increased 61.8% to $154.7 million.
International Rental and Management Segment
 Network development services segment revenue was $29.4 million, which represented 2% of total revenues. Network development services segment Gross Margin was $15.2 million, and network development services segment Operating Profit was $12.0 million.
Network Development Services Segment
SECOND QUARTER 2011 INVESTING OVERVIEW
 During the second quarter of 2011, total capital expenditures of $138.7 million included $75.2 million for discretionary capital projects, including spending to complete the construction of 84 communications sites domestically and 144 communications sites internationally, $28.0 million to purchase land under our towers, $15.2 million for the redevelopment of existing communications sites to accommodate new customer equipment, and $20.3 million for capital improvements and corporate capital expenditures.
Cash Paid for Capital Expenditures
In the second quarter of 2011, total payments for acquisitions were approximately $275.2 million, which included the purchase of 37 communications sites domestically and 608 communications sites internationally.
Cash Paid for Acquisitions 
 During the second quarter of 2011, the Company repurchased a total of 2.0 million shares of its Class A common stock for approximately $102.0 million pursuant to its $1.5 billion stock repurchase program approved by the Company's Board of Directors in February 2008. Between July 1, 2011 and July 22, 2011, the Company repurchased an additional 0.3 million shares of its Class A Common Stock for an aggregate of $18.0 million under this program.
Stock Repurchase Programs
FIRST HALF 2011 INVESTING OVERVIEW
In the first half of 2011, total capital expenditures of $236.6 million included $132.0 million for discretionary capital projects, including spending to complete the construction of 147 communications sites domestically and 321 communications sites internationally, $48.6 million to purchase land under our towers, $22.9 million for the redevelopment of existing communications sites to accommodate new customer equipment, and $33.1 million for capital improvements and corporate capital expenditures.
Cash Paid for Capital Expenditures 
In the first half of 2011, total payments for acquisitions were approximately $892.6 million, which included the purchase of 79 communications sites domestically and 2,450 communications sites internationally.
Cash Paid for Acquisitions 
 In the first half of 2011, the Company repurchased a total of 4.4 million shares of its Class A common stock for approximately $224.7 million pursuant to its $1.5 billion stock repurchase program approved by the Company's Board of Directors in February 2008. As of July 22, 2011, the Company repurchased a total of 34.5 million shares of its Class A common stock for approximately $1.4 billion, pursuant to this program.
Stock Repurchase Programs
 
As previously disclosed, in March 2011, the Company's Board of Directors approved a new stock repurchase program, pursuant to which the Company is authorized to purchase up to an additional $1.5 billion of Class A common stock. As of July 22, 2011, the Company had not repurchased any shares under this program.
INTERNATIONAL EXPANSION UPDATE
During the second quarter, the Company spent approximately $275.2 million for acquisitions, which included the purchase of the following international towers, which were under prior acquisition agreements:
 
 
 
 
Subsequent to the end of the second quarter, the Company closed on:
 
 
The Company has the following pending acquisitions:
 
 
 
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUST UPDATE
The Company continues to anticipate electing REIT status for the taxable year beginning January 1, 2012. On May 19, 2011, the Company's Board of Directors approved the commencement of the steps necessary to reorganize the Company to qualify as a REIT for tax purposes. In preparation for the election, the Company is focused on three concurrent action items. First, the Company continues to make progress with respect to its analysis of the amount of earnings and profits ("E&P") and continues to anticipate distributing up to $200 million to stockholders using cash on hand during the fourth quarter of 2011. Second, the Company continues to make substantial progress on its operational readiness initiatives, which include systems and process changes. Finally, on July 18, 2011, the Company filed its Amendment No. 1 to Form S-4, which outlines its plans to merge into American Tower REIT, Inc., to facilitate its compliance with REIT tax rules. In addition, the Company expects to hold a special meeting of stockholders during the fourth quarter of 2011 for the purpose of voting on its proposed merger. The determination to elect REIT status is subject to final approval by the Company's Board of Directors. There is no certainty as to the timing of a REIT election or whether the Company will make a REIT election at all.
FULL YEAR 2011 OUTLOOK
The following estimates are based on a number of assumptions that management believes to be reasonable and reflect the Company's expectations as of August 2, 2011. These estimates include the impact of the anticipated acquisition in the third quarter of approximately 800 towers in Ghana and the recent acquisitions of 329 towers in South Africa and 15 towers in Colombia. These estimates do not include the Company's remaining pending acquisitions. Actual results may differ materially from these estimates as a result of various factors, and the Company refers you to the cautionary language regarding "forward-looking" statements included in this press release when considering this information.
 
Total rental and management revenue growth is expected to be approximately 21% based on the midpoint, and total rental and management revenue Core Growth, which excludes the effect of non-cash straight-line revenue recognition, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and material one-time items, is expected to be approximately 20%, based on the midpoint. Adjusted EBITDA growth is expected to be approximately 17%, based on the midpoint and Adjusted EBITDA Core Growth, which excludes the effect of non-cash straight-line revenue and expense recognition, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and material one-time items, is expected to be approximately 15%, based on the midpoint.
 
Conference Call Information
American Tower will host a conference call today at 8:00 a.m. ET to discuss its financial results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2011 and its outlook for 2011. Supplemental materials for the call will be available on the Company's website, . The conference call dial-in numbers are as follows:
www.americantower.com
U.S./Canada dial-in: (866) 740-9153
International dial-in: (706) 645-9644
Passcode: 84775166
When available, a replay of the call can be accessed until 11:59 p.m. ET on August 16, 2011. The replay dial-in numbers are as follows:
U.S./Canada dial-in: (855) 859-2056
International dial-in: (404) 537-3406
Passcode: 84775166
American Tower will also sponsor a live simulcast and replay of the call on its website, .
www.americantower.com
 
About American Tower
American Tower is a leading independent owner, operator and developer of broadcast and wireless communications sites. American Tower currently owns and operates over 38,000 communications sites in the United States, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ghana, India, Mexico, Peru and South Africa. For more information about American Tower, please visit .
www.americantower.com
Non-GAAP and Defined Financial Measures
In addition to the results prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP) provided throughout this press release, the Company has presented the following non-GAAP and defined financial measures: Gross Margin, Operating Profit, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA Margin, Recurring Free Cash Flow, Recurring Free Cash Flow per Share and Core Growth. The Company defines Gross Margin as revenues less operating expenses. The Company defines Operating Profit as Gross Margin less selling, general, administrative and development expense, excluding stock-based compensation expense and corporate expenses. For reporting purposes, the international rental and management segment Operating Profit and Gross Margin also include interest income, TV Azteca, net. These measures of Gross Margin and Operating Profit are also before interest income, interest expense, loss on retirement of long-term obligations, other income (expense), net income attributable to non-controlling interest, income (loss) on equity method investments, income taxes and discontinued operations. The Company defines Adjusted EBITDA as net income before income (loss) from discontinued operations, net, income from equity method investments, income tax provision (benefit), other income (expense), loss on retirement of long-term obligations, interest expense, interest income, other operating expenses, depreciation, amortization and accretion, and stock-based compensation expense. The Company defines Adjusted EBITDA Margin as the percentage that results from dividing Adjusted EBITDA by total revenue. The Company defines Recurring Free Cash Flow as Adjusted EBITDA before straight-line revenue and expense, plus interest income, less interest expense, cash paid for income taxes and cash payments related to redevelopment, capital improvement and corporate capital expenditures. The Company defines Recurring Free Cash Flow per Share as Recurring Free Cash Flow divided by the diluted weighted average common shares outstanding. The Company defines Core Growth in total rental and management revenue and Adjusted EBITDA as the increase or decrease, expressed as a percentage, resulting from a comparison of financial results for a current period with corresponding financial results for the corresponding period in a prior year, in each case, excluding the impact of straight-line revenue and expense recognition, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, and material one-time items. These measures are not intended to replace financial performance measures determined in accordance with GAAP. Rather, they are presented as additional information because management believes they are useful indicators of the current financial performance of the Company's core businesses. The Company believes that these measures can assist in comparing company performances on a consistent basis irrespective of depreciation and amortization or capital structure. Depreciation and amortization can vary significantly among companies depending on accounting methods, particularly where acquisitions or non-operating factors, including historical cost bases, are involved. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company's measures of Gross Margin, Operating Profit, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA Margin, Recurring Free Cash Flow, Recurring Free Cash Flow per Share and Core Growth may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
Cautionary Language Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" concerning the Company's goals, beliefs, expectations, strategies, objectives, plans, future operating results and underlying assumptions, and other statements that are not necessarily based on historical facts. Examples of these statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding our full year 2011 outlook, our pending acquisitions, including anticipated closing dates and expected purchase prices, foreign currency exchange rates, our expectation to elect real estate investment trust status, the timing and effect of that election, the form, timing and amount of the special E&P distribution and our expectation regarding the declaration of quarterly distributions. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated in our forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors, including: (1) decrease in demand for our communications sites would materially and adversely affect our operating results and we cannot control that demand; (2) if our tenants consolidate or merge with each other to a significant degree, our growth, revenue and ability to generate positive cash flows could be materially and adversely affected; (3) new technologies or changes in a tenant's business model could make our tower leasing business less desirable and result in decreasing revenues; (4) our expansion initiatives may disrupt our operations or expose us to additional risk if we are not able to successfully integrate operations, assets and personnel; (5) we could suffer adverse tax and other financial consequences if taxing authorities do not agree with our tax positions; (6) due to the long-term expectations of revenue from tenant leases, we are sensitive to changes in the creditworthiness and financial strength of our tenants; (7) our foreign operations are subject to economic, political, and other risks that could materially and adversely affect our revenues or financial position, including risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; (8) we anticipate that we may need additional financing to fund capital expenditures, to fund future growth and expansion initiatives and to return capital to stockholders; (9) a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from a small number of customers; (10) increasing competition in the tower industry may create pricing pressures that may materially and adversely affect us; (11) our business is subject to government regulations and changes in current or future laws or regulations could restrict our ability to operate our business as we currently do; (12) if we are unable or choose not to exercise our rights to purchase towers that are subject to lease and sublease agreements at the end of the applicable period, our cash flows derived from such towers would be eliminated; (13) if we are unable to protect our rights to the land under our towers, it could adversely affect our business and operating results; (14) our leverage and debt service obligations may materially and adversely affect us; (15) restrictive covenants in the loan agreements related to our securitization, the loan agreements for the Revolving Credit Facility, Supplemental Credit Facility and Term Loan, and the indentures governing our debt securities could materially and adversely affect our business by limiting flexibility; (16) we could have liability under environmental laws; (17) our towers or data centers may be affected by natural disasters and other unforeseen damage for which our insurance may not provide adequate coverage; (18) our costs could increase and our revenues could decrease due to perceived health risks from radio emissions, especially if these perceived risks are substantiated, (19) if we fail to qualify as a REIT or fail to remain qualified as a REIT, we would be subject
 
to tax at corporate income tax rates and would not be able to deduct distributions to stockholders when computing our taxable income; (20) we may not realize the anticipated tax benefits from the REIT conversion effective January 1, 2012 because the timing of the REIT conversion is not certain; (21) as a REIT, failure to make required distributions would subject us to federal corporate income tax; (22) covenants specified in our existing and future debt instruments may limit our ability to make required REIT distributions; (23) our cash distributions may fluctuate; (24) there are uncertainties relating to the estimate of our special E&P distribution; (25) even if we qualify as a REIT, certain of our business activities will be subject to corporate level income tax and foreign taxes, which will reduce our cash flows, and we will have potential deferred and contingent tax liabilities; (26) we may be required to borrow funds, sell assets, or raise equity to satisfy our REIT distribution requirements or maintain the asset ownership tests; (27) complying with REIT requirements may limit our flexibility or cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities; (28) as a REIT, we will be limited in our ability to fund distribution payments using cash generated through our TRSs; (29) our planned extensive use of TRSs, in particular for our international operations, may cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT; (30) we may not realize the anticipated tax benefits from the REIT conversion effective January 1, 2012 because the timing of the REIT conversion is not certain; (31) complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively and increase the cost of our hedging, and may cause us to incur tax liabilities; (32) the current market price of our Common Stock may not be indicative of the market price of American Tower REIT common stock following the REIT conversion and the special E&P distribution; (33) we have no experience operating as a REIT, which may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of American Tower REIT common stock and ability to satisfy debt service obligations; and (34) legislative or other actions affecting REITs could have a negative effect on us or our stockholders. For additional information regarding factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in our forward-looking statements, we refer you to the information contained in Item 1A of our Form 10-Q for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and Amendment No. 1 to our Form S-4 filed on July 18, 2011 under the caption "Risk Factors." We undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this press release to reflect subsequently occurring events or circumstances
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
This communication does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy securities or a solicitation of any vote or approval. American Tower REIT, Inc. has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") a registration statement on Form S-4/A containing a proxy statement of American Tower Corporation and a prospectus of American Tower REIT, Inc. with respect to the proposed merger. The registration statement has not yet become effective. Notice of a special meeting and a definitive proxy statement/prospectus will be mailed to stockholders of American Tower Corporation who hold shares of Class A common stock of American Tower Corporation on the record date to be determined by American Tower Corporation's board of directors. INVESTORS ARE URGED TO READ THE FORM S-4/A AND PROXY STATEMENT (INCLUDING ALL AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS THERETO) AND ANY OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS THAT ARE FILED WITH THE SEC BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE PROPOSED MERGER. You may obtain documents free of charge at the website maintained by the SEC at . In addition, you may obtain documents filed with the SEC by American Tower Corporation free of charge by contacting Corporate Secretary, 116 Huntington Avenue Boston, Massachusetts 02116.
www.sec.gov
American Tower, its directors and executive officers and certain other members of management and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from American Tower's stockholders in connection with the merger. Information regarding the persons who may, under the rules of the SEC, be considered participants in the solicitation of proxies in connection with the merger will be included in the Form S-4/A and proxy statement. Information about the directors and executive officers of American Tower and their ownership of American Tower stock is set forth in the proxy statement for American Tower's 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Investors may obtain additional information regarding the interests of such participants by reading the Form S-4/A and proxy statement for the merger.
Investors should read the Form S-4/A and proxy statement carefully before making any voting or investment decisions.
 
UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(In thousands)
 
 
 
UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
(In thousands, except per share data)
 
 
UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
(In thousands)
 
 
UNAUDITED RESULTS FROM OPERATIONS, BY SEGMENT
(In thousands)
 
 
UNAUDITED SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
(In thousands, except where noted. Totals may not add due to rounding.)
Selected Balance Sheet Detail:
 
 
 
 
SELECTED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS DETAIL:
The following table reflects the estimated impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, straight-line revenue and expense recognition and material one-time items on total rental and management revenue and Adjusted EBITDA:
 
 
UNAUDITED SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
(In thousands. Totals may not add due to rounding.)
Total rental and management straight-line revenue and expense:
In accordance with GAAP, the Company recognizes consolidated rental and management revenue and expense related to non-cancellable customer and ground lease agreements with fixed escalations on a straight-line basis, over the applicable lease term. As a result, the Company's revenue recognized may differ materially from the amount of cash collected per customer lease, and the Company's expense incurred may differ materially from the amount of cash paid per ground lease. Additional information regarding straight-line accounting can be found in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 in the section entitled "Revenue Recognition," of note 1, "Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" within the notes to the consolidated financial statements. A summary of total rental and management straight-line revenue and expense, which represents the non-cash revenue and expense recorded due to straight-line recognition, is as follows:
 
SELECTED CASH FLOW DETAIL:
 
 
UNAUDITED SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
(Totals may not add due to rounding.)
SELECTED PORTFOLIO DETAIL - OWNED SITES:
 
 
UNAUDITED RECONCILIATIONS TO GAAP MEASURES AND THE CALCULATION OF DEFINED FINANCIAL MEASURES
(In thousands, except where noted. Totals may not add due to rounding.)
The reconciliation of net income to Adjusted EBITDA and the calculation of Recurring Free Cash Flow, Recurring Free Cash Flow per Share and Adjusted EBITDA Margin are as follows:
 
 
UNAUDITED RECONCILIATIONS OF OUTLOOK TO GAAP MEASURES AND DEFINED FINANCIAL MEASURES
(In millions, except where noted. Totals may not add due to rounding.)
The reconciliation of Income from continuing operations to Adjusted EBITDA outlook is as follows:
 
 
The calculation of Core Growth outlook is as follows:
 
 


