FILE:AMT/AMT-8K-20110316081522.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(e) On March 10, 2011, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of American Tower Corporation (the "Company") considered the compensation arrangements with the Company's executive officers. The information in the table below sets forth the determinations of the Compensation Committee with respect to base salaries and cash bonus incentive targets for the year ending December 31, 2011 for the Company's chief executive officer, chief financial officer and the three other most highly compensated executive officers who were serving as executive officers on December 31, 2010 (collectively, the "Current Named Executive Officers").
 
In determining annual cash bonus incentive payments for the Company's Current Named Executive Officers at the end of the year, the Compensation Committee bases its decisions on a number of factors, including the Company's financial performance, the achievement of certain strategic goals and each executive's contribution to the Company's overall performance. If the Company exceeds its goals and/or the executive exceeds his or her goals, the annual cash bonus incentive could be subject to increase at the discretion of the Compensation Committee, up to a maximum of 200% of the executive's bonus target. Additional information regarding compensation of the executive officers listed above will be included in the Company's 2011 Proxy Statement when filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In February 2009, the Company entered into a letter agreement with Steven Marshall in connection with his assignment as Executive Vice President and President of the Company's U.S. Tower Division. This letter agreement expired by its terms on February 28, 2011. On March 11, 2011, the Company entered into a new two-year letter agreement with Mr. Marshall. In addition to terms consistent with those applicable to other executive officers, the new letter agreement continues to provide certain benefits related to Mr. Marshall's status as an expatriate, including a housing allowance and a goods and services differential, consistent with the prior arrangement. The foregoing is qualified in its entirety by reference to the letter agreement, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1, and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
On March 10, 2011, the Company's Board of Directors approved a new stock repurchase program pursuant to which the Company is authorized to repurchase up to $1.5 billion of its Class A common stock.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
March 11, 2011
Mr. Steven C. Marshall
Latimer Lodge, Burtons Lane,
Chalfont St. Giles
Buckinghamshire, England HP8 4BS
Dear Steve:
Per our discussion, I am pleased that you will be continuing in your assignment with American Tower Corporation, as PresidentUS Tower Division, which remains an Executive Vice President ("EVP") position reporting to me. Under this letter, which is intended to amend and supersede the terms of our original letter of February 23, 2009, you will continue to be considered as seconded from the Company's U.K. subsidiary to the US Tower Division for the duration of this assignment, which is anticipated to be through March 31, 2013, subject to the other provisions set forth below:
Your Basic Salary, bonus and long term incentives, and normal benefits will be on a basis consistent with that for the position as EVP in the US and in accordance with and subject to the terms of the respective terms and conditions such plans. Increments to Basic Salary, and bonus and equity awards will be as recommended by our Chief Executive Officer, subject to review and approval by the Compensation Committee consistent with past practice.
Your compensation and all reimbursements and allowances contemplated under this letter relating to your status as an expat and being based in Massachusetts as head of our US Tower Division operations, shall be paid in United States Dollars, unless and only to the extent otherwise mutually agreed in writing. Payments hereunder shall not be subject to adjustment for fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates or otherwise.
You will continue to be eligible for the following Allowances and Benefits for so long as you remain on assignment under the terms of this letter:
 
 
Mr. Steven C. Marshall
March 11, 2011
Page of
2
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mr. Steven C. Marshall
March 11, 2011
Page of
3
3
 
This letter agreement supersedes the previous agreement entered into with the Company dated February 23, 2009, and its terms and conditions, including, its allowances and benefits, and it will remain in effect until March 31, 2013, but may be extended by the mutual written agreement of the parties.
Steve, we are very pleased that you will be continuing with us to build upon the success that you have already attained in this role and to meet the new challenges and opportunities just ahead.
Sincerely,
Jim Taiclet
Chairman, President and CEO
American Tower Corporation
 
 
By my signature below, I acknowledge receipt and my agreement with the terms and conditions set forth in the letter and also acknowledge the adequacy of the consideration provided to me in connection therewith.
 


