FILE:AMT/AMT-8K-20121003171133.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 3, 2012, American Tower Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release (the "Press Release") announcing information about its business in light of T-Mobile USA's contemplated combination with MetroPCS. A copy of the Press Release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Exhibit 99.1 is furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall such exhibit be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing made by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Contact: Leah Stearns
Vice President, Investor Relations & Capital Markets
Telephone: (617) 375-7500
American Tower Corporation (NYSE: AMT) today released information about its business in light of T-Mobile USA's contemplated combination with MetroPCS, which is subject to regulatory approval. For the quarter ended June 30, 2012, T-Mobile and MetroPCS accounted for approximately 7% and 2%, respectively, of American Tower's consolidated operating revenues. American Tower currently has separate leases for antenna space with T-Mobile and MetroPCS on the same site at approximately 1,000 communications sites owned or operated by American Tower. The combined revenue generated from T-Mobile and MetroPCS on these sites represented approximately 1% of American Tower's consolidated operating revenues for the quarter ended June 30, 2012. The average remaining current term on the long-term lease arrangements on these sites with T-Mobile and MetroPCS is approximately nine years.
Boston, Massachusetts  October 3, 2012:
About American Tower
American Tower is a leading independent global owner, operator and developer of wireless communications sites. American Tower currently owns and operates over 49,000 communications sites in the United States, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ghana, India, Mexico, Peru, South Africa and Uganda. For more information about American Tower, please visit .
www.americantower.com


