FILE:AMT/AMT-8K-20120131172642.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Company under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 31, 2012, in connection with a new $1.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility (the "2012 Credit Facility") American Tower Corporation (the "Company") entered into a loan agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, CitiBank, N.A., The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and TD Securities (USA) LLC, as Co-Syndication Agents, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, TD Securities (USA) LLC, CitiGroup Global Markets Inc. and RBS Securities Inc., as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners, Barclays Bank plc, Morgan Stanley MUFG Loan Partners, LLC, Mizuho Corporate Bank, Ltd. and RBC Capital Markets, as Joint Bookrunners, and lenders that are signatories thereto (the "Loan Agreement"). The 2012 Credit Facility has a term of five years and matures on January 31, 2017. The 2012 Credit Facility does not require amortization of payments and may be repaid prior to maturity in whole or in part at the Company's option without penalty or premium.
At closing, the Company borrowed $700 million under the 2012 Credit Facility and used the proceeds, together with $625 million in borrowings from the Company's $1.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility entered into in April 2011 and cash on hand, to repay all amounts outstanding and accrued interest and related fees under the Company's existing $1.25 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the "2007 Credit Facility") and $325.0 million term loan (the "Term Loan"). Upon repayment, the Company terminated the 2007 Credit Facility without penalty or premium.
Amounts borrowed under the Loan Agreement will bear interest, at the Company's option, at a margin above LIBOR or a defined base rate. For LIBOR based borrowings, interest rates will range from 1.075% to 2.400% above the LIBOR rate. For base rate borrowings, interest rates will range from 0.075% to 1.400% above the defined base rate. In each case, the applicable margin is based upon the Company's debt ratings. In addition, the Loan Agreement provides for a quarterly commitment fee on the undrawn portion of the 2012 Credit Facility ranging from 0.125% to 0.450% per annum, based upon the Company's debt ratings. The current margin over LIBOR that the Company would incur on borrowings is 1.625% and the current commitment fee on the undrawn portion of the 2012 Credit Facility is 0.225%.
The Company's ability to borrow under the Loan Agreement will be subject to its ongoing compliance with various affirmative and negative covenants, including with respect to indebtedness, guaranties, mergers and asset sales, liens, dividends, corporate existence and financial reporting obligations. In addition, the Loan Agreement requires that the Company satisfy the following three financial maintenance tests (each of the capitalized terms, as defined in the Loan Agreement):
 
 
 
Any failure to comply with the financial and operating covenants of the Loan Agreement would not only prevent the Company from being able to borrow additional funds, but would constitute a default, which could result in, among other things, the amounts outstanding, including all accrued interest and unpaid fees, becoming immediately due and payable. In addition, the Loan Agreement contains customary events of default, in certain cases subject to customary cure periods.
The Loan Agreement allows the Company to use borrowings for working capital needs, to finance acquisitions and for other general corporate purposes of the Company and its subsidiaries (including, without limitation, to refinance or repurchase other indebtedness and to repurchase the Company's equity securities, in each case without additional lender approval).
Certain of the lenders under the 2012 Credit Facility and other parties to the 2012 Credit Facility or their affiliates have provided, and may in the future provide, commercial banking, underwriting, lending, investment banking, and financial advisory services in the ordinary course of business for the Company, its subsidiaries and certain of its affiliates, for which they have received or will receive customary fees and commissions.
The foregoing description is only a summary of certain provisions of the 2012 Credit Facility and is qualified in its entirety by the terms of the Loan Agreement, a copy of which will be filed as an exhibit to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011. A copy of the press release announcing the 2012 Credit Facility is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Please refer to the discussion under Item 1.01 above, which is incorporated under this Item 1.02 by reference. In addition, for a summary of the material terms of the 2007 Credit Facility and the Term Loan, see the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 2, 2011.
 
Please refer to the discussion under Item 1.01 above, which is incorporated under this Item 2.03 by reference.
 
On January 31, 2012, the Company announced that it intends to hold its 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the "Annual Meeting") on Tuesday, June 19, 2012. A copy of the press release announcing the date of the Annual Meeting is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.2.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
American Tower Contact:
Leah Stearns Director, Investor Relations
Telephone: +1 617 375 7500
American Tower Corporation (NYSE: AMT) announced today that it has entered into a loan agreement in connection with its new $1.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility.
Boston, Massachusetts  January 31, 2012:
At closing, American Tower borrowed $700 million under this new credit facility and used the proceeds, together with $625 million in borrowings from its $1.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility entered into in April 2011 and cash on hand, to repay all amounts outstanding and accrued interest and related fees under its existing $1.25 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility ("2007 Credit Facility") and $325 million term loan. Upon repayment, American Tower terminated the 2007 Credit Facility.
The new credit facility has a term of five years, maturing on January 31, 2017, with a current interest rate of 1.625% plus LIBOR on the drawn portion and a commitment fee on the undrawn portion of 0.225%. The credit facility does not require amortization of payments and may be paid prior to maturity in whole or in part at American Tower's option without penalty or premium. The credit facility allows American Tower to use borrowings for working capital needs and other general corporate purposes of American Tower and its subsidiaries, including, without limitation, to refinance or repurchase other indebtedness and to repurchase American Tower's equity securities, in each case without additional lender approval.
About American Tower
American Tower is a leading independent global owner, operator and developer of broadcast and wireless communications sites. American Tower currently owns and operates approximately 40,000 communications sites in the United States, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ghana, India, Mexico, Peru and South Africa. For more information about American Tower, please visit .
www.americantower.com
Cautionary Language Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains statements about future events and expectations, or "forward-looking statements," all of which are inherently uncertain. We have based those forward-looking statements on management's current expectations and assumptions and not on historical facts. Examples of these statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding our expectation for (i) the use of proceeds from the credit facility, (ii) the repurchase or refinancing of other indebtedness and (iii) the effect of the transactions described herein. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in such forward-looking statements include market conditions for corporate debt generally, for the securities of telecommunications companies and for our indebtedness in particular. For other important factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in our forward-looking statements, we refer you to the information contained in Item 1A of our Form 10-Q for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 under the caption "Risk Factors" and in other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this press release to reflect subsequently occurring events or circumstances.

Exhibit 99.2
American Tower Contact:
Leah Stearns Director, Investor Relations
Telephone: +1 617 375 7500
American Tower Corporation (NYSE: AMT) today announced that it intends to hold its 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders on Tuesday, June 19, 2012 at 11:00 a.m. local time, at the Colonnade Hotel, 120 Huntington Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02116.
Boston, Massachusetts  January 31, 2012:
American Tower, which began operating as a real estate investment trust as of the first of the year, advises that pursuant to Rule 14a-8 promulgated under the Exchange Act, in order to be included in the proxy statement and form of proxy relating to its 2012 Annual Meeting, American Tower must receive any proposals of stockholders intended to be presented at the meeting no later than close of business on March 13, 2012, to provide a reasonable time before American Tower intends to print and send its proxy materials. In all instances, any proposals must comply with the other requirements of Rule 14a-8.
Further, under American Tower's advance notice provisions in its Amended and Restated By-Laws, if a stockholder wants to submit a proposal for the 2012 Annual Meeting for presentation at the meeting pursuant to Delaware corporate law (as opposed to inclusion in the proxy statement under Rule 14a-8), or intends to nominate a person as a candidate for election to the Board directly, the stockholder can submit the proposal or nomination prior to the close of business on February 18, 2012, which is 90 days prior to the anniversary of the annual meeting of stockholders held in 2011. In addition, all such proposals must comply with the other requirements of American Tower's Amended and Restated By-Laws.
If you wish to present a proposal before the 2012 Annual Meeting, but do not wish to have the proposal considered for inclusion in the proxy statement and proxy card, you must also give written notice to: American Tower Corporation, 116 Huntington Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02116, Attention: Secretary. If you fail to deliver that notice so that the Secretary receives it no later than close of business on March 13, 2012, then proxies designated by American Tower's board of directors will have discretionary authority to vote on any such proposal.
About American Tower
American Tower is a leading independent global owner, operator and developer of broadcast and wireless communications sites. American Tower currently owns and operates approximately 40,000 communications sites in the United States, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ghana, India, Mexico, Peru and South Africa. For more information about American Tower, please visit .
www.americantower.com
Cautionary Language Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains statements about future events and expectations, or "forward-looking statements," all of which are inherently uncertain. We have based those forward-looking statements on management's current expectations and assumptions and not on historical facts. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in such forward-looking statements include market conditions for corporate debt generally, for the securities of telecommunications companies and for our indebtedness in particular. For other important factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in our forward-looking statements, we refer you to the information contained in Item 1A of our Form 10-Q for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 under the caption "Risk Factors" and in other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this press release to reflect subsequently occurring events or circumstances.


