FILE:AMT/AMT-8K-20121115060934.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Beginning on November 15, 2012, American Tower Corporation (the "Company") intends to make available to investors presentation slides regarding the Company's entrance into the German market through its acquisition of communications sites from KPN's German subsidiary, E-Plus ("E-Plus"). On that date, these presentation slides will be available on the Company's website, , under the Investors tab.
www.americantower.com
 
On November 15, 2012, the Company issued a press release (the "Press Release") announcing its launch of operations in Germany and its entry into a definitive agreement to purchase from E-Plus over 2,000 towers, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately 393 million. The Company expects to close the sale of the towers in the fourth quarter of 2012, subject to customary closing conditions.
The Press Release is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1, and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Contact: Leah Stearns
Vice President, Investor Relations & Capital Markets
Telephone: (617) 375-7500
American Tower Corporation (NYSE: AMT) today announced that it has entered into a definitive agreement with KPN's German subsidiary, E-Plus, under which American Tower will acquire over 2,000 KPN tower sites in Germany for an agreed upon purchase price of approximately 393 million. The transaction is expected to close in the fourth quarter of 2012, subject to customary closing conditions.
Boston, Massachusetts  November 15, 2012: 
"We are pleased to announce the launch of our operations in Germany via our acquisition of sites from KPN," said Jim Taiclet, Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer of American Tower. "With over one hundred million subscribers and its significant growth in wireless data demand, Germany represents the largest wireless market in Europe and an attractive complement to our overall international portfolio mix and expansion strategy. We believe these sites represent a compelling investment for American Tower with strong day one cash flows and an opportunity to drive future collocation in a stable, growing wireless market."
About American Tower
American Tower is a leading independent global owner, operator and developer of wireless communications sites. American Tower currently owns and operates over 50,000 communications sites in the United States, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ghana, India, Mexico, Peru, South Africa and Uganda. For more information about American Tower, please visit .
www.americantower.com
Cautionary Language Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains statements about future events and expectations, or "forward-looking statements," all of which are inherently uncertain. We have based those forward looking statements on management's current expectations and assumptions and not on historical facts. Examples of these statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding our expectations of the acquisition of certain towers, anticipated closing dates, and the expected cash consideration. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in such forward-looking statements include market conditions for corporate debt generally, for the securities of telecommunications companies and for our indebtedness in particular. For other important factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in our forward-looking statements, we refer you to the information contained in Item 1A of our Form 10-Q for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 under the caption "Risk Factors" and in other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this press release to reflect subsequently occurring events or circumstances.


