FILE:AMT/AMT-8K-20120702080854.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On June 29, 2012, American Tower Corporation (the "Company") entered into a loan agreement for a new $750.0 million unsecured term loan credit facility (the "Term Loan") with The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, as Administrative Agent, Royal Bank of Canada and TD Securities (USA) LLC, as Co-Syndication Agents, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Morgan Stanley MUFG Loan Partners, LLC, as Co-Documentation Agents, RBS Securities Inc., RBC Capital Markets, LLC and TD Securities (USA) LLC, as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Morgan Stanley MUFG Loan Partners, LLC, as Joint Bookrunners, and lenders that are signatories thereto. The borrower under the Term Loan is the Company. The Term Loan has a term of five years and matures on June 29, 2017. All amounts will be due and payable in full at maturity. The Term Loan does not require amortization of principal and may be paid prior to maturity in whole or in part at the Company's option without penalty or premium.
The Company received net proceeds of approximately $746.4 million from the Term Loan, used approximately $632.0 million to repay certain existing indebtedness under the Company's $1.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility entered into in January 2012 (the "2012 Credit Facility") and will use the remainder for general corporate purposes. The basis for determining interest rates for the Term Loan is determined at the option of the Company with the margin ranging between 1.25% to 2.50% above the LIBOR rate for LIBOR based borrowings or between 0.25% to 1.50% above the defined base rate for base rate borrowings, in each case based upon the Company's debt ratings. The Term Loan has a current interest rate of LIBOR plus 1.75%.
The Term Loan contains certain financial ratios and operating covenants and other restrictions (including limitations on additional debt, guaranties, sales of assets and liens) with which the Company must comply that are substantially consistent with the 2012 Credit Facility, including the following three financial maintenance tests (each of the capitalized terms, as defined in the loan agreement for the Term Loan):
 
 
 
Any failure to comply with the financial and operating covenants of the Term Loan would constitute a default, which could result in, among other things, the amounts outstanding, including all accrued interest, becoming immediately due and payable.
The foregoing is only a summary of certain provisions of the Term Loan and is qualified in its entirety by the terms of the loan agreement for the Term Loan, a copy of which will be filed as an exhibit to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2012.
On July 2, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing that it had entered into the Term Loan, a copy of which is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
The information included under Item 1.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated into this Item 2.03 by reference.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Contact: Leah Stearns
Director, Investor Relations
Telephone: (617) 375-7500
American Tower Corporation (NYSE: AMT) announced today that on June 29, 2012, it entered into a loan agreement in connection with its new $750.0 million unsecured term loan credit facility. The Company received net proceeds of approximately $746.4 million from the term loan, used approximately $632.0 million to repay certain existing indebtedness under one of the Company's unsecured revolving credit facilities and will use the remainder for general corporate purposes. As a result, the Company will have the capacity to borrow an aggregate of approximately $2.0 billion under its revolving credit facilities, net of any outstanding letters of credit.
Boston, Massachusetts  July 2, 2012:
The term loan matures on June 29, 2017. Based on the Company's current debt rating, the current interest rate of the term loan will be LIBOR plus 1.75%. The term loan does not require amortization of principal and may be paid prior to maturity in whole or in part at American Tower's option without penalty or premium.
About American Tower
American Tower is a leading independent global owner, operator and developer of wireless communications sites. American Tower currently owns and operates approximately 47,000 communications sites in the United States, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ghana, India, Mexico, Peru and South Africa. For more information about American Tower, please visit .
www.americantower.com
Cautionary Language Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains statements about future events and expectations, or "forward-looking statements," all of which are inherently uncertain. We have based those forward-looking statements on management's current expectations and assumptions and not on historical facts. Examples of these statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding our expectation for (i) the use of proceeds from the term loan, (ii) the repurchase or refinancing of other indebtedness and (iii) the effect of the transactions described herein. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in such forward-looking statements include market conditions for corporate debt generally, for the securities of telecommunications companies and for our indebtedness in particular. For other important factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in our forward-looking statements, we refer you to the information contained in Item 1A of our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2012 under the caption "Risk Factors" and in other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to update the information contained in this press release to reflect subsequently occurring events or circumstances.


