FILE:AMT/AMT-8K-20120322170523.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On March 22, 2012, American Tower Corporation issued a press release (the "Press Release") announcing that its board of directors declared a cash distribution of $0.21 per share payable on April 25, 2012 to holders of record of its common stock at the close of business on April 11, 2012. A copy of the Press Release is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Contact: Leah Stearns
Director, Investor Relations
Telephone: (617) 375-7500
American Tower Corporation (NYSE: AMT) announced that its board of directors has declared its first quarterly cash distribution of $0.21 per share. The distribution is payable on April 25, 2012 to stockholders of record at the close of business on April 11, 2012.
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS  March 22, 2012 
Jim Taiclet, American Tower's Chief Executive Officer stated, "We are very pleased to today announce a significant milestone for American Tower Corporation, our first ever quarterly distribution to stockholders. We continue to believe that our REIT conversion in January, as well as our current and future distributions to stockholders, will create meaningful value for our investors over the long term."
About American Tower
American Tower is a leading independent global owner, operator and developer of wireless communications sites. American Tower currently owns and operates over 45,000 communications sites in the United States, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, India, Ghana, Mexico, Peru and South Africa. For more information about American Tower, please visit .
www.americantower.com
Cautionary Language Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" concerning the Company's goals, beliefs, expectations, strategies, objectives, plans, future operating results and underlying assumptions, and other statements that are not necessarily based on historical facts. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated in the Company's forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those factors set forth in Item 1A of its Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 under the caption "Risk Factors." The Company undertakes no obligation to update the information contained in this press release to reflect subsequently occurring events or circumstances.


