FILE:TSO/TSO-8K-20041109103717.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
ITEM 5.03. AMENDMENTS TO ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION OR BYLAWS; CHANGE IN FISCAL YEAR
On November 8, 2004, Tesoro Petroleum Corporation amended its Restated Certificate of Incorporation to change its name to Tesoro Corporation (the "Company"). The press release announcing the name change is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 7.01. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
On November 9, 2004 at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time, executives of the Company presented to certain investors the information presented in the slides as filed as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report which is incorporated herein by reference. The presentation and the accompanying slides (the "Slide Presentation") can be viewed on the Company's website at www.tsocorp.com at the time of the presentation.
The information in this Current Report is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 7.01 of Form 8-K. Accordingly, the information in Item 7.01 of this Current Report, including the Slide Presentation, will not be incorporated into any registration statement filed by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated by reference.
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
     (c) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 3.1
     Tesoro Petroleum Corporation, a corporation duly organized and existing under and by virtue of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, does hereby certify:
     : That Tesoro Petroleum Corporation (the "Company") and Tesoro Merger Corp. are corporations duly organized and existing under and by virtue of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
First
     : That the Company owns all of the issued and outstanding shares of the capital stock of Tesoro Merger Corp.
Second
     : That the board of directors of the Company adopted the following resolutions at a meeting held on November 3, 2004, and that such resolutions have not been rescinded and are in full force and effect on the date hereof:
Third
"RESOLVED, that the Board of Directors of the Company deems it advisable and in the best interest of the Company to merge Tesoro Merger Corp. with and into the Company, with the Company being the surviving corporation;
RESOLVED, that Tesoro Merger Corp. be merged with and into the Company, pursuant to Section 253 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware; and that the Company succeed to and possess all the rights and assets of Tesoro Merger Corp. and be subject to all of the liabilities and obligations of Tesoro Merger Corp.;
RESOLVED, that the The Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company shall be the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the surviving entity, with the exception that Article First of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation shall be amended to read in its entirety as follows: "The
 
name of the Corporation is Tesoro Corporation (hereinafter called the "Corporation")";
RESOLVED, that the bylaws of the Company shall be the bylaws of the surviving corporation;
RESOLVED, that each share of common stock, $1.00 par value per share, of Tesoro Merger Corp. issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective date of the merger shall, upon the effective date and by virtue of the merger, be canceled without payment therefor;
RESOLVED, that the merger shall become effective on the date the Company files a Certificate of Ownership and Merger with respect to such merger with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware;
RESOLVED, that the appropriate officers of the Company are hereby authorized and empowered to file the necessary documents with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, to incur the necessary expenses therefor and to take, or cause to be taken, all such further action and to execute and deliver or cause to be executed and delivered, in the name of and on behalf of the Company, all such further instruments and documents as any such officer may deem to be necessary or advisable in order to effect the purpose and intent of the foregoing resolutions and to be in the best interests of the Company (as conclusively evidenced by the taking of such action or the execution and delivery of such instruments and documents, as the case may be, by or under the direction of any such officer); and
RESOLVED, that the prior actions of the officers and directors of the Company in undertaking to carry out the transactions contemplated by the foregoing resolutions be, and the same hereby are, in all respects, approved, adopted, ratified and confirmed."
     : Anything herein or elsewhere to the contrary notwithstanding, this merger may be amended or terminated and abandoned by the Board of Directors of the Company at any time prior to the time that this Certificate of Ownership and Merger filed with the Secretary of State of Delaware becomes effective.
Fourth
     : The Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company shall be the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the surviving corporation, with the exception that Article First of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation shall be amended to read in its entirety as follows: "The name of the Corporation is Tesoro Corporation (hereinafter called the "Corporation")".
Fifth
 
     IT WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Certificate to be signed by its duly authorized officer this 8th day of November, 2004.

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contact: John Robertson Investor Relations, (210) 283-2687
Tara Ford Payne Media Relations, (210) 283  2676
, November 8, 2004  Tesoro Petroleum Corporation (NYSE: TSO) today announced that it has changed its name to Tesoro Corporation, effective immediately.
SAN ANTONIO
This name change is symbolic of the company's completion of its transformation from a diverse, non-integrated petroleum company into a business focused solely on refining and marketing. This transformation began with the divestiture of Tesoro's exploration and production assets in the late 1990s, and subsequently its Marine Services operations in 2003. Tesoro's aggressive growth in refining and marketing has been achieved through a series of strategic acquisitions combined with internal financial and operating initiatives targeted to optimize systems and processes.
In announcing the name change, Bruce A. Smith, Tesoro Chairman, President and CEO, said, "Our new name is an important symbol of the new Tesoro  a more dynamic and competitive company, focused on our shareholders, our employees, our customers, and the communities in which we live and work."
The company also announced that, in conjunction with the name change, its website address is being changed to .
www.tsocorp.com
Tesoro Corporation, a Fortune 500 Company, is an independent refiner and marketer of petroleum products. Tesoro operates six refineries in the western United States with a combined capacity of nearly 560,000 barrels per day. Tesoro's retail-marketing system includes over 500 branded retail stations, of which more than 200 are company operated under the Tesoro and Mirastar brands.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


