FILE:TSO/TSO-8K-20050118145403.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Table of Contents
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
On January 17, 2005 Tesoro (the "Company") issued a press release (the "Press Release") announcing that William T. Van Kleef, Chief Operating Officer, is resigning from Tesoro and William J. Finnerty will replace Mr. Van Kleef as Executive Vice President of Operations effective immediately. Mr. Finnerty, with over 25 years of industry experience, previously served as Senior Vice President, Supply and Distribution since February 2004. He joined Tesoro in December 2003 as Vice President, Crude Oil and Logistics. Prior to joining Tesoro, Mr. Finnerty served in several capacities including, Vice President, Trading North America Crude for ChevronTexaco from October 2001 to November 2003, Vice President, Texaco Oil Trading and Transport Company from May 2001 to October 2001, Senior Vice President, Trading and Operations for Equiva Trading Company from June 2000 to May 2001 and Vice President, Crude Oil for Equiva Trading Company from March 1998 to June 2000.
The Company also announced that Everett D. Lewis has been promoted to Executive Vice President of Corporate Strategic Planning effective immediately. Mr. Lewis, with over 30 years of industry experience, previously served as Senior Vice President of Corporate Strategic Planning since November 2004. From February 2003 to November 2004, Mr. Lewis served as Senior Vice President, Planning and Optimization. Prior to that, he was Senior Vice President, Planning and Risk Management from April 2001 to February 2003 and Senior Vice President of Strategic Projects from March 1999 to April 2001.
As of the date of this Current Report on Form 8-K, no employment agreements between the Company and Messrs. Finnerty and Lewis have been approved by the Company's Board of Directors. If any such employment agreements are approved by the Company's Board of Directors, they will be filed as an amendment to this Current Report on Form 8-K. The Press Release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (c) Exhibits.
           99.1 Press Release issued on January 17, 2005 by Tesoro Corporation.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tesoro Petroleum Corporation (NYSE:TSO) announced today that Chief Operating Officer (COO) Bill Van Kleef is resigning from Tesoro and Bill Finnerty, currently Senior Vice President of Supply and Distribution will replace him as Executive Vice President of Operations.
SAN ANTONIO  January 17, 2005-
"I am deeply saddened by Bill's departure from Tesoro," said Bruce Smith, Tesoro's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "Bill has made enormous contributions to Tesoro's financial strength, long-term growth and profitability. He will be greatly missed."
Bill Van Kleef joined Tesoro as Vice President and Treasurer in 1993. He was elected Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in September 1995 and Executive Vice President in September 1996. In July 1998, Bill was promoted to the role of COO.
Finnerty joined Tesoro in 2003 as Vice President of Crude Oil and Logistics and in early 2004 was promoted to Senior Vice President of Supply and Distribution. Prior to working for Tesoro, Finnerty served as Vice President of Trading, North America Crude for ChevronTexaco, Senior Vice President of Equiva Trading Company and Senior Vice President Texaco Trading and Transportation.
He earned his bachelor's of science degree in Marine Transportation from State University Maritime College in New York.
"Bill Finnerty is an extremely talented executive with over 25 years of industry experience," said Smith. I believe that he will play a pivotal role in capitalizing on Tesoro's unique assets, enhancing collaboration and innovation among our regions and ensuring we achieve our business and broader strategic goals."
 
Page 2/2 Tesoro's COO Resigns
The company also announced that Everett Lewis, currently Senior Vice President of Strategic Planning has been promoted to Executive Vice President.
Lewis has over 30 years' refining and marketing experience including 10 years with Chevron USA. His background includes various assignments in the industry, including refinery management, supply and trading, and business development. In addition to his most recent position at Tesoro, he served as Senior Vice President, Planning and Risk Management from 2001 to 2003. He also served as Senior Vice President of Strategic Projects from 1999 to 2001.
Lewis graduated with a bachelor's degree in chemical engineering from Iowa State University and received his master's degree in business administration from the University of Hawaii.
"I look forward to working more closely with Bill and Everett and to the positive effect their contributions will have on our organization," said Smith. "These appointments not only signal the depth of our leadership ranks, but also provide an opportunity for others to work with the challenges of taking Tesoro to the next level of success."
Tesoro Corporation, a Fortune 500 Company, is an independent refiner and marketer of petroleum products. Tesoro operates six refineries in the Western United States with a combined capacity of nearly 560,000 barrels per day. Tesoro's retail-marketing system includes over 500 branded retail stations, of which more than 200 are company operated under the Tesoro and Mirastar brands.


