FILE:TSO/TSO-8K-20060727112946.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
The Board of Directors of Tesoro Corporation elected John F. Bookout III as a director effective July 21, 2006. Mr. Bookout will be appointed to one or more committees of the Board at a later date. This Current Report on Form 8-K will be amended to report Mr. Bookout's future committee assignments. The press release ("Press Release") dated July 24, 2006 announcing the election of Mr. Bookout is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (c) Exhibits
               99.1 Press Release issued on July 24, 2006 by Tesoro Corporation.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 27, 2006
Table of Contents

 
NEWS RELEASE
Tesoro Corporation (NYSE:TSO) announced that John F. Bookout III has been elected to its Board of Directors. Bookout will be the 10th member of Tesoro's board.
SAN ANTONIO, TX (July 24, 2006) 
     "The Board of Directors and our management team believe John's extensive global energy experience will add value to the Company's strategic and tactical decision making process. His election also furthers our goal of adding broad experience and independence to our board," said Bruce Smith, Chairman, President and CEO of Tesoro Corporation.
     Bookout joined McKinsey & Company in 1978 and has spent most of his career working in petroleum refining, marketing, exploration and development, and the natural gas and electric utility industries. Bookout is a Director of McKinsey & Company in their Houston office where he was, until recently, responsible for their global industry practices. He will retire from McKinsey this October.
     During Bookout's career, he held numerous leadership roles. Before relocating to Texas in 1995, he spent six years as Managing Partner of its Los Angeles Office and four years in London where he led McKinsey's European Energy Practice.
     He also served as Managing Partner of the Texas Office, as co-leader of the Firm's North American Energy Practice, and as a member of McKinsey's Shareholders' Committee.
     He holds a master's degree in business administration from the Stanford Graduate School of Business and a bachelor's degree in economics from Rice University.
 
About Tesoro's Board Members
     Tesoro's other board members are: Patrick J. Ward, Retired Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Caltex Petroleum Corporation, serves on Tesoro's compensation and governance committees; William J. Johnson, President of JonLoc Inc., a petroleum consulting firm, chair of the company's governance committee and serves on the compensation and audit committees; Steven H. Grapstein, Lead Director of Tesoro Corporation and chair of the company's audit committee, is Chief Executive Officer of Kuo Investment Company; Bruce A. Smith, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Tesoro Corporation; Donald H. Schmude, Retired Vice President, Texaco and Retired President and Chief Executive Officer of Texaco Refining and Marketing, Inc, chair of the company's environmental, health & safety committee and also serves on the finance committee.; A. Maurice Myers, Retired Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Waste Management, Inc., chair of the company's compensation committee and serves on the governance committee; Michael E. Wiley, Retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Baker Hughes Incorporated, serves on the environmental, health & safety and finance committees; Robert W. Goldman, Retired Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Conoco, Inc., chair of the finance committee and serves on the audit and environmental, health & safety committees; and Rodney Frank Chase, Non-Executive Chairman of Petrofac Ltd. in Europe and Deputy Chairman of Tesco plc in London.
About Tesoro
Tesoro Corporation, a Fortune 200 company headquartered in San Antonio, Texas, is an independent refiner and marketer of petroleum products. Tesoro operates six refineries in the western United States with a combined rated crude oil capacity of more than 560,000 barrels per day. Tesoro's retail marketing system includes over 475 branded retail stations, of which over 200 are company operated under the Tesoro and Mirastar brands. Tesoro's commercial marketing system includes sales of jet fuel and marine fuels.


