FILE:TSO/TSO-8K-20060505125901.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
The Board of Directors of Tesoro Corporation has elected Rodney Frank Chase as a director effective May 3, 2006. Mr. Chase will be appointed to one or more committees of the Board at a later date. This Current Report on Form 8-K will be amended to report Mr. Chase's future committee assignments. The press release ("Press Release") dated May 4, 2006 announcing the election of Mr. Chase is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (c) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:May 5, 2006
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
Tesoro Corporation (NYSE:TSO) announced today that it has elected Rodney Frank Chase to its Board of Directors. Chase will be joining as the ninth member of Tesoro's board.
SAN ANTONIO, TX (May 4, 2006) 
     "The Board of Directors and our management team are very fortunate to have an individual with Rodney's industry and financial experience and expertise on our board," said Bruce Smith, Chairman, President and CEO of Tesoro Corporation.
     Chase spent his entire 39-year career with BP PLC. He held positions within the upstream and downstream segments of the industry in Australia, Europe and North America. His background includes positions in shipping, refining, marketing, distribution, oil trading and gas as well as finance and strategic planning at the corporate executive level.
     In 1986, he was appointed Chief Executive Officer of BP Finance International and Group Treasurer. In that position he played a key role in the firm's acquisition of the Standard Oil Company and Britoil, as well as the divestiture of BP's mining interests.
     From 1999 to 2003 Chase served as Deputy Chief Executive Officer and President, Exploration, Production, Refining and Marketing.
     In 2003, Chase joined Lehman Brothers Ltd. in London, England as Senior Advisor for the U.S. and Europe. He currently serves as a Non-Executive Chairman for Petrofac Ltd. in the UK. In addition, he serves on the corporate boards for Computer Sciences Corporation, Nalco Company and Tesco PLC.
     Chase resides in Naples, Florida. He holds a bachelor's degree in history from the University of Liverpool in Liverpool, England.
 
About Tesoro's Board Members
     Tesoro's other board members include: Patrick J. Ward, Retired Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Caltex Petroleum Corporation, serves on Tesoro's compensation and governance committees; William J. Johnson,President of JonLoc Inc., a petroleum consulting firm, chair of the company's governance committee and serves on the compensation and audit committees; Steven H. Grapstein, Lead Director of Tesoro Corporation and chair of the company's audit committee, is the Chief Executive Officer of Kuo Investment Company; Bruce A. Smith, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Tesoro Corporation; Donald H. Schmude, Retired Vice President, Texaco and Retired President and Chief Executive Officer of Texaco Refining and Marketing, Inc, chair of the company's environmental, health & safety committee and also serves on the finance committee.; A. Maurice Myers, Retired Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Waste Management, Inc., chair of the company's compensation committee and serves on the governance committee; Michael E. Wiley, Retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Baker Hughes Incorporated, serves on the environmental, health & safety and finance committees, and Robert W. Goldman, Retired Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Conoco, Inc., chair of the finance committee and serves on the audit and environmental, health & safety committees.
About Tesoro
Tesoro Corporation, a Fortune 200 company headquartered in San Antonio, Texas, is an independent refiner and marketer of petroleum products. Tesoro operates six refineries in the western United States with a combined rated crude oil capacity of more than 560,000 barrels per day. Tesoro's retail marketing system includes over 475 branded retail stations, of which over 200 are company operated under the Tesoro and Mirastar brands. Tesoro's commercial marketing system includes sales of jet fuel and marine fuels.


